CITY CODE
of
ARTESIA, NEW MEXICO
2002
Code current through:
Ord. O-1135, passed 8-13-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Artesia, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance O-1135, passed August 13, 2024. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
America Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 659
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE ARTESIA, NEW MEXICO CITY CODE
   BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the city of Artesia, New
Mexico, as follows:
   Section 1. From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city
code of the city of Artesia, New Mexico, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the city, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the city as enacted by the mayor and city council.
   Section 2. There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official city code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3. All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
   Section 4. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6. This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and approval
as provided by law.
   Section 7. The effective date of this ordinance and the code adopted by the
same shall be January 1, 2003.
   PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED this 10th day of December, 2002.
                                                                  
                     Daniel Reyes, Mayor
ATTEST:
                                           
Barbara Kilough, City Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Artesia. This city
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the ARTESIA MUNICIPAL CODE and
is hereby published by authority of the council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2002 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2002 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code. (2002 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the city
clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Ordinances Repealed And Ordinances Saved From Repeal: All general
ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city code are
hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Limitations On Repeal: The repeal of the ordinances, as provided in
subsection A of this section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2002 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2002 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2002 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Interpretation; Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: INTERPRETATION; CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Construction Generally: The provisions of the ordinances and all
proceedings under them are to be construed with a view to effect their objects
and to promote justice. (1996 Code § 1.04.080)
   B.   Interpretation Of Language: All words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar
and appropriate meaning. (1996 Code § 1.04.030)
   C.   Gender; Singular/Plural: Whenever any word in any section of this city
code importing the plural number is used in describing or referring to any
matters, parties or persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed
to be included, although distributive words may not have been used. When any
subject matter, party or person is referred to in this city code by words
importing the singular number only, or a particular gender, several matters,
parties or persons and the opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed
to be included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied
to any section of this city code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   D.   Interpretation Of Certain Words:
      1.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
city has been changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2002 Code)
      2.   Agents: When an act is required by this city code, the same being
such that it may be done as well by an agent as by the principal, such
requirement shall be construed to include all such acts performed by an
authorized agent. (1996 Code § 1.04.050)
      3.   Prohibited Acts: Whenever in this city any act or omission is made
unlawful, it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting,
suffering or concealing the fact of such act or omission. (1996 Code §
1.04.060)
   E.   Computation Of Time: Except when otherwise provided, the time within
which an act is required to be done shall be computed by excluding the first
day and including the last day, unless the last day is Sunday or a holiday, in
which it shall also be excluded. (1996 Code § 1.04.070)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Artesia, county of Eddy, state of New Mexico, or the area
within the territorial limits of the city, over which the city has jurisdiction
or control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory provision.
CODE: The city code of the city of Artesia.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Artesia,
New Mexico. "All its members" or "all council persons" means the total number
of council persons holding office. The words "city council" shall mean the
"governing body of the city".
COUNTY: The county of Eddy, state of New Mexico.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Artesia".
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
GOVERNING BODY: The city council composed of the mayor and the council members.
LAW: Denotes applicable federal law, the constitution and statutes of the state
of New Mexico, the ordinances of the city of Artesia, New Mexico and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated
thereunder.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAY: Is permissive.
MONTH: A calendar month.
MUST, SHALL AND WILL: Are each mandatory.
NMSA: New Mexico Statutes Annotated.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OATH: Includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear"
and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Artesia".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PRECEDING AND FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Includes real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
STATE: The state of New Mexico.
STREET: Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts, places,
squares, curbs or other public ways in the city which have been or may
hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property so
designated in any law of the state.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark.
YEAR: A calendar year. (1996 Code § 1.04.010; amd. 2002 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Suspended Sentences; Probation; Community Service
1-4-3: Mandatory Fees
1-4-4: Petty Misdemeanors; Citations
1-4-5: Application Of Provisions
1-4-6: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Definition:
      1.   In this section, the expression "violation of this code" means any
of the following:
         a.   Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an
offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by
ordinance.
         b.   Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by
ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
         c.   Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a
misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation
authorized by ordinance.
      2.   In this section, "violation of this code" does not include the
failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty unless
it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided
in this section.
   B.   Penalties Designated:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided, a person convicted of a violation of
this code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00), imprisonment for a term not exceeding ninety (90) days, or by both
such fine and imprisonment. With respect to violations of this code that are
continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate
offense.
      2.   The penalty for violations of an ordinance prohibiting driving a
motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs shall
be a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for
not more than one hundred seventy nine (179) days, or both.
      3.   The penalty for violations of an industrial user wastewater
pretreatment ordinance as required by the United States environmental
protection agency shall be a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) a day for each violation.
   C.   Effect Of Penalty: The imposition of a penalty does not prevent
revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise or other
administrative actions.
   D.   Continuous Violations; Nuisance Declared: Violations of this code that
are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by
injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty, however,
does not prevent the simultaneous granting of equitable relief in appropriate
cases. (2002 Code)
1-4-2: SUSPENDED SENTENCES; PROBATION; COMMUNITY SERVICE:
   A.   Upon a plea of guilty or a judgment of conviction for violation of any
provision of this city code or any city ordinance, the municipal court may
suspend in whole or in part the execution of sentence or place the defendant on
probation for a period not exceeding one year on terms and conditions the court
deems best, or both.
   B.   Suspension of execution of the sentence or probation, or both, shall be
granted only when the municipal judge is satisfied it will serve the ends of
justice and of the public.
   C.   The defendant's liability for any fine or other punishment imposed
shall be fully discharged upon successful completion of the terms of probation.
   D.   The municipal court may, as a condition of probation, require the
defendant to serve a period of time in volunteer labor to be known as community
service. The type of labor and period of service shall be at the sole
discretion of the court; provided, that any person receiving community service
shall be immune from any civil liability other than gross negligence arising
out of the community service, and any person who performs community service
pursuant to court order or any criminal diversion program shall not be entitled
to any wages, shall not be considered an employee for any purpose and shall not
be entitled to workers' compensation, unemployment benefits or any other
benefits otherwise provided by law. As used in this section, "community
service" means any labor that benefits the public at large or any public,
charitable or educational entity or institution. (1996 Code § 1.16.020)
1-4-3: MANDATORY FEES:
   A.   Corrections Fee:
      1.   Fee Established: Any person convicted of violating any provision of
this code or any city ordinance, the penalty for which carries a potential jail
term, or any ordinance relating to the operation of a motor vehicle shall pay
to the municipal court, in addition to any fine or other sentence, a twenty
dollar ($20.00) corrections fee. (Ord. 663, 6-10-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
      2.   Disposition Of Funds: All money collected pursuant to this
subsection shall be deposited in a special fund in the municipal treasury and
shall be used only for municipal jailer training, the construction planning,
construction, operation and maintenance of the municipal jail, for paying the
costs of housing the city's prisoners in other detention facilities in the
state or for complying with match or contribution requirements for the receipt
of federal funds relating to jails. (1996 Code § 1.16.030)
   B.   Judicial Education Fee:
      1.   Fee Established: Any person convicted of violating any provision of
this code or any city ordinance, the penalty for which carries a potential jail
term, or any ordinance relating to the operation of a motor vehicle shall pay
to the municipal court, in addition to any fine or other sentence, a three
dollar ($3.00) judicial education fee. (Ord. 822, 8-25-2009)
      2.   Disposition Of Funds: All money collected pursuant to this
subsection shall be remitted monthly to the state treasurer for credit to the
judicial education fund and shall be used for the education and training,
including production of bench books and other written materials, of municipal
judges and other municipal court personnel. (1996 Code § 1.16.040)
   C.   Court Automation Fee:
      1.   Fee Established: Any person convicted of violating any provision of
this code or any city ordinance, the penalty for which carries a potential jail
term, or any ordinance relating to the operation of a motor vehicle, shall pay
to the municipal court, in addition to any fine or other sentence, a six dollar
($6.00) court automation fee, to be effective July 1, 1998.
      2.   Disposition Of Funds: All money collected pursuant to this
subsection shall be remitted monthly to the state treasurer for credit to the
municipal court automation fund and shall be used for the purchase and
maintenance of court automation systems in the municipal courts. The court
automation system shall have the capability of providing, on a timely basis,
electronic records in a format specified by the judicial information system
council.
      3.   Application Of Provisions: All other sections of this code which are
affected by this subsection shall be deemed to include the proper increase in
court costs brought about by the change in the court automation fee. (Ord. 596,
5-12-1998)
1-4-4: PETTY MISDEMEANORS; CITATIONS:
   A.   Intent And Purpose: This section is intended to provide an alternative
to the arrest and incarceration of persons committing petty misdemeanor
offenses under the laws of New Mexico or the city. This section is deemed
necessary to preserve peace and order in the city and protect and promote the
property, health and welfare of the city and its inhabitants. (1996 Code §
1.12.010)
   B.   Conduct Of Arresting Officer; Notices By Citation:
      1.   Citation Offered: Whenever a person is arrested without a warrant
for any violation of city or state law which is punishable as a petty
misdemeanor, the arresting officer may offer the arrested person the option of
accepting a citation to appear in court in lieu of being retained in custody
pending such appearance.
      2.   Contents Of Citation: A citation issued pursuant to this section
shall contain the name and address of the arrested person, the offense charged,
and the time and the place for the person to appear in court. Unless the person
requests an earlier date, the time specified for appearance shall be at least
five (5) days after issuance of the citation. The law enforcement officer shall
explain the person's right not to sign the citation, the effect of not signing
the citation, the effect of signing the citation, and the effect of failing to
appear at the time and place stated on the citation.
      3.   Signature; Disposition Of Copies: The person's signature on the
citation constitutes his written promise to appear at the time and place
specified in the citation. A copy of the citation shall be delivered to the
person cited, and the person shall then be released from custody. The original
of the citation shall be filed with the municipal court as soon as practicable.
      4.   Effect: A citation issued pursuant to this subsection is a valid
complaint, though not verified, in the event the person receiving it
voluntarily appears in court. (1996 Code § 1.12.020)
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any person's violation of his written promise to
appear in court at the time and place specified in the citation shall
constitute a petty misdemeanor offense punishable by a fine of not more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment for not more than ninety
(90) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, regardless of the disposition
of the charge for which the citation was issued. (1996 Code § 1.12.030; amd.
2002 Code)
   D.   Procedure Not Exclusive: This section governs all municipal police
officers in making arrests without warrant for petty misdemeanor violations of
the laws of New Mexico or the city, but the procedure described in this section
is not exclusive of any other method allowed by law for the arrest and
prosecution of a person violating these laws. (1996 Code § 1.12.040)
1-4-5: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this city code the same as though it were a part
of each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this city code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but
not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this city code
and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2002 Code)
1-4-6: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this city code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 5
CITY OFFICERS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Elective Officers
1-5-2: Appointive Officers
1-5-3: Salaries
1-5-1: ELECTIVE OFFICERS:
The elected officers of the city shall be a mayor and two (2) council members
for each of the four (4) districts 1 . Such elective officers shall constitute
the city council and in it shall vest all corporate authority of the city.
(1996 Code § 2.04.010; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 8 of this title for election provisions.
1-5-2: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
   A.   Officers Designated: The appointive officers of the city shall be the
city clerk, city treasurer, police chief, and such other officers as the city
council shall authorize from time to time by resolution.
   B.   Offices Combined: The city council may combine any appointed offices as
necessary for the efficient operation of city government or in the best
interest of the city. The titles of the combined appointive offices shall be
done by resolution.
   C.   Deputies: The city council may provide for deputy appointed officials
who may exercise the powers granted the appointed officials.
   D.   Contract: The city council may fill by contract any of the appointed
offices as necessary for the efficient operation of city government or in the
best interest of the city. (Ord. 740, 11-14-2006)
1-5-3: SALARIES:
The monthly compensation of the mayor, mayor pro tem, and members of the city
council shall be as follows:
 
Position          Monthly Compensation
                            
Mayor                       $25,000
Mayor pro tem               15,000
Members of the city council 12,500
 
(Ord. 717, 10-25-2005; amd. Ord. O-1121, 12-12-2023)
ARTICLE A. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-5A-1: Appointment And Term
1-5A-2: Powers And Duties
1-5A-3: Compensation
1-5A-1: APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
The mayor shall nominate and the city council shall appoint a city attorney who
shall remain in office until a successor is appointed. (1996 Code § 2.08.010;
amd. 2002 Code)
1-5A-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Attend Meetings; Opinions: It shall be the duty of the city attorney to
attend all regular and special meetings of the city council and to prepare
written opinions upon all legal questions submitted to him by the council, when
requested. He shall also attend, when requested, the meetings of any committee
of the city council and shall advise any such committee upon all questions of
law submitted to him, and when so requested, he shall advise any and all city
officers upon all questions of law pertaining to the duties of any such
officer. (1996 Code § 2.08.020; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Draft Legal Instruments; Legal Advisor: The city attorney shall draft
all ordinances, contracts, leases, conveyances and other instruments of writing
which may be required of him by the city council members. He shall act as legal
advisor of the city on all questions pertaining to contracts with or by the
city and shall advise upon all questions of law in regard to same. (1996 Code §
2.08.030; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Right To Be Heard: The city attorney shall have the right to be heard
upon all questions or motions before the city council amending, repealing, or
in any way affecting any ordinance in force or to be enacted by the city
council when the legality of such action or proposed action shall be called in
question. (1996 Code § 2.08.040; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Prosecutions: It shall be the duty of the city attorney to prosecute in
municipal court all persons charged with violating the city ordinances or any
part of them. He shall also, when requested by the city council or any officer
duly authorized to make the request, appear in behalf of the city in all suits
or proceedings by or against the city in any court wherein the same may be
pending or about to be instituted by the city, and prosecute or defend the
same, as the case may require. He shall cause executions to be issued on all
judgments in favor of the city and attend to their prompt collection. (1996
Code § 2.08.050; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Execution Of Bonds Or Affidavits: The city attorney is authorized and
empowered to make and execute any bond or affidavit in the name of the city of
Artesia, signing the same as city attorney, that may be necessary in any suit
or proceeding in which the city is a party. (1996 Code § 2.08.070)
1-5A-3: COMPENSATION:
The city attorney shall receive such compensation as the council by vote may
determine. (2002 Code)
ARTICLE B. MUNICIPAL JUDGE
SECTION:
1-5B-1: Election And Term
1-5B-2: Qualifications
1-5B-3: Oath Of Office
1-5B-4: Vacancy In Office
1-5B-5: Bond And Salary
1-5B-6: Monthly Report
1-5B-7: Annual Training
1-5B-8: Fines And Costs
1-5B-9: Temporary Municipal Judge
1-5B-1: ELECTION AND TERM:
The municipal judge shall be elected, for a term of four (4) years, at a
regular municipal election. (2002 Code)
1-5B-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The municipal judge shall be a qualified elector of the city and an actual
resident within the city limits. He shall be over the age of twenty one (21)
years and have at least the equivalent of a high school education. (1996 Code §
2.12.010)
1-5B-3: OATH OF OFFICE:
The municipal judge shall take an oath or affirmation to support the
constitution of the United States, the constitution and laws of New Mexico and
to faithfully perform the duties of his office. (2002 Code)
1-5B-4: VACANCY IN OFFICE:
The governing body may fill a vacancy by appointment of a municipal judge to
serve until the next regular municipal election. (2002 Code)
1-5B-5: BOND AND SALARY:
   A.   Bond: The municipal judge shall, before entering upon the duties of his
office give bond to the city in the amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00).
(Ord. 716, 10-25-2005)
   B.   Salary: The salary for the municipal judge of the city shall be sixty-
five thousand dollars ($65,000) per annum.
   C.   Hours: The municipal judge shall devote full time and attention to the
office, including such hours on weekends and holidays as may be necessary, in
order to fully and efficiently discharge the duties of such office as they may
be set forth under the law of the United States, the state of New Mexico and
the ordinances of the city. The municipal judge shall preside over the hearings
at every stage of any proceeding concerning violation of this code or any other
ordinances of the city. The municipal judge shall comply with the code of
judicial conduct and all rules of procedure for the municipal courts as
promulgated by the state supreme court.
   D.   Benefits: The municipal judge shall receive all other employment
benefits which are extended to municipal employees and which are not
inconsistent with the municipal judge’s elected status. (Ord. 716, 10-25-2005;
amd. Ord. 775, 9-25-2007; Ord. 990, 1-12-2016; Ord. O-1122, 12-12-2023)
1-5B-6: MONTHLY REPORT:
   A.   Required: The municipal judge is required to make a monthly written
report to the city council of all monies collected by him which belong to the
city. Such report shall be filed with the city clerk on or before the tenth day
of each month after such funds are collected by the municipal judge. (1996 Code
§ 2.12.020)
   B.   Contents: The report required of the municipal judge by subsection A of
this section shall include an itemized statement showing the different amounts
so collected, the purpose for such collection, the names of the persons from
whom such collections were received and the date such funds were received by
the municipal judge. (1996 Code § 2.12.030)
1-5B-7: ANNUAL TRAINING:
The municipal judge shall undergo annual training, as required by New Mexico
Statutes Annotated section 35-14-10, unless exempted by the chief justice of
the state supreme court, as a prerequisite to drawing his salary. (2002 Code)
1-5B-8: FINES AND COSTS:
   A.   Assessment Of Costs: In all cases tried in the municipal court of the
city, where the defendant enters a plea of guilty or there is a conviction on a
plea of not guilty, costs shall be assessed against and collected from the
defendant in accordance with the laws of New Mexico. (1996 Code § 2.12.040)
   B.   Disposition Of Fines And Costs: All fines and costs collected by the
municipal judge in cases in the municipal court shall be paid by the municipal
judge to the city clerk at least once each month, and the city clerk shall
furnish the municipal judge with a written receipt of such fines and costs
paid. (1996 Code § 2.12.050; amd. 2002 Code)
1-5B-9: TEMPORARY MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
   A.   Appointment: Upon recusal or disqualification of a duly elected
municipal judge as may be required or permitted by law, or if by reason of
absence, sickness, or incapacity, a duly elected municipal judge is temporarily
unable to perform his official duties, a temporary municipal judge shall be
appointed to perform such official duties during the period of temporary
incapacity or inability. The temporary municipal judge shall be designated and
appointed by the municipal judge. In any case where the municipal judge fails
to appoint a temporary judge, a temporary judge can be designated and appointed
by the mayor with the concurrence of the governing body. (1996 Code § 2.12.060;
amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Qualifications: Any person who is a registered voter of and actually
resides within the city limits and who otherwise meets the minimum
qualifications required by ordinance for an elected municipal judge may be
appointed. (1996 Code § 2.12.060)
   C.   Oath: Before entering upon the discharge of his duties, the temporary
municipal judge shall give oath of office as is required by ordinance for an
elected municipal judge. (1996 Code § 2.12.060; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Powers And Duties: The temporary municipal judge shall hear and
determine cases arising under the ordinances of the city, and he shall have all
powers, responsibilities and authorities granted or required of the duly
elected municipal judge according to law. (1996 Code § 2.12.060)
   E.   Compensation: A temporary municipal court judge shall receive a salary
for the performance of his official duties. The salary shall be proportionately
based upon and shall not exceed the salary provided by ordinance for the duly
elected municipal judge. (1996 Code § 2.12.070)
CHAPTER 6
EMPLOYEE PRACTICES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Title; Legislative Authority
1-6-2: Scope And Applicability
1-6-3: Equal Opportunity Statement
1-6-4: Recruitment, Application And Hiring Process
1-6-5: Classification
1-6-6: Changes In Employment Status
1-6-7: Performance Appraisal
1-6-8: Disciplinary Actions
1-6-9: Grievances
1-6-10: Criminal Charges And Convictions
1-6-11: Termination, Demotion, Suspension Of Employment
1-6-12: Prohibited Activities
1-6-13: Performance Standards
1-6-14: Position Classification Plan
1-6-15: Exempt Or Nonexempt Status
1-6-16: Leave Policy
1-6-17: Department Rules
1-6-18: Personnel Records
1-6-1: TITLE; LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY:
This chapter shall be known as the CITY OF ARTESIA PERSONNEL ORDINANCE, and the
city council adopts this chapter pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated
section 3-13-4. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000)
1-6-2: SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all persons employed by
the city, except as follows:
      1.   Professional consultants.
      2.   Independent contractors.
      3.   Temporary employees.
      4.   Part time employees working less than seventeen (17) hours per week.
      5.   All employees in the municipal court department.
      6.   All elected officials. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000)
   B.   Appointive officers of the city as designated by section
1-5-2 of this title report directly to the mayor. With the exception of
subsections 1-6-4A, B and C3; section
1-6-5; subsections 1-6-6A, B and D; sections
1-6-8 and
1-6-9; subsections 1-6-11A, B, C, D, E and F; 1-6-14B, C and D; and 1-6-15A,
this chapter shall apply to appointive officers.
   C.   With exception only to subsections 1-6-11G and H of this chapter,
appointive officers designated by section
1-5-2 of this title shall not be entitled to the rights and procedures set
forth in section
1-6-11 of this chapter.
   D.   If an appointive officer is employed under a separate employment
contract, then all terms and conditions of employment are governed by and shall
be stated in the contract. (Ord. 721, 2-14-2006)
1-6-3: EQUAL OPPORTUNITY STATEMENT:
It is the policy of the city that equal opportunity shall govern in all
personnel policies and practices and shall include, but not be limited to:
   A.   Recruitment, hiring and promotion of any qualified person on the basis
of merit without regard to race, creed, color, religion, ancestry or national
origin and without regard to age, sex or physical or mental disability except
where such is a bona fide occupational qualification.
   B.   Employment and promotion in accord with the principles of equal
employment opportunity and affirmative action based on only valid job
requirements.
   C.   Personnel actions such as compensation, benefits, transfer, layoff,
reinstatement, training, and social and recreational programs administered
without regard to race, creed, color, religion, ancestry, or national origin,
or to age, sex or physical or mental disability except where such is a bona
fide occupational qualification. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000; amd. 2002 Code)
1-6-4: RECRUITMENT, APPLICATION AND HIRING PROCESS:
   A.   Recruitment And Application Procedure:
      1.   It is the intent of the city to fill vacancies on the basis of
relevant criteria believed to be essential to the selection of the best
qualified applicant. When a vacancy occurs, the mayor's office will be notified
immediately. Upon the mayor's instruction, the human resources director will
prepare and post a notice in all departments. The notice will state the
position, the basic requirements of the position including minimum experience,
skills and knowledge, and/or training required, the salary range, and how and
when to apply. The posting will last five (5) working days from the
announcement to allow all employees the opportunity to respond. (Ord. 661, 4-
22-2003)
      2.   Additional applicants from outside the city employee ranks may be
solicited through the department of labor, newspaper and/or other advertisement
methods. Applicants will be required to complete an application and provide all
requested information and references. When in the city's best interest,
preference will be given to a qualified internal applicant versus an outside
applicant. However, the city reserves the right to solicit and hire outside
applicants at any time, for any position. Only qualified applicants will be
given the courtesy of an interview.
   B.   Selection Process:
      1.   The selection process may require interview(s), preemployment skills
and knowledge testing, and drug and alcohol screening.
      2.   Preemployment testing may be required by supervisors, to screen
qualified applicants. Physical examinations and drug and alcohol screenings
will be required for all candidates prior to employment, but only after a
conditional offer of employment is made. Psychological testing will be required
for all police and fire department candidates prior to employment, but only
after a conditional offer of employment is made. Cost for physical
examinations, drug and alcohol screening and psychological tests will be paid
by the city.
      3.   At the conclusion of the selection process, the department head and/
or immediate supervisor will recommend a candidate for the mayor's approval.
The mayor will make an appointment for hiring, subject to the approval of a
majority of all members of the governing body.
   C.   Hiring Requirements:
      1.   Driver's License: A valid, New Mexico, properly classed driver's
license may be a job qualification for employees of the city. If, after hiring,
an employee fails to maintain a valid driver's license, immediate notification
to the employee's supervisor is required.
      2.   Certifications: Certain positions of the city require a
certification by state authorities, including, but not limited to, water and
wastewater ( 2 years for 1 year rule will apply with appropriate proof of
experience and level of certification for exempt and nonexempt applicants.
Following the Comp Study pay scale pay will be capped at Step 10 ), law
enforcement, and fire/EMS. However other positions have levels of certification
within the profession that may be required by the city.
      3.   Ineligibility: Any applicant for employment with the city may be
disqualified from gaining such employment and any city employee's employment
may be terminated if that person:
         a.   Lacks minimum qualifications, including certification status;
         b.   Is below the legal minimum age for employment in the position
applied for;
         c.   Does not complete the application; (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000)
         d.   Does not comply at all times with any residency requirement(s)
which may be found in any existing city resolution, or city job description for
that position, or any applicable city contract; (Ord. 729, 6-13-2006)
         e.   Is unwilling to undergo a background and reference check, if
required;
         f.   Fails to meet statutory requirements on clearance from felonious
or infamous crimes;
         g.   Is not bondable and the position requires a bond;
         h.   Is shown to have wilfully provided false information on an
employment application, resume or other city document;
         i.   Is shown to have acted fraudulently in conduct in connection with
an employment examination; or
         j.   Refuses to submit, cooperate, or complete any medical examination
duly authorized to be administered by a licensed physician at city expense.
(Ord. 615, 6-13-2000)
      4.   Employment Of Relatives:
         a.   Definition: "Relative" is defined as spouse, child (including
step), brother/sister (including step and in-law), parent (including step and
in-law), aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, grandparent or grandchild.
         b.   Prohibitions: The city may not hire, promote or transfer
relatives of city employees (as defined above) when such action violates any of
the following terms:
            (1)   Relatives (as defined herein) shall not report directly to
the same supervisor or department head. This includes work assignments in which
employees are rotated. Furthermore, no employee shall occupy a position which
reports directly to a "relative" (as defined herein) or a position where a
"relative" (as defined herein) supervises the employee's supervisor. It is
preferred that relatives not be permanently assigned to work locations where
they are physically close to or in view of each other.
            (2)   The provisions of this policy shall apply when employees
marry. The employees shall notify their immediate supervisor(s) within five (5)
working days when a violation of this policy occurs due to marriage. When
marriage results in a violation of this policy, one of the employees may
transfer to a position that does not violate this subsection, if the employee
proves to be the best qualified candidate through the interview process. If no
such vacancy exists, one of the employees must terminate his/her employment
within a period of three (3) months. The married employees shall choose which
employee will transfer or terminate his/her employment. If the married
employees cannot reach an agreement, the mayor, upon the recommendation of the
human resources director, will make the decision with the approval of the
governing body.
         c.   Confidentiality: Department heads and supervisors shall establish
safeguards to prevent situations in which an employee possesses or has access
to sensitive paperwork or other communications regarding a relative.
         d.   Temporary Employees: The mayor, with the approval of the majority
of the governing body, may from time to time authorize the employment of
temporary employees who are relatives of existing employees. (Ord. 622, 11-28-
2000)
      5.   Citizenship Verification: The city will not discriminate on the
basis of a person's national origin or citizenship status with regard to
recruitment, hiring or discharge. However, the city will not knowingly employ
any person who is, or becomes, an unauthorized alien. In compliance with the
immigration reform and control act of 1986, all employees hired after November
6, 1986, must provide suitable documentation. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000; amd. Ord.
O-1112, 6-27-2023)
1-6-5: CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   Probationary Period:
      1.   A probationary period is used to provide an adequate period of time
to effectively evaluate an employee's ability to function in a position.
Employees required to complete the probationary period include: (See #8 for
Fire and #9 for Police)
         a.   Newly hired employees;
         b.   Newly transferred employees;
         c.   Newly promoted employees;
         d.   Newly demoted (voluntary or involuntary) employees;
         e.   Employees renewing employment after a fully terminated absence of
sixty (60) days who have not served more than one hundred eighty-three (183)
calendar days commencing or renewing employment.
      2.   The probationary period shall begin on the date of assignment and
shall continue for six months for all new hires. The department head or
supervisor will complete monthly written reviews of progress up to completion
of 6 months. All written reviews will be turned into HR for placement in
employee’s file.
      3.   An employee may be discharged during the period with or without
cause. A letter of discharge will be provided by the Mayor or his/her designee.
      4.   All probationary employees are eligible for health insurance
benefits, retirement benefits, sick leave benefits and annual leave.
      5.   A probationary employee may not apply for a transfer or promotion to
another department until successfully completing his/her probationary period.
      6.   If any employee transfers, or is promoted to a different position,
within the same department while on probation, a new six (6) month, one hundred
eighty-three (183) day probationary period shall begin effective with the date
of assignment.   
      7.   A probationary employee may only transfer or be promoted once during
a six (6) month period.
      8.   Fire personnel requiring Academy training and certification will
serve a one (1) year probationary period from date of hire. Any fire applicants
who have already completed full certification and are entering as lateral
applicants will be subject to the six (6) month probationary period.
      9.   Uncertified Police officer will have a probationary period of six
months following the completion of all conditions of hire (physical/
psychological screenings, successful completion of the basic police academy
training and the successful completion of the Field Training Officer program).
PD/Cadet must obtain dated certificate stating Cadet’s status to Certified
Police Officer on day of Academy graduation and turned in to HR for promotional
immediate processing status to Certified Police Officer.
      Certified officers and officers who are accepted by the State of New
Mexico DPS Training Center to attend the certification by waiver will have a
six (6) month probationary period after successful completion of the Field
Training Officer Program.
      The certification by waiver employee will still be required to
successfully complete the certification by waiver course as a part of the
conditions of hire, even if the course is taken at the end of a probationary
period due to availability of the training.
   B.   Regular Employees: Regular employees are those employees who have
successfully completed the required probationary period. Regular employees may
be suspended, demoted or dismissed only for cause, subject to hearing before
the Governing Body, and are eligible to use the grievance process. Regular
employees are entitled to a complete benefit program, including retirement,
life and health insurance, sick leave accrual and annual leave.
   C.   Regular Full Time Employees: Regular full time employees are those who
have successfully completed the probationary period and whose regular workweek
equals or exceeds thirty five (35) hours per week.
   D.   Regular Part Time Employees: Regular part time employees are those who
have successfully completed the probationary period and whose regular workweek
is less than thirty five (35) hours per week. Employees hired to work more than
seventeen (17) hours per week are eligible for all benefits provided regular
full time employees, or as established by any other section of this chapter.
   E.   Temporary Employees: Temporary employees may be either full or part
time depending on the position being filled regardless of hours worked, but are
considered temporary employees if the work being performed has a specific
duration, not to exceed nine (9) consecutive months, such as employment during
peak periods, summer, and students under vocational education programs.
Temporary employees have no benefits and may be terminated with or without
cause. Department heads may recommend a termination, subject to the approval of
a majority of the members of the Governing Body. (Ord. 647, 3-12-2002; amd.
Ord. 1077, 11-24-2020; Ord. O-1112, 6-27-2023)
1-6-6: CHANGES IN EMPLOYMENT STATUS:
   A.   Transfer: Transfer is when an employee is moved voluntarily or
involuntarily from one position to another position within the same pay grade.
The employee receiving a transfer shall continue to receive the same base pay
rate. An employee shall apply for a vacancy for a voluntary transfer.
   B.   Promotions: Promotion is when an employee is moved from one position to
another position with a higher maximum pay grade and greater responsibility;
the employee will receive an increase in pay of 6% or the entry level of the
new position in relation to the new Comp Study pay grade scale, whichever is
greater. To be promoted, the employee must be upgraded in pay. An employee
shall apply for the vacancy.
   C.   Salary Increases: Employees are eligible for salary increases through
the pay classification plan established by the Governing Body.
   D.   Demotions: Demotion is when an employee is moved voluntarily or
involuntarily from current position to another position due to performance
duties outlined in Job Description. The salary of an employee who is demoted
voluntarily or involuntarily shall be placed at a lower pay grade and step that
falls within the 6% range of the current pay scale. A demotion (voluntary or
involuntary) dictates that an employee must be downgraded in pay. The effective
date of the salary reduction will be the first day of the next pay period
following demotion. An employee initiating a voluntary demotion shall apply for
a vacancy and must have a recommendation by the mayor and approval of the
governing body. All other demotions shall follow procedures as set forth in
subsection 1-6-11 D of this chapter. (Ord. 848, 11-23-2010; amd. Ord. 1016, 10-
10-2017; Ord. O-1112, 6-27-2023)
1-6-7: PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL:
The human resources director, under the supervision of the mayor, shall monitor
the performance appraisal process to assure that each employee, including
supervisors and department heads, are given a properly conducted performance
appraisal at minimum on their anniversary date. Appraisal documentation will be
submitted to HR for placement in employee’s file.
   A.   To understand the level of his/her job performance in relation to
expectation.
   B.   To receive counseling and advice that will assist the employee in
improving current performance and in preparing for greater responsibilities in
the future.
   C.   To address below standard performance and to establish plans for
improvement. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000; amd. Ord. O-1112, 6-27-2023)
1-6-8: DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS:
   A.   Causes: Disciplinary actions, up to and including termination, may be
taken for violations of department rules, regulations or procedures. Violations
of any section of this chapter, shall include, but are not limited to, the
following: (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000; amd. 2002 Code)
      1.   Conviction for violation of any federal, state or city law on or off
the job, which if committed on the job site would adversely affect the
employee's performance in the city service.
      2.   Negligence in the performance of duty, including, but not limited
to, negligence in the operation of city vehicles or equipment.
      3.   Failure to meet prescribed standards of work.
      4.   Unauthorized absence from work, or abuse of sick leave.
      5.   Physical or mental unfitness for duty due to intoxication from
alcohol or drugs or any other cause.
      6.   Insubordination by failing to follow lawful instructions of the
supervisor.
      7.   Falsification of records.
      8.   Misuse, theft or destruction of city property.
      9.   Horseplay that endangers or impedes job performance, or would be an
embarrassment to the city.
      10.   Wilfully falsifying a job application, resume, or any other city
document.
      11.   Interference with others on the job.
      12.   Any other conduct on the job that adversely affects the employee's
ability to perform his/her work, is a danger to others, or impedes the
productivity of others, in the reasonable opinion of the employee's supervisor.
      13.   The dissemination of confidential and personal information related
to or about the city and/or city employees, except as allowed by state or
federal law.
      14.   Failure of a drug and/or alcohol test. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000)
   B.   Procedures:
      1.   Generally:
         a.   It is important to match the type and severity of disciplinary
action with the inappropriate conduct to be addressed. Some actions may only
require a verbal warning, while others demand suspension, demotion or
termination on the first offense. There are two (2) main factors that should be
considered in determining the need and type of discipline administered.
            (1)   The severity of the offense.
            (2)   The employee's past documented employment record, both
positive and negative.
         b.   For any form of corrective or disciplinary action, proper
documentation must be prepared. Documentation is required to accurately record
the facts of the situation while they are fresh in the minds of all concerned,
in case future reference becomes necessary. All documentation given to an
employee should be signed by the employee to acknowledge receipt. If the
employee refuses to sign, another employee shall be called in to sign the form
and witness the fact that the counseled employee received the documentation but
refused to sign it. The immediate supervisor of an employee or department head
may take appropriate action and maintain written documentation in support of
actions involving informal talks and verbal and written reprimands. Department
heads may recommend suspensions, demotions and terminations.
      2.   Informal Talk: Usually given to employees with good work records who
have broken a minor rule. Employees are advised they have broken a rule and
cautioned against repeating.
      3.   Verbal Reprimand: More severe discussion with employee who has
broken a rule. In this case, the employee is told that his/her behavior must
improve or more serious action will be taken. A record of the discussion will
be placed in the employee's personnel file and the employee is given a copy.
      4.   Written Reprimand: Written reprimands are used for serious offenses
for employees who have broken a rule, regulation or procedure. The written
reprimand should mention prior reprimands given, and specifically describe what
the employee has done wrong. Written reprimands should indicate what
improvement is expected and the time limit in which the improvement should be
made. Written reprimands should state what will happen if the improvement is
not made, and should offer the supervisor's help in bringing about a change in
conduct. The employee receives a copy of this written reprimand, and a copy is
placed in the personnel file.
      5.   Suspension: The mayor may suspend, with or without pay, an employee
until the next regular meeting of the governing body, at which time the
suspension shall be approved or disapproved by a majority of all the members of
the governing body. If the suspension of the employee is disapproved by the
governing body, the suspended employee shall be notified of the ending date of
the suspension and paid the compensation he was entitled to receive during the
time of his/her suspension.
      6.   Demotion: The governing body may demote an employee with the
approval of a majority of all the members of the governing body. The mayor may
demote an employee upon the approval of a majority of all the members of the
governing body. Any regular employee who is demoted shall, upon his/her request
in writing, be given, by the mayor, in writing, a list of reasons for his/her
demotion.
      7.   Termination: The governing body may terminate an employee with the
approval of a majority of all the members of the governing body. The mayor may
terminate an employee upon the approval of a majority of all the members of the
governing body. Any regular employee who is terminated shall, upon his/her
request, be given, by the mayor, in writing, a list of reasons for his/her
termination. Such employee shall also be paid any accrued compensation,
including annual leave, he/she is entitled to receive. (Ord. 691, 9-28-2004)
1-6-9: GRIEVANCES:
   A.   Application And Interpretation:
      1.   The grievance procedure applies to all regular employees who have
completed the probationary period. A grievance is a perceived or actual
misunderstanding or disagreement regarding the meaning, interpretation,
application or alleged violation of this chapter, approved departmental
policies and rules or other administrative policies or a complaint about the
employee's working conditions.
      2.   Supervisors and department heads will comply with these policies and
will deal with employees fairly to minimize or preclude misunderstandings,
problems, complaints or grievances. In the bringing of a grievance at any
supervisory level, employees are assured freedom from restraint, interference,
discrimination or reprisal.
   B.   Procedure:
      1.   The parties should resolve all employee disputes at the lowest
possible level. All unresolved disputes are required to pass through all
appropriate levels of procedures. Disputes concerning the interpretation or
application of a collective bargaining agreement may not utilize this
procedure. An employee with a grievance shall first try to resolve it with his/
her immediate supervisor. If the grievance cannot be resolved to the employee's
satisfaction, the employee shall submit a written grievance to his/her
supervisor.
      2.   The supervisor shall try to resolve the matter with the employee
within five (5) working days from receipt of the written grievance. If the
employee is not satisfied that the grievance was resolved by his/her
supervisor, or if the supervisor took no action within five (5) working days of
receipt of the written grievance, then the employee can appeal the grievance to
the employee's departmental grievance representative by presenting a written
grievance and requesting a grievance committee hearing.
      3.   The departmental grievance representative shall submit this
grievance to the grievance committee at its next meeting. The frequency of the
committee's meetings will be determined by the quantity of grievances.
      4.   Within two (2) weeks of filing the grievance with the grievance
committee, the committee will study the grievance and agree to:
         a.   Deny the grievance; or
         b.   Propose a settlement which will be submitted to the governing
body for approval or disapproval.
      5.   If the grievance committee agrees that the alleged grievance is
justified, the committee will submit to the governing body its findings and the
committee's recommendations at the next scheduled governing body meeting.
      6.   The governing body will study and investigate such grievance and
agree to:
         a.   Deny the grievance; or
         b.   Approve a settlement of the grievance submitted by the grievance
committee. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000)
   C.   Departmental Grievance Representatives:
      1.   Departmental grievance representatives shall be elected by secret
ballot by the employees of their respective departments/divisions, and they
shall be employees but not supervisors or department heads.
      2.   Duties of the departmental grievance representatives shall be to
select six (6) representatives to serve on the grievance committee and to
submit to the grievance committee grievances filed by the employees of their
respective departments.
   D.   Grievance Committee: There shall be a grievance committee of six (6)
persons, not supervisors or department heads, selected by the departmental
grievance representatives. Of the six (6) employees on the grievance committee,
one shall be selected from the library, airport, museum, commission on aging
and recreation departments, one each shall be selected from the police and fire
departments, and three (3) members shall be selected from the remaining city
departments/divisions. Duties of the grievance committee shall be to study and
investigate grievances submitted to it, and deny the same or propose settlement
thereof to the governing body. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000; amd. 2002 Code)
1-6-10: CRIMINAL CHARGES AND CONVICTIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
   CONVICTION: A final adjudication, by a court of competent jurisdiction, that
the applicant for city employment or the city employee, as the case may be, is
guilty of a criminal act constituting a felony or misdemeanor involving moral
turpitude, and includes both a conviction following trial on the merits and a
conviction based upon a plea of guilty or nolo contendere.
   FELONY: Any criminal act made a felony by the laws of the state of New
Mexico, including criminal acts committed outside the state of New Mexico which
would be felonies in New Mexico, whether or not so classified in the state
where committed.
   MISDEMEANOR INVOLVING MORAL TURPITUDE: A criminal offense, lower than a
felony, involving conduct contrary to justice, honesty, modesty or good morals.
   B.   Requirements On Employment And Applications: An applicant for city
employment shall fill out and sign a written application for city employment
requiring a statement as to whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a
felony or a misdemeanor and requiring the applicant to list convictions. The
applicant may also be required to submit to fingerprinting at the time of
making application. A false answer in the employment application that the
applicant has not been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor and/or failure to
list all such convictions shall be grounds for immediate termination.
   C.   Disqualification For Employment: A conviction of a felony or a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude shall disqualify an applicant for city
employment and may be cause for termination of city employees, subject to the
right of the governing body to waive the requirement. The governing body may
determine that the requirement is not necessary and that the hiring of the
applicant and continued employment of the city employee will not be detrimental
to the effective conduct of city government. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000; amd. 2002
Code)
1-6-11: TERMINATION, DEMOTION, SUSPENSION OF EMPLOYMENT:
   A.   Layoff: If it becomes necessary to reduce the size of the work force or
to reduce the number of occupants in a particular job classification, the
governing body shall establish guidelines for such a layoff. Names of regular
employees who have been laid off shall be placed on an availability list for
ninety (90) days and shall be informed of any openings that occur during that
time. Laid off employees will be permitted to apply for position openings when
the opening is posted within the city departments. This is the only benefit
granted laid off employees and they shall receive no other benefit or
consideration.
   B.   Involuntary Termination; Termination, Demotion, Suspension: Department
heads are authorized to recommend that an employee be terminated, demoted or
suspended. The mayor may suspend the employee with or without pay, until a
pretermination, predemotion or presuspension hearing is held.
   C.   Pretermination Hearing:
      1.   Time For Hearing:
         a.   The human resources director or mayor's designee will schedule a
pretermination hearing within ten (10) working days of the written notice by
the mayor to terminate an employee. The employee shall be delivered a written
notice of intent to terminate. The notice shall:
            (1)   Cite the specific incidents that indicate just cause.
            (2)   Cite violation of any rule or mandate.
            (3)   Provide an explanation of the documentation, evidence, and/or
factors relied upon by the department head.
            (4)   Specify the proposed disciplinary action.
            (5)   State the date, name, time and place for the hearing to be
held with the employee within ten (10) working days from the date of delivery
of the written notice.
         b.   Upon recommendation of the department head/supervisor, the mayor
may extend the ten (10) working day period prior to the hearing to be held with
the employee. The employee and the human resources director or mayor's designee
may agree in writing to an alternate date, time and/or place for the hearing.
      2.   Hearing Held: The hearing shall be between the employee and the
employee's immediate supervisor and/or department head, with the human
resources director or mayor's designee hearing both sides. This hearing is to
allow the employee to respond to the charges and offer explanations and/or
present witnesses in mitigation of the proposed termination. This is not a
minitrial and there is no right to cross examination.
      3.   Written Decision:
         a.   If a written or oral response to the proposed termination is
offered by the employee at the hearing, the human resources director or mayor's
designee shall consider the response and deliver a written decision on the
proposed action to be taken no earlier than forty eight (48) hours and no later
than five (5) working days following the hearing.
         b.   The written notice of final decision must:
            (1)   Include the date of delivery of the notice of final decision.
            (2)   Address the employee's defenses.
            (3)   Identify the specific incidents showing just cause.
            (4)   Cite the violation of rules or mandate.
            (5)   Specify the final decision including the action to be taken
or dismissal of charges.
            (6)   Specify the effective date of the action.
            (7)   Inform the employee that he/she shall have the right to
appeal the disciplinary action under subsection E of this section.
   D.   Predemotion Or Presuspension Hearing:
      1.   Time For Hearing:
         a.   The human resources director or mayor's designee will schedule a
predemotion or presuspension hearing within ten (10) working days of the
written notice by the mayor to demote an employee or suspend an employee. The
employee shall be delivered a written notice of intent to impose disciplinary
action. The notice shall:
            (1)   Cite the specific incidents that indicate just cause.
            (2)   Cite violation of any rule or mandate.
            (3)   Provide an explanation of the documentation, evidence, and/or
factors relied upon by the department head.
            (4)   Specify the proposed disciplinary action.
            (5)   State the date, name, time and place for the hearing to be
held with the employee within ten (10) working days from the date of delivery
of the written notice.
         b.   Upon recommendation of the department head/supervisor, the mayor
may extend the ten (10) working day period prior to the hearing to be held with
the employee. The employee and the human resources director or mayor's designee
may agree in writing to an alternate date, time and/or place for this hearing.
      2.   Hearing Held: The hearing shall be between the employee and the
employee's immediate supervisor, with the human resources director or mayor's
designee hearing both sides. This hearing is to allow the employee to respond
to the charges and offer explanations and/or present witnesses in mitigation of
the proposed disciplinary action. This is not a minitrial and there is no right
to cross examination.
      3.   Written Decision:
         a.   If a written or oral response to the proposed disciplinary action
is offered by the employee at the hearing, the human resources director or
mayor's designee shall consider the response and deliver a written decision on
the proposed action to be taken no earlier than forty eight (48) hours and no
later than five (5) working days following the hearing.
         b.   The written notice of final decision must:
            (1)   Include the date of delivery of the notice of final decision.
            (2)   Address the employee's defenses.
            (3)   Identify the specific incidents showing just cause.
            (4)   Cite the violation of rules or mandate.
            (5)   Specify the final decision, including the action to be taken,
or dismissal of charges.
            (6)   Specify the effective date of the suspension and date of
return to work or demotion.
            (7)   Inform the employee that he/she shall have the right to
appeal the disciplinary action under subsection F of this section.
         c.   If no written or oral response to the proposed disciplinary
action is offered by the employee and the employee chooses not to appeal the
disciplinary action, then the proposed disciplinary action will take effect
within a reasonable time after the hearing, as determined by the department
head/supervisor and the human resources director or mayor's designee. A copy of
the disciplinary action shall be placed in the employee's personnel file.
   E.   Termination Hearing:
      1.   Time For Hearing:
         a.   The mayor will schedule and conduct a termination hearing before
the governing body within forty five (45) working days after the pretermination
hearing to terminate an employee. The hearing may be rescheduled within the
stated period by the mayor from time to time, at his sole discretion.
The employee is entitled to:
            (1)   A closed or open hearing.
            (2)   The right to have an attorney at the termination hearing at
the employee's expense.
            (3)   Actual notice of specific charges in sufficient detail to
enable the preparation of a defense.
            (4)   Evidence to be used.
            (5)   The names of adverse witnesses.
            (6)   The opportunity to present his/her own favorable witness
testimony.
            (7)   See the adverse evidence prior to the hearing at least the
day before the hearing.
            (8)   Cross examination of the employee and the employer adverse
witnesses; the rules of evidence shall not apply.
            (9)   Attend the meeting.
         b.   The parties may mutually agree to an alternate time and date for
the hearing to occur either within or without the period provided in subsection
E1a of this section.
      2.   Decision: The governing body will render a decision, in an open
meeting, within a reasonable time after the conclusion of the termination
hearing. Such decision shall be reflected in the minutes of the meeting and a
copy shall be delivered or mailed by certified mail, to the employee. The
employee's right to receive salary or wages and accrued benefits shall cease,
continue, or be amended upon the decision of the governing body. A copy of the
minutes shall be placed in the employee's personnel file. The decision of the
governing body shall be the final step in the administrative process provided
by this section and shall be reviewable in the district court:
         a.   When the decision is arbitrary or capricious; or
         b.   When the decision is unsubstantiated by evidence; or
         c.   When the decision is in excess of the statutory authority or
jurisdiction of the governing body.
      3.   Appeal: Appeal of the decision by the employee shall be taken within
thirty (30) calendar days of the final adverse decision of the governing body
to the district court of Eddy County, New Mexico.
   F.   Demotion, Suspension Hearing:
      1.   Time For Hearing:
         a.   The employee will have two (2) working days after the receipt of
the written notice of final decision within which to take an appeal which must
be made in writing. If the employee appeals the decision to suspend or demote,
the mayor will schedule and conduct a demotion or suspension hearing before the
governing body within forty five (45) working days after the predemotion or
presuspension hearing to demote or suspend an employee with or without pay. The
hearing may be rescheduled within the stated period by the mayor from time to
time, at his sole discretion.
The employee is entitled to:
            (1)   A closed or open hearing.
            (2)   The right to have an attorney at the demotion or suspension
hearing at the employee's expense.
            (3)   Actual notice of specific charges in sufficient detail to
enable the preparation of a defense.
            (4)   Evidence to be used.
            (5)   The names of adverse witnesses.
            (6)   The opportunity to present his/her own favorable witness
testimony.
            (7)   See the adverse evidence prior to the hearing at least the
day before the hearing.
            (8)   Cross examination of the employee and the employer's adverse
witnesses; the rules of evidence shall not apply.
            (9)   Attend the meeting.
         b.   The parties may mutually agree to an alternate time and date for
the hearing to occur either within or without the period provided in subsection
F1a of this section.
      2.   Decision: The governing body will render a decision, in an open
meeting, within a reasonable time after the conclusion of the demotion or
suspension hearing. Such decision shall be reflected in the minutes of the
meeting and a copy shall be delivered or mailed by certified mail, to the
employee. The employee's right to receive salary or wages and accrued benefits
shall cease, continue, or be amended upon the decision of the governing body. A
copy of the minutes shall be placed in the employee's personnel file. The
decision of the governing body shall be the final step in the administrative
process provided by this chapter and shall be reviewable in the district court:
         a.   When the decision is arbitrary or capricious; or
         b.   When the decision is unsubstantiated by evidence; or
         c.   When the decision is in excess of the statutory authority or
jurisdiction of the governing body.
      3.   Appeal: Appeal of the decision by the employee shall be taken within
thirty (30) calendar days of the final adverse decision of the governing body
to the district court of Eddy County, New Mexico.
   G.   Benefits On Termination:
      1.   All wages, unused annual leave, personal days, floating holiday and
compensatory time will be paid to the employee upon termination, under any
cause. All city property that has been issued to the employee must be returned
and accounted for by the supervisor. The supervisor will notify the payroll
department, by memo, that all equipment has or has not been turned in and any
amounts owed the city for city owned property.
      2.   When employees are laid off, resign, die, or retire, their earned
salary or wages plus any other compensation, such as annual leave and/or
compensatory time accrual, shall be due and payable on the next regular payday.
      3.   When employees are terminated from their position, their earned
salary or wage plus any other compensation, such as annual leave and/or
compensatory time accrual, shall be due and payable within five (5) days of the
effective date of termination, or return of city equipment.
   H.   Death Of Employee: In the event of the death of an employee, all wages
and accrued leave benefits due the employee, up to the time of death, will be
paid to the estate of the deceased. (Ord. 894, 8-27-2012)
1-6-12: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Discrimination And Harassment: The city will enforce a
nondiscrimination, harassment and sexual harassment policy to provide employees
with protection against these acts.
   B.   Smoking: Smoking by city employees is prohibited in all publicly owned
buildings and offices. A "publicly owned building or office" means any enclosed
indoor place owned, leased, or rented by the city, excluding any city property
used as a private residence.
   C.   Use Of Drugs And Alcohol While On Duty: Drinking alcoholic beverages or
partaking of alcohol or illegal drugs while on duty, unless a job requirement,
will result in immediate suspension or termination. The city will enforce a
drug and alcohol free policy.
   D.   Possession Of Firearms And Explosives: Possession of a "firearm" and/or
"explosive", as defined by state statute, in the work place while on duty,
unless a job requirement, will result in immediate suspension or termination.
(Ord. 615, 6-13-2000)
1-6-13: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The following guidelines have been adopted by the governing body of the city to
preserve public confidence in the integrity of municipal officials and
employees, and to promote high ethical standards in local government service.
These standards are designed to assist city officials and employees in
determining the proper course of action when faced with uncertainty:
   A.   Conflict Of Interest; Gifts Policy:
      1.   No city employee shall accept a favor or gift which would in any way
bring about special consideration, treatment, or advantage to any citizen or
business beyond that which is available to every other citizen or business.
Furthermore, no city employee shall accept any gift or service if it can be
reasonably inferred that the gift was intended to influence him/her in the
performance of his/her official duty or as a reward for any official action.
Any gift with a value of over ten dollars ($10.00) shall be reported to the
employee's supervisor.
      2.   No city employee shall represent the city through the sealed bid or
sealed proposal process in any matter with any firm, corporation, or individual
where an employee stands to benefit because of his/her personal or financial
interest with that firm, corporation or individual without prior consent of the
governing body. No city employee during the period of such employment shall
acquire a financial interest in any new or existing business venture or
business property of any kind when such employee believes or has reason to
believe that the new financial interest may be directly affected by his/her
official act. No city employee shall use confidential information acquired by
virtue of his/her city office or city employment for his/her or another's
private gain.
      3.   Violation of the provisions of this subsection by any city officer
or city employee is grounds for removal or suspension of the officer and
termination, demotion or suspension of the employee.
   B.   Political Activity: City employees shall observe the following with
regard to political activities:
      1.   No city employee shall campaign, distribute literature or solicit
political contributions during his/her scheduled work hours or during any other
employee's scheduled work hours; nor shall campaigning be done while wearing a
city uniform. No city employee shall prohibit the right of another employee to
have and express a personal choice or commitment.
      2.   No employee shall solicit contributions or assessments for any
political party or candidate on city premises. No city employee shall ever be
expected, required or coerced to contribute to any campaign.
      3.   No city employee shall represent or allow himself to be inferred as
representing the city at any political meeting or in political publicity.
      4.   No one shall prohibit any city employee from voting or from
exercising his/her political rights as a private citizen during nonworking
hours.
      5.   A city employee who chooses to run or campaign for political office
and who wishes to campaign during working hours, shall be required to use
annual leave or leave without pay.
      6.   Any city employee involved in projects funded with federal grants in
aid agencies shall be governed by the applicable personnel standards,
regulations and federal laws limiting activities.
      7.   Performance by a city employee of any of the political activities
prohibited in this subsection may be sufficient grounds for disciplinary action
up to and including termination.
   C.   Use Of City Vehicles:
      1.   The following policy will apply to all city employees driving a city
vehicle. City vehicles may be used only:
         a.   In the conduct of city business for travel required while on
duty; or
         b.   Authorized attendance at professional and/or work-related
meetings, classes, seminars and conferences; or
         c.   Travel to and from working assignments beyond normal working
hours.
      2.   Employees who operate city vehicles are required to have a properly
classified and valid New Mexico driver's license in their possession at all
times while operating city vehicles.
      3.   Employees are required to wear installed seat belts while operating
or riding as a passenger in city vehicles.
      4.   Employees who have been assigned cars to take home are permitted
personal use of city vehicles only as it relates to the following: minor retail
shopping in route to and from home, personal appointments with local dentists
or physicians, funeral attendance, and meal breaks.
      5.   Employees who have been assigned cars to take home are assessed a
fringe benefit of the value of the cost, and this benefit will be reflected on
a once a month basis on the payroll, if permitted by law.
      6.   Any city employee violating this policy may be subject to
disciplinary action and/or immediate suspension of driving privilege and
possible termination from city employment.
   D.   Accidents:
      1.   Vehicle Accidents: The following procedures are to be followed in
the event of an accident involving a city vehicle:
         a.   The driver shall immediately notify the nearest police department
and then his/her supervisor of the accident.
         b.   The vehicle should not be moved until the accident has been
investigated by a law enforcement agency. The driver is not to leave the scene
of the accident unless injured and needs medical care. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000)
      2.   All Accidents: All accidents involving an on-duty city employee must
be reported immediately to the employee's supervisor. If, due to circumstances,
the employee is unable to report to the supervisor immediately, he/she must do
so at the first practical opportunity. All city employees are covered under the
provisions of the New Mexico workers' compensation act 1 . Workers'
compensation claims can be paid only for injuries and illnesses resulting from
on the job accidents. Workers' compensation claims shall be filed in accordance
with New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 52-1-29. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000; amd.
2002 Code)
   E.   Outside Employment: An employee who intends to work for another
employer or engage in an outside business must ensure that such employment does
not conflict with his/her city duties. Outside employment must be reported to
the supervisor and shall not be conducted during duty hours or on city
property. Outside employment shall not in any way impair an employee's
performance while on city duty. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 52-1-1 et seq.
1-6-14: POSITION CLASSIFICATION PLAN:
   A.   Plan Established: In order to establish fair and impartial methods of
determining salaries, the city has established a position classification plan.
The plan is designed to accomplish two (2) basic results:
      1.   Compare city positions with one another and rank them according to
type of work performed, level of difficulty, responsibility and knowledge,
skills, training and experience required; and
      2.   Arrange a pay plan which provides a logical progression of pay on an
annual basis for each employee. After completion of six (6) month probation of
employment with the City of Artesia employee will be eligible to receive an
annual increase in pay which follows the next step within their current
paygrade under the Compensation Study pay scale. This increase will take effect
annually on July 1 and to be paid starting on the first July pay day schedule.
   B.   Changes: Changes in job positions and/or job descriptions can be
recommended by department heads/supervisors with documentation supporting the
change to the human resources director for review. The human resources director
shall make a recommendation to the mayor of any change needed.
   C.   Hours Of Work: The normal work hours for individuals depends on the
work schedule of the department in which the employee works. Employees should
not work more than their scheduled hours unless they have been requested/
required to do so and/or have permission to do so from their immediate
supervisor.
   D.   Overtime Pay: The city’s workweek for purposes of computing overtime
pay is from twelve o’clock (12:00) A.M. Sunday to eleven fifty-nine o’clock
(11:59) P.M. Saturday. Overtime pay is for hours worked over forty (40) hours
in a week for regular employees, over one hundred six (106) hours in a fourteen
(14) day period for fire department shift personnel and over eighty (80) hours
worked in a 14-day period for police department shift personnel.
   E.   Deductions From Pay:
      1.   The city is required by federal and state laws to make payroll
deductions for income tax purposes. These deductions are carried under the “pay
as you go” plan on the basis of the number of dependents declared by the
employee on form W-4.
      2.   Deductions may include: social security (FICA), medicare, federal
income tax and state income tax. Other deductions such as retirement, credit
union payments, health and life insurance may be made. Additional deductions
may be made, if required by an official order of the court.
   F.   Health Insurance: The city requires all employees to be covered under
the city’s health insurance, unless proof of insurance through another source
is provided. Dependent coverage is optional for the employee. Employees are
required to be covered by the city’s disability insurance. Disability premiums
are employee funded.
   G.   Retirement: There are two (2) city funded retirement programs.
Participation is mandatory and employees are eligible after hire date for
coverage. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 941, 7-8-2014; Ord. 1001,
8-23-2016; Ord. 1101, 8-9-2022; Ord. O-1133, 7-23-2024)
1-6-15: EXEMPT OR NONEXEMPT STATUS:
Exempt or nonexempt status classification is determined by each position’s
requirements and responsibilities as measured by the specific formula
established by the fair labor standards act.
   A.   Nonexempt Employees: Nonexempt employees, excluding fire and police
shift personnel, will be employed for a workweek of forty (40) hours. Nonexempt
employees will receive compensation for any authorized work in excess of forty
(40) hours worked weekly at a rate of not less than one and one-half (1 ½)
times the regular hourly rate at which the employee is employed. Fire shift
personnel are scheduled to work on shift work, and are paid overtime when the
hours worked exceed one hundred six (106) in a fourteen (14) day period. Police
department shift personnel are paid overtime when the hours worked exceed
eighty (80) in a fourteen (14) day period. If requested by the employee and
approved by their supervisor or department head, compensatory time will be
given freely and without coercion or pressure in lieu of overtime pay.
   B.   Exempt Employees:
      1.   Supervisors and others exempt from the overtime requirements of the
fair labor standards act as “executive”, “administrative”, or “professional”
employees are considered by the city to be paid for work done rather than the
time spent doing it. It is city policy that such exempt employees, except those
in the department of public safety, shall not, in any case, receive additional
pay for working longer hours than the standard for nonexempt employees.
      2.   Exempt employees of the department of public safety who work special
projects may receive additional compensation for those special projects.
      3.   The governing body will adopt, by resolution, the approved list of
special projects and the rates to be paid.
   C.   Volunteer Time: Volunteering time to the benefit of the city is not
permitted.
   D.   Travel And Training: With permission from the governing body, full time
or part time employees will be granted time off with pay to attend schools,
seminars or training programs if attendance is at the request of and for the
benefit of the city. This will include payment for books, tuition, mileage and
all approved out of pocket expenses. Any personal education attendance not
required by the city will be on the employee’s own time and at his/her own
expense. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000; amd. Ord. 647, 3-12-2002; Ord. 1001, 8-23-2016)
1-6-16: LEAVE POLICY:
   A.   Holidays: The city will recognize paid holidays as established by
resolution.
   B.   Annual Leave:
      1.   A regular or probationary full-time employee will accrue annual
leave on the last day of the month. An employee must complete one (1) full
calendar month of employment after initial appointment before annual leave
begins to accrue.
      2.   Annual leave accrual rates for 2,080 hours per year employees are as
follows:
 
1-59 months of service    6.66 hours per month or 80 hours per year
60-119 months of service  10 hours per month or 120 hours per year
120-248 months of service 13.33 per month or 160 hours per year
249+ months of service    16.66 hours per month or 200 hours per year
 
      3.   Annual leave accrual rates for 2,756 hours per year employees are as
follows:
 
1-59 months of service    10 hours per month or 120 hours per year
60-119 months of service  14 hours per month or 168 hours per year
120-248 months of service 20 hours per month or 240 hours per year
249+ months of service    24 hours per month or 288 hours per year
 
      4.   An employee who is serving initial probation will accrue annual
leave during probation but shall not use such leave until satisfactory
completion of initial probation of six (6) months.
      5.   A regular or probationary part-time employee will accrue annual
leave on a prorated basis calculated on average hours worked per month. An
employee must complete one (1) full calendar month of employment after the
initial appointment before annual leave begins to accrue.
      6.   An employee, other than a Fire Department shift employee, may carry
over a maximum of 240 hours of annual leave at the end of the calendar year any
hours over 240 hours will be forfeited.
      7.   A fire Department shift employee may carry over a maximum of 360
hours of annual leave at the end of the calendar year any hours over 360 hours
will be forfeited.
      8.   Annual Leave-Temporary Employees: A temporary employee does not
accrue annual leave.
      9.   Annual Leave-Deductions: Annual leave will be deducted hour per hour
as taken.
      10.   Annual Leave-Long-Term Leave With Pay: An employee who is on leave
with pay for over six (6) consecutive months shall not accrue annual leave for
longer than six (6) months.
      11.   Annual Leave-Duty Disability: An employee who is on duty disability
leave for over thirty (30) consecutive calendar days shall not accrue annual
leave during the time off nor shall the time off be creditable service for
leave accrual rate purposes beginning with the first day off on duty disability
leave.
      12.   Annual Leave-Leave Without Pay: An employee who is on leave without
pay for over thirty (30) consecutive calendar days shall not accrue annual
leave during the time off nor shall the time off be creditable service for
leave accrual rate purposes beginning with the first day off on duty disability
leave
      13.   Annual Leave-Military Leave: An employee who is on military leave
and is reinstated shall not accrue annual leave for the period of military
leave
      14.   Annual Leave-Layoff: An employee who is laid off and is reinstated
shall not accrue annual leave for the period of layoff.
      15.   Annual Leave-Termination:
         a.   A regular employee who terminates shall be paid for unused
accrued annual leave.
         b.   A probationary employee who terminates shall not be paid for
unused accrued annual leave.
      16.   Annual Leave-Exhaustion of Accrued Time: An employee who has used
all their accrued annual leave, and sick leave is not applicable, shall be
placed on leave without pay. The employee shall be subject to all rules
pertaining to leave without pay.
   C.   Sick Leave:
      1.   General Provisions:
         a.   Sick leave may be granted for absence from duty because of
personal illness, illness in the immediate family (child, stepchild, spouse,
maternal or paternal parent, or any individual for whom the employee is a legal
guardian), injuries or legal quarantine; provided, that the employee has sick
leave accumulated. If sick leave is used to stay home and care for an illness
in the immediate family and the employee needs more than three (3) days or
should intermittent absences become excessive, department heads or supervisors
may, upon written notice to the employee, require leave to be taken in
accordance with the family and medical leave act. “Personal illness” is defined
to include scheduled doctor’s appointments for health examination, evaluation
and/or treatment.
         b.   Doctor’s appointments may require documentation.
         c.   Hours worked in addition to the regularly scheduled workweek will
not entitle the employee to additional sick leave benefits.
         d.   Part time employees will receive prorated benefits.
         e.   When an employee becomes ill while on annual leave, sick leave
may be substituted for annual leave upon presentation of a physician’s written
statement.
      2.   Certification Of Sick Leave:
         a.   Employees absent from work, when such absence is charged to sick
leave, may be required to provide their supervisor with a doctor’s statement,
using a city form, certifying that the absence from work was due to illness or
legal quarantine.
         b.   Any employee taking sick leave shall, upon returning to work,
sign a certificate stating the reason for such leave. The employee claiming
sick leave shall cooperate with persons designated by the mayor to make
investigations concerning claimed sick leave.
         (1) All probationary and regular full time employees will accrue one
day of sick leave for each month of continuous employment. Fire department
shift personnel accrue twelve (12) hours per month sick leave.
         (2) An employee can accumulate up to a maximum of one hundred twenty
(120) days’ sick leave, or nine hundred sixty (960) hours; fire department
shift personnel maximum accrual is sixty (60) 24-hour shifts or one thousand
four hundred forty (1,440) hours.
         (3) Salary paid during sick leave shall be based on the regular work
schedule of an eight (8) hour day, forty (40) hour workweek; sick leave for
fire department shift employees shall be based on their regular salary for such
employee’s shift work.
         (4) Accumulated sick leave shall not be taken as annual paid leave.
All sick leave is to be approved and authorized by the employee’s immediate
supervisor. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000)
      3.   Abuse Of Sick Leave:
         a.   An employee who abuses sick leave by using it for purposes other
than sickness, nonduty disability, medical treatment, hospitalization, doctors’
appointments, or not in accordance with subsections C1 and C2 of this section,
will have the absence charged as leave without pay and will be subject to
disciplinary action, including possible termination. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000; amd.
2002 Code)
         b.   Employees suspected of making false claims and failing to
cooperate in any investigation by the city of their claim for sick leave, or
sign a certificate containing a false statement, shall not be entitled to any
leave with pay for the time in dispute. Such actions are considered just cause
for disciplinary action up to and including termination.
   D.   Personal Business Days: Employees may elect to take two (2) personal
business days per year, to be deducted from the accrued sick leave. Personal
business days are to be approved and authorized by the employee’s immediate
supervisor.
   E.   Family And Medical Leave: The purpose of this subsection and subsection
F of this section is to comply with the family and medical leave act (FMLA),
and the provisions herein should be construed in accordance with the provisions
of that act and the regulations adopted pursuant to that act.
      1.   General Provisions:
         a.   Regular full time employees with one or more years of service
and/or who have worked one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) hours within the
twelve (12) month period as a rolling three hundred sixty five (365) day period
preceding their request may take up to twelve (12) weeks’ leave without pay
(LWOP), or any combination of annual leave, sick leave, or LWOP totaling twelve
(12) weeks for:
         (1) The birth of the employee’s son or daughter, and care for the
child.
         (2) The adoption or foster care placement of a child by the employee.
         (3) The employee’s care for a spouse, parent, or child (if the child
is under 18 or is incapable of self care because of a physical or mental
disability) when they have a “serious health condition”.
         (4) The employee’s recovery from or treatment for a “serious health
condition” making the employee unable to perform his/her job functions.
      Employees requesting leave under this act must use up to twelve (12)
weeks of their accumulated sick and/or annual leave, depending on the category
of leave taken before being placed on leave without pay status. (Ord. 615, 6-
13-2000)
      Once an employee is placed on LWOP status under this act, he/she must pay
his/her portion of the health insurance premium. Payment may be made in cash on
an every other week basis. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000; amd. 2002 Code)
         b.   “Serious health condition” is defined to include any illness,
injury, impairment, physical, or mental condition involving in patient care at
a hospital or other medical facility or continuing treatment by a healthcare
provider; “healthcare provider” is defined as any doctor of medicine or
osteopathy who is authorized to practice medicine or surgery by the state in
which the doctor practices.
         c.   Parental leave in categories E1a(1) or E1a(2) of this section may
only be taken during the child’s first twelve (12) months with the employee.
         d.   Parental leave in categories E1a(1) or E1a(2) of this section may
not be taken intermittently (e.g., September and December) or on a reduced
leave schedule (e.g., 4 hours per workday, 30 hours per workweek, etc.) unless
the department head and employee so agree.
         e.   Employees taking medically necessary intermittent or reduced
scheduled leaves may be required to transfer temporarily to an alternate
position for which the employee is qualified, which has equivalent pay and
benefits, and which better accommodates recurring periods of leave than does
the employee’s regular position.
         f.   Intermittent and/or reduced schedule leaves will be provided when
the leave is taken because of a serious health condition (categories E1a(3) and
E1a(4) of this section), and the intermittent or reduced schedule leave is
certified by a healthcare provider as “medically necessary”.
         g.   It is possible that an eligible employee could claim entitlement
annually over a number of years so long as each leave was one of the four (4)
categories stated above.
         h.   In the event a city employee is eligible to take leave under
category E1a(1), E1a(2) or E1a(3) of this section and is a spouse of another
city employee eligible to take leave under category E1a(1), (2) or (3) of this
section, the two (2) spouses are entitled to take up to twelve (12) weeks of
leave each in any twelve (12) month period.
         i.   An employee taking leave due to categories E1a(3) and E1a(4) of
this section may be required to provide a certification of the condition from a
treating healthcare provider. If the city has reason to doubt the validity of
the certification provided for herein, the city may also require, at its own
expense, a second opinion from a healthcare practitioner designated or approved
by the city; provided, however, that such second healthcare provider may not be
employed on a regular basis by the city. In cases where the two (2) opinions
conflict, a third opinion shall be obtained by a healthcare provider designated
or approved jointly by the city and employee. The third opinion shall be
binding upon both the city and the employee.
         j.   In the case of any leave taken under the act, the city has the
right to require the employee to weekly inform his/her supervisor of the
expected remaining duration of the leave. Therefore, employees will contact
their supervisor weekly by telephone and monthly in writing as to their
expected duration of leave.
         k.   Employees taking leave under the provisions of the family and
medical leave act, upon their return to work, will be restored to their
previous position or to another equivalent position with equivalent employment
benefits, pay, and other terms and conditions of employment. However, employees
who have taken LWOP for reasons other than those covered by the family and
medical leave act may be reinstated only if a vacant position exists for which
the individual is qualified.
      2.   Scheduling Leave Under Family And Medical Leave Act:
         a.   The act places a modest burden on the employee who wishes to take
one of the leaves in categories E1a(1) through E1a(4) of this section to give
the city notice of the intended departure date.
         b.   An employee wishing to take parental leave in categories E1a(1)
and E1a(2) of this section must give the city at least thirty (30) days’ notice
of the intended departure date. An exception is made for situations where the
birth or placement of the child precludes the thirty (30) day notice. In such
cases, the employee must provide as much notice as is practicable.
         c.   Employees wishing to take a serious health condition leave in
categories E1a(3) and E1a(4) of this section must, where the leave is based on
a foreseeable, planned medical treatment, make a reasonable effort to schedule
the treatment so as to not unduly disrupt city operations, and must provide at
least thirty (30) days’ notice before the leave is to begin. An exception may
be made where the date of the treatment requires less notice.
   F.   Maternity/Paternity Leave:
      1.   Employees who anticipate using maternity/paternity leave shall
mutually agree with their supervisor for an estimated date when leave will
begin and an estimated date of return.
      2.   A female employee may use any combination of sick leave and annual
leave for the entire maternity leave period. After all leave with pay is
exhausted, the employee must be placed on the inactive payroll until the
balance of her twelve (12) weeks of family and medical leave has been
exhausted, or a negotiated return date (if greater than 12 weeks) has expired,
she has returned to duty, or has terminated her employment.
      3.   When a child is adopted or placed in foster care, male and/or female
employees must use all accrued annual leave before being placed on LWOP status
during the father/mother/child familiarization period. That period of time may
not exceed twelve (12) weeks under the family and medical leave act. Time may
be extended under a negotiated leave agreement. If both spouses work for the
city, they are entitled to take twelve (12) weeks of family and medical leave
each, although the FMLA only requires spouses to take up to twelve (12) weeks
between them.
      4.   A male employee may request paternity leave in order to care for his
family during the wife’s pregnancy and/or postpartum recovery period. Depending
on the circumstances, paternity leave may be charged to annual leave, sick
leave, or leave without pay for a total of twelve (12) weeks. Time may be
extended under a negotiated leave agreement. If both spouses work for the city,
they are entitled to take twelve (12) weeks of leave each.
      5.   An employee who uses maternity or paternity leave will be guaranteed
an equivalent position, providing the employee returns to work within the
twelve (12) weeks covered under the family and medical leave act. In the event
of medical complications or other conditions which may preclude returning to
work within twelve (12) weeks, the employee will communicate with his/her
supervisor and must agree on another date of return. It must be understood that
the employee cannot be guaranteed an equivalent position indefinitely.
      6.   In the case of any leave taken in excess of eighty (80) hours, the
city has the right to require the employee to weekly inform his/her supervisor
of the expected remaining duration of the leave. Therefore, employees will
contact their supervisor weekly by telephone and monthly in writing, as to
their expected duration of leave. Failure to notify their supervisor
accordingly may result in termination unless other arrangements have been
agreed to.
      7.   Prior to maternity/paternity leave, supervisors should contact the
human resources department to make arrangements for a temporary replacement. If
no city employee may be transferred, the supervisor must secure authorization
for a temporary hire from the city according to standard personnel request
practice.
      8.   The city may require a medical certificate for FMLA leave and may
require a certificate of fitness upon return to work.
   G.   Military Duty Leave: All city employees who are members of organized
units of the army or air force national guard or army, air force, navy, marine
or coast guard reserves shall be given not to exceed fifteen (15) working days’
military leave with pay per federal fiscal year when they are ordered to duty
for training, such leave to be in addition to other leave or vacation time with
pay to which such employees are otherwise entitled in compliance with New
Mexico Statutes Annotated section 20-4-7. The employee must provide a copy of
his/her orders to report for duty to his/her department head/supervisor in
order for this to be paid and tracked by the payroll department.
   H.   Jury Duty: Employees will be granted time off with pay to attend jury
duty. In the event jury duty is for less than a day, the employee shall
immediately return to work. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000)
   I.   Funeral Leave: A maximum of three (3) working days with pay will be
allowed to any employee for attendance of a funeral upon the death of a member
of that employee’s family. “Family” is defined as the spouse, child, stepchild,
parent, brother, sister, grandparent or grandchild of the employee or the
employee’s spouse or any individual for whom the employee is a legal guardian.
An additional day may be granted for every five hundred (500) miles traveled
one way from Artesia, required to attend funeral services. Proof of death may
be required before the absence may be charged to funeral leave. (Ord. 970, 6-9-
2015)
   J.   On The Job Injury Leave: Injuries that occur on the job for the city
are paid through a workers’ compensation program. On the job injury payments
for the first week of disability shall be paid by the city. If the employee
returns to work before being paid for the first week by workers’ compensation,
no reimbursement is necessary. If the employee is paid for the first week of
absence by workers’ compensation, the city is reimbursed for the first week’s
compensation. An employee shall elect, in writing, to receive workers’
compensation benefits for weekly pay benefits or take sick leave or annual
leave accrual.
   K.   Leave Without Pay: Time off, without pay, may be granted for a period
not to exceed one year. Such leave of absence without pay must be in the city’s
best interest and with the approval of the governing body of the city. An
employee who has taken leave without pay for reasons other than those covered
by the family and medical leave act may be reinstated only if a vacant position
exists for which the individual is qualified. An employee must exhaust all
annual leave before beginning leave without pay. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000; amd.
Ord. O-1112, 6-27-2023)
1-6-17: DEPARTMENT RULES:
Each department may have established additional rules to aid in the department
efficiency, approved by the mayor, and not in conflict with any ordinance of
the city. Sanctions for violating department rules and regulations are subject
to disciplinary policies stated in this chapter. (Ord. 615, 6-13-2000)
1-6-18: PERSONNEL RECORDS:
The city maintains a file of each employee's official personnel data. These
files are public record, except as identified by the inspection of public
records act 1  and/or federal law. An employee has the right to inspect and
request the correction of inaccurate information in his/her personnel file. It
is the employee's responsibility to assure that the file has current personal
information, including changes in name, address, phone number, beneficiary
(ies), and certificates of additional training or schooling. (Ord. 615, 6-13-
2000)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 14-2-4 et seq.
CHAPTER 7
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
SECTION:
1-7-1: Short Title
1-7-2: Purpose And Interpretation
1-7-3: Definitions
1-7-4: Rights Of Employees
1-7-5: Management Rights
1-7-6: Labor Management Relations Board
1-7-7: Powers And Duties Of The Board
1-7-8: Hearing Procedures
1-7-9: Appropriate Bargaining Units
1-7-10: Elections
1-7-11: Exclusive Representation
1-7-12: Decertification Of Exclusive Representative
1-7-13: Scope Of Bargaining
1-7-14: Negotiations And Impasse Resolution
1-7-15: Employers; Prohibited Practices
1-7-16: Employees; Labor Organizations; Prohibited Practices
1-7-17: Strikes And Lockouts Prohibited
1-7-18: Agreements Valid; Enforcement
1-7-19: Judicial Enforcement; Standard Of Review
1-7-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the CITY OF ARTESIA LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 679, 5-25-2004)
1-7-2: PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to guarantee employees the
right to organize and bargain collectively with their employer, to protect the
rights of the employer and the employees and to promote harmonious and
cooperative relationships between the employer and the employees; and to
acknowledge the obligation of the employer and the employees to provide orderly
and uninterrupted services to the citizens.
   B.   Conflicting Provisions: In the event of conflict with other city of
Artesia ordinances, the provisions of this chapter shall supersede other
previously enacted ordinances.
The city of Artesia sanctioned rules and regulations, administrative
directives, departmental rules and regulations, and workplace practices shall
control unless there is a conflict with a collective bargaining agreement.
Where a conflict exists, the collective bargaining agreement shall control.
(Ord. 679, 5-25-2004)
1-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
APPROPRIATE BARGAINING UNIT: A group of employees designated by the board for
the purpose of collective bargaining.
BOARD: The city of Artesia labor management relations board.
CERTIFICATION: The designation by the board of a labor organization as the
exclusive representative for all employees in an appropriate bargaining unit.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: The act of negotiating between the employer and an
exclusive representative for the purpose of entering into a written agreement
regarding wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment.
CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE: A person who devotes a majority of his/her time to
assisting and acting in a confidential capacity with respect to a person who
formulates, determines, and effectuates management policies.
EMERGENCY: A one time crisis that was unforeseen and unavoidable.
EMPLOYEE: A regular, nonprobationary employee of the city of Artesia.
EMPLOYER: The city of Artesia.
EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE: A labor organization that, as a result of
certification by the board, represents all employees in an appropriate
bargaining unit for the purposes of collective bargaining.
FAIR SHARE: The payment to a labor organization which is the exclusive
representative for an appropriate bargaining unit by an employee of that
bargaining unit who is not a member of that labor organization equal to a
certain percentage of membership dues. Such figure is to be calculated based on
United States and New Mexico statutes and case law identifying those
expenditures by a labor organization which are permissibly chargeable to all
employees in the appropriate bargaining unit under United States and New Mexico
statutes and case law, including, but not limited to, all expenditures incurred
by the labor organization in negotiating the contract applicable to all
employees in the appropriate bargaining unit, servicing such contract, and
representing all such employees in grievances and disciplinary actions.
GOVERNING BODY: The city of Artesia city council.
IMPASSE: Failure of the employer and an exclusive representative, after good
faith bargaining, to reach agreement in the course of negotiating a collective
bargaining agreement.
LABOR ORGANIZATION: Any employee organization one of whose purposes is the
representation of public employees in collective bargaining and in otherwise
meeting, consulting, and conferring with employers on matters pertaining to
employment relations.
LOCKOUT: An act by the employer to prevent its employees from going to work for
the purpose of resisting demands of the employees' exclusive representative or
for the purpose of gaining a concession from the exclusive representative.
MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE: An employee who is engaged primarily in executive and
management functions and is charged with the responsibility of developing,
administering, or effectuating management policies. An employee shall not be
deemed a management employee solely because the employee participates in
cooperative decision making programs on an occasional basis.
MEDIATION: Assistance by an impartial third party to resolve an impasse in
contract negotiation between the employer and an exclusive representative
through interpretation, suggestion, and advice.
PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYEE: An employee whose work is predominantly intellectual and
varied in character and whose work involves the consistent exercise of
discretion and judgment in its performance and requires knowledge of an
advanced nature in a field of learning customarily requiring specialized study
at an institution of higher education or its equivalent. The work of a
professional employee is of such character that the output or result
accomplished cannot be standardized in relation to a given period of time.
STRIKE: An employee's refusal, in concerted action with other employees, to
report for duty or his wilful absence or withholding of service in whole or in
part from the full, faithful, and proper performance of the duties of
employment for the purpose of inducing, influencing, or coercing a change in
the working conditions, compensation, rights, privileges, or obligations of
employment.
SUPERVISOR: An employee who devotes a majority amount of work time to
supervisory duties, who customarily and regularly directs the work of two (2)
or more other employees, and who has the authority in the interest of the
employer to hire, promote, or discipline other employees or to recommend such
actions effectively. This definition does not include individuals who perform
merely routine, incidental, or clerical duties or who occasionally assume
supervisory or directory roles or whose duties are substantially similar to
those of their subordinates and does not include lead employees or employees
who occasionally participate in peer review or evaluation of employees. (Ord.
679, 5-25-2004)
1-7-4: RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES:
Employees, other than management, supervisory, confidential, and probationary
employees, may form, join, or assist any labor organization for the purpose of
collective bargaining through a representative chosen by the employees without
interference, restraint, or coercion. Employees also have the right to refuse
to form, join, or assist any labor organization. (Ord. 679, 5-25-2004)
1-7-5: MANAGEMENT RIGHTS:
Unless limited by the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement or by
other statutory provision, the employer's rights shall include, but are not
limited to, the following:
   A.   To direct the work of, hire, promote, assign, transfer, demote,
suspend, discharge, or terminate public employees;
   B.   To determine qualifications for employment and the nature and content
of personnel examinations;
   C.   To take actions as may be necessary to carry out the mission of the
employer in emergencies; and
   D.   The employer retains all rights not specifically limited by a
collective bargaining agreement or by the public employee bargaining act. (Ord.
679, 5-25-2004)
1-7-6: LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS BOARD:
   A.   The "labor management relations board" is hereby created. The board
shall be composed of three (3) members appointed by the mayor and approved by
the city council. One member shall be appointed on the recommendation of
individuals representing labor, one member shall be appointed on the
recommendation of the mayor, and one member shall be appointed on the
recommendation of the first two (2) appointees.
   B.   Board members shall serve for a period of one year with terms
commencing in the month of September, except in the initial appointment, which
will be a shorter term, effective the same day as the ordinance codified
herein. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original
appointment, and such appointments shall only be made for the remainder of the
unexpired term. A board member may serve an unlimited number of terms.
   C.   During the term of appointment, no board member shall hold or seek any
other political office or public employment or be an employee of a union, an
organization representing public employees or a public employer.
   D.   Each board member shall be paid per diem and mileage in accordance with
the provisions of the per diem and mileage act. (Ord. 679, 5-25-2004)
1-7-7: POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD:
   A.   The board shall promulgate rules and regulations necessary to
accomplish and perform its functions and duties as established in this chapter,
including the establishment of procedures for:
      1.   The designation of appropriate bargaining units;
      2.   The selection, certification, and decertification of exclusive
representatives; and
      3.   The filing, hearing, and determination of complaints of prohibited
practices. This does not apply to negotiation impasse or grievances subject to
the required negotiated grievance process.
   B.   The board shall:
      1.   Hold hearings and make inquiries necessary to carry out its
functions and duties;
      2.   Request from employers and labor organizations the information and
data necessary to carry out the functions and responsibilities of the board.
   C.   The board may issue subpoenas requiring, upon reasonable notice, the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of any evidence,
including books, records, correspondence, or documents relevant to the matter
in question. The board may prescribe the form of the subpoena, but it shall
adhere insofar as practicable to the form used in civil actions in the district
court. The board may administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and
receive evidence. Subject to the approval of funds, the board may contract with
a third party to assist it in carrying out its functions.
   D.   The board shall decide all issues by majority vote and shall issue its
decisions in the form of written orders and opinions. The decisions of the
board on interpretation and applications of this chapter are final and binding
on the parties subject to the appeal process provided in section
1-7-19 of this chapter. The board's hearing authority does not apply to
negotiation impasses or issues dealing with the collective bargaining agreement
where a grievance procedure has been negotiated for that purpose by the parties
as required by law.
   E.   The board has the power to enforce provisions of this chapter and the
board's labor management relations rules and regulations through the imposition
of appropriate administrative remedies.
   F.   The board shall have no power to promulgate policy other than for its
own operation.
   G.   No rule or regulation promulgated by the board shall require, directly
or indirectly, as a condition of continuous employment, any employee covered by
this chapter to pay money to any labor organization that is certified as an
exclusive representative. This issue of fair share shall be a permissive as
opposed to a mandatory subject of bargaining between the employer and the
exclusive representative. (Ord. 679, 5-25-2004)
1-7-8: HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   The board may hold hearings for the purposes of:
      1.   Information gathering and inquiry;
      2.   Adopting rules and regulations; and
      3.   Adjudicating disputes and enforcing the provisions of this chapter,
and rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   The board shall adopt regulations setting forth procedures to be
followed during hearings of the board. Such regulations shall meet minimal due
process requirements of the state and federal constitutions.
   C.   Proceedings against the party alleged to have committed a prohibited
practice shall be commenced by service upon it and the board of a written
notice together with a copy of the charges and relief requested.
   D.   All adopted rules and regulations shall be filed in accordance with
applicable laws.
   E.   A verbatim record made by electronic or other suitable means shall be
made of every rule making and adjudicatory hearing. The record shall not be
transcribed unless required for judicial review or unless ordered by the board.
The party requesting the transcript shall pay for the transcription, in the
case of judicial review the payment shall be made by the party filing the
appeal.
   F.   Each party to a prohibited labor practice shall bear the cost of
producing its own witnesses and paying its representative for hearings under
this chapter.
   G.   No regulation proposed to be adopted by the board that affects any
person or governmental entity outside of the board and its staff shall be
adopted, amended, or repealed without public hearing and comment on the
proposed action before the board. The public hearing shall be held after notice
of the subject matter of the regulation, the action proposed to be taken, the
time and place of the hearing, the manner in which interested persons may
present their views, and the method in which copies of the proposed regulation,
proposed amendment, or repeal of an existing regulation may be obtained. All
meetings shall be held at a city facility. Notice shall be published once at
least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing date in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city of Artesia, and notice shall be mailed at least thirty
(30) days prior to the hearing date to all persons who have made a written
request for advance notice of hearings. (Ord. 679, 5-25-2004)
1-7-9: APPROPRIATE BARGAINING UNITS:
   A.   The board shall, upon receipt of a petition for a representation
election filed by a labor organization, designate the appropriate bargaining
unit. Appropriate bargaining units shall be established on the basis of
occupational groups or clear and identifiable community of interest in
employment terms, employment conditions, and related personnel matters among
the employees involved. Occupational groups shall generally be identified as
blue collar, secretarial, clerical, technical, paraprofessional, professional,
corrections, firefighters, and police officers. Department, craft, or trade
designations other than as specified above shall not determine bargaining
units. The parties, by mutual agreement and approval of the board, may further
consolidate occupational groups. The essential factors in determining
appropriate bargaining units shall include the principles of efficient
administration of government, the history of collective bargaining, and the
assurance to employees of their rights guaranteed by this chapter.
   B.   If the labor organization and the employer cannot agree on the
appropriate bargaining unit within thirty (30) days, the board shall hold a
hearing concerning the composition of the bargaining unit. Any agreement as to
the appropriate bargaining unit between the employer and the labor organization
is subject to the approval of the board.
   C.   The board shall not include in any appropriate bargaining unit,
probationary, supervisory, managerial, or confidential employees. (Ord. 679, 5-
25-2004)
1-7-10: ELECTIONS:
   A.   Whenever, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the board, a
petition is filed by a labor organization containing the signatures of at least
thirty percent (30%) of the employees in an appropriate bargaining unit, the
board shall post a notice to affected employees regarding the filed petition
and proceed with the process for conducting a secret ballot representation
election.
   B.   Once a labor organization has filed a petition with the board
requesting a representation election, other labor organizations may seek to be
placed on the ballot. Any labor organization may file a competing petition
containing the signatures of not less than thirty percent (30%) of the
employees in the appropriate bargaining unit no later than ten (10) calendar
days after the board has posted a written notice that a petition for a
representation election has been filed by a labor organization.
   C.   All representation elections shall include the option for "no
representation", except in a runoff election where the choice of "no
representation" was not one of the two (2) choices that received the highest
votes.
   D.   In the event of an election with two (2) or more labor organizations on
the ballot and none of the choices on the ballot received a majority of the
votes cast, then a runoff election shall be held within fifteen (15) calendar
days. The choices on the runoff election shall consist of the two (2) choices,
which received the greatest number of votes in the original election.
   E.   A valid election requires that at least forty percent (40%) of the
eligible employees in an appropriate bargaining unit cast a vote. In an
election with only one labor organization, and the majority of the votes cast
are in favor of representation, the board shall certify that labor organization
as the exclusive representative for all the employees in the bargaining unit.
   F.   No election shall be conducted if an election has been conducted in the
twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the proposed representation
election. No election shall be held during the term of an existing collective
bargaining agreement, except as provided in subsection 1-7-12B of this chapter,
or after the expiration of the third year of a collective bargaining agreement
with a term of more than three (3) years.
   G.   Election disputes shall be resolved by the board.
   H.   As an alternative to the provisions of subsection A of this section,
the employer and a labor organization with a reasonable basis for claiming to
represent a majority of the employees in an appropriate bargaining unit may
establish an alternative appropriate procedure for determining majority status.
The procedure may include a labor organization's submission of authorization
cards from a majority of the employees in an appropriate bargaining unit. The
local board shall not certify an appropriate bargaining unit if the employer
objects to the certification without an election. (Ord. 679, 5-25-2004)
1-7-11: EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATION:
A labor organization that has been certified by the board as the exclusive
representative for employees in an appropriate bargaining unit shall represent
all employees in the bargaining unit. The exclusive representative shall act
for all employees in the bargaining unit and negotiate a collective bargaining
agreement covering all employees in the bargaining unit. The exclusive
representative shall represent the interests of all employees in the bargaining
unit without discrimination or regard to membership or nonmembership in the
labor organization. The existence of an exclusive bargaining representative
shall not prevent employees from taking their grievances through the grievance
process or filing prohibited practices with the board. Any settlement of a
grievance or relief given on a prohibited practice brought by an individual
shall not be inconsistent with or in violation of the collective bargaining
agreement in effect between the employer and the exclusive representative or
inconsistent with or in violation of a memorandum of understanding between the
employer and the exclusive representative applicable to the day to day
administration of the collective bargaining agreement. The exclusive
representative shall be afforded the opportunity to be present at such hearings
and make its views known. (Ord. 679, 5-25-2004)
1-7-12: DECERTIFICATION OF EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE:
   A.   Any member of a labor organization or the labor organization itself may
initiate decertification of a labor organization as the exclusive
representative if thirty percent (30%) of the employees in the appropriate
bargaining unit make a written request to the board for a decertification
election. A decertification election shall be valid only if at least forty
percent (40%) of the eligible employees in the bargaining unit vote in the
election.
   B.   When there is a collective bargaining agreement in effect, a request
for a decertification election shall be made to the board no earlier than
ninety (90) days and no later than sixty (60) days before the expiration of the
collective bargaining agreement; provided, however, that a request for a
decertification election may be filed at any time after the expiration of the
third year of a collective bargaining agreement with a term of more than three
(3) years.
   C.   When, within the time period prescribed in subsection B of this
section, a competing labor organization files a petition containing signatures
of at least thirty percent (30%) of the employees in the appropriate bargaining
unit, a representation election rather than a decertification election shall be
conducted.
   D.   When an exclusive representative has been certified but no collective
bargaining agreement is in effect, the board shall not accept a request for a
decertification election earlier than twelve (12) months subsequent to a labor
organization's certification as the exclusive representative. (Ord. 679, 5-25-
2004)
1-7-13: SCOPE OF BARGAINING:
   A.   Except for retirement programs provided under the public employment
retirement act, the parties shall bargain in good faith on all wages, hours,
and other terms and conditions of employment and other issues agreed to by the
parties. The parties shall enter into a written agreement covering employment
relations regarding the issues agreed to in collective bargaining.
   B.   Bargaining in good faith shall not require either party to agree to a
proposal or to make a concession.
   C.   The obligation to bargain collectively imposed by this chapter shall
not be construed as authorizing employers and exclusive representatives to
enter into any agreement that is in conflict with state statutes or federal
statutes. In the event of conflict between the provision of any federal or
state statutes and any agreement entered into by the employer and the exclusive
representative, the former shall prevail.
   D.   Payroll deduction of the exclusive representative's membership dues
shall be a mandatory subject of bargaining if either party chooses to negotiate
the issue. The amount of dues shall be certified in writing by an official of
the labor organization and shall not include special assessments, penalties, or
fines of any type levied by the exclusive representative. During the time that
a board certification is in effect for a particular exclusive representative,
the employer shall not deduct dues for any other labor organization from
members of the same bargaining unit.
   E.   Any agreement or impasse resolution by the employer and an exclusive
representative that requires the expenditure of funds shall be contingent upon
the specific appropriation of funds by the governing body and the availability
of funds to fund the agreed upon provision. An arbitrator's decision shall not
require the reappropriation of funds.
   F.   The parties have a requirement that a grievance procedure culminating
with final and binding arbitration be negotiated. This applies only to
grievances and the interpretation and application of the agreement between the
parties and does not apply to negotiation impasses. The parties shall share the
cost of any proceedings conducted pursuant to this subsection equally. Each
party is responsible for paying any cost related to its witnesses and
representation. (Ord. 679, 5-25-2004)
1-7-14: NEGOTIATIONS AND IMPASSE RESOLUTION:
   A.   The following meetings shall be closed:
      1.   Meetings for the discussion of collective bargaining strategy
between the governing body and the employer's negotiating team preliminary to
negotiations sessions;
      2.   Collective bargaining sessions; and
      3.   Consultations and impasse resolution procedures at which the
employer and/or the exclusive representative of the appropriate bargaining unit
are present.
   B.   The following negotiation procedures shall apply to the employer and
exclusive representatives:
      1.   The negotiations for the first contract shall be opened upon written
notice by either party to the other requesting that negotiating sessions be
scheduled. Subsequent requests for negotiations shall be postmarked no earlier
than one hundred twenty (120) days nor later than sixty (60) days prior to the
contract ending date or as negotiated by the parties. The parties may open
negotiations at any time by mutual agreement.
      2.   All negotiations will be conducted in closed sessions. Negotiations
will be held at a facility and at a time mutually agreed upon by the parties.
      3.   Recesses and study sessions may be called by either team. Prior to
the conclusion of any negotiating sessions, the reconvening time will be agreed
upon. Caucuses may be taken as needed.
      4.   Tentative agreements reached during negotiations will be reduced to
writing, dated, and initialed by each team spokesperson. Such tentative
agreements are conditional and may be withdrawn should later discussion change
either party's understanding of the language as it related to another part of
the agreement.
      5.   Agreement on contract negotiations is accomplished when the
agreement is approved by the governing body and the union president and the
mayor sign the agreement. Provisions in multi-year agreements providing for
economic increases for subsequent years shall be contingent upon the governing
body appropriating the funds necessary to fund the increase for the subsequent
year(s). Should the governing body not appropriate sufficient funds to fund the
agreed upon increase, either party may reopen negotiations.
   C.   The following impasse procedure shall be followed by the employer and
exclusive representative:
      1.   If an impasse occurs, either party shall request mediation
assistance. If the parties cannot agree on a mediator, either party may request
the assistance of the federal mediation and conciliation service;
      2.   If the impasse continues after thirty (30) calendar days, either
party may request an unrestricted list of seven (7) arbitrators from the
federal mediation and conciliation service. The parties shall choose one
arbitrator by alternately striking names from such list. Which party strikes
the first name shall be determined by coin toss. The arbitrator shall render a
final, binding, written decision resolving unresolved issues no later than
thirty (30) calendar days after the arbitrator has been notified of his or her
selection by the parties. The arbitrator's decision shall be limited to a
selection of one of the two (2) parties' complete, last, best offer. However,
an impasse resolution decision of an arbitrator or an agreement provision by
the employer and an exclusive representative that requires the expenditure of
funds shall be contingent upon the specific appropriation of funds by the
governing body and the availability of funds. An arbitrator's decision shall
not require the employer to reappropriate funds. The parties shall share all of
the arbitrator's costs incurred pursuant to this subsection equally. Each party
shall be responsible for paying any costs related to its witnesses and
representation. The decision shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to
the standards set forth in the uniform arbitration act.
      3.   In the event that an impasse continues after the expiration of a
contract, the existing contract will continue in full force and effect until it
is replaced by a subsequent written agreement. However, this shall not require
the employer to increase any employees' levels, steps, or grades of
compensation contained in the existing contract. (Ord. 679, 5-25-2004)
1-7-15: EMPLOYERS; PROHIBITED PRACTICES:
   A.   A public employer or his representative shall not:
      1.   Discriminate against an employee with regard to terms and conditions
of employment because of the employee's membership in a labor organization;
      2.   Interfere with, restrain, or coerce any employee in the exercise of
any right guaranteed under this chapter;
      3.   Dominate or interfere in the formation, existence, or administration
of any labor organization;
      4.   Discriminate in regard to hiring, or any term or condition of
employment in order to encourage or discourage membership in a labor
organization;
      5.   Discharge or otherwise discriminate against an employee because the
employee has signed or filed an affidavit, petition, grievance, or complaint or
given any information or testimony under the provisions of this chapter or
because an employee is forming, joining, or choosing to be represented by a
labor organization;
      6.   Refuse to bargain collectively in good faith with the exclusive
representative;
      7.   Refuse or fail to comply with any provisions of this chapter, board
regulations, or the public employee bargaining act; or
      8.   Refuse or fail to comply with any collective bargaining agreement.
This issue is subject to the required grievance procedure negotiated by the
parties.
   B.   During the negotiation and the impasse procedure, city councilors and
management employees are prohibited from negotiating issues which are the
subject of negotiations and from making any offers, commitment, or promise
whatsoever to employees or the exclusive representative, other than through the
appointed city negotiating team. It is the intent of this language that the
integrity of the negotiating process be maintained. All negotiations and
concessions shall occur only between the respective appointed negotiating
teams. (Ord. 679, 5-25-2004)
1-7-16: EMPLOYEES; LABOR ORGANIZATIONS; PROHIBITED PRACTICES:
   A.   An employee, a labor organization, or its representative shall not:
      1.   Discriminate against an employee with regard to labor organization
membership because of race, color, religion, creed, age, disability, sex, or
national origin;
      2.   Solicit membership for an employee or labor organization during the
employee's duty hours. This does not include the work breaks or lunch periods;
      3.   Restrain or coerce any employee in the exercise of any right
guaranteed by the provisions of this chapter;
      4.   Refuse to bargain collectively in good faith with the employer;
      5.   Refuse or fail to comply with any collective bargaining agreement
with the employer. This issue is subject to the required negotiated grievance
procedure negotiated by the parties;
      6.   Refuse or fail to comply with any provision of this chapter;
      7.   Picket homes or private businesses of employees, appointed
individuals, or elected officials of the city of Artesia;
      8.   Restrain or coerce the employer in the selection of its agent for
bargaining.
   B.   During the negotiation and the impasse procedure the employees, the
exclusive representative or any of its employees are prohibited from
negotiating issues which are the subject of negotiations with anyone other than
the appointed city negotiating team. It is the intent of this language that the
integrity of the negotiating process be maintained. All negotiations and
concessions shall occur only between the respective appointed negotiating
teams. (Ord. 679, 5-25-2004)
1-7-17: STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No employee or labor organization shall engage in a strike. No labor
organization shall cause, instigate, encourage, or support a strike. The
employer shall not cause, instigate, or engage in an employee lockout.
   B.   The employer may apply to the district court for injunctive relief to
end a strike, and an exclusive representative of public employees affected by a
lockout may apply to the district court for injunctive relief to end a lockout.
   C.   The board, upon a clear and convincing showing of proof at a hearing
that a labor organization directly caused or instigated an employee strike, may
impose appropriate penalties on that labor organization, up to and including
decertification of the labor organization with respect to any of its bargaining
units which struck as a result of such causation or instigation. A "strike"
means an employee's refusal, in concerted action with other employees, to
report for duty or his wilful absence or withholding of service in whole or in
part from the full, faithful, and proper performance of the duties of
employment for the purpose of inducing, influencing, or coercing a change in
the working conditions, compensation, rights, privileges, or obligations of
employment. (Ord. 679, 5-25-2004)
1-7-18: AGREEMENTS VALID; ENFORCEMENT:
All collective bargaining agreements and other agreements between the employer
and exclusive representative are valid and enforceable according to their terms
when entered into in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 679,
5-25-2004)
1-7-19: JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT; STANDARD OF REVIEW:
   A.   The board may request the district court to enforce any order issued
pursuant to this chapter, including those for appropriate temporary relief and
restraining orders. The court shall consider the request for enforcement on the
record made before the board. The court shall uphold the action of the board
and take appropriate action to enforce it unless the court concludes that the
order is:
      1.   Arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion;
      2.   Not supported by substantial evidence on the record considered as a
whole; or
      3.   Otherwise not in accordance with law.
   B.   Any person or party, including any labor organization, affected by a
final regulation, order, or decision of the board, may appeal to the district
court for further relief. All such appeals shall be based upon the record made
at the board hearing. All such appeals to the district court shall be taken
within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the final regulation, order, or
decision of the board. Actions taken by the board shall be affirmed unless the
court concludes that the action is:
      1.   Arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion;
      2.   Not supported by substantial evidence on the record taken as a
whole; or
      3.   Otherwise not in accordance with law. (Ord. 679, 5-25-2004)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Purpose
1-8-2: Creation Of Districts
1-8-3: Candidates
1-8-4: Election Resolution
1-8-5: Polling Places
1-8-6: Ballots
1-8-7: Precinct Boards
1-8-8: Publication Of Names Of Candidates
1-8-9: Election Of Other Municipal Officers
1-8-10: Plurality Of Votes Cast Required For Election
1-8-11: Canvass Of Returns; Election Certificate
1-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish dual member districts for election
of councilors and to adopt rules and regulations to implement elections by
district as authorized in section 3-8-1G New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978.
(Ord. 872, 8-9-2011)
1-8-2: CREATION OF DISTRICTS:
   A.   Councilors shall reside in and be elected from that municipal election
district.
   B.   There are created four (4) municipal election districts. The boundaries
of each municipal election district are shown on the municipal election
district map which is hereby adopted as the official districting map and is to
be kept in the custody of the municipal clerk. Narrative descriptions of the
respective boundaries of said four (4) municipal election districts are as
follows:
District 1.
All of that portion of Eddy County bounded and described as follows: Beginning
at the point of intersection of the Artesia city line and W Richey Ave, and
proceeding northerly along the Artesia city line to N 13th St, and proceeding
southerly along N 13th St to the Artesia city line, and proceeding southerly
along the Artesia city line to N 13th St, and proceeding southerly along N 13th
St to W Richey Ave, and proceeding easterly along W Richey Ave to 8th St, and
proceeding southerly along 8th St to N 8th St, and proceeding southerly along N
8th St to 8th St, and proceeding southerly along 8th St to W Hank Ave, and
proceeding westerly along W Hank Ave to N 8th St, and proceeding southerly
along N 8th St to W Mahone Dr, and proceeding westerly along W Mahone Dr to N
9th St, and proceeding southerly along N 9th St to 9th St, and proceeding
southerly along 9th St to S 9th St, and proceeding southerly along S 9th St to
W Washington Ave, and proceeding westerly along W Washington Ave to S 15th St,
and proceeding northerly along S 15th St to W Grand Ave, and proceeding
westerly along W Grand Ave to S 20th St, and proceeding northerly along S 20th
St to 20th St, and proceeding northerly along 20th St to W Main St, and
proceeding westerly along W Main St to N 26th St, and proceeding northerly
along N 26th St to W Richey Ave, and proceeding westerly along W Richey Ave to
the point of beginning.
District 2.
All of that portion of Eddy County bounded and described as follows: Beginning
at the point of intersection of N 13th St and W Richey Ave, and proceeding
northerly along N 13th St to the Artesia city line, and proceeding southerly
along the Artesia city line to N 13th St, and proceeding northerly along N 13th
St to the Artesia city line, and proceeding northerly along the Artesia city
line to the Morningside/Artesia census designated place/city line, and
proceeding easterly along the Morningside/Artesia census designated place/city
line to the Artesia city line, and proceeding easterly along the Artesia city
line to E Hermosa Dr, and proceeding westerly along E Hermosa Dr to W Hermosa
Dr, and proceeding westerly along W Hermosa Dr to S 3rd St, and proceeding
northerly along S 3rd St to W Runyan Ave, and proceeding westerly along W
Runyan Ave to S Heath St, and proceeding northerly along S Heath St to Carper
Dr, and proceeding easterly along Carper Dr to W Park Ave, and proceeding
easterly along W Park Ave to S 6th St, and proceeding northerly along S 6th St
to W Washington Ave, and proceeding westerly along W Washington Ave to S 9th
St, and proceeding northerly along S 9th St to 9th St, and proceeding northerly
along 9th St to N 9th St, and proceeding northerly along N 9th St to W Mahone
Dr, and proceeding easterly along W Mahone Dr to N 8th St, and proceeding
northerly along N 8th St to W Hank Ave, and proceeding easterly along W Hank
Ave to 8th St, and proceeding northerly along 8th St to N 8th St, and
proceeding northerly along N 8th St to 8th St, and proceeding northerly along
8th St to W Richey Ave, and proceeding westerly along W Richey Ave to the point
of beginning.
District 3.
All of that portion of Eddy County bounded and described as follows: 1.
Beginning at the point of intersection of the Artesia city line and unnamed
Local road, and proceeding northerly along the Artesia city line to W Richey
Ave, and proceeding easterly along W Richey Ave to N 26th St, and proceeding
southerly along N 26th St to W Main St, and proceeding easterly along W Main St
to 20th St, and proceeding southerly along 20th St to S 20th St, and proceeding
southerly along S 20th St to W Grand Ave, and proceeding easterly along W Grand
Ave to S 15th St, and proceeding southerly along S 15th St to W Centre Ave, and
proceeding westerly along W Centre Ave to S 20th St, and proceeding southerly
along S 20th St to W Hermosa Dr, and proceeding westerly along W Hermosa Dr to
unnamed Local road, and proceeding southerly along unnamed Local road to the
point of beginning. 2. Except for all of the region bounded by the Artesia city
line.
District 4.
All of that portion of Eddy County bounded and described as follows: Beginning
at the point of intersection of the Artesia city line and E Hermosa Dr, and
proceeding northerly along the Artesia city line to unnamed Local road, and
proceeding northerly along unnamed Local road to W Hermosa Dr, and proceeding
easterly along W Hermosa Dr to S 20th St, and proceeding northerly along S 20th
St to W Centre Ave, and proceeding easterly along W Centre Ave to S 15th St,
and proceeding northerly along S 15th St to W Washington Ave, and proceeding
easterly along W Washington Ave to S 6th St, and proceeding southerly along S
6th St to W Park Ave, and proceeding westerly along W Park Ave to Carper Dr,
and proceeding westerly along Carper Dr to S Heath St, and proceeding southerly
along S Heath St to W Runyan Ave, and proceeding easterly along W Runyan Ave to
S 3rd St, and proceeding southerly along S 3rd St to W Hermosa Dr, and
proceeding easterly along W Hermosa Dr to E Hermosa Dr, and proceeding easterly
along E Hermosa Dr to the point of beginning.
In the event of conflict between the narrative descriptions set forth and the
boundaries shown on said municipal election district map, the boundaries shown
on the map shall control.
   C.   The districts created are dual member districts. (Ord. 872, 8-9-2011;
amd. Ord. 1090, 11-9-2021)
1-8-3: CANDIDATES:
   A.   Only persons residing in a particular municipal election district and
who otherwise meet all applicable requirements imposed by law or ordinance,
shall be allowed to be candidates for the position of councilor for that
municipal election district.
   B.   In determining the location of a residence of a person, the rules set
forth in 1-1-7 NMSA 1978 and 1-1-7.1 NMSA 1978 shall govern.
   C.   In addition to the requirements for a declaration of candidacy set
forth NMSA 1978, the municipal clerk shall not accept a declaration of
candidacy for the position of Councilor unless the declaration states which
district the candidate resides in and is seeking election from. The municipal
clerk shall determine if the candidate’s residence is withing the district from
which the candidate is seeking election. If the candidate does not reside
within the district, the municipal clerk shall determine that the declaration
of candidacy is invalid.
   D.   A write in candidate shall not be elected to fill the position of
councilor unless the write in candidate meets all requirements imposed by law
or ordinance, and resides in the district from which the write in candidate is
elected. (Ord. 872, 8-9-2011; amd. Ord. 1090, 11-9-2021)
1-8-4: ELECTION RESOLUTION:
In addition to the requirements of 1-1-7 NMSA 1978 and 1-1-7.1 NMSA 1978 the
election resolution calling for the regular municipal election shall set forth
which districts of the municipality will be electing Councilors. (Ord. 872, 8-
9-2011; amd. Ord. 1090, 11-9-2021)
1-8-5: POLLING PLACES:
Each district shall contain not less than one polling place. If the county
clerk of Eddy County furnishes voter registration lists and other necessary
election material divided to identify qualified electors on a district by
district basis, then the precinct boards may be established on a district by
district basis, for all or part of a district, and need not be established in
relation to precinct boundaries or consolidated precinct boundaries.
The municipal clerk may establish one or more voting centers, combining
multiple districts, in accordance with the requirements of section 1-3-4 New
Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978, only with the concurrence of the county clerk
of Eddy County. (Ord. 872, 8-9-2011)
1-8-6: BALLOTS:
The municipal clerk shall cause all ballots to separate candidates for the
position of Councilor by district. The order of candidates running for office
within each district shall be determined by the office of the Secretary of
State of New Mexico. There shall be a place for a voter to insert a write-in
candidate, if declared, in lieu of voting for one of the candidates for the
position of Councilor. (Ord. 872, 8-9-2011; amd. Ord. 1090, 11-9-2021)
1-8-7: PRECINCT BOARDS:
The precinct board shall assure that each voter votes only for a candidate for
the position of Councilor to represent the district within which that voter
resides. (Ord. 872, 8-9-2011; amd. Ord. 1090, 11-9-2021)
1-8-8: PUBLICATION OF NAMES OF CANDIDATES:
The municipal clerk shall assure that the publication of the names of
candidates for office of Councilor shall designate from which election district
each such candidate is seeking election. (Ord. 872, 8-9-2011; amd. Ord. 1090,
11-9-2021)
1-8-9: ELECTION OF OTHER MUNICIPAL OFFICERS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to effect the manner in which other
municipal officers are elected. (Ord. 872, 8-9-2011)
1-8-10: PLURALITY OF VOTES CAST REQUIRED FOR ELECTION:
Each candidate for the position of Councilor shall only receive votes cast for
such candidate by the resident qualified electors of the election district from
which that candidate is running. (Ord. 872, 8-9-2011; amd. Ord. 1090, 11-9-
2021)
1-8-11: CANVASS OF RETURNS; ELECTION CERTIFICATE:
Regarding canvass of returns and issuance of an election certificate,
appropriate election officials shall assure that returns are canvassed and
election certificates are issued on a district by district basis for the
position of councilor. (Ord. 872, 8-9-2011)
TITLE 2
FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GROSS RECEIPTS TAXES
ARTICLE A. MUNICIPAL GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
SECTION:
2-1A-1: General Provisions; Act Adopted
2-1A-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS; ACT ADOPTED:
This article hereby adopts by reference all definitions, exemptions and
deductions contained in the gross receipts and compensating tax act as it now
exists or as it may be amended. Said provisions are on file in the office of
the city clerk for public use and inspection. (Ord. 772, 9-11-2007)
ARTICLE B. MUNICIPAL ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
SECTION:
2-1B-1: Imposition Of Tax
2-1B-2: General Provisions; Act Adopted
2-1B-3: Exemptions From Tax
2-1B-4: Disposition Of Revenue
2-1B-1: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
There is imposed on any person engaging in business in the city for the
privilege of engaging in business in the city an excise tax equal to one-
sixteenth of one percent (1/16%) of the gross receipts reported or required to
be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico gross receipts and
compensating tax act 1  as it now exists or as it may be amended. The tax
imposed under this article is pursuant to the municipal local option gross
receipts taxes act 2  as it now exists or as it may be amended and shall be
known as the "municipal environmental services gross receipts tax". (1996 Code
§ 3.08.140; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 7-9-1 et seq.
2 2. NMSA § 7-19D-1 et seq.
2-1B-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS; ACT ADOPTED:
This article hereby adopts by reference all definitions, exemptions and
deductions contained in the gross receipts and compensating tax act as it now
exists or as it may be amended. (1996 Code § 3.08.150)
2-1B-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
No municipal environmental services gross receipts tax shall be imposed on the
gross receipts arising from:
   A.    Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor vehicle,
air transportation or any other means from one point within the city to another
point outside the city; or
   B.    A business located outside the boundaries of the city on land owned by
the city for which a gross receipts tax distribution is made pursuant to New
Mexico Statutes Annotated section
7-1-6. (1996 Code § 3.08.160; amd. 2002 Code)
2-1B-4: DISPOSITION OF REVENUE:
Revenue from the environmental gross receipts tax will be used for the purpose
(s) listed below:
   A.    The acquisition, construction, operation and maintenance of solid
waste facilities.
   B.    The acquisition, construction, operation and maintenance of wastewater
facilities. (Ord. 879, 9-27-2011, eff. 1-1-2012)
ARTICLE C. MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE GRT–WASTEWATER
SECTION:
2-1C-1: Imposition Of Tax
2-1C-2: Act Adopted
2-1C-3: Specific Exemptions
2-1C-4: Dedication
2-1C-5: Effective Date
2-1C-1: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
There is imposed on any person engaging in business in this municipality for
the privilege of engaging in business in this municipality an excise tax equal
to one-eighth of one percent (1/8%) of the gross receipts reported or required
to be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico gross receipts and
compensating tax act 1  as it now exists or as it may be amended. The tax
imposed under this article is pursuant to the municipal local option gross
receipts taxes act 2  as it now exists or as it may be amended and shall be
known as the "municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax". (Ord. 736, 8-22-
2006)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 7-9-1 et seq.
2 2. NMSA § 7-19D-1 et seq.
2-1C-2: ACT ADOPTED:
This article hereby adopts by reference all definitions, exemptions and
deductions contained in the gross receipts and compensating tax act of the
state of New Mexico as it now exists or as it may hereafter be amended. (Ord.
736, 8-22-2006)
2-1C-3: SPECIFIC EXEMPTIONS:
No municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax shall be imposed on the gross
receipts arising from:
   A.    Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor vehicle,
air transportation or any other means from one point within the municipality to
another point outside the municipality;
   B.    A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a state gross receipts tax distribution is
made pursuant to subsection C of section 7-1-6.4 New Mexico Statutes Annotated
1978; or
   C.    Direct broadcast satellite services. (Ord. 736, 8-22-2006)
2-1C-4: DEDICATION:
Revenue from the municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax will be used for
the purposes listed below:
   A.    Infrastructure improvements.
   B.    To retire bonds or loans for infrastructure. (Ord. 736, 8-22-2006)
2-1C-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The effective date of this article shall be January 1, 2007, provided that at
least three (3) months have expired from the date on which a copy of this
article is first delivered or mailed to the state of New Mexico taxation and
revenue department. (Ord. 736, 8-22-2006)
ARTICLE D. MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE GRT–MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE/ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
2-1D-1: Imposition Of Tax
2-1D-2: General Provisions; Act Adopted
2-1D-3: Specific Exemptions
2-1D-4: Disposition Of Revenue
2-1D-1: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
There is imposed on any person engaging in business in the city for the
privilege of engaging in business in the city an excise tax equal to one-eighth
of one percent (1/8%) of the gross receipts reported or required to be reported
by the person pursuant to the New Mexico gross receipts and compensating tax
act as it now exists or as it may be amended. The tax imposed under this
article is pursuant to the municipal local option gross receipts taxes act as
it now exists or as it may be amended and shall be known as the "municipal
infrastructure gross receipts tax". (Ord. 645, 12-11-2001)
2-1D-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS; ACT ADOPTED:
This article hereby adopts by reference all definitions, exemptions and
deductions contained in the gross receipts and compensating tax act as it now
exists or as it may be amended. (Ord. 645, 12-11-2001)
2-1D-3: SPECIFIC EXEMPTIONS:
No municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax shall be imposed on the gross
receipts arising from:
   A.    Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor vehicle,
air transportation or any other means from one point within the city to another
point outside the city;
   B.    A business located outside the boundaries of the city on land owned by
the city for which a state gross receipts tax distribution is made pursuant to
New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 7-1-6.4C; or
   C.    Direct broadcast satellite services. (Ord. 645, 12-11-2001)
2-1D-4: DISPOSITION OF REVENUE:
Revenue from the municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax will be used for
the purposes listed below:
One-sixteenth of one percent (1/16%) for municipal infrastructure purposes and
one-sixteenth of one percent (1/16%) for economic development plans and
projects. (Ord. 645, 12-11-2001)
ARTICLE E. MUNICIPAL CAPITAL OUTLAY GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
SECTION:
2-1E-1: Imposition Of Tax
2-1E-2: General Provisions; Act Adopted
2-1E-3: Specific Exemptions
2-1E-4: Dedication
2-1E-5: Effective Date
2-1E-1: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
There is imposed on any person engaging in business in this municipality for
the privilege of engaging in business in this municipality an excise tax equal
to one-fourth of one percent (0.25%) of the gross receipts reported or required
to be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico gross receipts and
compensating tax act as it now exists or as it may be amended. The tax imposed
under this article is pursuant to the municipal local option gross receipts
taxes act as it now exists or as it may be amended and shall be known as the
"municipal capital outlay gross receipts tax". (Ord. 881, 12-13-2011)
2-1E-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS; ACT ADOPTED:
This article hereby adopts by reference all definitions, exemptions and
deductions contained in the gross receipts and compensating tax act as it now
exists or as it may be amended. (Ord. 881, 12-13-2011)
2-1E-3: SPECIFIC EXEMPTIONS:
No municipal capital outlay gross receipts tax shall be imposed on the gross
receipts arising from:
   A.   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor vehicle,
air transportation or any other means from one point within the municipality to
another point outside the municipality;
   B.   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a state gross receipts tax distribution is
made pursuant to subsection C of section 7-1-6.4 New Mexico Statutes Annotated
1978; or
   C.   Direct broadcast satellite services. (Ord. 881, 12-13-2011)
2-1E-4: DEDICATION:
Revenue from the municipal capital outlay gross receipts tax will be used for
the purpose(s) listed below:
   A.   Design and construction of infrastructure projects.
   B.   Payment of bonds and loans for infrastructure projects. (Ord. 881, 12-
13-2011)
2-1E-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The effective date of the municipal capital outlay gross receipts tax shall be
July 1, 2012. (Ord. 881, 12-13-2011)
ARTICLE F. MUNICIPAL HOLD HARMLESS GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
SECTION:
2-1F-1: Imposition Of Tax
2-1F-2: General Provisions
2-1F-3: Specific Exemptions
2-1F-4: Dedication
2-1F-5: Effective Date
2-1F-1: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
There is imposed on any person engaging in business in this municipality for
the privilege of engaging in business in this municipality an excise tax equal
to one-fourth of one percent (0.25%) of the gross receipts reported or required
to be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico gross receipts and
compensating tax act as it now exists or as it may be amended. The tax imposed
under this article is pursuant to the municipal local option gross receipts
taxes act as it now exists or as it may be amended and shall be known as the
"municipal hold harmless gross receipts tax". (Ord. 960, 3-24-2015)
2-1F-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
This article hereby adopts by reference all definitions, exemptions and
deductions contained in the gross receipts and compensating tax act as it now
exists or as it may be amended. (Ord. 960, 3-24-2015)
2-1F-3: SPECIFIC EXEMPTIONS:
No municipal hold harmless gross receipts tax shall be imposed on the gross
receipts arising from:
   A.   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor vehicle,
air transportation or any other means from one point within the municipality to
another point outside the municipality;
   B.   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a state gross receipts tax distribution is
made pursuant to subsection C of section 7-1-6.4 New Mexico Statutes Annotated
1978; or
   C.   Direct broadcast satellite services. (Ord. 960, 3-24-2015)
2-1F-4: DEDICATION:
Revenue from the municipal hold harmless gross receipts tax will be used for
the purpose(s) listed below:
General purposes
(Ord. 960, 3-24-2015)
2-1F-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The effective date of the municipal hold harmless gross receipts tax shall be
July 1, 2015. (Ord. 960, 3-24-2015)
CHAPTER 2
LODGERS' TAX
SECTION:
2-2-1: Title
2-2-2: Purpose
2-2-3: Definitions
2-2-4: Imposition Of Tax
2-2-5: Licensing
2-2-6: Exemptions
2-2-7: Collection Of The Tax And Reporting Procedures
2-2-8: Duties Of The Vendor
2-2-9: Enforcement
2-2-10: Failure To Make Return; Computation, Civil Penalty And Notice,
Collection Of Delinquencies; Occupancy Tax Is A Lien
2-2-11: Criminal Penalties
2-2-12: Refunds And Credits
2-2-13: Vendor Audits
2-2-14: Financial Reporting
2-2-15: Confidentiality Of Return And Audit
2-2-16: Administration Of Lodgers’ Tax Monies Collected
2-2-17: Eligible Uses Of Lodgers’ Tax Proceeds
2-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as and cited as the LODGERS’ TAX ORDINANCE. (Ord.
586, 8-13-1996; amd. Ord. O-1123, 12-12-2023)
2-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to impose a tax which will be borne by persons
using commercial lodging accommodations which tax will provide revenues for the
purposes that are set forth hereafter in Section
2-2-17 A and B of this chapter and subject to the restrictions contained
therein. (Ord. 586, 8-13-1996; amd. Ord. O-1123, 12-12-2023)
2-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in the Lodgers’ Tax Ordinance:
               The Advisory board established herein to make recommendations to the governing
BOARD:         body, keep minutes of its proceedings and submit its recommendations,
               correspondence and other pertinent documents to the governing body.
CITY CLERK:    The City Clerk of Artesia, New Mexico.
GROSS TAXABLE  The total amount of rent paid for lodging, not including the state gross
RENT:          receipts tax or local sales taxes.
               The transaction of furnishing rooms or other accommodations by a vendor to a
LODGING:       vendee who for rent uses, possesses or has the right to use or possess any room
               or rooms or other units of accommodations in or at a taxable premises.
LODGINGS:      The rooms or other accommodations furnished by a vendor to a vendee by a
               taxable service of lodging.
OCCUPANCY TAX: The tax on lodging authorized by the Lodgers’ Tax Act.
               A corporation, firm, other body corporate partnership, association or
               individual; person includes an executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or
PERSON:        other representative appointed according to law and acting in a representative
               capacity, but does not include the United States of America, the State of New
               Mexico, any corporation, department, instrumentality or agency of the federal
               government or the state government, or any political subdivision of the state.
               The consideration received by a vendor in money, credits, property or other
RENT:          consideration valued in money for lodgings subject to an occupancy tax
               authorized in the Lodgers’ Tax Act.
TAXABLE        A hotel, motel or other premises used for lodging that is not the vendee’s
PREMISES:      household or primary residence.
TEMPORARY      Lodgings for the purpose of housing a vendee within proximity of the vendee’s
LODGING:       employment or job location.
TOURIST:       A person who travels for the purpose of business, pleasure or culture to a
               municipality or county imposing an occupancy tax.
TOURIST-
RELATED        Events that are planned for, promoted to and attended by tourists.
EVENTS:
TOURIST-
RELATED        Facilities and attractions that are intended to be used by or visited by
FACILITIES AND tourists.
ATTRACTIONS:
TOURIST-
RELATED        Transportation systems that provide transportation for tourists to and from
TRANSPORTATION tourist-related facilities, attractions and events.
SYSTEMS:
VENDEE:        A natural person to whom lodgings are furnished in the exercise of the taxable
               service of lodging.
               A person or the person’s agent furnishing lodgings in the exercise of the
VENDOR:        taxable service of lodging. (Ord. 586, 8-13-1996; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. O-1123,
               12-12-2023)
 
2-2-4: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
There is hereby imposed an occupancy tax of five percent (5%) of gross taxable
rent for lodging within the municipality paid to vendors. (Ord. 586, 8-13-1996;
amd. Ord. O-1123, 12-12-2023)
2-2-5: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No vendor shall engage in the business of providing lodging in the
Municipality of Artesia who has first not obtained a license as provided in
this section (2-2-5).
   B.   Applicants for a vendor’s license shall submit an application to the
City Clerk stating:
      1.   The name of the vendor, including identification of any person, as
defined in this chapter, who owns or operates, or both owns and operates a
place of lodging and the name or trade names under which the vendor proposes to
do business and the post office address thereof;
      2.   A description of the facilities, including the number of rooms and
the usual schedule of rates thereof;
      3.   A description of other facilities provided by vendor or others to
users of the lodgings such as restaurant, bar, cleaning, laundry, courtesy car
or others, and a statement identifying the license issued, to whom issued, the
authority issuing, and the period for which issued. If applicable, also the
identification number provided by the Bureau of Revenue of the State of New
Mexico;
      4.   The nature of the business of the vendor and to what extent, if any,
his business is exempt from the Lodgers’ Tax;
      5.   Other information reasonably necessary to effect a determination of
eligibility for such license.
   C.   The City Clerk shall review application for license within ten (10)
days of receipt thereof, and grant the license in due course if the applicant
is doing business subject to the Lodgers’ Tax.
   D.   An applicant who is dissatisfied with the decision of the City Clerk
may appeal the decision to the governing body by written notice to the City
Clerk of such appeal to be made within fifteen (15) days of the date of the
decision of the City Clerk on the application. The matter shall be referred to
the governing body for hearing at a regular or special meeting in the usual
course of business.
      The decision of the governing body made thereof shall be expressed in
writing and be communicated in the same manner as the decision of the City
Clerk is transmitted. The action of the Governing Body shall be deemed final.
   E.   If the Governing Body finds for the applicant, the City Clerk shall
issue the appropriate license or other notice conforming to the decision a made
by the Governing Body. (Ord. 586, 8-13-1996; amd. Ord. O-1123, 12-12-2023)
2-2-6: EXEMPTIONS:
The occupancy tax shall not apply:
   A.   If a vendee:
      1.   has been a permanent resident of the taxable premises for a period
of at least thirty consecutive days, unless those premises are temporary
lodging; or
      2.   enters into or has entered into a written agreement for lodging at
the taxable premises for a period of at least thirty consecutive days, unless
those premises are temporary lodging;
   B.   If the rent paid by the vendee is less than two dollars ($2.00) a day;
   C.   To lodging accommodations at institutions of the federal government,
the state or any political subdivision thereof;
   D.   To lodging accommodations at religious, charitable, educational or
philanthropic institutions, including without limitation such accommodations at
summer camps operated by such institutions;
   E.   To clinics, hospitals or other medical facilities;
   F.   To privately-owned and operated convalescent homes, or homes for the
aged, infirm, indigent or chronically ill; or
   G.   If the taxable premises does not have at least three rooms or three
other units of accommodation for lodging. (2002 Code; amd. Ord. O-1123, 12-12-
2023)
2-2-7: COLLECTION OF THE TAX AND REPORTING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Every vendor providing lodgings shall collect the tax thereof on behalf
of the municipality and shall act as a trustee therefor.
   B.   The tax shall be collected from vendees and shall be charged separately
from the rent fixed by the vendor for the lodgings.
   C.   Each vendor licensed under this chapter shall be liable to the
Municipality of Artesia for the tax provided herein on the rent paid for
lodging at his respective place of business.
   D.   Each vendor shall make a report by the Twenty-fifth (25th) day of each
month, on forms provided by the City Clerk, of the receipts for lodging in the
preceding calendar month, and shall submit the proceeds of the Lodgers’ Tax to
the Municipality and include sufficient information to enable the Municipality
to audit the reports and shall be verified on oath by the vendor. (Ord. 586, 8-
13-1996; amd. Ord. O-1123, 12-12-2023)
2-2-8: DUTIES OF THE VENDOR:
Vendor shall maintain adequate records of facilities subject to the tax and of
proceeds received for the use of thereof. Such records shall be maintained in
Artesia, New Mexico, and shall be open to the inspection of the Municipality
during reasonable hours and shall be retained for three (3) years. (Ord. 1123,
12-12-2023)
2-2-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   An action to enforce the Lodgers’ Tax Act may be brought by:
      1.   The attorney general or the district attorney in the county of
jurisdiction; or
      2.   A vendor who is collecting the proceeds of an occupancy tax in the
county of jurisdiction.
   B.   A district Court may issue a writ of mandamus or order an induction or
other appropriate remedy to enforce the provisions of the Lodgers’ Tax Act.
   C.   The court shall award costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees to the
prevailing party in a court action to enforce the provisions of the Lodgers’
Tax Act. (Ord. 1123, 12-12-203)
2-2-10: FAILURE TO MAKE RETURN; COMPUTATION, CIVIL PENALTY AND NOTICE,
COLLECTION OF DELINQUENCIES; OCCUPANCY TAX IS A LIEN:
   A.   Every vendor is liable for the payment of the proceeds of any occupancy
tax that the vendor failed to remit to the municipality, whether due to his
failure to collect the tax or otherwise. He shall be liable for the tax plus a
civil penalty equal to the greater of ten (10) percent of the amount not
remitted or one hundred dollars ($100). The City Clerk shall give the
delinquent vendor written notice of the delinquency, which notice shall be
mailed to the vendor’s local address.
   B.   If payments are not received within fifteen (15) days of the mailing of
the notice, the Municipality may bring an action in law or equity in the
district court for the collection of any amounts due, including without
limitation penalties thereon, interest on the unpaid principal at a rate not
exceeding one (1) percent a month. If the City attempts collection through an
attorney or the City Attorney for any purpose with regard to this chapter, the
vendor shall be liable to the Municipality for all costs, fees paid to the
attorney or city attorney, and all other expenses incurred in connection
therewith.
   C.   The occupancy tax imposed by a municipality constitutes a lien in favor
of the municipality upon the personal and real property of the vendor providing
lodgings. The lien may be enforced as provided in Section 3-36-1 through 3-36-
7 NMS 1978. Priority of the lien shall be determined from the date of filing.
   D.   Under process or order of court, no person shall sell the property of a
vendor without first ascertaining from the City Clerk or Treasurer the amount
of any occupancy tax due the municipality. Any occupancy tax due the
municipality shall be paid from the proceeds of the sale before payment is made
to the judgment creditor or any other person with a claim on the proceeds of
the sale. (Ord. O-1123, 12-12-2023)
2-2-11: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
Any person who violates the provisions of the Lodgers’ Tax Ordinance for a
failure to pay the tax, to remit proceeds thereof to the municipality, to
properly account for any lodging and tax proceeds pertaining thereto, or for
violating the confidentiality provisions of Section 15 (3.04.114) of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined in
an amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500) or by imprisonment not to
exceed ninety (90) days, or both. (Ord. O-1123, 12-12-2023)
2-2-12: REFUNDS AND CREDITS:
If any person believes he has made payment of any Lodgers’ Tax in excess of
that for which he was liable, he my claim a refund thereof by directing to the
City Clerk, no later than ninety (90) days from the date the payment was made,
a written claim for refund. Every claim for refund shall state the nature of
the person’s complaint and the affirmative relief requested. The City Clerk
shall allow the claim in whole or in part or may deny it. Refund of tax and
interest erroneously paid and amounting to one hundred dollars ($100) or more
may be made only with the approval of the Governing Body. (Ord. O-1123, 12-12-
2023)
2-2-13: VENDOR AUDITS:
   A.   The Governing Body shall conduct random audits to verify full payment
of occupancy tax receipts.
   B.   The Governing Body shall determine each year the number of vendors
within the municipality to audit.
   C.   The audit(s) may be performed by the City Clerk or by any other
designee of the Governing Body. A copy of the audit(s) shall be filed annually
with the Local Government Division of the Department of Finance and
Administration. (Ord. O-1123, 12-12-2023)
2-2-14: FINANCIAL REPORTING:
   A.   The Governing Body shall furnish the Advisory Board that portion of any
proposed budget, report or audit filed or received by the Governing Body
pursuant to either Chapter 6, Article 6 NMSA 1978 or the Audit Act that relates
too expenditure of occupancy tax funds within ten (10) days of the filing or
receipt of such proposed budget, report or audit by the Governing Body.
   B.   The Governing Body Shall report to the Local Government Division of the
Department of Finance and Administration on a quarterly basis any expenditure
of occupancy tax funds pursuant to Sections 3-38-15 and 3- 38-21 NMSA 1978 and
shall furnish a copy of this report to the Advisory Board when it is filed with
the Division. (Ord. O-1123, 12-12-2023)
2-2-15: CONFIDENTIALITY OF RETURN AND AUDIT:
It is unlawful for any employee of the Municipality of Artesia to reveal to any
individual other than another employee of the Municipality of Artesia any
information contained in the return or audit of any taxpayer, including vendors
subject to the Lodgers’ Tax Act, except to a court of competent jurisdiction in
response to an order thereof in an action relating to taxes to which the
Municipality of Artesia is a party, and in which information sought is material
to the inquiry; to the taxpayer himself or to his authorized representative;
and in such manner, for statistical purposes, the information revealed is not
identified as applicable to any individual taxpayer. (Ord. O-1123, 12-12-2023)
2-2-16: ADMINISTRATION OF LODGERS’ TAX MONIES COLLECTED:
The Governing Body shall administer the Lodgers’ Tax monies collected. The
Mayor shall appoint a five-member advisory board that consists of two members
who are owners or operators of lodgings subject to the occupancy tax within the
municipality, two members who are owners or operators of industries located
within the municipality that primarily provide services or products to tourists
and one member who is a resident of the municipality and represents the general
public. The board shall advise the Governing Body on expenditure of funds
authorized under Section
2-2-17 of this chapter for advertising, publicizing and promoting tourist
attractions and facilities in the municipality and surrounding area. (Ord. O-
1123, 12-12-2023)
2-2-17: ELIGIBLE USES OF LODGERS’ TAX PROCEEDS:
   A.   The municipality may use the proceeds from the occupancy tax that are
collected based on the first thirty (30) days a vendee rents lodgings in
taxable premises shall be used to defray the costs of:
      1.   Collecting and otherwise administering the tax, including the
performance of audits required by the Lodgers’ Tax Act pursuant to guidelines
issued by the Department of Finance and Administration;
      2.   Establishing, operating, purchasing, constructing, otherwise
acquiring, reconstructing, extending, improving, equipping, furnishing or
acquiring real property or any interest in real property for the site or
grounds for tourist-related facilities, attractions or transportation systems
of the municipality, the county in which the municipality is located for the
county;
      3.   The principal of and interest on any prior redemption premiums due
in connection with and any other charges pertaining to revenue bonds authorized
by Section 3038023 or Section 3-38-24 NMSA 1978;
      4.   Advertising, publicizing and promoting tourist-related attractions,
facilities and events of the municipality or county and tourist facilities or
attractions within the area;
      5.   Providing police and fire protection and sanitation service for
tourist-related events, facilities and attractions located in the municipality;
or
      6.   any combination of the foregoing purposes or transactions stated in
this section, but for no other municipal purpose.
   B.   The municipality shall use the proceeds from the occupancy tax that are
collected based on the thirty-first (31st) and subsequent days a vendee rents
lodgings in taxable premises shall for non-recurring costs and expenses
associated with municipal parks improvements. (Ord. O-1123, 12-12-2023)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR LICENSE TAX
SECTION:
2-3-1: Title
2-3-2: Intent And Purpose
2-3-3: Imposition Of Tax
2-3-4: Payment Of Tax; Delinquencies
2-3-5: Disposition Of Revenue
2-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the CITY OF ARTESIA LIQUOR LICENSE TAX ORDINANCE.
(1996 Code § 5.12.010)
2-3-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
Pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 7-24-1 which authorizes
enactment of a municipal license tax upon state liquor licensees doing business
within a city, it is declared the purpose and intent of the governing body of
the city to enact an ordinance imposing an annual tax in the amount set forth
in this chapter upon the privilege of persons holding licenses under the
provisions of the New Mexico liquor control act 1  and operating within the
city as retailers, dispensers, canopy licensees, restaurant licensees, or club
licensees. It is further declared that the purpose and intent of this chapter
is to conform to the definitions and provisions of the New Mexico liquor
control act, and any interpretation of this chapter shall be in conformity
therewith. (1996 Code § 5.12.020)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 60-3A-1 et seq.
2-3-3: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
There is imposed on any person holding a state license under the New Mexico
liquor control act and operating within the city as a retailer, dispenser,
canopy licensee, restaurant licensee, or club licensee an annual nonprohibitive
municipal license tax as follows:
 
Retailer licenses   $250.00
Dispenser licenses  250.00
Canopy licenses     250.00
Restaurant licenses 250.00
Club licenses    250.00
 
(1996 Code § 5.12.030)
2-3-4: PAYMENT OF TAX; DELINQUENCIES:
The annual tax imposed by this chapter shall be due and payable on or before
July 1 each year. In the event of nonpayment of the tax imposed by this
chapter, the remedy for collection thereof shall be that provided in New Mexico
Statutes Annotated sections 7-24-1 and 7-24-3 and supplements thereto. (1996
Code §§ 5.12.030, 5.12.050)
2-3-5: DISPOSITION OF REVENUE:
All revenues from the city liquor license tax shall be deposited into the
general fund of the city. (1996 Code § 5.12.040)
CHAPTER 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN
SECTION:
2-4-1: Short Title
2-4-2: Authority
2-4-3: Purpose
2-4-4: Definitions
2-4-5: Economic Development Plan
2-4-6: Application For Economic Development Project
2-4-7: Public Safeguards
2-4-8: Project Participation Agreement
2-4-9: Revenues And Accounts
2-4-10: Termination Of Provisions
2-4-11: Joint Or Regional Projects
2-4-12: Adoption Of Other Policies And Procedures
2-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN ORDINANCE. (Ord.
646, 2-12-2002)
2-4-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the express statutory authority conferred
upon municipalities to allow public support of economic development 1 . This
chapter is adopted as part of the city's community economic development plan.
(Ord. 646, 2-12-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA §§ 5-10-1 – 5-10-13, as amended.
2-4-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to allow public support of economic development
projects to foster, promote and enhance local economic development efforts
while continuing to protect against the unauthorized use of public money and
other public resources. Further, the purpose of this chapter is to allow the
city to enter into one or more joint powers agreements with other local
governments to plan and support regional economic development projects. (Ord.
646, 2-12-2002)
2-4-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: The provision of direct or indirect assistance to
a qualifying business and includes the purchase, lease, grant, construction,
reconstruction, improvement or other acquisition or conveyance of land,
buildings or other infrastructure; public works improvements essential to the
location or expansion of a qualifying business; and payments for professional
services contracts necessary for local or regional governments to implement a
plan or project.
GOVERNING BODY: The Artesia city council.
PROJECT PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT: An agreement between a qualifying entity and
the city whereby the city provides assistance to an economic development
project in exchange for the benefits received as set forth in this section.
QUALIFYING ENTITY: A corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint
venture, syndicate, association or other person that is one or a combination of
two (2) or more of the following:
   A.   An industry for the manufacturing, processing or assembling of
agricultural or manufactured products;
   B.   A commercial enterprise for storing, warehousing, distributing or
selling products of agriculture, mining or industry, but, other than as
provided in subsection E or F of this definition, not including any enterprise
for sale of goods or commodities at retail or for distribution to the public of
electricity, gas, water or telephone or other services commonly classified as
public utilities;
   C.   A business in which all or part of the activities of the business
involves the supplying of services to the general public or to governmental
agencies or to a specific industry or customer, but, other than as provided in
subsection E of this definition, not including businesses primarily engaged in
the sale of goods or commodities at retail;
   D.   An Indian nation, tribe or pueblo or a federally chartered tribal
corporation;
   E.   A telecommunications sales enterprise that makes the majority of its
sales to persons outside New Mexico;
   F.   A facility for the direct sales by growers of agricultural products,
commonly known as farmers' markets; or
   G.   A business that is the developer of a metropolitan redevelopment
project. (Ord. 646, 2-12-2002; amd. Ord. 696, 12-14-2004)
2-4-5: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   The governing body may assist economic development projects in any
legally permissible manner including, but not limited to, provision of land,
buildings and infrastructure, provided that all the requirements of this
chapter are met. The city may provide land, buildings or infrastructure it
already owns, or it may build, purchase or lease the facilities needed for an
economic development project. The city, at its discretion, may bear the full
cost or contribute a portion of the costs including the waiver of applicable
fees. The city, at its discretion, may also contribute to the payment of costs
for professional services contracts such as industry feasibility studies and
planning and design services needed to implement a project.
   B.   The governing body may consider offering all forms of assistance
allowed under this chapter and any other legally permissible forms of
assistance; however, this does not establish any obligation on the city's part
to offer any specific type or level of assistance. (Ord. 646, 2-12-2002)
2-4-6: APPLICATION FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT:
   A.   Qualifications Of Applicant: Any qualifying entity meeting the
definition set forth in section
2-4-4 of this chapter, may propose an economic development project to the
Greater Artesia Economic Corporation and subsequently to the city. Meeting the
definition of a qualifying entity does not create any obligation on the part of
the city. (Ord. 851, 12-14-2010)
   B.   Submission Of Application; Information Required: Applications from
qualifying entities shall be submitted to the chamber of commerce economic
development office on forms provided by the city and shall contain the
following information for business applicants:
      1.   Identification information:
         a.   Complete name and address of entity;
         b.   Incorporation papers with bylaws;
         c.   List of board of directors and executive director with addresses;
and
         d.   Resumes of all directors and officials.
      2.   Evidence of financial solvency (personal statements of principals):
         a.   Financial statements (income statements and balance sheets) for
the past three (3) years;
         b.   Federal tax number, New Mexico state taxation and revenue number
and city business license;
         c.   Projected income statement for at least three (3) years.
      3.   Evidence of organizational capacity:
         a.   Brief history of the entity;
         b.   Organizational chart of entity;
         c.   Business plans for the entity and proposed project (shall include
pro forma cash flow analysis);
         d.   Evidence of ability to manage the project, such as, but not
limited to:
            (1)   List and description of previously completed projects;
            (2)   Resumes of key staff involved with the project;
         e.   Entity shall disclose the following information (if the answer is
yes, entity shall attach a written explanation):
            (1)   Has the business or any of its officers ever been involved in
a bankruptcy?
            (2)   Has the business or any of its officers ever defaulted
obligations on which payments are not current?
            (3)   Does the entity have any loans or other financial obligations
on which payments are not current?
      4.   Funding sources for project:
         a.   Equity investment of qualifying entity:
         b.   Assistance being requested of the city (e.g., specific parcel of
land, applicable fees, etc.), with estimate of value; and,
         c.   Funding sources other than the city with letters of commitment or
intent to fund;
      5.   Identification of the terms, conditions, location, scope and
requirements to the economic development project.
      6.   Information sufficient for the GAEDC to make its determination
whether the applicant is a qualifying entity.
      7.   Any other information required of the applicant by the GAEDC or the
governing body.
   C.   Application Review Process:
      1.   The GAEDC board of directors shall determine whether the entity and
the proposed project qualify under this section.
      2.   The GAEDC board of directors shall then coordinate with the
qualifying entity to develop a project participation agreement as set forth in
section
2-4-8 of this chapter.
      3.   The GAEDC board of directors shall consider the economic development
project and the project participation agreement in accordance with the criteria
set forth in subsection D of this section. The GAEDC board of directors shall
recommend to the governing body that the proposal be adopted, conditionally
adopted or not adopted.
      4.   The recommendation will be forwarded with the project participation
agreement, minutes of the GAEDC meeting and any other pertinent information to
the governing body for final consideration at a public hearing.
   D.   Application Review Criteria:
      1.   Applications for economic development projects requesting economic
assistance from the city which meet the policies and objectives of the city's
economic development plan shall receive priority. Examples include, but are not
limited to:
         a.   Manufacturing firms (including intellectual property such as
computer software);
         b.   Projects which enhance the exporting capacity of companies and/or
provide goods and services which currently have to be imported into Artesia;
         c.   Private companies seeking to build, expand or relocate
facilities;
         d.   Private companies which provide facilities or services which
enhance the ability of Artesia businesses to operate;
         e.   Organizations which assist business start ups or bring small
companies together to increase their competitive abilities. This must involve a
tangible project, which will create jobs and promote an industry. Examples
include, but are not limited to:
            (1)   Business incubators;
            (2)   Art incubators or coalitions (e.g., a performing arts
coalition seeking to construct rehearsal or performance facilities);
            (3)   Public markets for farmers, gardeners, crafts, etc.; and
            (4)   Organizations which foster economic development by promoting
work force development efforts such as apprenticeships or other job training
programs.
         f.   Projects in industry clusters listed above are particularly
encouraged, but others are eligible to apply as well. The intention is to
retain flexibility in the use of incentives; and
         g.   Qualifying entities with existing contracts or projects with the
city when this plan is adopted may propose a restructuring of their project as
an economic development project.
      2.   All applications for economic development projects requesting
economic assistance from the city shall submit a cost benefit analysis.
Preparing the cost benefit analysis shall be the responsibility of the
applicant. The city retains the right to specify a format and methodology for
the cost benefit analysis. The GAEDC board of directors shall review and
approve the methodology used. The source and rational for any multiplier
effects shall be identified. The cost benefit analysis shall show that the city
will recoup the value of its donation within a period of ten (10) years. The
analysis shall address the following:
         a.   The number and types of jobs to be created, both temporary
construction jobs and permanent jobs (by New Mexico department of labor job
category);
         b.   Pay scales of jobs;
         c.   Determination of which jobs are expected to be filled locally and
which will be filled by transfers from other facilities or recruited from
outside the Artesia area;
         d.   Total payroll expected at start up and after one year;
         e.   Anticipated impact of project of local tax base; and
         f.   Anticipated impact on local school system. (Ord. 646, 2-12-2002)
      3.   All applications for economic development projects requesting
economic assistance from the city shall require the same review required of
industrial revenue bond applications. This review shall focus on environmental
and community impacts of the proposed project. Special attention shall be given
to job training and career advancement programs and policies. Projects shall
demonstrate a strong commitment to providing career opportunities for Artesia
area residents. Cultural impacts of projects shall also be considered. (Ord.
646, 2-12-2002; amd. 2002 Code)
      4.   Any qualifying entity seeking assistance shall prepare and make
available a job training and career development plan for their employees.
      5.   All applications for economic development projects requesting
economic assistance from the city shall clearly demonstrate the benefits, which
will accrue to the community as a result of the donation of public resources.
The city has considerable flexibility in determining what is considered as
adequate benefits. Benefits such as providing components or production
capabilities which enhance a targeted industry cluster or addressing critical
deficiencies in the regional economy may be recognized. The benefits claims of
any proposal will receive careful scrutiny. However, it is the intent of this
chapter to be flexible in the evaluation of these benefits, and to recognize
the qualitative as well as quantitative impact of a proposal.
      6.   All applicants for economic development projects requesting economic
assistance from the city shall clearly demonstrate how the qualifying entity is
making a substantive contribution. The contribution shall be of value and may
be paid in money, in-kind services, jobs, expanded tax base, property or other
things or service of value for the expansion or improvement of the economy. The
city retains flexibility in defining the "substantive contribution". The
benefits identified in the previous subsections may be accepted as adequate
contributions on their own, or a cash donation may be required. Assistance in
providing affordable housing to its employees or the community at large may
also qualify. Determination of what constitutes an acceptable contribution for
a given project shall be at the discretion of the governing body. (Ord. 646, 2-
12-2002)
2-4-7: PUBLIC SAFEGUARDS:
   A.   Annual Performance Review: All economic development projects receiving
assistance from the city shall be subject to an annual performance review
conducted by the GAEDC. This review shall evaluate whether the project is
attaining the goals and objectives set forth in the project participation
agreement. The governing body at a public hearing may terminate assistance to
the economic development project by passage of an ordinance which terminates
the agreement and specifies the disposition of all assets and obligations of
the project as set forth in subsection 11.11.13 SFCC 1987.
   B.   Security: The city shall retain a security interest which shall be
specified in the project participation agreement. The type of security given
shall depend upon the nature of the economic development project and assistance
provided by the city. Types of security may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Letter of credit in the city's name;
      2.   Performance bond equal to the city's contribution;
      3.   A mortgage or lien on property or equipment;
      4.   Prorated reimbursement of donation if company reduces work force or
leaves the community before the term agreed to; and
      5.   Other security agreeable to both parties.
   C.   Transfer Of Agreement: Should a qualifying entity move, sell, lease or
transfer a majority interest in the economic development project before the
expiration of the project participation agreement, the city retains the right
to deny any and all assignments, sales, leases or transfers of any interests in
the economic development project until adequate assurances are made that the
transferee, assignee or lessee is a qualifying entity and that the terms of the
agreement will be satisfied by the transferee, assignee or lessee. At its
discretion, the city may choose to deny said assignment, lease or transfer or
may negotiate a new agreement with the new operator, or the city may reclaim
the facility and enter into an agreement with a new qualifying entity.
   D.   Public Assistance; Project Commitment: Any qualifying entity seeking
assistance from public resources shall commit to operate in accordance with its
project participation agreement for a minimum of ten (10) years from the date
the ordinance adopting the project participation agreement is passed by the
governing body. (Ord. 646, 2-12-2002)
2-4-8: PROJECT PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT:
   A.   The qualifying entity shall prepare with the city a project
participation agreement. This agreement is the formal document which states the
contributions and obligation of all parties in the economic development
project. The agreement must clearly state the following items:
      1.   The economic development goals of the project;
      2.   The contributions of the city and the qualifying entity;
      3.   The specific measurable objectives upon which the performance review
will be read;
      4.   A schedule for project development and goal attainment;
      5.   The security being offered for the city's investment;
      6.   The procedures by which a project may be terminated and the city's
investment recovered; and,
      7.   The time period for which the city shall retain an interest in the
project. Each project participation agreement shall have a "sunset" clause
after which the city shall relinquish interest in and oversight of the project.
   B.   Each project participation agreement shall be adopted as an ordinance
and adopted by the governing body at a public hearing. (Ord. 646, 2-12-2002)
2-4-9: REVENUES AND ACCOUNTS:
All project monies shall be kept in separate accounts by the entity and the
city, with such accounts clearly identified. These accounts shall be subject to
an annual independent audit. (Ord. 646, 2-12-2002)
2-4-10: TERMINATION OF PROVISIONS:
The governing body may terminate this chapter and the city's community economic
development plan and any or all project participation agreements undertaken
under its authority. Termination shall be by ordinance at a public hearing or
in accordance with the terms of the project participation agreement. If an
ordinance or a project participation agreement is terminated, all contract
provisions of the project participation agreement regarding termination shall
be satisfied. Upon termination of the ordinance or any project participation
agreement, any city monies remaining in city project accounts shall be
transferred to the city's general fund. (Ord. 646, 2-12-2002)
2-4-11: JOINT OR REGIONAL PROJECTS:
The city may engage in economic development projects involving one or more
other governmental entities for projects which encompass more than one
municipality or county. In such instances, a joint powers agreement shall be
adopted by the relevant governing bodies. This agreement will establish the
application criteria and the terms of all project participation agreements.
Criteria established under a joint powers agreement shall be consistent with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 646, 2-12-2002)
2-4-12: ADOPTION OF OTHER POLICIES AND PROCEDURES:
The community economic development plan and such other form policies and
procedures as are deemed necessary by the city in order to implement this
chapter are hereby adopted as a part of the city's economic development plan
and are incorporated by reference. (Ord. 646, 2-12-2002)
TITLE 3
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-1-1: Commission Created; Appointment; Powers And Duties
3-1-2: Membership And Terms
3-1-3: Vacancies; Removals; Absences From Meetings
3-1-4: Organization
3-1-5: Master Plan
3-1-6: Planning And Platting Jurisdiction
3-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED; APPOINTMENT; POWERS AND DUTIES:
There is created and organized a commission to be known as the city planning
and zoning commission, such commission to consist of members appointed by the
mayor and confirmed by the city council as provided in this chapter, and such
commission to have the powers and duties set out in this chapter, limited by
the review power provided in the city council, and all powers necessary or
incident to the function of the city planning and zoning commission. In
general, the city planning and zoning commission shall have all powers
necessary to enable it to fulfill and perform its functions. (1996 Code §§
2.20.010, 2.20.040; amd. 2002 Code)
3-1-2: MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS:
The city planning and zoning commission shall consist of seven (7) members,
appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council. The term of each of
the appointed members shall be for two (2) years; except, that initially, four
(4) members shall be appointed to serve for a one year term following the
effective date hereof, and three (3) members shall be appointed to serve for a
two (2) year term at the same time. Thereafter, all appointments to the city
planning and zoning commission shall be for two (2) year terms, so that there
will at all times be an overlap of tenures of the members of the city planning
and zoning commission. Administrative officials of the city may be appointed as
ex officio nonvoting members of the commission. (1996 Code § 2.20.020; amd.
2002 Code)
3-1-3: VACANCIES; REMOVALS; ABSENCES FROM MEETINGS:
Vacancies shall be filled for unexpired terms in the same manner as for
original appointments. Any member may be removed from the city planning and
zoning commission by the mayor, with the confirmation of the city council, but
such removal shall only be for cause, and the commission members shall be
entitled to a hearing before the city council, which shall be a public hearing,
in which the cause shall be stated in writing and be made a part of such
hearing. Cause for removal shall include, but not be limited to, failure on the
part of the commission members to attend the regular commission meetings,
without proper excuse. Any commission member who shall miss two (2) consecutive
meetings without excuse (that is, without some good reason or prior commitment
causing the member to miss 2 consecutive meetings), shall be subject to removal
from the commission for cause. Any commission member who has a good and
sufficient reason for not being in attendance at a regular commission meeting
shall notify the chairman of the commission prior to such meeting, and the
chairman shall excuse the commission member from attending the meeting if the
excuse is valid and sufficient, and the commission member's absence from the
meeting shall thereupon be considered as an excused absence. (1996 Code §
2.20.020; amd. 2002 Code)
3-1-4: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers: The city planning and zoning commission shall elect a
chairman from among its members for a term of one year, with eligibility for
reelection, and may create and fill such other offices as provided and in the
manner provided by its rules.
   B.   Meetings: The commission shall hold at least one regular meeting each
month and shall adopt rules for transaction of its business and shall keep a
record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations which
shall be a public record. (1996 Code § 2.20.030; amd. 2002 Code)
3-1-5: MASTER PLAN:
   A.   Generally: The city planning and zoning commission shall make and adopt
a master plan for the physical development of the city, including any areas
outside of the boundary and within its planning jurisdiction which, in the
judgment of the commission, bear relation to the planning of the city. The
master plan, with accompanying maps, plats, charts and descriptive and
explanatory matter, shall show the commission's recommendations to the city
council for physical development of the city; and may include, but is not
limited to, the general location, character and extent of streets, bridges,
viaducts, parks, parkways, playgrounds, airports, and other ways, grounds,
places and spaces; the general location of public schools, of public buildings
and other public property; the general location and extent of public utilities
and terminals, whether publicly or privately owned, for water, light, power,
heat, sanitation, transportation, communication, and other purposes; the
acceptance, widening, removal, extension, relocation, narrowing, vacation,
abandonment, or change of use of any of the foregoing public ways, grounds,
places, spaces, buildings, properties, utilities or terminals; the general
location, character, layout, and extent of community centers and neighborhood
units; and the general character, extent and layout of the replanning of
blighted districts and slum areas. The commission may from time to time amend,
extend, or add to the plan or carry any part of the subject matter into greater
detail. The commission shall make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies
of existing conditions and probable future growth of the city and its environs,
and the master plan shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and
accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious development of the city
which will best promote health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity,
or the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of
development of the city. (1996 Code § 2.20.050; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Adoption Procedures: The city planning and zoning commission may adopt
the whole master plan by single resolution, or, during progress of the work on
the plan, may from time to time, adopt a part or parts thereof; but in either
case, the commission shall not take action before holding at least one public
hearing, upon at least fifteen (15) days' advance notice of the time and place
by publication in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the city. The
adoption of the plan, in whole or in part, shall be by resolution carried by
affirmative votes of not less than a majority of all the commission, and the
resolution or resolutions shall refer expressly to the maps and other materials
intended as the subject matter thereof. The action taken shall be recorded on
the adopted plan or part thereof by the identifying signature of the chairman
and secretary of the city planning and zoning commission, and such plan or part
thereof shall be certified to the city council. (1996 Code § 2.20.060; amd.
2002 Code)
   C.   Legal Status: Whenever the city planning and zoning commission shall
have adopted the master plan, in whole or in part or parts, then and
thenceforth no street, park or other public way, ground, place, or space, no
public building or structure, no public utility, whether publicly or privately
owned, the authorization or financing of which shall be within the province of
the city council by law or charter provisions, if covered by the master plan or
any adopted part thereof, shall be constructed or authorized in the city or
within its planning jurisdiction until and unless the location and extent
thereof shall have been submitted to and approved by the city planning and
zoning commission; provided, that in case of either approval or disapproval by
the city planning and zoning commission of the construction of such public way,
ground, place, space, building, structure, or utility, the city council shall
have power, by vote of not less than two-thirds (2/3) of its entire membership,
to overrule the decision of the city planning and zoning commission, and upon
such overruling, there shall be power for such construction to proceed. Such
review of a decision or decisions of the city planning and zoning commission by
the city council may be taken either upon the city council's own recognizance
or upon the request of any aggrieved person in interest making timely
appearance before the city council at a regular meeting of such body; provided
further, that in either the case of the city council calling the city planning
and zoning commission's decision up for review upon the council's own motion or
the case of the city council reviewing a decision upon the request or motion of
an aggrieved person, the city planning and zoning commission shall be given
notice of the time and place when and where such review action will be taken
and a reasonable opportunity to present the basis for the decision to be
reviewed; provided further, that none of the provisions of this chapter shall
apply to any existing building, structure, plant or other equipment owned or
used by any public utility, or the right to its continued use, or the
reasonable repair or alteration thereof for the purpose for which it was used
at the time the master plan, or any part thereof, affecting such property,
takes effect; and after the adoption of the plan, or part or parts thereof, as
provided in this chapter, all extensions, betterments or additions to
buildings, structures, plants, or other equipment of any such utility shall
only be made in conformity with such plan and upon approval by the planning and
zoning commission, subject to the review by the city council provided
hereinabove, unless after public hearing first had, the New Mexico state
corporation commission orders that such extensions, betterments, or additions
may be made even though they conflict with the adopted master plan, or part or
parts thereof. The acceptance, widening, removal, extension, relocation,
narrowing, vacation, abandonment, change of use, acquisition of land for any
street or other public way, ground, place, property, or structure shall be
subject to similar submission and approval by the city planning and zoning
commission, and the decision of approval or disapproval by the city planning
and zoning commission may be similarly overruled by the city council. Failure
of the city planning and zoning commission to act within sixty five (65) days
from and after the date of official submission to it shall be deemed approval,
unless a longer period is granted by the city council or other submitting
official. (1996 Code § 2.20.070; amd. 2002 Code)
3-1-6: PLANNING AND PLATTING JURISDICTION:
The planning and platting jurisdiction of the city planning and zoning
commission shall extend to and include all territory within the city limits of
Artesia and all territory within three (3) miles of such city limits. (1996
Code § 2.20.080; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
COMMISSION ON AGING
SECTION:
3-2-1: Membership; Appointment And Terms
3-2-2: Residency Requirement; Compensation; Vacancies
3-2-3: Rules Of Procedure; Organization
3-2-4: Duties
3-2-1: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT AND TERMS:
The commission on aging (the "commission") shall consist of nine (9) members
who shall be appointed by the mayor of the city with the consent and approval
of the city council. All appointments shall be for two (2) year terms. Any
member appointed to the commission who has well and truly served their term,
shall be eligible for reappointment upon the expiration of the term. (Ord. 816,
4-14-2009)
3-2-2: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT; COMPENSATION; VACANCIES:
All members of the commission on aging shall reside within ten (10) miles of
the intersection of 13th and Main Streets, Artesia, New Mexico. Members of the
commission shall serve without pay or compensation. In the event any member of
the commission becomes unable to act or resigns, then a vacancy so resulting
shall be filled for the remainder of the term by the same procedure as the
original appointment. (Ord. 816, 4-14-2009)
3-2-3: RULES OF PROCEDURE; ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Meetings: The commission shall meet at least once per month and
additionally as called by the chairman or vice chairman.
   B.   Proceedings: All proceedings of the commission shall be by motion or
resolution recorded in the minute book of the commission, which shall be a
public record.
   C.   Quorum: A majority of the members of the commission shall constitute a
quorum of the commission for the transaction of business.
   D.   Officers:
      1.   The commission shall elect annually, by vote of the commissioners, a
chairman, a vice chairman and a secretary, and shall notify the city council of
the election of such officers.
      2.   The chairman shall preside at meetings of the commission, the vice
chairman shall preside at such meetings in the absence of the chairman, and the
secretary shall record all actions of the commission in the minute book.
      3.   All officers of the commission shall be entitled to vote on all
matters considered by the commission, even when presiding as chairman. (1996
Code § 2.16.030)
3-2-4: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the city commission on aging to prepare and submit for
approval of the city council an annual budget covering the necessary operating
expenses of the commission, which the city council will fund insofar as
possible. It shall be the further duty of the commission to consider and make
studies as to the needs and requirements of the aged citizens within Artesia
and the area around the city and to report to the city council on the needs and
requirements and the commission's recommendations as to how the needs and
requirements may best be met. Particularly, it shall be the duty of the
commission to study and report to the city council on the possible ways and
means of cooperation by the city with other agencies in furnishing services to
aged citizens, to the end that such services shall be the best and most
complete that can be afforded. (1996 Code § 2.16.040)
CHAPTER 3
RECREATION ADVISORY COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-3-1: Membership; Appointment
3-3-2: Terms Of Office
3-3-3: Vacancies
3-3-4: Removals From Office
3-3-5: Compensation; Oath
3-3-6: Organization
3-3-7: Duties
3-3-1: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT:
The Artesia recreation advisory commission (the "commission") shall consist of
seven (7) members, one of whom shall be a duly elected and qualified member of
the city council. The remaining six (6) members shall be appointed from
citizens residing within ten (10) miles of the intersection of 13th and Main
Streets, Artesia, New Mexico, by the mayor of the city, with the approval and
consent of the city council. The mayor, recreation director, park supervisor
and superintendent of the city schools shall be ex officio members of the
commission, but shall have no vote in any of its proceedings. (Ord. 817, 4-14-
2009)
3-3-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
Initially, the mayor shall appoint to the commission three (3) members for one
year, two (2) members for two (2) years and one member for three (3) years. The
city council member so appointed shall serve for a term concurrent with his
duly elected term as a member of the city council. Thereafter, the terms of all
commission members, except the member who is a city council person, shall be
for three (3) years, and until their successors shall be appointed and
qualified. (1996 Code § 2.24.030)
3-3-3: VACANCIES:
Vacancies occurring in the membership of the commission by reason of death,
resignation, termination of residence in the city or removal from the
commission for cause shall be filled by appointment by the mayor, with the
approval of the governing body, for the unexpired part or portion of the vacant
membership. (1996 Code § 2.24.060)
3-3-4: REMOVALS FROM OFFICE:
Any commission member who shall, by his or her conduct, be subject to removal
for cause, shall be entitled to a hearing before the city council and shall be
entitled to representation at such hearing and shall be removed if three-
fourths (3/4) of all of the members of the city council find that cause exists
for removal of such member. Cause for removal shall include, but is not limited
to, unwillingness on the part of the commission member to attend the regular
commission meetings without proper excuse. Any commission member who shall miss
two (2) consecutive meetings without excuse; that is, without some good reason
or prior commitment causing the member to miss two (2) consecutive meetings,
shall be subject to removal from the commission for cause. Any commission
member having a proper reason for not being in attendance at a regular
commission meeting shall get in touch with the chairman of the commission prior
to the meeting, and the chairman shall excuse the commission member from
attending the meeting if the excuse is valid and sufficient, and the commission
member's absence from the meeting shall thereupon be considered as an excused
absence. (1996 Code § 2.24.070)
3-3-5: COMPENSATION; OATH:
Members of the recreation advisory commission shall serve without compensation
and shall qualify by taking an oath to faithfully and impartially discharge the
duties of such office. (1996 Code § 2.24.040)
3-3-6: ORGANIZATION:
   A.    Officers: The commission members, when appointed, shall qualify within
ten (10) days of the appointment and shall meet within fifteen (15) days after
their appointment and qualification to organize by the election of one of their
members as chairman, one as vice chairman, one as secretary and to such other
offices as they may create. The terms of the officers so elected shall be for
one year and until their successors are elected by an annual election of the
membership of the commission. (1996 Code § 2.24.030)
   B.    Meetings:
      1.   The commission shall hold a regular meeting at least once per
quarter at such date and time as it may establish, and it may convene such
specially called meetings as it may deem appropriate. (Ord. 757, 5-22-2007)
      2.   Minutes shall be kept of all commission meetings, a copy of which
shall be given to each member of the city council. (1996 Code § 2.24.080)
3-3-7: DUTIES:
The commission shall:
   A.    Carry out the policies of the city council and receive, study and
recommend to the city council all requests by individuals or groups in
reference to the activities, programs and plans of the commission.
   B.    Advise and consult with the city council on public reaction to the
activities of the commission.
   C.    Submit to the city council for approval a budget for each fiscal year.
   D.    Make recommendations as to priority for additions to or construction
of recreation facilities. (1996 Code § 2.24.080; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.    Make a quarterly report to the city council of its activities. (Ord.
757, 5-22-2007)
   F.    Have no power to make any final determination upon any of the
foregoing matters and shall have advisory powers only. (1996 Code § 2.24.080;
amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC LIBRARY AND LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Public Library Established
3-4-2: Board Of Trustees Created; Membership; Appointment And Term; Vacancies
3-4-3: Residency Requirement; Term Limits
3-4-4: Organization
3-4-5: Powers And Duties
3-4-6: Severability
3-4-7: Repealer Clause
3-4-8: Effective Date
3-4-1: PUBLIC LIBRARY ESTABLISHED:
There is established a free public library to be known as the Artesia Public
Library. (Ord. 995, 4-26-2016)
3-4-2: BOARD OF TRUSTEES CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT AND TERM; VACANCIES:
The Artesia Public Library board of trustees is created. It shall consist of
nine (9) members appointed, as provided by law, by the mayor with the approval
of the city council. Members of the board shall be appointed for staggered
terms of three (3) years or less so that the terms of three (3) members expire
each year. Vacancies occurring in the membership of the board shall be filled
by appointment as provided by law by the mayor for the unexpired term. (Ord.
995, 4-26-2016)
3-4-3: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT; TERM LIMITS:
Each member of the board shall reside within ten (10) miles of the intersection
of 13th and Main Streets, Artesia, New Mexico. No member of the board shall,
after serving two (2) full consecutive terms, be eligible to serve as a member
of the board until one full term has intervened. (Ord. 995, 4-26-2016)
3-4-4: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers: The board shall annually elect from its membership a
president, vice-president and secretary. Officers of the board shall hold
office for a term of one year.
   B.   Meetings: The board shall meet no less than nine (9) times per year at
the Artesia Public Library and at the time set by the board and at other times
upon the call of the chairman or a majority of the members of the board.
Members of the Board may be dropped after three unexcused absences during any
one (1) fiscal year.
   C.   Quorum: A majority of the members of the board constitutes a quorum for
the transaction of business. The act of a majority of the board present shall
be the act of the board. (Ord. 995, 4-26-2016; amd. Ord. 1064, 2-11-2020)
3-4-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of trustees shall:
   A.   Establish policies for the administration of the Artesia Public
Library;
   B.   Notify the mayor of any vacancies on the board and suggest to the mayor
persons to fill vacancies on the board;
   C.   Recommend to the city council any action to maintain or administer the
Artesia Public Library;
   D.   Keep a record of its proceedings;
   E.   Exercise all other powers granted by the city council and all powers
necessary to perform its duties under this chapter; and
   F.   Perform all other duties required by the city council. (Ord. 995, 4-26-
2016; amd. Ord. 1064, 2-11-2020)
3-4-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this chapter shall be held to
be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of such
section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any of the remaining
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 995, 4-26-2016)
3-4-7: REPEALER CLAUSE:
All ordinances, or parts of ordinances inconsistent herewith are hereby
repealed to the extent only of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be
construed to revive any ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed.
(Ord. 995, 4-26-2016; amd. Ord. 1064, 2-11-2020)
3-4-8: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall become effective five (5) days after publication as provided
by law. (Ord. 995, 4-26-2016; amd. Ord. 1064, 2-11-2020)
CHAPTER 5
GREATER ARTESIA ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (GAEDC)
SECTION:
3-5-1: Board Created
3-5-1: BOARD CREATED:
   A.   Composition: The GAEDC board of directors shall be composed of the
executive director, the mayor and the city clerk of the city of Artesia, and
six (6) at large members. The GAEDC board members representing the greater
Artesia chamber of commerce and the city of Artesia will select two (2) at
large members yearly and submit those names to the Artesia city council for
approval.
   B.   Terms Of Office: GAEDC board members, other than the executive director
of the greater Artesia chamber of commerce and the mayor and city clerk of the
city, shall serve terms of three (3) years. Terms for at large members will be
staggered and chosen by lot. Consecutive terms may be served by a board member.
   C.   Executive Director: At the first meeting held in an even year, the
GAEDC board will elect a president, vice president and secretary. Vacancies
will be filled by an election of the board for the remainder of a term.
   D.   Meetings: Unless otherwise determined by the GAEDC board of directors,
"the board", shall meet no less than quarterly to review projects, plans,
progress and overall direction of the economic development plan.
   E.   Responsibility: The Artesia city council assigns the GAEDC board of
directors the following responsibilities with regard to the economic
development plan for the city of Artesia:
      1.   Reviewing and making recommendations to the governing body on
applications for assistance for economic development projects;
      2.   Reviewing and making recommendations to the governing body on
applications for industrial revenue bonds (IRBs);
      3.   Being accountable for the administration of funds generated by gross
receipts taxes for the purpose of economic development in accordance with this
chapter; and
      4.   Having authority to contract for economic development services
subject to availability of funds and approval of the governing body. (Ord. 850,
12-14-2010)
CHAPTER 6
CEMETERY BOARD
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Membership
3-6-3: Appointment And Qualifications; Term Of Office
3-6-4: Removal Of Members; Filling Vacancies
3-6-5: Powers And Duties
3-6-6: Deeds To Burial Lots
3-6-7: Violation Of Cemetery Regulations; Penalty
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
BOARD: The cemetery board of Artesia, New Mexico, as established by this
chapter.
MUNICIPAL CEMETERY: The municipal cemetery of the city of Artesia, New Mexico.
SEXTON: The administrative superintendent of the board. (Ord. 675, 12-16-2003)
3-6-2: MEMBERSHIP:
Members of the cemetery board of Artesia which shall consist of five (5)
members, all of whom shall reside within ten (10) miles of the intersection of
13th and Main Streets, Artesia, New Mexico.
The municipal clerk of the city of Artesia, New Mexico, shall serve as clerk
and treasurer of the board without additional compensation. (Ord. 819, 4-14-
2009)
3-6-3: APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS; TERM OF OFFICE:
The members of the board shall be appointed by the mayor of the city of
Artesia, New Mexico, with the consent of the city council. Each member of the
board shall hold office for a term of two (2) years. Each member of the board
shall serve without compensation and qualify by taking an oath of office to
faithfully and impartially discharge the duties of the office. Within ten (10)
days of their appointment, the members of the board shall meet and organize by
electing one of the members president of the board. The board shall thereafter
meet quarterly at city hall the Monday prior to the first council meeting of
that month. The board may meet on additional occasions upon written notice by
the chairman to all board members. (Ord. 675, 12-16-2003)
3-6-4: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS; FILLING VACANCIES:
The city council may remove a member of the board for cause and shall fill any
vacancy on the board that may occur. (Ord. 675, 12-16-2003)
3-6-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The cemetery board shall:
   A.   Take charge of the municipal cemetery;
   B.   Have the management of the municipal cemetery;
   C.   Recommend to the city council rules and regulations for the operation,
management, care and custody of the municipal cemetery;
   D.   Prescribe the manner and place of burials;
   E.   Subject to the approval of the city council, accept any cemetery within
or adjacent to the city of Artesia, New Mexico, used as a burial place by the
inhabitants of the city, from any person, corporation or organization owning,
controlling or maintaining the cemetery. Any cemetery accepted by the cemetery
board and approved by the city council as provided in this section shall become
part of the municipality and shall be governed as any other municipal cemetery
is governed. (Ord. 675, 12-16-2003)
3-6-6: DEEDS TO BURIAL LOTS:
Upon compliance with procedures adopted by the city, a deed shall be executed
by the mayor of the city of Artesia, New Mexico, attested by the city clerk and
bear the seal of the city of Artesia, New Mexico, and be delivered to the
purchaser of a cemetery lot. (Ord. 675, 12-16-2003)
3-6-7: VIOLATION OF CEMETERY REGULATIONS; PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter, or of the regulations promulgated by the board and
approved by the city council, shall constitute a petty misdemeanor, punishable
by a fine of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment
for not more than ninety (90) days or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord.
675, 12-16-2003)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS REGISTRATION AND LICENSING GENERALLY
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS AND BUSINESS REGISTRATION
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Definitions
4-1A-2: Registration Of Business Required; Fee
4-1A-3: Separate Registration And License Required
4-1A-4: Application For Registration Or License
4-1A-5: Certificate Of Registration Or License
4-1A-6: Renewals
4-1A-7: Late Registration, License Or Renewal; Surcharge
4-1A-8: Duplicate Registration Or License
4-1A-9: Business Location And Premises Requirements
4-1A-10: Offenses; Procedure Not Exclusive
4-1A-11: Violation; Penalty
4-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended, the
words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following meanings:
AMUSEMENT HALL: Any arcade, building or premises having as its primary business
the providing of mechanical or electronic amusement devices, including, but not
limited to, the following: pinball machines, electronic or video games of skill
or chance, claw or scoop machines, jukeboxes, or coin operated table games.
BUSINESS: Any profession, trade or occupation and all and every kind of calling
whether or not carried on for profit, except those organizations exempt from
the federal income tax pursuant to section 501(c)(3) of the United States
internal revenue code as amended or renumbered.
CANVASSER, SOLICITOR OR PEDDLER: These terms shall not include the activities
of persons who sell solely to other businesses, either of goods or services
used in the trade of such other businesses, or of goods for the purpose of
resale of such other businesses.
CONDUCT; CARRY ON: Engage in, carry on, own, maintain, manage or operate any
business, trade, art, profession, calling, employment, occupation or any
commercial, industrial or professional pursuit, vocation or enterprise in the
city.
KIDDIE RIDE CARNIVAL AND EXHIBITS: Any carnival and exhibits consisting
exclusively of rides and exhibits for children with no amusement devices other
than such rides, nor games of chance or skill, and not operating past the hour
of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any location, building or portion thereof, or premises in
which or from which a business is carried on. The term includes, but is not
limited to, an office, warehouse, yard, location where books and records are
kept, and the location from which business is solicited.
TEMPORARY OUTSIDE DISPLAYS AND SALES: The display or sale of goods or
merchandise not in or from an enclosed permanent building to be conducted for a
period of five (5) days or less. (1996 Code § 5.04.010)
4-1A-2: REGISTRATION OF BUSINESS REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Application To Do Business: Any person proposing to engage in business
within the city limits shall apply for and pay a business registration fee for
each outlet, branch or location or place of business within the city prior to
engaging in business, unless such person is required to obtain a business
license under article B of this chapter. (1996 Code § 5.04.040; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Business Registration Fee; Exemptions: There is imposed on each place
of business conducted in the city a business registration fee of thirty five
dollars ($35.00) pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-38-3(A).
No business registration fee shall be imposed on any business which is exempt
from licensing under 3-38-3(B) of the New Mexico Statutes Annotated. (Ord. 697,
12-14-2004)
   C.   Nontransferability Of Registration: No registration issued pursuant to
this article shall be transferable from one business to another, nor from one
person conducting business to a succeeding person conducting the same business.
(1996 Code § 5.04.050)
4-1A-3: SEPARATE REGISTRATION AND LICENSE REQUIRED:
Any person who operates two (2) or more businesses under the same name, one or
more of which requires a business license under article B of this chapter and
one or more of which does not require a business license, shall obtain a
separate registration or license and shall pay a separate fee for each such
business. (1996 Code § 5.04.030)
4-1A-4: APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION OR LICENSE:
Any person filing an application for issuance or renewal of any business
registration or business license shall include in the application the following
information:
   A.   The exact nature or kind of business for which a license is requested.
   B.   The form of business enterprise under which the business is to be
conducted, i.e., sole proprietorship, partnership, limited partnership or
corporation.
   C.   The place where such business is to be carried on, and if the same is
not to be carried on at any permanent place of business, the places of
residence of the owners of the same.
   D.   The name or names, other than the name of the applicant, under which
the business will be operating, if any.
   E.   The time of operation during the full twenty four (24) hour period.
   F.   The names and places of residence of all owners of the business; if the
owner is a corporation or partnership, the application shall state the names
and places of residence of the officers or general partners thereof.
   G.   The applicant's current revenue division taxpayer identification number
or evidence of application for a current revenue division taxpayer
identification number.
   H.   The number of any state or other license required by the business to be
conducted; if necessary to do so or if required by the city clerk, the
applicant shall attach photocopies or other evidence of having obtained such
required licenses.
   I.   Such further information as the clerk may deem necessary to enable him/
her to issue the certificate applied for. (1996 Code § 5.04.070)
4-1A-5: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION OR LICENSE:
The city clerk shall provide a suitable certificate of registration or license
to be furnished to each place of business coming within the terms of this
chapter, and such certificate of registration or license shall be prominently
displayed at the place of business for which such registration or license is
issued. Solicitors and similar licensees shall carry the license on their
person while engaging in the business for which such license is issued. (1996
Code § 5.04.080)
4-1A-6: RENEWALS:
Before March 16 of each year, any person with a place of business in the city
and subject to this chapter shall apply for renewal of business registration or
business license with the city clerk. (1996 Code § 5.04.060)
4-1A-7: LATE REGISTRATION, LICENSE OR RENEWAL; SURCHARGE:
If any person fails to obtain the appropriate registration or license pursuant
to the terms of this chapter, or fails to renew such registration or license
before March 16 of the year of renewal, such person shall pay a surcharge in
the amount of twenty percent (20%) of the license or registration fee for each
month after March 16 the payment is late. In no event shall the total surcharge
exceed the cost of the registration or license fee. This section shall be in
addition to the penalties and other provisions of section
4-1A-10 of this article. (1996 Code § 5.04.061)
4-1A-8: DUPLICATE REGISTRATION OR LICENSE:
A duplicate certificate of registration or license may be issued by the city
clerk to replace any such registration or license issued under this chapter
which has been lost or destroyed, if the person to whom it was issued files a
sworn statement attesting to the fact of such loss or destruction and pays a
duplicate fee of one dollar ($1.00). (1996 Code § 5.04.090)
4-1A-9: BUSINESS LOCATION AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
No license or registration shall be issued pursuant to this chapter unless and
until the applicant for such license provides the city clerk with the address
of the proposed location from which the business will be conducted, and the
clerk determines that the facilities and buildings at the location listed meet
all applicable building and fire code and zoning restrictions currently in
force within the city. In his or her discretion, the city clerk may issue a
temporary license or registration to a business while the applicant is seeking
a proper location or bringing a location to current building or fire code
requirements. (1996 Code § 5.04.100)
4-1A-10: OFFENSES; PROCEDURE NOT EXCLUSIVE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Engage in conduct or carry on any business or occupation within the
city without first registering the same or obtaining a license therefor, and
without first paying the fees, in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   Knowingly file an application for issuance or renewal of any
business registration or business license on which any of the information
required by section
4-1A-4 of this article has been falsified.
   B.   The remedies provided in this section are not exclusive, and if any
person engages in business in the city without obtaining the required
registration or license for such business, the city may proceed in any manner
authorized by law, including specifically, but not limited to, the procedures
set forth in New Mexico Statutes Annotated sections 3-38-5 and 3-38-6. (1996
Code § 5.04.110)
4-1A-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. Each day this chapter
is violated shall be considered a separate offense. (1996 Code § 5.04.200; amd.
2002 Code)
ARTICLE B. LICENSING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
4-1B-1: Purpose
4-1B-2: Applicability Of Other Provisions
4-1B-3: License Required
4-1B-4: Investigation Of Applicant
4-1B-5: License Fees
4-1B-6: Transfer Of License
4-1B-7: Revocation Of License
4-1B-8: Appeal Procedure
4-1B-1: PURPOSE:
The governing body of the city does find and declare that the licensing and
regulation of the businesses enumerated in this article are conducive to the
promotion of the health and general welfare and safety of the public. (1996
Code § 5.04.120)
4-1B-2: APPLICABILITY OF OTHER PROVISIONS:
All provisions of article A of this chapter, except sections
4-1A-2 and
4-1A-3, and any other provision which by its terms can apply only to businesses
subject to registration fees and not subject to licensing pursuant to this
article, shall apply in full force and effect to businesses which are licensed
under this article. (1996 Code § 5.04.130)
4-1B-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
All persons engaged in the pursuits, businesses and occupations enumerated in
this article shall, before commencing business, and thereafter annually before
March 16, secure a license from the city under the procedures set forth in this
chapter, and shall pay the license fees set forth in this article in connection
with each pursuit, business or occupation. (1996 Code § 5.04.140)
4-1B-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
Upon receipt of an application for a business license under this article, the
city clerk shall determine whether the proposed operation may be carried on
without conflict with any ordinance of the city, and may cause such
investigation of the applicant as may be necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare. The clerk shall initiate an investigation on the
nature of the proposed business to determine the degree that such business will
affect the public health, safety and general welfare; the level of supervision
such business may require; the degree to which such business may attract crowds
or children; the accessibility of the proprietors of such business when
complaints made to the city must be investigated and the possibility of illegal
activity transpiring at the proposed place of business. If, as a result of such
investigation, the city clerk determines that the issuance of a business
license is in conflict with any ordinance or is not in the interest of the
health, safe, general welfare of the public, the application shall be denied.
(1996 Code § 5.04.150; amd. 2002 Code)
4-1B-5: LICENSE FEES:
The following fees are hereby imposed upon the following businesses when
conducted within the city, in lieu of and not in addition to the registration
fee assessed pursuant to article A of this chapter (fees are annual unless
otherwise noted):
Amusement halls                                                                   $
                                                                                  50.00
Arts and crafts fairs, per period of special event or period of special use
authorized. License is required of sponsor only. Fee may be waived by city        25.00
council for public land, nonprofit organizations or other
community project
Auctions, per event                                                               25.00
Boxing, wrestling or martial arts contest, per performance                     50.00
Canvassers, solicitors, or peddlers, per solicitor, each 3 months or portion      50.00
thereof   
Carnival, circus or menagerie, except kiddie ride carnivals, per day           100.00
Ice cream, sandwich wagons, and catering trucks                                30.00
Kennels                                                                           35.00
Kiddie ride carnivals, per day                                                 30.00
Massage parlors                                                                   200.00
Outdoor concerts, exhibitions and amusements for profit, per day               50.00
Pawnbrokers                                                                       150.00
Phrenologists, clairvoyants, palmists and fortunetellers, each 3 months or        100.00
portion thereof
Pool rooms, billiard halls and bowling alleys                                  30.00
Producers' markets, also known as farmers' markets, per period of special event   25.00
or period of special use. License is required of sponsor only
Sales of seasonal items (Christmas trees, etc.), per event                     30.00
Secondhand dealers or junk dealers                                             100.00
Shooting galleries or other carnival type games not associated with a licensed    50.00
carnival, per day
Sound trucks and demonstrations for commercial purposes, per day                  20.00
Special events for business promotion sponsored by merchants'   association or
manager of business building for a period not to exceed one week. Licensee
(sponsor) shall provide paved parking, licensed private patrol officers or police 25.00
protection and list of participants to city clerk. License is required of sponsor
only
Wholesale sales to permanent businesses                                        25.00
Any business without a permanent place of business within the city limits that
conducts business within the city limits and cannot be classified in any of the   50.00
above categories, with exemptions to those businesses exempted under New Mexico
Statutes Annotated section 3-38-1, each 3 months or portion thereof
 
(1996 Code § 5.04.160; amd. 2002 Code)
4-1B-6: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
No license issued pursuant to this article shall be transferable from one
business to another. A license may be transferred to a succeeding operator of
the same business upon the payment of a twenty dollar ($20.00) transfer fee to
the city clerk. (1996 Code § 5.04.170)
4-1B-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
In any case where a person is required to obtain a license or registration as
provided in this chapter and has violated any of the provisions of this chapter
or any other city ordinance relating thereto, or whenever, in the judgment of
the city clerk, the public welfare shall require it, any license issued to such
person by the city may be revoked. No such license shall be revoked until the
city clerk notifies the holder of the license in writing that the revocation is
pending and will become final in thirty (30) days unless said revocation is
stayed by applying to the city council for a hearing to appeal the decision. If
no appeal is taken with thirty (30) days, the revocation decision shall become
final. (1996 Code § 5.04.180)
4-1B-8: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Applicants for business licenses and/or business registrations who have been
denied a temporary or permanent license in whole or in part may appeal the city
clerk's decision to the Artesia city council as outlined in
4-1B-7 of this article. (1996 Code § 5.04.190)
CHAPTER 2
SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Charitable Solicitations; Permit Requirements (Rep. by Ord. 1050, 3-26-
2019)
4-2-2: Duties Of Solicitors And Peddlers (Rep. by Ord. 1050, 3-26-2019)
4-2-3: Time Limit On Soliciting And Peddling
4-2-4: Uninvited Soliciting And Peddling
4-2-1: CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 1050, 3-26-2019)
4-2-2: DUTIES OF SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS:
(Rep. by Ord. 1050, 3-26-2019)
4-2-3: TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING AND PEDDLING:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether permitted under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or
rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated
to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting on any
day of the week prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00)
P.M. (Ord. 815, 4-14-2009)
4-2-4: UNINVITED SOLICITING AND PEDDLING:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Except as authorized by this chapter, the practice
of solicitors, hawkers, peddlers, itinerant merchants or transient vendors
(except persons associated with delivering newspapers), going in or upon
private residences in the City, not having been requested or invited to do so
by the owners or occupants thereof, for the purpose of soliciting orders for
the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or publications, other than newspapers,
or for the purpose of disposing of or peddling or hawking the same, are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance, and such practices constitute a violation of
this section. (Ord. 815, 4-14-2009; amd. Ord. 1050, 3-26-2019)
   B.   Abatement: The Police Chief and Police Department of the City are
required to abate any such nuisance so described under subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Exemptions From Provisions: The provisions of this section shall not
apply to the sale, delivery or soliciting orders for newspaper publications.
   D.   Penalties: Any person convicted of perpetrating a nuisance as described
in subsection A of this section, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code; and each instance of
violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 815, 4-14-
2009)
CHAPTER 3
GARAGE AND RUMMAGE SALES
ARTICLE A. SALES AT PRIVATE RESIDENCES
SECTION:
4-3A-1: Purpose
4-3A-2: Interpretation
4-3A-3: Conditions Of Lawful Sale
4-3A-4: Permit Required; Application And Approval
4-3A-5: Exemptions From Provisions
4-3A-6: Violations
4-3A-7: Penalty
4-3A-1: PURPOSE:
This article is adopted for the purpose of:
   A.   Recognizing the right of an occupant of residential property to offer
for sale and sell to the general public on or at such residential premises,
from time to time and at reasonable intervals, surplus personal belongings in
what is known as a garage sale, yard sale, patio sale and the like; and
   B.   Prohibiting what are, in effect, commercial venture sales, regardless
of designation, which violate the ordinances of the city regulating commercial
venture sales and/or the ordinances of the city regulating the zoning of
residential premises, it having been determined by the city council that
commercial venture sales carried on on a regular basis within a residential
area create traffic problems, parking problems and problems of population
congestion which the city council determines to constitute a nuisance and a
violation of the ordinances of the city regulating commercial venture sales and
regulating residential zoning. (1996 Code § 5.08.010)
4-3A-2: INTERPRETATION:
Nothing in this article is intended to repeal, amend, change or otherwise
modify the zoning ordinance or other ordinances governing the use of property
within the city, and particularly, it is not intended by this article to
enlarge the use of residential property beyond the uses permitted by the zoning
ordinance of the city. (1996 Code § 5.08.070)
4-3A-3: CONDITIONS OF LAWFUL SALE:
It is determined and declared that any sales of items of surplus personal
property at and on residential premises to which the public shall be invited
commencing on a given day, regardless of the method or manner of on premises or
off premises advertisement of such sale, shall be lawful if and only if such
sale is held for not more than two (2) consecutive days and is limited to used
and/or surplus items of property actually theretofore owned by the sellers and
not acquired strictly for the purpose of such sale; and further provided, that
no such sale shall be held more often than every ninety (90) days at the same
residential premises. Further, the sellers of any such sale shall apply for and
receive a permit for such sale as set forth under section
4-3A-4 of this article. (1996 Code § 5.08.020; amd. 2002 Code)
4-3A-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND APPROVAL:
   A.   Any person proposing to hold a sale of surplus personal property at or
upon residential premises shall, prior to such sale, apply in writing for and
receive a permit from the city clerk. The written application for any such sale
shall be submitted in duplicate and shall set forth the following information:
      1.   The date and hours of such sale, which sale shall not be conducted
over a period of more than two (2) consecutive days, with the hours of sale
being not earlier than eight o'clock (8:00) A.M., nor later than five o'clock
(5.00) P.M., on any day of such sale;
      2.   The location of the residential premises where the sale shall be
conducted;
      3.   A statement by the applicant that only surplus personal property
presently owned by the sellers will be offered for sale and that no property
acquired especially for such sale will be offered for sale; and
      4.   A statement that no sale of surplus personal property has been held
at the subject residential premises within the ninety (90) days prior to the
date of commencement of the sale for which a permit is requested.
   B.   If a written application fully complies with the provisions stated in
this section, the city clerk is authorized to endorse approval of the sale on
both copies of the application, one of which shall be returned to the applicant
as the permit for the sale and the other of which shall remain on file in the
office of the city clerk. Applications for permits for the sales authorized
under this article shall be submitted to the city clerk at least one day prior
to the date of commencement of such sale. (1996 Code § 5.08.030)
4-3A-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this article shall not apply to or affect the following
transactions:
   A.   Sales made pursuant to an order of process of a court of competent
jurisdiction;
   B.   Sales made by persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties
as public officials;
   C.   Sales made by duly licensed auctioneers, selling at auction; and
   D.   Sale of one or more large items of surplus personal property (by way of
example, an automobile, a household appliance, a suite of furniture) where the
seller has placed a want ad that he has the items for sale, but has not, by the
ad, scheduled a sale commencing at a particular time and invited the general
public to attend such scheduled sale. (1996 Code § 5.08.040)
4-3A-6: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Sales in violation of the terms of this article are declared to be
unlawful and subject to the penalties set forth under section
4-3A-7 of this article.
   B.   A sale from residential premises shall be deemed unlawful if it does
not comply with the conditions of section
4-3A-3 of this article; and further, a sale from residential premises which
otherwise complies with the provisions of this article shall be deemed unlawful
in the absence of an application and permit therefor. (1996 Code § 5.08.050)
4-3A-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be subject to
a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than fifty
dollars ($50.00) upon conviction of a first offense, and each and every day
shall be considered a separate violation. (1996 Code § 5.08.060)
ARTICLE B. CHARITABLE RUMMAGE SALES
SECTION:
4-3B-1: Application For Sale; Fee
4-3B-2: Use Of Public Ways And Property
4-3B-1: APPLICATION FOR SALE; FEE:
Any religious or charitable association, society or corporation desiring to
conduct a rummage sale in the city shall make a written application therefor to
the city clerk, at least five (5) days before such proposed sale, setting forth
in the application the name of the association, society or corporation, the
persons who will be in charge of such sale and the date and place where such
sale shall take place. There shall be attached to the application the written
consent of the property owner where the rummage sale is to be conducted, and if
to be conducted on the sidewalks or other public ways in the city, the written
consent of the property owner whose property adjoins such place where the sale
is to be held. The application shall be accompanied by a fee of five dollars
($5.00) for each day of holding such rummage sale. Any religious or charitable
organization entitled to hold a rummage sale under the provisions of this
article which holds such sale without first filing the application therefor,
and paying the license fee, shall be fined in a sum of not less than five
dollars ($5.00) nor more than twenty five dollars ($25.00). (1996 Code §§
5.20.020, 5.20.040)
4-3B-2: USE OF PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY:
No person, firm, association, corporation or society shall hold or conduct a
rummage sale of used and secondhand articles upon the sidewalks or in any
public place in the city except an association, society or corporation
organized for religious or charitable purposes and not engaged in doing
business for profit. Any person, firm, corporation, society or association not
organized for religious or charitable purposes holding a rummage sale on the
sidewalks or other public places in the city shall be guilty of violating this
article, and shall be fined in a sum of not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor
more than twenty five dollars ($25.00). (1996 Code §§ 5.20.010, 5.20.030)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC DANCES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Application For Permit
4-4-3: Hours
4-4-4: Security Officers
4-4-5: Total Building Occupancy
4-4-6: Open Flame And Fireworks
4-4-7: Issuance Of Permit
4-4-8: Effect On Other Laws
4-4-9: Penalties
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
following meanings:
PERSON: Means and includes a natural person or persons, singular or plural, as
the case might be, associations, partnerships, and profit and nonprofit
corporations.
POLICE OFFICER AND POLICE OFFICERS; CHIEF: Means and refers to those persons
holding a commission from the city council as members of the police department
of the city, including both regular and reserve police officers; and "chief"
means the chief of police of the police department of the city and the acting
chief in his absence.
PRIVATE SECURITY OFFICERS: Employees of a security agency provided to serve as
security personnel for others.
PUBLIC DANCE: A dance that may be attended by the public generally upon payment
of an admission charge, but the term "public dance" does not include dances
sponsored by the Artesia public schools.
SECURITY AGENCY; PRIVATE SECURITY OFFICERS: Any private business holding a
license from the state to provide security personnel and security services to
others. (Ord. 868, 6-28-2011)
4-4-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Any person desiring to hold a public dance in the city shall file an
application therefor with the chief at least five (5) days prior to the
proposed commencement time of such public dance. Such application shall be in
writing and shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name of the official sponsor of the dance.
      2.   The location where the public dance will be held.
      3.   The date and hours of the proposed public dance, which shall not be
different from the hours specified in this chapter unless authorized by the
city council.
      4.   A statement as to whether police officers or private security
officers are to be provided for the dance and, if private security officers are
to be provided, a statement signed by the security agency providing the
officers that satisfactory arrangements have been made and that at least four
(4) private security officers will be provided on the date and for the hours
that the dance is to be held, giving the name of the agency and state license
number thereof.
      5.   The total number of individuals expected to attend.
      6.   If the dance is to be held within a structure, the total square
footage of the area to be utilized for the dance, the number of exits provided,
and whether the structure has a fire sprinkler system.
   B.   The application shall be submitted in duplicate and signed by a person
having authority to make the application for the sponsor, showing such person's
title or authority. (Ord. 868, 6-28-2011)
4-4-3: HOURS:
All public dances held in the city shall be held from eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
until twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight unless the city council authorizes other
hours in specific instances. (Ord. 868, 6-28-2011)
4-4-4: SECURITY OFFICERS:
   A.   Officers Required: No public dance shall be held in the city unless
there are four (4) security officers, either police officers or private
security officers, on duty on the premises where such public dance is held at
all times while such dance is being held. Police officers acting as security
officers at a dance shall be considered to be on duty and subject at all times
to the direction of their departmental supervisor in the police department of
the city. Private security officers shall be subject to the direction of the
security agency for which they work but shall be required to maintain peace,
quiet and good order at the public dance to which they are assigned. Private
security officers shall be required to have or obtain a business license to
provide services within the city limits of Artesia. The city council reserves,
and shall have the right, on an individual basis, and upon being advised of
circumstances justifying any change, to permit the holding of a public dance
with either more or fewer than four (4) security officers.
   B.   Compensation: Police officers shall be compensated by the city at their
regular rate of pay, but the sponsor of the public dance shall be required to
promptly reimburse the city for such compensation paid. At the time the
application is filed, satisfactory arrangements must be made by the sponsor to
reimburse the city for the time required by the police officers, if police
officers are to be used as security officers for the dance, or the application
shall contain the statement required in subsection 4-4-2A4 of this chapter
signed by the security agency, if private security officers are to be provided.
(Ord. 868, 6-28-2011)
4-4-5: TOTAL BUILDING OCCUPANCY:
   A.   In the event the public dance is held within a structure, that
structure shall be inspected by the fire department prior to the issuance of
the permit. During this inspection, the fire department shall calculate and
specify a maximum occupancy load as defined by the fire code in place at the
time the application is received. This maximum occupancy load shall not be
exceeded by the applicant and shall be strictly enforced by the applicant.
   B.   The fire department may conduct a fire inspection and occupancy load
check at any time during the public dance. (Ord. 868, 6-28-2011)
4-4-6: OPEN FLAME AND FIREWORKS:
   A.   Candles, torches, or any other open flame shall not be permitted within
the structure during a public dance.
   B.   Absolutely no indoor fireworks or pyrotechnics shall be set off within
the structure for any reason.
   C.   Failure to obey this section shall immediately void and terminate the
public dance permit and all dance activities shall immediately cease and the
dance location shall be forthwith vacated. In addition, the applicant shall be
issued a citation for failure to obey. (Ord. 868, 6-28-2011)
4-4-7: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
If the police chief and the fire marshal find the application to be in order,
the police chief and the fire marshal shall endorse one copy of the application
as approved and return the same to the representative of the sponsor of the
dance, and such copy shall constitute the permit authorizing the holding of the
requested public dance by the sponsor to whom issued, at the premises, on the
date, and during the hours specified.
Failure to obey any provision of this chapter shall void the dance permit, the
dance shall end, and the dance location shall be forthwith vacated by all
persons. Additionally, any person hosting and/or sponsoring any public dance
without first obtaining a permit from the city as provided in this chapter,
shall be in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 868, 6-28-2011)
4-4-8: EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS:
Public dance permits issued under this chapter shall not abrogate or otherwise
affect any other law or ordinance pertaining to the conduct of public
gatherings. (Ord. 868, 6-28-2011)
4-4-9: PENALTIES:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be subject to the penalties as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
(Ord. 868, 6-28-2011)
CHAPTER 5
TAXICABS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Business License Requirements
4-5-3: Taxicab Drivers
4-5-4: Numbering Taxicabs; Information To Police
4-5-5: Persons Under Twenty One
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
OWNER: Includes any person who holds the legal title to a motor vehicle, or the
conditional vendee in a conditional sales contract covering the sale of such
motor vehicle, who has the immediate right of possession. Such person shall be
deemed the owner of such vehicle for the purpose of this chapter.
PERSON: Includes individuals, firms, copartners, corporations and associations
of any kind or character.
TAXICAB: Includes all motor vehicles operated for hire or for profit in
transporting passengers from place to place in the city, and having a normal
capacity of not more than seven (7) persons. (1996 Code § 5.28.010)
4-5-2: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator of one
or more taxicabs to operate the same upon the streets of the city unless such
operation has been licensed as provided in this chapter. (1996 Code § 5.28.020;
amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Application For License: Any person who is the owner of one or more
motor vehicles which he desires to operate as taxicabs upon the streets of the
city shall make application in writing, under oath, to the city clerk for a
taxicab license. Such application shall include the name under which the
business will be conducted, and the name or names of the owner or owners
thereof, together with the interest of each owner in the business. The
application shall also state the location of the principal office in the city
from which the business shall be transacted; and, if the applicant is a
corporation, shall recite the names of the principal officers and the manager
of the business. Each application shall also contain the number and description
of all motor vehicles which will be operated as taxicabs by the person.
   C.   License Fee: Each application shall be accompanied by the fee for the
license applied for, which fee shall be computed on the following basis: for
the first motor vehicle to be operated as a taxicab by the applicant, twenty
five dollars ($25.00); for each additional motor vehicle to be operated as a
taxicab under the license, five dollars ($5.00). (1996 Code § 5.28.020)
   D.   Vehicle License Required: No license shall be issued to any person for
the operation of a taxicab or taxicabs in the city if the New Mexico vehicle
license upon any vehicle to be operated by applicant is registered in the name
of any person other than the applicant. (1996 Code § 5.28.030)
   E.   Insurance Required: No license for the operation of one or more
taxicabs shall be issued by the city clerk until the applicant shall have filed
with the clerk a surety bond or policy of insurance issued by a company
authorized to do surety or insurance business in the state guaranteeing payment
to the public of all losses or damages proximately caused by the negligence or
wrongful act of the operator of such taxicab in not less than the minimum
amounts required by title 12, chapter 12 of this code. (1996 Code § 5.28.040;
amd. 2002 Code)
   F.   Issuance Or Denial Of License: On the filing of an application and
surety bond or insurance policy, in full compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, the city council may issue to the applicant a license for the
operation of one or more taxicabs upon the streets of the city, which license
shall designate the motor vehicles to be operated by the license holder, and
shall be for a period of one year. The city council is authorized to refuse to
grant a license to any applicant who is not of good moral character. Upon
denial of any application for a taxicab license, the license fees filed
therewith shall be remitted to the applicant by the city clerk. (1996 Code §
5.28.050)
   G.   Transferability And Cancellation Of License: A license issued under the
provisions of this section shall not be transferred without the approval of the
city council. The city council may cancel any license issued under this section
for the violation by the licensee of any ordinance of the city or any law of
the state. For this purpose, any violation by any employee engaged in operating
a taxicab shall constitute a violation by the licensee. (1996 Code § 5.28.070)
   H.   Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (1996 Code §
5.28.080; amd. 2002 Code)
4-5-3: TAXICAB DRIVERS:
   A.   Chauffeur's License Required: All persons driving or operating taxicabs
within the city shall have a current chauffeur's license (CDL) issued by the
state of New Mexico in good standing and shall be over the age of twenty one
(21) years, and no person shall drive or operate a taxicab within the city who
does not have such chauffeur's license in his possession. (1996 Code §
5.28.090)
   B.   Fingerprinting: No person shall be employed to drive or operate a
taxicab in the city until such person has been fingerprinted by the police
department of the city at the expense of the city. (1996 Code § 5.28.100)
   C.   Photograph Identification: A photograph of each taxicab driver, on
which shall appear his full name, shall be firmly placed in each taxicab
operated in the city by such taxicab driver, and in such a place as each
passenger shall have a full view of same. (1996 Code § 5.28.110)
   D.   Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this section or any
owner of a taxicab who permits the same to be operated in violation of this
section shall be subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this
code, in the discretion of the court. (1996 Code § 5.28.130; amd. 2002 Code)
4-5-4: NUMBERING TAXICABS; INFORMATION TO POLICE:
Each company or owner operating a taxicab in the city shall cause such cabs to
be numbered with a number on each side, and shall furnish the police department
with the description and number of the cabs operated by the owner or company.
Any person violating any provision of this section or any owner of a taxicab
who permits the same to be operated in violation of this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code, in the
discretion of the court. (1996 Code §§ 5.28.120, 5.28.130; amd. 2002 Code)
4-5-5: PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE:
From and after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter 1 ,
it shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
drive or operate a taxicab for hire or profit on the streets of the city, or
for any person owning or operating a taxicab to allow or permit any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years to so drive a taxicab. Any person
violating any provision of this section shall be subject to penalty as provided
in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (1996 Code §§ 5.28.060, 5.28.080; amd. 2002
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. This chapter derived from ordinance 52, passed in 1940.
CHAPTER 6
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
4-6-1: Purpose And Intent
4-6-2: Definitions
4-6-3: License Required
4-6-4: Application
4-6-5: Review By Other Departments
4-6-6: Issuance; Denial
4-6-7: Regulation Of Peep Booths
4-6-8: Hours Of Operation
4-6-9: Minimum Age
4-6-10: Lighting Regulations
4-6-11: Location
4-6-12: Measurement Of Distance
4-6-13: Other Locational Regulations
4-6-14: Stage Required In Adult Cabaret And Adult Theater
4-6-15: Conduct
4-6-16: Employee Tips
4-6-17: Exemptions
4-6-18: Disturbances On Premises; Reporting
4-6-19: Transferability
4-6-20: Renewal
4-6-21: Suspension And Revocation
4-6-22: Fees
4-6-23: Injunction; Violations
4-6-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens
of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the
deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented businesses within
the city, thereby reducing or eliminating the adverse secondary effects from
such sexually oriented businesses. The provisions of this chapter are not
intended to impose a limitation or restriction on the content of any
communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials. It is not the
intent of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the United States or state of New Mexico
constitutions, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually
oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor
effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene
material. (Ord. 695, 12-14-2004)
4-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
Except as otherwise indicated by the context, the following words and phrases
shall have the following meanings for purposes of this chapter:
ADULT ARCADE: Any commercial establishment where, for any form of
consideration, monetary or otherwise, one or more still or motion picture
projectors, slide projectors, videocassette players, or similar machines, or
other image producing machines, for viewing by five (5) or fewer persons each,
are used to show films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial
establishment which devotes in excess of fifty percent (50%) of its stock in
trade or interior floor space to the sale, rental or viewing (for any form of
consideration) of books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other visual
representations which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
ADULT CABARET: A "cabaret" which features:
   A.   Persons who appear nude or in a state of nudity or seminudity; or
   B.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specific
anatomical areas".
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment which is distinguished
or characterized by the showing of films, motion pictures, videocassettes,
slides, or similar photographic reproductions with an emphasis on depicting or
describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" which
are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear in a state of nudity or live performances which are characterized by
an emphasis on exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual
activities".
CITY OR ARTESIA: The city of Artesia, New Mexico.
EMPLOYEE: A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage, or
other compensation by the operator of said business.
ESTABLISHMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Means and includes any of the
following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business into a sexually oriented
business;
   C.   The addition of a different sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
   D.   The relocation of a sexually oriented business.
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT: A district of the city which is zoned as an M-1 district.
LICENSING ADMINISTRATOR: The mayor of the city or his appointed designee.
MANAGER: An operator, other than a licensee, who is employed by a sexually
oriented business to act as a manager or supervisor of employees or is
otherwise responsible for the operation of the business.
NUDE MODEL STUDIO: Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity or
displays "specified anatomical areas" is provided for money or any form of
consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculpted, photographed,
or similarly depicted by other persons.
NUDITY OR STATE OF NUDITY: Means:
   A.   The appearance of human bare buttocks, anus, male genitals, female
genitals, or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or
   B.   A state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover human
buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, pubic region, or areola or nipple of
the female breast.
OPERATOR: Means and includes the owner, licensee, custodian, manager, operator,
or person in charge of any licensed premises.
PEEP BOOTH: A viewing room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of
floor space.
PERSON: Includes any person, firm, corporation, association, or other legal
entity.
PUBLIC PARK: Is one that has been designated, used, or declared as such by the
city of Artesia.
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: Any area depicted on the Artesia zoning map as a
residential land use.
SEMINUDE OR SEMINUDITY: A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than
the genitals, pubic region, and areolae of the female breasts, as well as
portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
shop, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, adult
theater, or nude model studio. The definition of sexually oriented business
shall not include an establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized sexual therapy.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of
the areolae; or
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTS: Sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, sexual
assault, or crimes connected with another sexually oriented business including,
but not limited to, distribution of obscenity, prostitution, or pandering.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
   C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
   D.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or
tumescence; or
   E.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through D of this definition.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Means and
includes any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, management arrangement, gift, or other
similar legal device which transfers ownership or control of the business,
except for transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of a
person possessing the ownership or control. (Ord. 695, 12-14-2004)
4-6-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall be permitted to operate a sexually oriented business in
the city without a valid sexually oriented business license.
   B.   No person shall be permitted to work as a manager of a sexually
oriented business in the city without a valid manager's license.
   C.   Each license shall be valid for a period of one year. (Ord. 695, 12-14-
2004)
4-6-4: APPLICATION:
   A.   Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall contain
the following information:
      1.   If the applicant is an individual, satisfactory proof that he or she
is twenty one (21) years of age or older;
      2.   If the applicant is a legal entity, satisfactory proof that each of
the individual officers, directors, managers, partners, members, and/or
principal owners of such entity are twenty one (21) years of age or older;
      3.   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals required to be
listed in the application have been convicted of any felonious criminal act
within the past ten (10) years, and, if so, the specified criminal act
involved, the date and place of conviction, and the disposition;
      4.   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals required to be
listed in the application has had a previous license under this or any other
similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another city or county
denied, suspended, or revoked and, if so, the name and location of the sexually
oriented business for which the license was denied, suspended, or revoked, as
well as the date of such denial, suspension, or revocation;
      5.   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals required to be
listed in the application has been an officer, director, manager, partner,
member, and/or principal owner of any legal entity which has had a previous
license under this or any other similar sexually oriented business ordinance
from another city or county denied, suspended, or revoked and, if so, the name
and location of the sexually oriented business for which the license was
denied, suspended, or revoked, as well as the date of such denial, suspension,
or revocation;
      6.   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals required to be
listed in the application hold any other licenses under this chapter or other
similar sexually oriented business ordinances from another city or county and,
if so, the names and locations of such other licensed businesses;
      7.   Satisfactory proof of the applicant's ownership or right to
possession of the premises wherein the sexually oriented business will be
operated;
      8.   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be oriented to the
north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn to a designated
scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6"). The licensing administrator may
waive the foregoing diagram for transfer and renewal applications if the
applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared. If
the sexually oriented business has or will have a peep booth or booths, the
sketch shall show the locations of each manager's station and designate any
portion of the premises in which patrons will not be permitted;
      9.   A current certificate and straight line drawing prepared within
thirty (30) days prior to an initial application by a New Mexico registered
land surveyor depicting: a) the property lines and the structures of the
premises to be licensed; b) the location of the property lines of any church,
school, dwelling unit (single or multiple), public park, or residential
district within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of the premises to be
licensed; and c) the location of the property lines and structures of any other
sexually oriented business within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of
the premises to be licensed. For purposes of this section, a use shall be
considered existing or established if it is in existence at the time an
application is submitted.
   B.   Each manager shall submit a written application for a manager's
license. The application shall contain the applicant's name, address, date of
birth, telephone number, and the information required by subsection A3 of this
section.
   C.   Each application for a sexually oriented business license or manager's
license shall be verified by the oath or affirmation of the applicant or the
applicant's authorized agent.
   D.   Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee in the sum of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) as provided in section
4-6-22 of this chapter.
   E.   Each application for a sexually oriented business manager's license
shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee in the sum of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) as provided in section
4-6-22 of this chapter. (Ord. 695, 12-14-2004)
4-6-5: REVIEW BY OTHER DEPARTMENTS:
   A.   Prior to the issuance of any sexually oriented business license, each
license application shall be submitted to the planning and police departments
for review. The planning department shall determine whether the proposed
business complies with all locational requirements set forth in section
4-6-11 of this chapter. The police department shall provide information as to
whether the applicant and each of the individuals required to be listed in the
license application have been convicted of a felonious criminal act within the
past ten (10) years. Such review shall be completed within twenty (20) days
after the license application is submitted to each such division or department.
   B.   Prior to the issuance of any manager's license, each license
application shall be submitted to the police department for review. The police
department shall provide information as to whether the applicant has been
convicted of any felony crime within ten (10) years next prior to the date of
the application. Such review shall be completed within twenty (20) days after
the license application is submitted to such department.
   C.   The police department shall only be required to provide the information
specified in subsections A and B of this section and shall not be required to
approve or disapprove the license application. (Ord. 695, 12-14-2004)
4-6-6: ISSUANCE; DENIAL:
   A.   If, after investigation, the licensing administrator finds that:
      1.   The individual applicant, or each of the officers, directors,
managers, partners, members, and/or principal owners of the applicant are
twenty one (21) years of age or older;
      2.   The individual applicant, or each of the officers, directors,
managers, partners, members, and/or principal owners of the applicant have not
been convicted of a felonious criminal act within the past ten (10) years; and
      3.   The use of the location identified in the license application as a
sexually oriented business complies with the location requirements set forth in
this chapter, then he or she shall, within thirty (30) days following receipt
of the license application, issue a sexually oriented business license to the
applicant for use at the location identified in the license application as the
situs of the business.
   B.   If, after investigation, the licensing administrator finds that:
      1.   The applicant is twenty one (21) years of age or older; and
      2.   The applicant has not been convicted of a felonious criminal act
within the past ten (10) years, then he or she shall, within thirty (30) days
following receipt of the license application, issue a manager's license to the
applicant.
   C.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
disqualification of the applicant. Notwithstanding any provision of this
chapter to the contrary, an applicant who has been convicted of a felonious
criminal act or acts may qualify for a sexually oriented business or manager's
license only when the time period required in subsections A2 and B2 of this
section has elapsed.
   D.   In the event of a denial of the application sought in subsection A or B
of this section, the applicant is entitled to seek judicial review of the
denial by filing an appeal to district court within thirty (30) days after
denial of the license. (Ord. 695, 12-14-2004)
4-6-7: REGULATION OF PEEP BOOTHS:
   A.   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business which exhibits on the premises in a peep booth a film, videocassette,
or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the requirements of this section.
   B.   The sexually oriented business shall have one or more manager's
stations. A manager's station shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet. No
alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's station may be made
without the prior approval of the licensing administrator.
   C.   At least one employee must be on duty and situated at each manager's
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   D.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of the
premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video display equipment. If the premises
has two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of the
premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required in
this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station. The
view area shall remain unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display
racks, or other materials at all times, and no patron shall be permitted access
to any area of the premises which has been designated as an area in which
patrons will not be permitted in the application filed pursuant to section
4-6-4 of this chapter.
   E.   No peep booth may be occupied by more than one person at any one time.
   F.   No door, screen, or other covering shall be placed or allowed to remain
on any peep booth, and no holes or openings shall be placed or allowed to
remain in the wall between any two (2) adjacent peep booths.
   G.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person having a duty
under this section to knowingly fail to fulfill such duty. (Ord. 695, 12-14-
2004)
4-6-8: HOURS OF OPERATION:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for a sexually oriented business to be
open for business or for the licensee or any employee of a licensee to allow
patrons upon the licensed premises during the following time periods:
   A.   On any Tuesday through Saturday from two o'clock (2:00) A.M. until
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.;
   B.   On any Monday, other than a Monday which falls on January 1, from
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight until seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.;
   C.   On any Sunday from two o'clock (2:00) A.M. until twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight;
   D.   On any Monday which falls on January 1, from two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
until seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (Ord. 695, 12-14-2004)
4-6-9: MINIMUM AGE:
   A.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to be upon the premises of a sexually oriented business.
   B.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for the licensee or any
employee of the licensee to allow anyone under the age of twenty one (21) years
upon the premises of a sexually oriented business.
   C.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to provide live nude entertainment upon the premises of a
sexually oriented business. (Ord. 695, 12-14-2004)
4-6-10: LIGHTING REGULATIONS:
   A.   The interior portion of the premises of a sexually oriented business to
which patrons are permitted access shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place (including peep
booths) at an illumination of not less than five (5) foot-candles as measured
at the floor level.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the licensee and employees present on the
premises to ensure that the illumination described above is maintained at all
times that any patron is present on the premises. (Ord. 695, 12-14-2004)
4-6-11: LOCATION:
   A.   No license shall be issued under this chapter for any sexually oriented
business within any zoned district other than the designated industrial
district.
   B.   It shall be a violation of this chapter to operate or cause to be
operated a sexually oriented business outside of the designated industrial
district.
   C.   It shall be a violation of this chapter to operate or cause to be
operated a sexually oriented business within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of:
      1.   Any church;
      2.   Any school furnishing compulsory education under the laws of the
state;
      3.   The boundary of any residential district;
      4.   An existing dwelling unit or residence (single or multiple); or
      5.   A public park adjacent to any residential district.
   D.   It shall be a violation of this chapter to operate or cause to be
operated a sexually oriented business within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of another sexually oriented business.
   E.   It shall be a violation of this chapter to cause or permit the
operation, establishment, or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented
business within the same building, structure, or portion thereof. (Ord. 695,
12-14-2004)
4-6-12: MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE:
   A.   For purposes of this section, distance between any two (2) sexually
oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures, from the closest exterior structural wall of each
business.
   B.   For purposes of this section, distance between any sexually oriented
business and any church, school, public park, dwelling unit or residence
(single or multiple), or residential district shall be measured in a straight
line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the nearest
portion of the building or structure used as part of the premises where the
sexually oriented business is conducted to the nearest property line of the
premises of a church, school, or dwelling unit or residence (single or
multiple), or the nearest boundary of an affected public park or residential
district. (Ord. 695, 12-14-2004)
4-6-13: OTHER LOCATIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on the effective date
hereof that is in violation of any portion hereof will be permitted to continue
for a period of six (6) months from the effective date thereof, after which
time they shall come into compliance with this chapter.
   B.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this section, the
licensing administrator may grant an extension of time during which a sexually
oriented business in violation of this chapter will be permitted to continue
upon a showing that the owner of the business has not had a reasonable time to
recover the initial financial investment in the business. No such extension of
time shall be for a period of greater than that reasonably necessary for the
owner of the business to recover his or her initial financial investment in the
business. A sexually oriented business in violation of this chapter may
continue during such extended period unless the business is sooner terminated
for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of thirty (30) days or
more. Such business shall not be enlarged, extended, or altered except that the
business may be brought into compliance with this section.
   C.   If two (2) or more sexually oriented businesses are within one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500') of one another and otherwise in a permissible
location, the sexually oriented business which was first established and
continually operating at the particular location will be deemed to be in
compliance with this chapter and the other will be deemed to be in violation of
this chapter.
   D.   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating is not rendered in
violation of this chapter by the location, subsequent to the grant or renewal
of a sexually oriented business permit and/or license, of a church, school,
dwelling unit or residence (single or multiple), public park, or residential
district within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of the sexually
oriented business. This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid
license and does not apply when an application for a license is submitted after
a license has expired or has been revoked. (Ord. 695, 12-14-2004)
4-6-14: STAGE REQUIRED IN ADULT CABARET AND ADULT THEATER:
Any adult cabaret or adult theater shall have one or more separate areas
designated as a stage in the diagram submitted as part of the application for
the license. Entertainers shall perform only upon the stage. The stage shall be
fixed and immovable. No seating for the audience shall be permitted within
three feet (3') of the edge of the stage. No members of the audience shall be
permitted upon the stage or within three feet (3') of the edge of the stage.
(Ord. 695, 12-14-2004)
4-6-15: CONDUCT:
   A.   No licensee, manager, or employee mingling with the patrons of a
sexually oriented business, or serving food or drinks, shall be in a state of
nudity.
   B.   No licensee or employee shall encourage or knowingly permit any person
upon the premises to touch, caress, or fondle the breasts, anus, or specified
anatomical areas of any person. (Ord. 695, 12-14-2004)
4-6-16: EMPLOYEE TIPS:
   A.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any employee of a sexually
oriented business to receive tips from patrons except as set forth in
subsection B of this section.
   B.   A licensee that desires to provide for tips from its patrons shall
establish one or more boxes or other containers to receive tips. All tips for
such employees shall be placed by the patron of the sexually oriented business
into the tip box.
   C.   A sexually oriented business that provides tip boxes for its patrons as
provided in this section shall post one or more signs to be conspicuously
visible to the patrons on the premises, in letters at least one inch (1") high
to read as follows:
All tips are to be placed in the tip box and not handed directly to employees.
Any physical contact between a patron and employees is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 695, 12-14-2004)
4-6-17: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter regulating nude model studios do not apply to:
   A.   A college, junior college, or university supported entirely or partly
by taxation;
   B.   A private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   C.   A business located in a structure which has no sign visible from the
exterior of the structure and no other advertising that indicates a nude person
is available for viewing; and where, in order to participate in a class, a
student must enroll at least three (3) days in advance of the class; and where
no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one time. (Ord. 695, 12-
14-2004)
4-6-18: DISTURBANCES ON PREMISES; REPORTING:
   A.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any licensee or employee of
such licensee to knowingly allow to occur any disorderly conduct or other
criminal activity on or within the licensed premises which involves patrons,
employees, or said licensee and which results in a conviction.
   B.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any licensee or employee of
such licensee to knowingly allow to occur any specified sexual activity on or
within the licensed premises which involves patrons, employees, or said
licensee.
   C.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any licensee or employee of
such licensee to fail to immediately report to the police department any
disorderly conduct or other criminal or specified sexual activity which occurs
on or within the licensed premises.
   D.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for the licensee, or for any
manager or employee, to violate any of the requirements of this chapter or to
knowingly permit any patron to violate the requirements of this chapter. (Ord.
695, 12-14-2004)
4-6-19: TRANSFERABILITY:
   A.   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, an
application for transfer of ownership of a sexually oriented business license
from one person to another may be made to the licensing administrator. Such
application shall contain such information as required by section
4-6-4 of this chapter. In determining whether to approve a transfer of
ownership, the licensing administrator shall consider all the requirements of
section
4-6-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Upon motion of the licensing administrator or upon complaint, the
licensing administrator shall cause a hearing on the transfer of ownership
application to be held. No such hearing shall be held until notice thereof has
been provided to the applicant at least ten (10) days prior to the scheduled
hearing date.
   C.   No license may be transferred when the licensing administrator has
notified the licensee that suspension or revocation proceedings have been or
will be brought against the licensee or in the event that the licensee is not
in full compliance with this chapter on the date of the requested transfer.
(Ord. 695, 12-14-2004)
4-6-20: RENEWAL:
   A.   Each sexually oriented business licensee shall be sent a renewal notice
by the licensing administrator no less than thirty (30) days prior to the
expiration date of his or her license. As a prerequisite to the renewal of such
license, each licensee is required to make application for renewal to the
licensing administrator not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of
expiration of the current license. Such application shall contain such verified
information as of the date of the application as required by section
4-6-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Upon motion of the licensing administrator or upon complaint, the
licensing administrator shall cause a hearing on the renewal application to be
held. No such hearing shall be held until notice thereof has been provided to
the applicant at least ten (10) days prior to the scheduled hearing date.
   C.   Prior to any renewal hearing, the police department shall provide to
the licensing administrator a report detailing any violation of federal, state,
or local laws which have occurred on or in connection with the operation of the
licensed premises within the previous twelve (12) month period.
   D.   It is an express condition for any renewal that the licensee shall be
in compliance with all provisions of this chapter as of the date of renewal.
(Ord. 695, 12-14-2004)
4-6-21: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
licensing administrator shall revoke a sexually oriented business license if he
or she finds that:
      1.   Any cause of suspension or revocation of the license by reason of
violation of any provision of this chapter has occurred;
      2.   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process that tended to enhance such licensee's
opportunity for obtaining a license;
      3.   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or
sale of controlled substances, as defined by the laws of the state of New
Mexico, on the licensed premises;
      4.   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed acts of prostitution
or negotiations for acts of prostitution on the licensed premises;
      5.   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      6.   A licensee has been convicted of a felonious criminal act within the
immediate past ten (10) years prior to the suspension or revocation;
      7.   On two (2) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person or persons committed an offense, occurring in or on the licensed
premises constituting a specified criminal act for which a conviction has been
obtained, and the person or persons were employees of the sexually oriented
business at the time the offenses were committed;
      8.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for any taxes, fees,
fines, or penalties assessed against or imposed upon such licensee in relation
to the licensed business;
      9.   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any specified sexual
activity to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      10.   The licensee has operated more than one sexually oriented business
within the same building, structure, or portion thereof.
   B.   A licensee is entitled to seek judicial review of the suspension or
revocation of a license by filing an appeal to district court within thirty
(30) days after notification of suspension or revocation of a license.
   C.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license. (Ord. 695, 12-14-2004)
4-6-22: FEES:
A fee in the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be paid to the city
for each of the following:
   A.   Application fee for sexually oriented business license;
   B.   Application fee for sexually oriented business manager's license;
   C.   Annual sexually oriented business license fee;
   D.   Annual manager's license fee;
   E.   Transfer fee for sexually oriented business licenses. (Ord. 695, 12-14-
2004)
4-6-23: INJUNCTION; VIOLATIONS:
Any person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without obtaining the licenses required by this chapter is subject to a suit
for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations. Each day a
sexually oriented business so operates constitutes a separate offense or
violation.
Any person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
in violation of any provision of this chapter is subject to suit for injunction
as well as prosecution for criminal violations. Each day a sexually oriented
business so violates any provision of this chapter constitutes a separate
offense or violation.
Any criminal violation of this chapter, or any provision thereof, is subject to
the penalties as provided by title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 695, 12-14-
2004)
CHAPTER 7
CANNABIS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Title
4-7-2: Purpose And Intend
4-7-3: Definitions
4-7-4: Application Of The Comprehensive Cannabis Ordinance
4-7-5: Fees
4-7-6: Reserved
4-7-7: Reserved
4-7-8: Personal Possession And Use
4-7-9: Non-Commercial Cultivation
4-7-10: Reserved
4-7-11: Zoning And Development Requirements
4-7-12: Prohibited Districts
4-7-13: Prohibited Locations And Activities
4-7-14: Special Use Permit Requirements
4-7-15: Compliance With Laws
4-7-16: Production And Manufacturing Compliance
4-7-17: Reserved
4-7-18: Reserved
4-7-19: Nonconforming Uses
4-7-20: Previously Approved; Non-Operational Uses
4-7-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the “City of Artesia Comprehensive Cannabis
Ordinance” except as referred to and cited herein, where it shall be known as
the “Cannabis Ordinance” or “CCO”. (Ord. O-1089, 9-14-2021)
4-7-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to regulate the possession,
cultivation, including micro, small, medium, and large-scale processes;
manufacturing; processing; distribution; retail sales; on-site consumption and
specialized events for the consumption of medical and recreational cannabis
within the City of Artesia, as provided for by the New Mexico Cannabis
Regulation Act, NMSA 1978, § 26-2C-1 et seq., (the “Cannabis Regulation Act” or
the “Act”). The provisions of this chapter are in addition to any other
permits, licenses and approvals which may be required to conduct business
generally in the city, and are in addition to any permits, licenses and
approvals required under state, county, or other law. The regulations and
prohibitions in this chapter are enacted to ensure the health, safety and
welfare of residents and visitors within the City of Artesia. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers
others or causes a public nuisance, or allow any activity relating to the
cultivation, manufacturing, testing, or distribution of cannabis that is
otherwise illegal under New Mexico state law. Nothing herein shall be construed
to permit or authorize any possession, use, cultivation, manufacture,
processing, distribution, retail sale, and/or consumption of cannabis beyond
the provisions of the Cannabis Regulation Act or the Lynn and Erin
Compassionate Use Act, nor as affecting or intended to affect or modify federal
law relating to cannabis. (Ord. O-1089, 9-14-2021)
4-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
Those definitions provided for in the Cannabis Regulation Act, codified as NMSA
1978, § 26-2C-1 et seq., are hereby incorporated by reference and shall have
the same meaning when used in this chapter as provided for in the Act, unless
otherwise specified. Additional definitions have been provided to provide
clarity and consistency with City of Artesia codes and ordinances already in
effect, or to differentiate from the State of New Mexico Cannabis Regulation
Act.
                A statement or a depiction that is intended to induce the purchase of cannabis
                products and that is displayed in printed material or on a sign or other
                outdoor display or presented in a radio, television, or other media broadcast
                or in digital media. Advertisement does not include:
                A.   A sign or outdoor display or other statement permanently affixed to a
                licensed premises that is intended to induce the sale of a cannabis product
ADVERTISEMENT:  produced or sold on the premises;
                B.   A label affixed to a cannabis product or the covering, wrapper, or
                container of a cannabis product; or
                C.   An editorial or other material printed in a publication when the
                publication of the editorial or material was not paid for by a licensee and was
                not intended to promote the sale of cannabis products by a particular brand or
                company.
                All parts of the plant genus cannabis containing a delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol
                concentration of more than three-tenths percent on a dry weight basis, whether
                growing or not; the seeds of the plant; the resin extracted from any part of
                the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
                preparation of the plant, its seeds, or its resin; and does not include:
CANNABIS:       A.   The mature stalks of the plant; fiber produced from the stalks; oil or
                cake made from the seeds of the plant; any other compound, manufacture, salt,
                derivative, mixture or preparation of the mature stalks, fiber, oil, or cake;
                or the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of germination; or
                B.   The weight of any other ingredient combined with cannabis products to
                prepare topical or oral administrations, food, drink, or another product.
CANNABIS
CONSUMPTION     An area where cannabis products may be served and consumed.
AREA:
CANNABIS        A facility where cannabis is legally consumed within the facility’s boundaries,
CONSUMPTION     and includes cannabis consumption lounges, bars, clubs, and restaurants with
FACILITY:       cannabis-infused edible items.
CANNABIS        A person that transports cannabis products to qualified patients, primary
COURIER:        caregivers, or reciprocal participants or directly to consumers.
CANNABIS        The transfer of cannabis and/or cannabis products from a licensed cannabis-
DELIVERY        related business to consumers over the age of 21.
SERVICE:
                A cannabis operator who operates a location or a facility where a person
                conducts the business of procuring cannabis from permitted cannabis cultivation
CANNABIS        sites or cannabis manufacturers for sale to permitted cannabis dispensaries,
DISTRIBUTOR:    and the inspection, quality assurance, batch testing, storage, labeling,
                packaging, and other processes prior to transport to permitted cannabis
                dispensaries.
                Means and includes any of the following:
                A.   A cannabis testing laboratory;
                B.   A cannabis research laboratory;
                C.   A cannabis cultivator;
CANNABIS        D.   A cannabis manufacturer;
ESTABLISHMENT:  E.   A cannabis producer;
                F.   A cannabis retailer (i.e., dispensary);
                G.   An on-site cannabis consumption lounge or club;
                H.   A vertically integrated cannabis establishment;
                I.   A cannabis producer microbusiness; or
                J.   An integrated cannabis microbusiness.
CANNABIS EXCISE A tax that is imposed on cannabis, which entails both excise taxes enacted by
TAX:            the state as well as excise taxes voted on in a municipality.
                A product obtained by separating resins, tetrahydrocannabinols, or other
CANNABIS        substances from cannabis by extraction methods approved by the division; and
EXTRACT:        does not include the weight of any other ingredient combined with cannabis
                extract to prepare topical or oral administrations, food, drink, or another
                product.
CANNABIS        Only the flowers of a cannabis plant.
FLOWERS:
                A person that:
                A.   Manufactures cannabis products;
CANNABIS        B.   Packages cannabis products;
MANUFACTURER:   C.   Has cannabis products tested by a cannabis testing laboratory; or
                D. Purchases, acquires, sells or transports wholesale cannabis products to
                other cannabis establishments.
                A person that:
                A.   Cultivates cannabis plants;
CANNABIS        B.   Has unprocessed cannabis products tested by a cannabis testing laboratory;
PRODUCER:       C.   Transports unprocessed cannabis products only to other cannabis
                establishments; or
                D.   Sells cannabis products wholesale.
CANNABIS        A cannabis producer at a single licensed premises that possesses no more than
PRODUCER        two hundred total mature cannabis plants at any one time.
MICROBUSINESS:
CANNABIS        A product that is or that contains cannabis or cannabis extract, including
PRODUCT:        edible or topical products that may also contain other ingredients.
CANNABIS        A facility that is involved in the cultivation, including micro, small, medium,
RELATED         and large-scale processes; manufacturing; processing; distribution; retail
BUSINESS:       sales; on-site consumption and specialized events for the consumption of
                medical and recreational cannabis and cannabis-infused products.
CANNABIS        A facility that produces or possesses cannabis products and all parts of the
RESEARCH        plant genus cannabis for the purpose of studying cannabis cultivation,
LABORATORY:     characteristics or uses.
CANNABIS        A person that sells cannabis products to qualified patients, primary
RETAILER:       caregivers, or reciprocal participants or directly to consumers.
CANNABIS SERVER An authorization that allows a person to directly offer, sell or serve cannabis
PERMIT:         or cannabis products as part of commercial cannabis activity in a cannabis
                consumption area.
CANNABIS SERVER
PERMIT          A person that provides cannabis server education courses and examinations.
EDUCATION
PROVIDER:
CANNABIS        A person that samples, collects, and tests cannabis products and transports
TESTING         cannabis products for the purpose of testing.
LABORATORY:
CANNABIS        A practical or academic curriculum offered by a New Mexico public post-
TRAINING AND    secondary educational institution designed to prepare students for
EDUCATION       participation in the cannabis industry.
PROGRAM:
CERTIFICATE OF  A certificate issued to the property owner by the building official or other
OCCUPANCY:      designated city official, evidencing the fact that the requirements of
                applicable codes and ordinances have been met.
                The cultivation, production, possession, manufacture, storage, testing,
COMMERCIAL      researching, labeling, transportation, couriering, purchase for resale, sale,
CANNABIS        or consignment of cannabis products; and does not include activities related
ACTIVITY:       only to the medical cannabis program, to cannabis training and education
                programs or to the personal cultivation or use of cannabis.
CONSUMER:       A person twenty-one years of age or older who purchases, acquires, owns,
                possesses, or uses a cannabis product for a purpose other than resale.
CONTAMINANT:    Pesticides and other foreign material, such as hair, insects, or other similar
                adulterants, in harvested cannabis.
CONTROLLING     A person that controls a financial or voting interest of ten percent or more
PERSON:         of, or an officer or board member of, a cannabis establishment; and does not
                include a bank or licensed lending institution.
CULTIVATION:    Any activity involving the planting, growing, harvesting, drying, curing,
                grading, or trimming of cannabis.
DEPARTMENT:     The regulation and licensing department of the State of New Mexico.
DIRECTOR:       The director of the cannabis control division.
DISTRIBUTION:   The procurement, sale and transport of cannabis or cannabis products between
                cannabis businesses.
DIVISION:       The cannabis control division of the department.
                When used in the context of regulation of commercial cannabis activity, a
                process by which delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol concentration is measured
DRY WEIGHT      relative to the aggregate weight of all parts of the plant genus cannabis,
BASIS:          whether growing or not, including the leaves of the plant, the flowers and buds
                of the plant, the seeds of the plant, the resin of the plant and the stalks of
                the plant at the point of harvest by a licensee and with no moisture added to
                the harvested plant.
ESTABLISHMENT:  A cannabis producer microbusiness; or an integrated cannabis microbusiness.
                A building, space or grounds licensed for the production, possession, testing,
FACILITY:       manufacturing or distribution of cannabis, cannabis extracts or cannabis
                products.
FINANCIAL       Value that is given or received, directly or indirectly, through sales, barter,
CONSIDERATION:  trade, fees, charges, dues, contributions, or donations.
HOMEGROWN OR    Grown or made for purposes that are not dependent or conditioned upon the
HOMEMADE:       provision or receipt of financial consideration.
                A housing unit and includes any place in or around the housing unit at which an
HOUSEHOLD:      occupant of the housing unit produces, manufactures, keeps, or stores homegrown
                cannabis or homemade cannabis products.
IMMATURE        A cannabis plant that has no observable flowers or buds.
CANNABIS PLANT:
INDUSTRY        The prevailing customary standards of business practice in the cannabis
STANDARDS:      industry in jurisdictions within the United States.
                A person that is authorized to conduct one or more of the following:
                A.   Production of cannabis at a single licensed premises; provided that the
                person shall not possess more than two hundred total mature cannabis plants at
INTEGRATED      any one time;
CANNABIS        B.   Manufacture of cannabis products at a single licensed premises;
MICROBUSINESS:  C.   Sales and transportation of only cannabis products produced or
                manufactured by that person;
                D.   Operation of only one retail establishment; and
                E.   Couriering of cannabis products to qualified patients, primary caregivers,
                or reciprocal participants or directly to consumers.
                A location that includes:
                A.   All enclosed public and private areas at the location that are used in the
                business and includes offices, kitchens, restrooms and storerooms;
                B.   All areas outside of a building that are specifically included in the
LICENSED        license for the production, manufacturing, wholesale sale or retail sale of
PREMISES:       cannabis products; and
                C.   With respect to a location that is specifically licensed for the
                production of cannabis outside of a building, the entire unit of land that is
                created by subsection or partition of land that the licensee owns, leases, or
                has a right to occupy.
LOCAL           A municipality, home rule municipality, or county.
JURISDICTION:
MANUFACTURE:    To compound, blend, extract, infuse, package, or otherwise prepare a cannabis
                product.
MATURE CANNABIS A cannabis plant that has flowered and has buds that are observable by unaided
PLANT:          visual examination.
MEDICAL         Cannabis products used by a qualified patient or reciprocal participant in
CANNABIS:       accordance with the Lynn and Erin Compassionate Use Act.
MEDICAL
CANNABIS        The program created pursuant to the Lynn and Erin Compassionate Use Act.
PROGRAM:
MEDICAL         The system by which the department of health approves or denies applications
CANNABIS        and issues and renews registry identification cards for qualified patients.
REGISTRY:
                A resident of New Mexico who is at least eighteen years of age and who is
PRIMARY         responsible for managing the well-being of a qualified patient with respect to
CAREGIVER:      the medical use of cannabis pursuant to the Lynn and Erin Compassionate Use
                Act.
                A place to which the general public has access and includes hallways, lobbies
                and other parts of apartment houses and hotels that do not constitute rooms or
PUBLIC PLACE:   apartments designed for actual residence; highways; streets; schools; places of
                amusement; parks; playgrounds; and places used in connection with public
                passenger transportation.
QUALIFIED       A resident of New Mexico who holds a registry identification card pursuant to
PATIENT:        the Lynn and Erin Compassionate Use Act.
                A person who is not a resident of New Mexico and who holds proof of enrollment
                by a governmental regulatory authority to participate in the medical cannabis
RECIPROCAL      program of another state of the United States, the District of Columbia or a
PATIENT:        territory or commonwealth of the United States in which the person resides or a
                person who holds proof of enrollment by a governmental regulatory authority of
                a New Mexico Indian nation, tribe or pueblo to participate in its medical
                cannabis program.
RETAIL          A location at which cannabis products are sold to qualified patients, primary
ESTABLISHMENT:  caregivers, and reciprocal participants and directly to consumers.
                A use in which a permit must be secured and conditions must be observed to help
SPECIAL USE:    alleviate potential negative impacts to the area surrounding the site where the
                use is sought.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of regulation and licensing.
                As used in this chapter, the distribution, sale, barter or giving away of
TRAFFIC:        cannabis products; or possession with intent to distribute, sell, barter or
                give away cannabis products.
UNPROCESSED:    Unaltered from an original, raw, or natural state.
VERTICALLY      A person that is authorized to act as any of the following:
INTEGRATED      A.   A cannabis courier;
CANNABIS        B.   A cannabis manufacturer;
ESTABLISHMENT:  C.   A cannabis producer; and
                D.   A cannabis retailer. (Ord. O-1089, 9-14-2021)
 
4-7-4: APPLICATION OF THE COMPREHENSIVE CANNABIS ORDINANCE:
   A.   All properties within the city limits, whether intended for use for the
cultivation, manufacturing, processing, distribution, retail sales, on-site
consumption, or specialized events, except that property exempted by law, are
governed by the Cannabis Ordinance.
   B.   No building or land shall be used, occupied, erected, moved, or
altered, for the purposes of cannabis cultivation, manufacturing, processing,
distribution, retail sales, on-site consumption, or specialized events unless
it complies with the regulations contained within the CCO and specified for the
zoning district in which it is located.
   C.   Except for the penalties cited in
4-7-8 (PERSONAL POSSESSION AND USE) and
4-7-9 (NON-COMMERCIAL CULTIVATION), all other violations of any other
provisions of this chapter are subject to the penalties cited in the City Code.
(Ord. O-1089, 9-14-2021)
4-7-5: FEES:
Application, review, and permit fees are established by the city council
pursuant to an approved fee schedule. Such fees may be revised from time to
time by a separate resolution by the city council. (Ord. O-1089, 9-14-2021)
4-7-6: RESERVED:
4-7-7: RESERVED:
4-7-8: PERSONAL POSSESSION AND USE:
   A.   Pursuant to the requirements of the Cannabis Regulation Act (NMSA 1978,
§ 26-2C-1 et seq.), Adults 21 years of age and older may possess a maximum of
two ounces of cannabis, a maximum of 16 grams of concentrated cannabis infused
products, and a maximum of 800 milligrams of edible cannabis in public places
within the City of Artesia. The usage of cannabis and cannabis products is
permitted by right at an individual’s dwelling as long as the activity does not
endanger others or cause a public nuisance.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke, vape, or ingest cannabis
products in any public place. A person who violates this subsection shall be
subject to a civil penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00). However, a person less
than 18 years of age, the family of a person less than 18 years of age, or a
person legally obligated to care for and support a person less than 18 years of
age who is subject to the fines pursuant to this subsection shall not be
required to pay any fees or fines pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation Act.
   C.   Unless otherwise allowed in the Cannabis Regulation Act or the Lynn and
Erin Compassionate Use Act, it shall be unlawful:
      1.   To possess or intentionally distribute any amount of a cannabis
product on the premises of a school or daycare center unless the person is a
qualified patient, a primary caregiver, or a reciprocal participant; provided
that this section shall not apply to a person who possesses a cannabis product
for authorized purposes on the premises of a licensed cannabis training and
education program. A person who violates this subsection is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
      2.   For any person under 21 years of age to possess, consume, or obtain
cannabis. A person who violates this subsection is guilty of a civil violation
and shall be subject to attendance at a four-hour evidence-based drug education
and legal rights program at no cost to the person, or four-hours of community
service.
      3.   For any individual 21 years of age or older to possess in any public
place cannabis or any cannabis product in excess of those amounts permitted by
the Cannabis Regulation Act. A person who violates this subsection with respect
to more than two ounces but not more than eight ounces of cannabis, more than
16 grams but not more than 64 grams of cannabis extract, or more than 800
milligrams but not more than 3,200 milligrams of edible cannabis is guilty of a
misdemeanor; or with respect to more than eight ounces of cannabis, more than
64 grams of cannabis extract, or more than 3,200 milligrams of edible cannabis
is guilty of a fourth degree felony. (Ord. O-1089, 9-14-2021)
4-7-9: NON-COMMERCIAL CULTIVATION:
   A.   Pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation Act, an individual may cultivate
homegrown cannabis provided that the cannabis producer acts within the
regulations of the Act. The Act limits home cultivation to a maximum of six
mature and six immature cannabis plants with a maximum allowance of 12 plants
per household. All cannabis cultivation shall be conducted only in the interior
of an enclosed structure, facility, building, or greenhouse, within the City of
Artesia. All non-commercial cannabis cultivation operations, including all
cannabis plants, at any stage of growth, harvest, or processing, shall not be
visible from the exterior of any structure, facility, building, or greenhouse,
within the city limits. All cultivation operations must take place indoors,
within a permanent structure that is enclosed on all sides. Outdoor cultivation
is prohibited within city limits. Portable greenhouses, hoop houses, and/or
non-permanent enclosures shall not be used for cannabis cultivation unless they
are placed inside a permanent structure that is enclosed on all sides.
Construction or installation of any type of accessory structure, including any
greenhouse for at-home cannabis cultivation, requires a permit from the City of
Artesia’s community development department.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person who is less than twenty-one years
of age to intentionally produce cannabis. A person who is less than 18 years of
age who violates this subsection is guilty of a civil violation and shall be
subject to attendance at a four-hour evidence-based drug education and legal
rights program at no cost to the minor, or four hours of community service. A
person who is 18 years of age or older but less than 21 years of age who
violates this subsection with respect to producing up to six mature or immature
cannabis plants shall be issued a penalty assessment and is subject to a fine
of fifty dollars ($50.00); or with respect to producing more than six mature or
immature cannabis plants and up to 12 mature or immature cannabis plants is
guilty of a misdemeanor; or with respect to more than 12 mature or immature
cannabis plants is guilty of a fourth degree felony.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person 21 years of age or older, unless
licensed under the Cannabis Regulation Act and permitted as required by this
chapter, to intentionally produce cannabis or any cannabis product in excess of
those amounts permitted by the Cannabis Regulation Act. A person who violates
this subsection with respect to producing more than six mature or six immature
and up to 12 mature or immature cannabis plants shall be issued a penalty
assessment and is subject to a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00). A person who
violates this subsection with respect to producing more than 12 mature or
immature cannabis plants is guilty of a fourth degree felony. (Ord. O-1089, 9-
14-2021)
4-7-10: RESERVED:
4-7-11: ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   To protect the health, safety and welfare of the City of Artesia’s
residents and visitors while simultaneously allowing accessibility for cannabis
sales, all cannabis retail establishments (including medical and recreational
cannabis, and cannabis-infused products) shall be located in a “C” Business
district or an “M-1” Light industrial district. The C district is the most
geographically prominent commercial district in the City of Artesia and is
located throughout the city along collector and arterial streets. The uses
permitted in the C district are also permitted in the M-1 district. Further
restrictions on the locations of cannabis retail establishments are specified
in
4-7-15 (PROHIBITED DISTRICTS) and
4-7-16 (PROHIBITED LOCATIONS AND ACTIVITIES) of this chapter. Additionally,
cannabis retail establishments require a special use permit. Along with the
requirements of
9-5-1 of the City Code (SPECIAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURE), the requirements for a
cannabis-related special use permit are outlined in
4-7-17 (SPECIAL USE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS) of this chapter.
   B.   To further protect the health, safety and welfare of the City of
Artesia’s residents and visitors while simultaneously allowing accessibility
for cannabis cultivation, manufacturing, processing, distribution, testing, and
researching, as well as to provide additional opportunities for cannabis sales
(including medical and recreational cannabis, and cannabis-infused products),
all cannabis cultivation, manufacturing, processing, distribution, testing, and
researching shall be located in an “M-1" Light industrial district. The M-
1 district is the most geographically prominent industrial district in the City
of Artesia. Further restrictions on the locations of cannabis cultivation,
manufacturing, processing, distribution, testing, and researching are specified
in
4-7-15 (PROHIBITED DISTRICTS) and
4-7-16 (PROHIBITED LOCATIONS AND ACTIVITIES) of this chapter. Additionally,
cannabis retail establishments, cultivation, manufacturing, processing,
distribution, testing, and researching require a special use permit. Along with
the requirements of
9-5-1 of the City Code (SPECIAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURE), the requirements for a
cannabis-related special use permit are outlined in
4-7-17 (SPECIAL USE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS) of this chapter. (Ord. O-1089, 9-14-
2021)
4-7-12: PROHIBITED DISTRICTS:
To protect the health, safety and welfare of the City of Artesia’s residents
and visitors, all cannabis retail establishments, cultivation, manufacturing,
processing, and distribution, shall be prohibited within the city’s established
special districts and locations as follows:
   A.   Artesia Arts and Cultural District: The Artesia Arts and Cultural
District is generally bounded by Texas Avenue on the north, Richardson Avenue
on the south, 1st Street on the east, and 7th Street on the west. The city and
community leaders are careful to consider potential impacts to the Artesia Arts
and Cultural District and strive to honor the community’s past efforts to
preserve its historic character, as well as acknowledge how its character
contributes to the economic and cultural welfare of the city. Additionally,
many of Artesia’s major landmarks and murals which draw much of the city’s
tourism are located in the Artesia Arts and Cultural District. Boundaries of
the Artesia Arts and Cultural District are subject to change; therefore, it is
the responsibility of the applicant for a cannabis regulatory permit to verify
the site location for a proposed cannabis establishment prior to applying for a
regulatory permit. (Ord. O-1089, 9-14-2021)
4-7-13: PROHIBITED LOCATIONS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   To protect the health, safety, and welfare of the community’s most
vulnerable populations, particularly children, seniors, and individuals who
struggle with neurochemical dependencies, no cannabis-related businesses shall
be permitted:
      1.   Within 300 feet of all schools, daycare centers, parks, churches,
recreation facilities, federal training facilities, senior care facilities,
retirement facilities and medical facilities (including but not limited to
outpatient facilities, hospitals, and urgent care facilities). Cannabis-related
businesses shall not be permitted within 300 feet of any mental health centers,
addiction centers, or rehabilitation facilities (both medical and non-medical
facilities).
      2.   Within 300 feet of any residential dwelling unit, including
manufactured homes, mobile homes, and recreational vehicles within a
recreational vehicle park or recreational vehicle subdivision, as measured from
the nearest outside wall of the cannabis-related business to the nearest
outside wall of the dwelling unit.
   B.   Cannabis-related businesses must maintain a reasonable separation
distance of at least one-quarter (1/4) mile (1,320 feet) from one cannabis-
related business to another as measured from the nearest outside wall to
outside wall of the buildings.
   C.   Cannabis-related retail establishments are limited to the hours of
operation from 8:00AM through 8:00PM.
   D.   Cannabis consumption areas and facilities and cannabis-related special
events are prohibited within the City of Artesia.
   E.   Unless otherwise provided in the Cannabis Regulation Act or the Lynn
and Erin Compassionate Use Act, it is unlawful for a person without a license
to intentionally traffic cannabis products. A person under 18 years of age who
violates this subsection shall be subject to attendance at a four-hour
evidence-based drug education and legal rights program at no cost to the
person, or four hours of community service. Except as otherwise provided in the
Cannabis Regulation Act, a person 18 years of age or older who violates this
subsection is guilty of a misdemeanor; a person 18 years of age or older who
violates this subsection with respect to conducting unlicensed cannabis product
sales from a building, room or other area open to the public in a manner that
would lead a reasonable person to believe that the area is a cannabis
establishment licensed pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation Act is guilty of a
fourth degree felony.
   F.   It is unlawful for a person to manufacture cannabis extract without a
license issued pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation Act unless the person
produces and manufactures cannabis extract from homegrown cannabis using
nonvolatile solvents, alcohol or carbon dioxide, or no solvents. The use of any
other solvent or process is expressly prohibited unless it is approved by the
Cannabis Control Division of the Regulation and Licensing Department of the
State of New Mexico. A person who violates this subsection is guilty of a
fourth degree felony. (Ord. O-1089, 9-14-2021)
4-7-14: SPECIAL USE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Special use permit (SUP): A special use permit allows property owners
to utilize their properties for uses not listed as being permitted or allowable
by right under the site’s current zoning district designation. To receive a
required SUP for a cannabis-related business activity listed in
4-7-11, applicants must adhere to the City of Artesia’s requirements listed
below. SUPs for cannabis-related businesses correspond to the facility’s
location. These permits are applicable at the designated site of the cannabis-
related business and cannot be transferred if the business chooses to change
locations within the City of Artesia. SUPs for all cannabis-related businesses
or establishments may not be transferred, sold, assigned, or bequeathed
expressly or by operation of law. Any attempt to directly or indirectly
transfer a cannabis business SUP shall be unlawful and void and shall
automatically revoke the permit.
   B.   Land development and construction regulatory permits: In addition to
receiving a city business license and any required state license for cannabis-
related businesses, regulatory permits are required for the development of
cannabis-related businesses and shall correspond to the facility’s location.
These permits are applicable at the designated site of the cannabis-related
business and cannot be transferred if the business chooses to change locations
within the City of Artesia. These regulatory permits contain specific
requirements and conditions of approval which may include, but are not limited
to:
      1.   A demolition permit;
      2.   A clearing and grading permit;
      3.   A site development permit;
      4.   A building permit;
      5.   Electrical, plumbing, and HVAC permits;
      6.   A street encroachment permit; and
      7.   A sign permit.
   C.   Site plan: All cannabis-related businesses shall submit a scaled site
plan that includes, but is not limited to, property lines, setbacks, existing
conditions (buildings/structures, fences/walls, signs, etc.), proposed
conditions (buildings/structures, fences/walls, signs, etc.), parking plans,
and adjacent easements, to the community development department.
   D.   Floor plan: All cannabis-related businesses shall submit a scaled floor
plan that shows how each part of each building will be utilized (customer
access areas, offices, employee access only areas, secured product storage
areas, other storage areas, restrooms, cultivation areas, manufacturing and
processing areas, testing and research areas, equipment areas, loading areas,
etc.), to the community development department.
   E.   Site security plan: The City of Artesia requires all cannabis-related
businesses provide a detailed assessment regarding the facility’s existing or
planned security measures, unique considerations for the facility, and the
facility’s corresponding level of risk to ensure the protection of the facility
and the surrounding community from potential criminal activity, such as theft.
   F.   Operational plan: All cannabis-related businesses shall submit an
operational plan, including the business’s objectives, goals, procedures, and
timelines for a one-year period. Type of equipment, chemicals and other
materials proposed to be used shall be listed in the operational plan.
   G.   Green waste disposal plan: A green waste disposal plan is required for
all cannabis-related businesses that will require the disposal of cannabis
trimmings, cuts, and green waste to ensure cannabis products are properly
disposed and do not contribute to the deterioration of the environment from
materializing in landfills.
   H.   Air quality control plan: All cannabis-related businesses shall submit
an air quality control plan to ensure the cannabis facility does not yield
decreased air and environmental quality.
   I.   Odor control plan: The cannabis plant has been known to emit noxious
odors which are subject to abatement through Title 5, Chapter 1, Article F
(NUISANCES) of the City Code. In congruence with City Code, the chief of police
and the code enforcement officer are authorized to abate any nuisance existing
within the city. In addition to an air quality control plan, all cannabis-
related businesses shall be required to submit an odor control plan to ensure
cannabis facilities do not yield negative externalities to the surrounding
community with cannabis odors.
   J.   Water reclamation plan: All cannabis-related businesses that handle
water contaminated by cannabis and cannabis products shall submit a water
reclamation plan to ensure water within the City of Artesia is not
contaminated.
   K.   Effluent disposal area plan: All cannabis-related businesses that
dispose of water used on cannabis flowers and cannabis products shall submit an
effluent disposal area plan showing the locations of existing or proposed
wastewater management systems and effluent disposal areas, the locations of any
contamination, and the location and dimensions of all effluent lines, effluent
disposal methods, water pipes and drainage lines. (Ord. O-1089, 9-14-2021)
4-7-15: COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS:
It is the responsibility of the owners and operators of the cannabis-related
business to ensure that it is always operating in a manner compliant with all
applicable state and local laws, and any regulations promulgated thereunder,
and any specific additional operating procedures or requirements which may be
imposed as conditions of approval of the cannabis business permit. Nothing in
this chapter shall be construed as authorizing any actions which violate
federal, state, or local law with respect to the operation of a cannabis
business. (Ord. O-1089, 9-14-2021)
4-7-16: PRODUCTION AND MANUFACTURING COMPLIANCE:
All cannabis manufacturing and production shall be conducted only in the
interior of enclosed structures, facilities, and buildings within the City of
Artesia’s M-1 district. All manufacturing and production shall take place
indoors, within a permanent structure that is enclosed on all sides. Outdoor
manufacturing and production are prohibited within the city limits. (Ord. O-
1089, 9-14-2021)
4-7-17: RESERVED:
4-7-18: RESERVED:
4-7-19: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to provide for the regulation
of nonconforming cannabis establishments and to specify those circumstances
under which these establishments shall be allowed to continue to operate as
legal nonconforming uses. Title 9, Chapter 6 of the City Code (NONCONFORMING
USES) also addresses nonconforming uses and applies to cannabis establishments.
Where there is a discrepancy between this article and Title 9, Chapter 6 of the
City Code, the more restrictive regulations apply.
   B.   Authority to continue:
      1.   Any previously permitted cannabis establishment and/or cannabis
related use, including medical dispensaries and retail cannabis establishments,
that existed lawfully, prior to the effective date of this chapter, may
continue to operate as that same use, as it did prior to becoming
nonconforming, subject to the rules, regulations, and restrictions listed
below.
      2.   Notwithstanding the above paragraph, no nonconforming medical
dispensary shall be permitted to engage in retail recreational sales unless the
dispensary complies with the requirements of this chapter, including the
requirements to obtain a zone change, SUP, city regulatory permit, and all
other applicable permits hereunder.
   C.   Restrictions: Any nonconforming cannabis establishment or use existing
as of the effective date of this chapter that does not conform to the
regulations of the zoning district(s) established by this chapter, shall be
subject to the following:
      1.   Repairs and alterations. Ordinary cosmetic repairs may be made to a
building or structure devoted to or designed for a cannabis establishment or
use not permitted in the zoning district in which it is located. No structural
repairs or alterations shall be made in or to such building or structure,
except those required by law, or except to alter the design and use of the
building or structure to conform to the permitted use regulations of the zoning
district in which it is located.
      2.   Additions and enlargements. A building or structure devoted to or
designed for a cannabis establishment or use not permitted in the zoning
district in which it is located shall not have additions or enlargements made
to it in any way other than to bring such building or structure into compliance
with the permitted use(s) of the zoning district in which it is located.
      3.   Restoration as a result of damages. A building or structure devoted
to or designed for a cannabis establishment or use not permitted in the zoning
district in which it is located that is damaged or destroyed by any means, and
where the cost of the repairs exceeds 50% or more of its replacement value,
shall not be restored except if such restoration results in a building,
structure, or sign devoted to or designed for a use that conforms to the
regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
      4.   Discontinuance of a nonconforming use. In the event that a
nonconforming use of a building, structure, premises, sign, or parts thereof is
discontinued for any reason for a period of six months or longer, and such
nonconforming use is changed to or replaced by a use conforming to the zoning
district in which it is located, such building, structure, premises, sign, or
parts thereof shall not thereafter be used or occupied by a nonconforming use,
even though the building, structure, sign, premises, or parts thereof may have
been originally constructed for the prior nonconforming use.
      5.   Vacant nonconforming use. In the event the building, structure,
sign, or premises of a nonconforming use have sat vacant for a period of six
months or longer, any use brought into said building, structure or premises
shall be a use conforming to the regulations of the zoning district in which it
is located, and all requirements of the zoning ordinance shall be met before
the new permitted use is allowed to operate, including the most current
requirements for parking, landscaping, and general zoning and building
guidelines as set forth in this and other ordinances. (Ord. O-1089, 9-14-2021)
4-7-20: PREVIOUSLY APPROVED; NON-OPERATIONAL USES:
   A.   In the event that an application for a medical cannabis establishment
(cultivation, processing, manufacturing, distribution, retail sales, etc.) has
been approved, and has received a zoning verification letter from the City of
Artesia, but has not received a certificate of occupancy (C of O) from the City
of Artesia, nor obtained a regulatory permit from the State of New Mexico, such
use shall be subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Cannabis establishments with active building permits are granted a
maximum of 6 months from the date of approval of this ordinance to complete
construction and obtain a C of O.
      2.   Prior to issuance of the C of O, the applicant of the previously
approved cannabis establishment shall apply for a city regulatory permit and
provide all required application materials and pay all required fees.
      3.   Upon issuance of the C of O, the applicant shall apply for and
receive a State of New Mexico regulatory permit.
      4.   Failure to receive a regulatory permit from the State of New Mexico
within six months shall result in revocation of all local permits and
approvals, including the C of O for the cannabis establishment.
   B.   In the event that an application for a medical cannabis establishment
(cultivation, processing, manufacturing, distribution, retail sales, etc.) has
been approved, and has received a zoning verification letter from the City of
Artesia, but has not yet obtained a building permit, or the previously issued
building permit has expired without receiving a certificate of occupancy (C of
O) from the City of Artesia, the application for such use shall be considered
abandoned and the applicant for the cannabis establishment shall be required to
reapply for all permits subject to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. O-
1089, 9-14-2021)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC PEACE, HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
CRIMINAL CODE; NUISANCES
ARTICLE A. TITLE; DEFINITIONS; PENALTY
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Short Title
5-1A-2: Definitions And Rules Of Construction
5-1A-3: Amendments
5-1A-4: Penalties
5-1A-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter, including articles A through F, is called and may be cited as the
CRIMINAL CODE ORDINANCE ON GENERAL OFFENSES for the city. (1996 Code §
9.04.010)
5-1A-2: DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
In the construction of this chapter, the following definitions and rules of
construction shall be observed unless it shall be otherwise expressly provided
in any section of this chapter, or unless inconsistent with the manifest intent
of this chapter:
ACCUSED: Any person charged with the violation of any ordinance of the city
that imposes a penalty.
ANOTHER, OTHER: Any other human being or legal entity, whether incorporated or
unincorporated, including the United States, the state of New Mexico or any
subdivision thereof.
ANYTHING OF VALUE: Any conceivable thing of the slightest value, tangible or
intangible, movable, corporeal or incorporeal, public or private. The term is
not necessarily synonymous with the traditional legal term "property".
BATTERY: The unlawful, intentional touching or application of force to the
person of another, when done in a rude, insolent or angry manner.
BET: A bargain in which the parties agree that, dependent upon chance, even
though accompanied by some skill, one stands to win or lose anything of value
specified in the agreement. A bet does not include:
   A.   Bona fide business transactions which are valid under the laws of
contracts, including, without limitation:
      1.   Contracts for the purchase or sale, at a future date, of securities
or other commodities; and
      2.   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance,
including, without limitation, contracts for indemnity or guarantee and life,
health and accident insurance.
   B.   Offers of purses, prizes or premiums to the actual contestants in any
bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or endurance
or to the bona fide owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest;
   C.   A lottery which is defined as an enterprise wherein, for a
consideration, the participants are given an opportunity to win a prize, the
award of which is determined by chance, even though accompanied by some skill.
As used in this definition, "consideration" means anything of pecuniary value
required to be paid to the promoter in order to participate in such enterprise;
or
   D.   Betting otherwise permitted by law.
CARRYING A DEADLY WEAPON: Being armed with a deadly weapon by having it on the
person, or in close proximity thereto, so that the weapon is readily accessible
for use.
DEFENDANT: Any person accused of a violation of any ordinance of the city that
imposes a penalty.
GOVERNING BODY: The city council and mayor of the city of Artesia.
HE OR SHE: "He" or "him" or "she" or "her" shall not be construed to be
mandatory distinctions of gender if not expressly stipulated.
LAWFUL CUSTODY OR CONFINEMENT: The holding of any person pursuant to lawful
authority, including, without limitation, actual or constructive custody of
prisoners temporarily outside a penal institution, reformatory, jail, prison
farm or ranch.
MAYOR: The chief executive officer of the city of Artesia.
MINOR: Any unmarried person who has not reached his or her eighteenth birthday;
except, that under application of the liquor control act 1 , or any alcohol
related division of this chapter, "minor" means any person under twenty one
(21) years of age.
MUNICIPALITY OR CITY: The city of Artesia.
OFFICIAL PROCEEDING: A proceeding heard before any legislative, judicial,
administrative or other governmental agency or official authorized to hear
evidence under oath, including any referee, hearing examiner, commissioner,
notary or other person taking testimony or depositions in any proceeding.
PERSON: Any human being or legal entity, whether incorporated or
unincorporated.
POLICE OFFICER, LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER, PEACE OFFICER OR OFFICER: Any public
official or public officer vested by law with a duty to maintain public order
or to make arrests for crimes, whether that duty extends to all crimes or is
limited to specific crimes.
PROSTITUTION: Knowingly engaging in or offering to engage in sexual intercourse
for hire.
PUBLIC EMPLOYEE: Any person receiving remuneration for regular services
rendered to the state or any of its political subdivisions.
PUBLIC GROUND: Any real property owned or leased by the city.
PUBLIC OFFICER: Any elected or appointed officer of the state or any of its
political subdivisions, serving with or without remuneration for his services.
SHALL/MAY: "Shall" is mandatory and "may" is permissive.
STREET: Any thoroughfare that can accommodate pedestrian or vehicular traffic,
is open to the public and is under the control of the city. (1996 Code §
9.04.020; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 60-3A-1 et seq.
5-1A-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendments to this chapter shall be adopted as ordinances as required by
state law, and when passed in such form as to indicate the intention to make
the same a part thereof, shall be incorporated into this chapter so that
reference to it as "the criminal code ordinance on general offenses" shall be
understood as including such amendments. (1996 Code § 9.04.030)
5-1A-4: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code, and
each day this chapter is violated shall constitute a separate offense;
provided, however, that if a specific penalty is provided therefor, in any
particular and individual section of this chapter, then the specific penalty
shall prevail. (1996 Code § 9.04.040; amd. 2002 Code)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY
SECTION:
5-1B-1: Assault And Battery
5-1B-2: Trespass
5-1B-3: Prowling
5-1B-4: Disturbing The Peace
5-1B-5: Unreasonable Noise
5-1B-6: Disorderly Conduct
5-1B-7: Unlawful Assembly
5-1B-8: Vagrancy (Rep. by Ord. 1050, 3-26-2019)
5-1B-9: Obstructing Movement
5-1B-10: Removal Of Barricades
5-1B-11: Deadly Weapons
5-1B-12: Failure To Report Treatment Of Wounds
5-1B-13: Propelling Missiles
5-1B-14: Possession Of Burglary Tools
5-1B-15: Fireworks
5-1B-16: False Alarms Or Reports
5-1B-17: Offenses Relating To Officers
5-1B-18: Escape Of Prisoners
5-1B-19: Picketing Private Residences
5-1B-20: Consumption Of Liquor On City Property
5-1B-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   Assault: It is unlawful for any person, by any unlawful act, threat or
menacing conduct, to cause another person to believe he is in danger of
receiving an immediate battery, nor shall any person, by the use of insulting
language toward another, impugn his honor, delicacy or reputation. (1996 Code §
9.08.010)
   B.   Battery: It is unlawful for any person to intentionally touch or apply
force to the person of another in a rude, insolent, angry or hostile manner.
(1996 Code § 9.08.020)
5-1B-2: TRESPASS:
It is unlawful to enter or remain on the property of another knowing that
consent to enter or remain has been denied or withdrawn by the owner or
occupant thereof. (1996 Code § 9.08.030; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1B-3: PROWLING:
It is unlawful for any person to loiter or prowl in a place, at a time, or in a
manner not usual for law abiding individuals under circumstances that warrant
alarm for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such alarm is
warranted is the fact that the actor takes flight upon appearance of a peace
officer, refuses to identify himself, or manifestly endeavors to conceal
himself or any object. Unless flight by the actor or other circumstance makes
it impracticable, a peace officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense
under this section, afford the actor an opportunity to dispel any alarm which
would otherwise be warranted, by requesting him to identify himself and explain
his presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the peace officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the actor was true and, if
believed by the peace officer at the time, would have dispelled the alarm.
(1996 Code § 9.08.040)
5-1B-4: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It is unlawful for any person to disturb or aid in disturbing the peace of
others by violent, tumultuous, offensive, or obstreperous conduct, and no
person shall knowingly permit such conduct upon any property owned by him or
under his control or supervision. (1996 Code § 9.08.050)
5-1B-5: UNREASONABLE NOISE:
It is unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made, any loud
or unusual noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others. Unlawful noises include,
but shall not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Horns And Signal Devices: The sounding of any horn or signaling device
of any automobile, motorcycle, truck or other vehicle on any street or public
place except as a danger warning; the creation by means of any such signaling
devices of any unreasonable, loud or harsh sound; the sounding of such devices
for any unnecessary and unreasonable period of time other than by accident or
mechanical, electrical or other difficulty or failure; and the use of any such
signaling device where traffic is held up.
   B.   Radios And Phonographs: The use or operation of any radio, phonograph
or other sound producing machine in such a manner as to disturb the peace and
quiet of neighbors.
   C.   Loudspeakers And Amplifiers Used For Advertising: The use or operation
or permitting to be played, used, or operated any radio, receiver set, musical
instrument, phonograph, tape recorder, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other
machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound which is cast
upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting
the attention of the public in any residential area except with the proper
permit elsewhere prescribed.
   D.   Yelling Or Shouting: Yelling, shouting or creating other loud noises
which annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office,
dwelling, hotel or residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
   E.   Animals 1 : The keeping of any animals which, by causing frequent or
long continuous noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in
the vicinity.
   F.   Schools, Courts, Churches, Hospitals: The creating of any excessive
noise on any street adjacent to any hospital, school, institution of learning,
church or court which interferes with the workings of such institution, or
which disturbs or annoys patients in a hospital.
   G.   Pounding Or Hammering: The pounding or hammering on any metal object or
thing except inside a building or in connection with the construction or
erection of a building. (1996 Code § 9.08.060)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-2A-6F of this title.
5-1B-6: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
Disorderly conduct is unlawful. A person is guilty of disorderly conduct if he
or she:
   A.   Creates a disturbance of the public order by an act of violence or by
any act likely to produce violence; or
   B.   Engages in fighting or in violent, threatening or tumultuous behavior;
or
   C.   Makes any unreasonably loud noise; or
   D.   Addresses abusive language or threats to any person present which
creates a clear and present danger of violence; or (1996 Code § 9.08.070)
   E.   Causes likelihood of harm or serious inconvenience by failing to obey a
lawful order of dispersal by a police officer, where two (2) or more persons
are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity; or (1996
Code § 9.08.070; amd. 2002 Code)
   F.   Damages, befouls or disturbs public property or property of another so
as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive condition; or
   G.   Makes a telephone call with intent to annoy another, whether or not
conversation ensues; or
   H.   Assembles together with two (2) or more persons with intent to do any
unlawful act with force or violence against the person or property of another,
and makes any overt act to carry out such unlawful purpose; or
   I.   Disturbs, threatens, or in an insolent manner intentionally touches any
house or vehicle occupied by any person. (1996 Code § 9.08.070)
5-1B-7: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY:
It is unlawful for two (2) or more persons to assemble with intent to do any
unlawful act by force or violence against the person or property of another and
to make any overt act to carry out such unlawful purpose. (1996 Code §
9.08.080; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1B-8: VAGRANCY:
(Rep. by Ord. 1050, 3-26-2019)
5-1B-9: OBSTRUCTING MOVEMENT:
It is unlawful to hinder, annoy or molest persons passing along any street,
sidewalk, crosswalk or other public way, or to lie, sit or stand around the
entrance of any church, theater, public building or other place of public
assemblage in any manner so as to unreasonably obstruct such entrance, or to
place or erect upon any public way an obstruction of any type except temporary
barriers or warning signs placed for the purpose of safeguarding the public
against any hazard. (1996 Code § 9.08.100)
5-1B-10: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
It is unlawful to remove, destroy or interfere with any barrier, guard or light
placed before or in any dangerous place near the streets, sidewalks or other
public ways of the City for the purpose of warning or protecting travelers from
injury or danger; provided, that removal after the danger has ceased and
temporary removal to allow the passage of a vehicle with immediate subsequent
replacement shall not be considered unlawful. (1996 Code § 9.08.110)
5-1B-11: DEADLY WEAPONS:
   A.   Carrying Deadly Weapons: It is unlawful to carry within the City a
concealed, loaded firearm or other weapon capable of producing death or great
bodily harm including, but not restricted to, any types of daggers, brass
knuckles, switchblade knives, bowie knives, poniards, butcher knives, dirk
knives, chains, can openers, ice picks, and all such weapons with which
dangerous cuts or punctures can be inflicted, including swordcanes and any kind
of sharp pointed canes, also slingshots, bludgeons or any other weapon with
which dangerous wounds can be inflicted, except in a person's residence or on
real property belonging to him as owner, lessee, tenant or licensee, provided
that person's right to enter or occupy that person's residence or real property
has not been terminated or limited by a court of competent jurisdiction or by
other lawful means, or in a private automobile or other private means of
conveyance for the lawful protection of one's person or property while
traveling or for other lawful purposes. The provisions of this subsection shall
not prohibit any person from carrying a concealed loaded handgun, when not
otherwise prohibited by law, provided that such person is in possession of a
current valid concealed handgun license which has been issued pursuant to the
"Concealed Handgun Carry Act" of the State of New Mexico. (Ord. 684, 6-22-2004)
   B.   Discharge Of Firearms: It is unlawful to discharge within the City
limits any pistol, revolver, rifle or shotgun which may be used for the
explosion of cartridges, or any gas operated gun or any device used for
propelling missiles, or any slingshot or missile propelling device, or any bow
made for the purpose of throwing or projecting missiles of any kind by any
means whatsoever, whether any instrument is called by any name set forth above
or by any other name; provided, that this subsection has no application in
cases involving the discharge of a firearm for lawful purposes. (1996 Code §
9.08.120)
   C.   Air And BB Guns: It is unlawful for anyone to shoot within the City any
air rifle, air gun or BB gun. (1996 Code § 9.08.120; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Exception For Peace Officers: The provisions set forth in subsections
A, B and C of this section shall not be construed to forbid police officers
from carrying, wearing or discharging such weapons as shall be necessary in the
proper discharge of their duties.
   E.   Exposing Others To Danger: It is unlawful to endanger the safety of
another or his property by using a firearm or other deadly weapon in a
negligent manner or to carry a firearm while under the influence of any
intoxicant or narcotic, or to sell, loan or furnish any deadly weapon to
persons under the influence of any intoxicant or narcotic or to any incompetent
person.
   F.   Prohibited Weapons: It is unlawful to manufacture, cause to be
manufactured, possess, display, offer, sell, or lend any knife which has a
blade which opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or
other device or any knife having a blade which opens, falls or is ejected into
position by the force of gravity or by any outward or centrifugal thrust or
movement.
   G.   Sales To Minors: It is unlawful to give, sell, trade, barter or
exchange for anything of value any deadly weapon, air rifle, air gun or BB gun,
or ammunition for any firearm to any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years; provided, that this subsection shall not be construed to prevent any
parent or legal guardian from purchasing firearms or ammunition for his child
or ward. (1996 Code § 9.08.120)
   H.   Disposition Of Seized Weapons: Every police officer, upon making an
arrest and taking a weapon used in the violation of any section of this
chapter, shall deliver the same to the chief of police to be held by him until
judgment is entered for the offense; and upon the finding of guilt, the weapon
shall be disposed of as provided in New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 29-1-
14. (1996 Code § 9.08.120; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1B-12: FAILURE TO REPORT TREATMENT OF WOUNDS:
It is unlawful for any physician, surgeon or other practitioner of the healing
arts licensed by the state to fail to immediately report to the police
department his treatment of any person in the city for a wound inflicted by a
deadly weapon of any kind. (1996 Code § 9.08.130)
5-1B-13: PROPELLING MISSILES:
It is unlawful for any person to shoot, sling or throw any stone, rock or other
propellant, missile or substance in any manner as to be reasonably likely to
cause injury to any person or property. (1996 Code § 9.08.140)
5-1B-14: POSSESSION OF BURGLARY TOOLS:
It is unlawful to possess any lock pick, skeleton key or key to be used with a
bit or bits, jimmy, sledge hammer, pry bar, cold chisel, dynamite,
nitroglycerine, blasting caps, or any other burglary instrument or instruments
commonly used by burglars unless such possession is for a lawful purpose. (1996
Code § 9.08.150)
5-1B-15: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Short Title: This section shall be cited as the FIREWORKS LICENSING AND
SAFETY ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide authorized local
enforcement of the New Mexico fireworks licensing and safety act 1  and to
assist in protecting the public health, welfare and safety of the residents of
the city. (Ord. 616, 6-13-2000)
   C.   Definitions:
   AERIAL SPINNER: A tube containing no more than twenty grams (20 g) of
chemical composition with a propeller or blade attached that spins rapidly as
it rises into the air with a visible or audible effect sometimes produced at or
near the height of flight.
APPLICANT: The person issued a permit and the person responsible to the city as
provided for in this section.
CHASER: A paper or cardboard tube venting out the fuse end of the tube that
contains no more than twenty grams (20 g) of chemical combustion and travels
along the ground, often producing a whistling effect or other noise; an
explosive composition not to exceed fifty milligrams (50 mg) may be included to
produce a report.
CHEMICAL COMPOSITION: Includes all pyrotechnic and explosive composition
contained in a fireworks device, but does not include inert materials such as
clay used for plugs or organic material such as rice hulls for density control.
CLERK: The municipal clerk of the city of Artesia.
CONE FOUNTAIN: A cardboard or heavy paper cone containing no more than fifty
grams (50 g) of pyrotechnic composition that has the same effect as a
cylindrical fountain; when more than one cone is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition shall not exceed two hundred grams (200 g).
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Artesia.
CRACKLING DEVICE: A sphere or paper tube that contains no more than twenty
grams (20 g) of pyrotechnic composition that produces a flash of light and a
mild, audible crackling effect upon ignition, which effect is not considered to
be an explosion; crackling devices are not subject to the fifty milligram (50
mg) limit of firecrackers.
CYLINDRICAL FOUNTAIN: A cylindrical tube containing not more than seventy five
grams (75 g) of pyrotechnic composition that produces a shower of colored
sparks and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke; the device may be provided
with a spike for insertion into the ground or a wood or plastic base for
placing on the ground or a wood or cardboard to be hand held; when more than
one tube is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition shall not
exceed two hundred grams (200 g).
DISPLAY DISTRIBUTOR: A person, firm or corporation selling display fireworks.
DISPLAY FIREWORKS: Devices primarily intended for commercial displays that are
designed to produce visible or audible effects by combustion, deflagration or
detonation, including salutes containing more than one hundred thirty
milligrams (130 mg) of explosive composition; aerial shells containing more
than forty grams (40 g) of chemical composition exclusive of lift charge; and
other exhibition display items that exceed the limits for permissible
fireworks.
EXPLOSIVE COMPOSITION: Any chemical compound or mixture, the primary purpose of
which is to function by explosion, producing an audible effect in a fireworks
device.
FIRE CHIEF: The director of public safety, fire chief or his designated
representative.
FIRECRACKER: A small, paper wrapped or cardboard tube containing no more than
fifty milligrams (50 mg) of explosive composition that produces a noise and a
flash of light; provided, that firecrackers used in aerial devices may contain
up to one hundred thirty milligrams (130 mg) of explosive composition per
report.
FIREWORKS: Devices intended to produce a visible or audible effect by
combustion, deflagration or detonation and are categorized as "permissible
fireworks", "prohibited fireworks" or "display fireworks".
FLITTER SPARKLER: A narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire and filled
with no more than five grams (5 g) of pyrotechnic composition that produces
color and sparks upon ignition and the paper at the end is ignited to make the
device function.
GROUND SPINNER: A small, rapidly spinning device containing no more than twenty
grams (20 g) of pyrotechnic composition venting out an orifice usually on the
side of the tube that when ignited produces a shower of sparks and color;
"ground spinner" is similar in operation to wheel, but is intended to be placed
flat on the ground and ignited.
HELICOPTER: A tube containing no more than twenty grams (20 g) of chemical
composition with a propeller or blade attached that spins rapidly as it rises
into the air with a visible or audible effect sometimes produced at or near the
height of flight.
ILLUMINATING TORCH: A cylindrical tube containing no more than one hundred
grams (100 g) of pyrotechnic composition that produces a colored flame upon
ignition and may be spiked, based or hand held; and when more than one tube is
mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition shall not exceed two
hundred grams (200 g).
MINE: A heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a wooden or plastic
base containing no more than forty grams (40 g) of chemical composition plus
not more than twenty grams (20 g) of lift charge per tube that individually
expels pellets of pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color
in a star effect, or other devices propelled into the air, and that contains
components producing reports containing a maximum one hundred thirty milligrams
(130 mg) of explosive composition per report; a "mine" may contain more than
one tube, but the tubes must fire in sequence upon ignition of one external
fuse and the total chemical composition, including lift charges, of a multiple
tube device shall not exceed two hundred grams (200 g).
MISSILE TYPE ROCKETS: A device similar to a stick type rocket in size,
composition and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability and contains no more than twenty grams (20 g) of chemical
composition.
PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS: Fireworks legal for sale to and use in New Mexico by the
general public.
PORTABLE BUILDINGS: Any structure, tent, trailer or vehicle which is of
temporary design which is used separately or together for the retail sale of
fireworks to the general public. Any tent intended for the use as a sales
location shall comply with rules adopted by the state fire marshal.
PROHIBITED FIREWORKS: Fireworks which are not legal for sale or possession
within the city.
PYROTECHNIC COMPOSITION: A chemical mixture that, on burning and without
explosion, produces visible or brilliant displays or bright lights or whistles
or motion.
ROMAN CANDLE: A heavy paper or cardboard tube containing no more than twenty
grams (20 g) of chemical composition that individually expels pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color in a star effect.
SHELL: A heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a wooden or plastic
base containing no more than forty grams (40 g) of chemical composition plus
not more than twenty grams (20 g) of lift charge per tube that individually
expels pellets of pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color
in a star effect, or other devices propelled into the air, and that contains
components producing reports containing a maximum one hundred thirty milligrams
(130 mg) of explosive composition per report; a shell may contain more than one
tube, but the tubes must fire in sequence upon ignition of one external fuse,
and the total chemical composition, including lift charges, of a multiple tube
device shall not exceed two hundred grams (200 g).
STATUTE: Refers to the state of New Mexico fireworks licensing and safety act
beginning at New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 60-2C-1.
STICK TYPE ROCKET: A cylindrical tube containing no more than twenty grams (20
g) of chemical composition with a wooden stick attached for guidance and
stability that rises into the air upon ignition and produces a burst of color
or sound at or near the height of flight.
TOY SMOKE DEVICE: A small plastic or paper item containing no more than one
hundred grams (100 g) of pyrotechnic composition that produces white or colored
smoke as the primary effect.
VENDOR: Any person or business engaged in the retail sale of fireworks to the
general public.
WHEEL: A pyrotechnic device that is made to attach to a post or other surface
that revolves, producing a shower of color and sparks and sometimes a whistling
effect, and that may have one or more drivers, each of which contains no more
than sixty grams (60 g) of pyrotechnic composition, and the total wheel
contains no more than two hundred grams (200 g) total pyrotechnic composition.
(Ord. 616, 6-13-2000; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: All vendors of fireworks within the city must
obtain a local fireworks retail sales permit from the clerk. Each sales
location within the city shall have a separate permit.
      2.   Application For Permit:
         a.   Vendors must present, at the time of application for permit, a
copy of the written agreement for use, rent or lease of land intended for the
vendor's sales location, unless the vendor is located in a permanent structure.
Such written agreements for use, rent or lease of land for use as a fireworks
sales location shall be signed by the owner, property manager or tenant having
the authority to execute such documents.
         b.   Applications will be accepted up to the first day of any selling
period. Vendors and/or businesses shall provide the city with a copy of the
state issued license or permit for the sale of fireworks with the application.
      3.   Permit Fee: Vendors shall pay a twenty five dollar ($25.00) permit
fee for each sales location.
      4.   Issuance Of Permit; Term: A permit may be issued by the city and,
upon issuance, shall be valid for one year unless revoked as otherwise provided
in this section.
      5.   Conditions Of Permit:
         a.   Permit To Be Displayed: Original permits must be prominently
displayed at each location at all times.
         b.   Time For Sales: Fireworks may not be sold at retail except
between June 20 and July 6 of each year and three (3) days preceding and
including New Year's Day, Chinese New Year and Cinco de Mayo.
         c.   Responsibility For Gross Receipts Taxes: Vendors are responsible
for the applicable municipal gross receipts taxes 2 .
   E.   Premises And Location Requirements:
      1.   Setbacks: Portable buildings must be set back a reasonable distance
from the roadway and shall not obstruct the public right of way.
      2.   Location: No fireworks shall be stored, kept, sold or discharged
within fifty feet (50') of any gasoline pump or gasoline bulk station or any
building in which gasoline or volatile liquids are sold in quantities in excess
of one gallon, except in stores where cleaners, paints and oils are handled in
sealed containers only.
   F.   Safety Requirements:
      1.   Open Flames Prohibited; Signs: Smoking, open flames and ignition
source are prohibited within twenty five feet (25') of any fireworks stock. At
all places where fireworks are stored, sold or displayed, the words "NO
SMOKING" shall be posted in letters at least four inches (4") in height.
      2.   Fire Extinguisher Required: All fireworks permit holders and
licensees shall keep and maintain upon the premises a fire extinguisher bearing
an Underwriters Laboratories Incorporated rated capacity of at least five (5)
pound ABC per five hundred (500) square feet of space used for fireworks sales
or storage.
   G.   Fireworks Displays: Nothing herein shall prohibit the public display of
fireworks; except, that any individual, association, partnership, corporation,
organization, county or city, shall secure a permit from the governing body of
the city where the public display is to be fired. The display fireworks shall
be purchased from a distributor or display distributor licensed by the state
fire marshal and the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms of the United
States department of the treasury.
   H.   Sales And Use Restrictions:
      1.   Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited: It is unlawful to offer for
sale or to sell any fireworks to children under the age of sixteen (16) years
or to any intoxicated person.
      2.   Discharges Near Sales Locations: No fireworks shall be discharged
within one hundred fifty feet (150') of any fireworks retail sales location.
      3.   Use Near Vehicles And Persons: No persona shall ignite any fireworks
within a motor vehicle or throw fireworks from a motor vehicle, nor shall any
person place or throw any ignited article of fireworks into or at a motor
vehicle or at or near any person or group of people.
      4.   Compliance With State Law: In addition to the requirements of this
section, vendors will comply with all applicable requirements imposed under the
fireworks licensing and safety act.
   I.   Permissible Fireworks: The following are permissible fireworks within
the city:
      1.   Ground and hand held sparkling and smoke devices, as follows:
         a.   Cone fountains.
         b.   Crackling devices.
         c.   Cylindrical fountains.
         d.   Flitter sparklers.
         e.   Ground spinners.
         f.   Illuminating torches.
         g.   Toy smoke devices.
         h.   Wheels.
      2.   Aerial devices, as follows:
         a.   Aerial spinners.
         b.   Helicopters.
         c.   Mines.
         d.   Missile type rockets.
         e.   Roman candles.
         f.   Shells.
      3.   Ground audible devices, as follows:
         a.   Chasers.
         b.   Firecrackers. (Ord. 616, 6-13-2000)
   J.   Prohibited Fireworks: Stick type rockets are prohibited fireworks
within the city. (Ord. 616, 6-13-2000; amd. 2002 Code)
   K.   Inspections; Confiscation Of Fireworks:
      1.   Inspections: The fire chief may at any reasonable hour enter and
inspect the premises, portable building or any structure temporarily or
permanently located at the site designated for the sale, packaging or handling
of permissible fireworks and may inspect the fireworks stands for conformance
to subsections I and J of this section.
      2.   Confiscation Of Fireworks:
         a.   The fire chief shall seize, take, remove or cause to be removed,
at the expense of the permit holder, all stocks of fireworks offered or exposed
for sale in violation of subsection J of this section.
         b.   The fire chief shall seize, take, remove or cause to be removed,
at the expense of the person in possession, all fireworks possessed by the
person in violation of subsection J of this section. (Ord. 616, 6-13-2000)
   L.   Violation; Penalties:
      1.   Any individual, firm, partnership or corporation that violates any
provision of this section is guilty of a petty misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this
code.
      2.   In addition to any other criminal penalties that may be imposed, any
individual, firm, partnership, or corporation found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating this section or the fireworks licensing and
safety act two (2) or more times within a five (5) year period shall, after
notice and hearing, have his permit revoked for a period of one year. (Ord.
616, 6-13-2000; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 60-2C-1 et seq.
2 1. See title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
5-1B-16: FALSE ALARMS OR REPORTS:
   A.   False Alarms: It is unlawful for any person to make, turn in or give a
false alarm of fire or of need for police or ambulance assistance, or to
interfere with the proper functioning of an alarm system, or to aid or abet the
commission of such an act. (1996 Code § 9.08.170)
   B.   False Reports: It is unlawful for any person to maliciously make or
file with the police department any false, misleading or unfounded report or
statement concerning the commission or alleged commission of any crime. (1996
Code § 9.08.180)
5-1B-17: OFFENSES RELATING TO OFFICERS:
   A.   Interference With Officers: It is unlawful to resist, abuse, molest,
hinder, obstruct or refuse to obey or assist when called upon to do so, any
police officer, firefighter, emergency medical personnel or judge while in the
discharge of his duty. (1996 Code § 9.08.190)
   B.   Impersonating An Officer: It is unlawful for any person other than a
duly commissioned police officer to wear or carry the uniform, apparel, badge,
identification card or other insignia of office, the same, similar or a
colorable imitation of that adopted and worn or carried by duly commissioned
police officers, unless acting in the course of regular business and with the
permission of the city, or, without authority, to exercise or attempt to
exercise the functions of, or pretend to be, a peace officer or judge. (1996
Code § 9.08.200)
   C.   Unauthorized Use Of Certain Words And Insignia: It is unlawful to
display on any vehicle or sign, without authority of the city, the words
"police", "police department", "fire department", or words or insignia of
similar import, whose design or form is such that it appears to be an official
vehicle or sign of the fire or police department of the city; provided, that
nothing contained in this subsection shall apply to any state or county
vehicle. (1996 Code § 9.08.210)
5-1B-18: ESCAPE OF PRISONERS:
   A.   Escape From Jail Or Custody: It is unlawful for any person, while a
prisoner of the city or otherwise in the custody of or confined by the city to
escape or attempt to escape or to assist other prisoners to escape or attempt
to escape from such custody or confinement.
   B.   Assisting Escape: It is unlawful for any person to assist, attempt to
assist or offer to assist any person in custody of or confined under the
authority of the city to escape from jail, place of confinement or custody.
(1996 Code § 9.08.220)
5-1B-19: PICKETING PRIVATE RESIDENCES:
   A.   Declaration: It is declared that the protection and preservation of the
home is the keystone of democratic government; that the public health and
welfare and the good order of the community require that members of the
community enjoy in their homes and dwellings a feeling of well being,
tranquility, and privacy, and when absent from their homes and dwellings, carry
with them the sense of security inherent in the assurance that they may return
to the enjoyment of their homes and dwellings; that the practice of picketing
before or about residences obstructs and interferes with the free use of public
sidewalks and public ways of travel; that such practice has as its object the
harassing of such occupants; that such practice constitutes a nuisance and a
practice which should be prohibited; and without resort to such practice, full
opportunity exists, and under the terms and provisions of this section, will
continue to exist for the exercise of freedom of speech and other
constitutional rights; and that the provisions hereinafter enacted are
necessary for the public interest to avoid the detrimental results set forth in
this section and are, therefore, enacted by the city council. (1996 Code §
9.32.060)
   B.   Picketing Residences Prohibited: It shall be unlawful within the
corporate limits of the city for any person to engage in picketing before or
about the residence or dwelling of an individual. (1996 Code § 9.32.070)
   C.   Penalties: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (1996 Code §
9.32.080; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1B-20: CONSUMPTION OF LIQUOR ON CITY PROPERTY:
   A.   Definitions. The following words and terms herein shall have the
following meanings:
 
                                  Distilled or rectified spirits, potable
                                  alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, gin, and
                                  aromatic bitters bearing the federal
                                  internal revenue strip stamp or any
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:              similar alcoholic beverages, including
                                  blended or fermented beverages, dilutions,
                                  ormixtures of one or more of the foregoing
                                  containing more than one-half of one
                                  percent alcohol but excluding medicinal
                                  bitters.
                                  All municipally owned and operated
                                  buildings and grounds, including, without
                                  limitation, all municipally owned and
                                  operated buildings, plants, warehouses,
                                  shops, garages, museums, and streets and
PROPERTY BELONGING TO THE CITY OF sidewalks used in the administration of
ARTESIA, NEW MEXICO:              municipal government services of the City
                                  of Artesia, New Mexico, and all
                                  municipally owned and operated
                                  recreational facilities including all
                                  public parks and community centers of
                                  every nature operated by the City of
                                  Artesia, New Mexico
 
   B.   Unlawful To Consume Alcoholic Beverages on Municipally Owned Property
Except as Specifically Authorized by Resolution of the City of Artesia. Except
as specifically authorized by a resolution duly passed and approved by the City
of Artesia, it shall be unlawful for any person to drink or consume alcoholic
beverages on property belonging to the City of Artesia, New Mexico.
   C.   Requirements for Resolutions Specifically Authorizing the Consumption
of Alcoholic Beverages on Municipally Owned Property.
      1.   The City of Artesia may by Resolution specifically authorize the
service, sale, drinking, and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages on
municipally owned property.
      2.   The City of Artesia shall adopt by Resolution an Application for
Passage of a Resolution for the City Council to Approval of the service, sale,
drinking, and/or consumption of Alcoholic Beverages on Municipally Owned
Property, which contains the specific requirements for the sale, service,
drinking, and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages on property belonging to
the City of Artesia.
      3.   Filing of the Application does not guarantee approval.
   D.   Prosecution For Violation and Penalty. Any person violating this
section shall be prosecuted in the Municipal Court of the City of Artesia, New
Mexico and upon conviction of a violation hereof shall be subject to a fine of
not more than $300.00 or imprisonment in the Municipal Jail of the City of
Artesia for not more than 90 days, or both such fine and such imprisonment.
   E.   Posting. Notice of this section shall be posted at all properties
belonging to the City of Artesia, New Mexico. However, absence of such posting
on any such municipally owned property shall not be a defense to prosecution
for violation hereof.
   F.   Miscellaneous. The provisions hereof shall apply only to municipally
owned property owned and operated by the City of Artesia, New Mexico. Nothing
herein contained shall be construed to relieve any person of responsibility for
violation of any other law, federal, state, or municipal, pertaining to
alcoholic beverages. (Ord. O-1135, 8-13-2024)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-1C-1: Destroying Or Tampering With Property
5-1C-2: Library Property
5-1C-3: Heritage Walkway And Heritage Plaza Property
5-1C-4: Advertising Matter
5-1C-5: Petty Larceny; Fraud
5-1C-6: Receiving Stolen Property
5-1C-7: Shoplifting
5-1C-8: Issuing Worthless Checks
5-1C-9: Falsely Obtaining Services Or Accommodations
5-1C-10: Wrongful Use Of Public Property (Rep. by Ord. 1050, 3-26-2019)
5-1C-11: Removal Of Earth
5-1C-12: Graffiti
5-1C-1: DESTROYING OR TAMPERING WITH PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully, maliciously or wantonly destroy,
injure, remove, tamper with or deface real property or improvements thereto or
personal property, either public or private when the damage to the property
does not exceed the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 1003, 9-13-
2016)
5-1C-2: LIBRARY PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to carry away without authority, misuse, cut,
write upon, injure, deface, tear or destroy any book, periodical, map,
newspaper or any other property devoted to public library use. (1996 Code §
9.12.020)
5-1C-3: HERITAGE WALKWAY AND HERITAGE PLAZA PROPERTY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to protect the Heritage Walkway
and Heritage Plaza from damage and/or vandalism.
   B.   Vehicular Traffic:
      1.   Heritage Walkway and the painted center of the parking lot (Heritage
Plaza) is closed to all vehicular traffic of any nature, including bicycles,
rollerblades, roller skates and skateboards. Traffic through the Heritage
Walkway is limited to pedestrian and wheelchair traffic only.
      2.   No motorized vehicle or trailer, including, without limitation,
motorcycles, cars, pickups, trucks, tractors and all-terrain and recreational
vehicles shall be driven across the painted cement in the center area of the
Heritage Plaza without the written consent of the City.
   C.   No Smoking: Heritage Walkway is a nonsmoking area.
   D.   Animals: Except for seeing eye dogs assisting the visually or hearing
impaired, no animals are allowed in the Heritage Walkway.
   E.   Damage To Property:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to cause or permit any items to be
placed, whether temporarily or permanently, in Heritage Walkway that may damage
or injure any portion of the improvements in Heritage Walkway.
      2.   No person shall place or put any substance or thing, except coins,
into the water or in the fountains in Heritage Walkway without the express
written consent of the City.
      3.   No person shall allow, permit or cause any object to be placed on
the center area of Heritage Plaza that will damage the paint, cement, bollards
or other improvements located in the center area of Heritage Plaza.
   F.   Special Events: No organization or vendor shall conduct any special
event in the Heritage Walkway without the written consent of the City. (Ord.
617, 7-11-2000)
   G.   Penalties: Any person in violation of this section may be subject to
penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 617, 7-11-2000;
amd. 2002 Code)
5-1C-4: ADVERTISING MATTER:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to distribute any commercial advertising
such as showcards, posters, brochures, circulars or handbills upon any public
street or way.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to distribute, place or post in or upon
any private property, including utility poles, any showcard, poster, handbill
or other announcement or advertisement without the express consent of the owner
or occupant of the property.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to post or affix any poster, handbill or
other form of advertisement upon the surface of any public structure or
building without the express consent of the public official having charge of
said public structure or property. (1996 Code § 9.12.040)
5-1C-5: PETTY LARCENY; FRAUD:
It is unlawful and a violation of this section for any person to steal,
convert, embezzle or acquire by fraud the property of another including any
money, goods, chattels, banknotes, bonds, promissory notes, bills of exchange,
other bills, orders, certificates or any books of account for or concerning
money due or to become due and to be delivered when such property on the date
of the offense shall be worth a value of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or
less. (Ord. 790, 5-13-2008)
5-1C-6: RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY:
It is unlawful to buy, procure, receive or conceal any property when the value
of the property is worth not to exceed the sum of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00), knowing the property to have been stolen, converted, embezzled or
acquired by fraud. (Ord. 1003, 9-13-2016)
5-1C-7: SHOPLIFTING:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully take possession of or conceal
any merchandise valued at not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
offered for sale with the intention of converting it without paying for it, or
to wilfully alter any label, price tag or marking upon any merchandise, or
transfer any merchandise from one container to another with the intention of
depriving the merchant of all or part of the value of the merchandise.
   B.   Any person who wilfully conceals merchandise on his person or on the
person of another or among his belongings or the belongings of another or on or
outside the premises of the store shall be prima facie presumed to have
concealed the merchandise with the intention of converting it without paying
for it.
   C.   If any merchandise is found to be concealed on any person or among his
belongings, it shall be prima facie evidence of wilful concealment. Any offense
concerning merchandise valued at more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
shall be filed in a court of competent jurisdiction over the offense. (Ord.
791, 5-13-2008)
5-1C-8: ISSUING WORTHLESS CHECKS:
It is unlawful to issue in exchange for anything of value with intent to
defraud any check, draft, or order for the payment of money in the amount of
one dollar ($1.00) to twenty five dollars ($25.00) upon any bank or other
depository knowing, at the time of such issue, that insufficient funds or
credit exists with the bank or other depository for the payment in full by such
check, draft or order. Any person convicted of issuing worthless checks shall
be imprisoned for not more than thirty (30) days or fined not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) or receive both such imprisonment and fine. The
offense of issuance of a fraudulent check in excess of twenty five dollars
($25.00) shall be turned over to a higher authority. (1996 Code § 9.12.080)
5-1C-9: FALSELY OBTAINING SERVICES OR ACCOMMODATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to falsely obtain services or accommodations, or
for any person to obtain any service, food, entertainment or accommodations
without paying therefor, and with the intent to cheat or defraud the owner or
person supplying such service, food, entertainment or accommodations when the
value of any such item is less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord.
1003, 9-13-2016)
5-1C-10: WRONGFUL USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
(Rep. by Ord. 1050, 3-26-2019)
5-1C-11: REMOVAL OF EARTH:
It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to move, distribute or take away any
earth, stone or other material from any public street, way, alley, park or
public ground. (1996 Code § 9.12.110)
5-1C-12: GRAFFITI:
   A.   Definitions: In this section unless the context requires otherwise:
ABATEMENT: The act of removal of graffiti.
AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER: Any aerosol container that is adapted or made for the
purposes of applying spray paint or other substances.
BROAD TIPPED MARKER: Any type of marker or similar instrument with a flat or
angled writing surface of one-fourth inch (1/4") or greater which contains ink
or other pigmented liquid that is not water soluble.
BUSINESS DAYS: The days of the week of Monday through Friday, excluding legal
holidays.
ETCHING EQUIPMENT: Any tool, device or substance that can be used to make
permanent marks on the surface of any property.
FIRST NOTICE OF VIOLATION: The first letter to the owner or person in
possession of the property stating a violation has occurred. This letter is to
be sent certified mail return receipt requested. Notice shall be deemed given
when postmarked.
GRAFFITI: Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, painting or other
defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, imprinted,
drawn, painted, or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or
private property whether real or personal, by any graffiti implement, to the
extent that the graffiti was not authorized in advance by the owner of the
property, or, despite advance authorization, is otherwise deemed a public
nuisance by the City Council.
GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT: An aerosol paint container, a broad tipped marker, paint
stick or graffiti stick, etching equipment, brush or any other device capable
of leaving a visible mark on any natural or manmade surface when such tools are
used in a criminal act.
PERSON IN POSSESSION: Any person or entity in possession or control of property
on the date of violation of this section.
PRIOR AUTHORIZATION: With prior permission of the owner, manager or other
person in possession of the private or public property.
   B.    Graffiti Prohibited:
      1.   No person may apply any graffiti to any natural or manmade surfaces
on any publicly owned property or any privately owned property without first
obtaining the prior written consent of the owner or person in possession. The
application of graffiti is deemed to be a violation of this section.
      2.   No person may possess aerosol paint containers, broad tipped
markers, etching equipment, or any graffiti implements on any public property
or private property with the intent to violate or in violation of this section.
      3.   No minor may be in possession of aerosol paint containers, broad
tipped markers, etching equipment, or any other graffiti implements on any
public property, structure or facility, any school property, structure or
facility, or any private property without first obtaining written permission of
the lawful owner or person in possession of the property. The provisions of
this section do not apply to minors possessing such implements for classes or
organized extracurricular activities that require the use of such implements
and which use is limited to legitimate activities.
   C.    Accessibility To Graffiti Implements:
      1.   Furnishing To Minors Prohibited:
         a.   No person may sell any aerosol paint containers or broad tipped
markers, nor shall anyone sell, give, lend, or otherwise make available other
graffiti implements to a minor unless that minor is accompanied by a parent or
legal guardian at the time of the purchase or transfer.
         b.   No minor may furnish fraudulent or misleading evidence of
majority at the time of purchase or transfer of any aerosol paint containers,
broad tipped markers, or any other graffiti implements.
      2.   Display And Storage: Every person who owns, operates, or manages a
commercial retail establishment that sells aerosol paint containers or broad
tipped markers must store the implements in an area inaccessible to the public
without employee or owner assistance, or in the alternative that is
continuously observable through direct visual observation or surveillance
equipment by the establishment's owner(s) or employees during the regular hours
of business.
      3.   Signs Required: Every person who operates a commercial retail
establishment that sells graffiti implements shall:
         a.   Place a sign at or near the display of such products stating:
Graffiti is against the law. Any person who marks or defaces property with
paint, markers, any other liquid or marking device is guilty of a crime
punishable by imprisonment and/or fines as allowed by law and for restitution
to the owner.
         b.   Place a sign in view of persons accepting customer payment for
graffiti implements stating:
Selling aerosol paint containers or broad-tipped markers to persons under the
age of 18 is against the law and punishable by imprisonment and/or fines as
allowed by law and restitution to the owner.
   D.    Graffiti As Nuisance; Graffiti Removal:
      1.   Graffiti As Nuisance: The existence of graffiti on public and
private property in violation of this section is expressly declared to be a
public nuisance.
      2.   Removal Of Graffiti By Perpetrator: Any person applying graffiti on
public or private property must remove or pay for the removal of the graffiti
in a manner approved by the property owner within twenty four (24) hours of
notification. Failure of any person to remove or pay for removal of graffiti
constitutes an additional violation of this section. If graffiti is applied by
a minor, the parent(s) or legal guardian are also responsible for removal or
payment for removal of graffiti.
      3.   Removal Of Graffiti By Property Owner/Person In Possession: It shall
be unlawful for any person owning or otherwise in possession of any real
property within the city of Artesia to maintain, permit or allow graffiti to
remain on any property where the graffiti is visible from any street or other
public or private property. The owner or other person in possession of any
public or private property shall remove or cause to be removed any graffiti on
the property within three (3) business days, excluding legal holidays and
weekends, of the placement of the graffiti. Absenteeism from the property of
the owner or person in possession of the property or knowledge of the graffiti
by the owner or person in possession of the property shall be considered when
determining a violation of this section.
      4.   Removal Of Graffiti By City: A reasonable fee shall be charged to
all utility customers served by the solid waste department to fund the graffiti
removal program. The city is authorized to use these fees for graffiti
abatement on public or private property. The city is not required to paint,
remove, or repair an area more extensive than that covered by graffiti, unless
the owner has made prior arrangements with the city and agreed to pay the costs
for more extensive painting, removal or repair. The city is authorized to use
city employees, contractors, and/or volunteers who have been duly made
available for such graffiti removal work.
   E.    Abatement Procedures; Notice:
      1.   Permission For Entry; Cost Recovery; Notices; Enforcement:
         a.   Permission From An Owner: If the owner or person in possession of
the property grants permission, the city or its private contractor may enter
the property to abate graffiti.
         b.   No Permission From An Owner: If the property owner or person in
possession refuses to grant permission as provided in subsection E1a of this
section or cannot be located, then the city, at its sole discretion, may abate
graffiti on the property.
      2.   Notice: A notice of graffiti abatement may be made by the city to
the property owner or other person in possession of the property. The notice
shall contain those items required in subsections E2a, E2b, and E2c of this
section, as follows:
         a.   Identify the property and describe the nature of the graffiti.
         b.   A statement declaring that the property is a public nuisance.
         c.   A statement declaring that abatement shall commence within three
(3) business days from the date of the notice.
         d.   In the event the graffiti contains or depicts obscenity, then the
three (3) day notice shall not be required and the city is authorized to
immediately enter the property for abatement or otherwise require the obscenity
to be forthwith abated.
      3.   Method Of Abatement: If the city abates the graffiti, the property
owner or person in possession may indicate a preferred available method of
abatement, either city provided paint, or may provide the paint to the
eradicator. The city shall retain the right in all instances to make a final
decision with respect to which method shall be utilized and/or which materials
shall be used for the abatement so long as the city shall proceed with the
abatement.
      4.   Liability Waived: Neither the city nor its private contractor shall
be liable for any abatement of graffiti that does not match or resemble the
original surface.
      5.   Service Of Notice: The notice may be served personally, or by
certified mail, or by posting on a prominent place on the property, or by
publishing one time in a newspaper of general circulation published in the
city.
      6.   Designation Of Enforcement Authority: All officers and investigators
of the city department of public safety may issue citations or make arrests for
violations of this section. The city building inspector, the code enforcement
officer, and/or other city employees as may be authorized by the mayor are
additionally authorized to issue notices of graffiti abatement as well as
citations for violations of this section.
   F.    Penalties:
      1.   Fine; Imprisonment: Any person who violates any provision of this
section, with exception to that specified in subsection F2 of this section,
shall be punished for each separate violation by a fine not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment not exceeding ninety (90) days, or
by both such fine and imprisonment.
      2.   Exception: Any property owner or person in possession of property
who is not a violator under the provisions of subsection B1 of this section
shall be punished for each separate violation by a fine not exceeding two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
      3.   Restitution: As a condition of any probation, the court may provide
some form of restitution to the victim who is the owner or person in possession
of property, and/or to the city for any expenses or damages caused directly or
indirectly by a defendant's violation of this section.
      4.   Collection Of Civil Damages: The city and/or victim of any violation
of this section may pursue civil damages in a court of competent jurisdiction
against any parent and/or person into whose custody a minor has been granted or
entrusted for any act committed by the minor in violation of this section
irrespective whether the minor may be prosecuted for the violation. This
section does not impair any application of any other provision of this section.
(Ord. 803, 11-11-2008)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY
SECTION:
5-1D-1: Lewd, Immoral Or Obscene Acts
5-1D-2: Obscene Movies In Outdoor Theaters
5-1D-3: Window Peeping
5-1D-4: Gambling And Related Offenses
5-1D-5: Aiding Illegal Activity
5-1D-1: LEWD, IMMORAL OR OBSCENE ACTS:
The following acts are lewd, immoral or obscene and their commission is
unlawful:
   A.   Alcoholic Beverages:
      1.   Being present in any establishment where alcoholic beverages are
sold and engaging in the practice of or for the purpose of soliciting others to
purchase alcoholic beverage; provided, that this provision does not apply to
one employed as a bartender, waitress or waiter.
      2.   As the owner or operator of any establishment where alcoholic
beverages are sold, to knowingly permit the presence in such establishment of
any person who violates the provisions of subsection A1 of this section.
   B.   Prostitution And Related Offenses:
      1.   Prostitution, which means knowingly engaging in or offering to
engage in sexual intercourse for hire.
      2.   Entering or remaining in a house of prostitution with intent to
engage in sexual intercourse with a prostitute.
      3.   Knowingly hiring a prostitute to engage in sexual intercourse.
      4.   Knowingly establishing, owning, maintaining or managing a house of
prostitution or participating in the establishment, ownership, maintenance or
management thereof.
      5.   Knowingly permitting any place to be used as a house of
prostitution.
      6.   Procuring a prostitute for a house of prostitution.
      7.   Inducing another to become a prostitute.
      8.   Living wholly or partly upon the earnings of prostitution.
      9.   Knowingly soliciting a patron for a prostitute or for a house of
prostitution.
      10.   Knowingly procuring a prostitute for a patron.
      11.   Knowingly procuring transportation for, paying for the
transportation of, or transporting a person within the city with the intention
of aiding that person to engage in prostitution.
      12.   Knowingly being employed by a house of prostitution or to perform
any function which constitutes promoting prostitution.
   C.   Indecent Exposure: Knowingly and intentionally exposing the primary
genital area to public view. "Primary genital area" means the mons pubis,
penis, testicles, mons veneris, vulva or vagina. (1996 Code § 9.16.010)
5-1D-2: OBSCENE MOVIES IN OUTDOOR THEATERS:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, "obscene film" means a
film that:
      1.   The average person applying contemporary community standards would
find that, when considered or taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient
interests;
      2.   The material depicts or describes sexual conduct in a patently
offensive way by representations of ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted,
actual or simulated; masturbation, excretory functions, or lewd exhibitions of
the genitals of oneself or another; tactile stimulation of the genitals of
oneself or another; and
      3.   The work, when considered or taken as a whole, lacks serious
literary, artistic, political or scientific value. (1996 Code § 9.32.100)
   B.   Obscene Movies Prohibited: It is unlawful for the owner or operator of
an outdoor motion picture theater within the city limits to exhibit any obscene
film in an outdoor theater. (1996 Code § 9.32.090)
   C.   Penalty: It is unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of
subsection B of this section. In the event a person violates the provisions of
subsection B, the governing body of the city may, upon notice to the offending
person, seek an injunction in the district court to enjoin the showing of the
offending film. (1996 Code § 9.32.110)
5-1D-3: WINDOW PEEPING:
It is unlawful for any person to enter upon any private property and look,
peer, or peep into or be found around or within the view of any window or other
means of viewing into any occupied building, other than his own residence.
(1996 Code § 9.16.020; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1D-4: GAMBLING AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Engaging In Gambling: It is unlawful for any person to make a bet,
enter or remain in a gambling place with intent to make a bet, participate in a
lottery or play a gambling device or to conduct a lottery or possess facilities
with intent to conduct a lottery.
   B.   Commercial Gambling: It is unlawful to participate in the earnings of
or to operate a gambling place; or to receive, record, forward or possess
facilities with the intent to receive or forward bets or offers to bet or
become a custodian of anything of value bet or offered to be bet; or to conduct
a lottery or possess facilities with the intent to conduct a lottery where both
the consideration and the prize are money; or to set up for use for the purpose
of gambling, or operate any gambling device or collect the profits therefrom.
   C.   Permitting Use Of Premises: It is unlawful for any person to knowingly
permit any property owned or occupied by him or under his control to be used as
a gambling place or to knowingly permit a gambling device to be set up for the
purpose of gambling in a place under his control.
   D.   Dealing In Gambling Devices: It is unlawful to manufacture,
commercially transfer or possess with the intent to commercially transfer any
device which he knows evidences, purports to evidence or is designed to
evidence a gambling purpose or any device which he knows is designed
exclusively as a subassembly or essential part of such device including, but
not limited to, gambling machines, numbers jars, punchboards or roulette
wheels. Proof of possession of any device designed exclusively for gambling
purposes other than in a gambling place and not set up for use is prima facie
evidence of possession with intent to transfer commercially. (1996 Code §
9.16.030)
   E.   Exceptions: Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      1.   Lottery: Apply to any sale or drawing of any prize at any fair held
in the state for the benefit of any church, public library or religious society
or charitable purpose if such benefit shall be expended in the state for the
benefit of such church, public library, religious society or charitable
purposes. A lottery may be operated for the benefit of the organization or
charitable purpose only when the entire proceeds of the lottery go into the
organization for charitable purposes and no part of such proceeds go to any
individual member or employee thereof. (1996 Code § 9.16.030; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   Theater Prizes: Prohibit any motion picture theater from offering
prizes of cash or merchandise for advertising purposes in connection with such
business whether or not any consideration other than monetary in excess of the
regular price of admission is exacted for participation in drawings for prizes.
      3.   On Track Pari-Mutuel Betting: Prohibit on track pari-mutuel betting
as authorized by New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 60-1-11. (1996 Code §
9.16.030)
5-1D-5: AIDING ILLEGAL ACTIVITY:
It is unlawful to be found in any place where gambling or prostitution is being
conducted with knowledge of such activity or to give or attempt to give any
signal intended to give warning of the approach of any police officer to any
person in or about any place where any illegal activity is being conducted.
(1996 Code § 9.16.040)
ARTICLE E. OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
SECTION:
5-1E-1: Abandonment Of Children
5-1E-2: Cruelty To Children
5-1E-3: Enticement Of Child
5-1E-4: Sale To And Consumption By Minors (Rep. by Ord. 752, 5-8-2007)
5-1E-5: Liquor Establishments
5-1E-6: Offenses By Minors
5-1E-7: Abandonment Of Dangerous Objects
5-1E-8: Glues, Cements And Aerosol Sprays
5-1E-9: Tobacco Products
5-1E-10: Failure Of Parental Responsibility
5-1E-11: Curfew
5-1E-1: ABANDONMENT OF CHILDREN:
It is unlawful for the parent, guardian or custodian of a child to
intentionally leave the child or abandon him under the circumstances whereby
the child may suffer from neglect. (1996 Code § 9.20.010)
5-1E-2: CRUELTY TO CHILDREN:
It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having the care or
custody of any child to cause or permit any child to be placed in a situation
where the life or health of such child will be endangered, or to torture,
cruelly confine or cruelly punish such child or to wilfully or negligently
expose such child to the inclemency of the weather. (1996 Code § 9.20.020)
5-1E-3: ENTICEMENT OF CHILD:
It is unlawful to persuade any child under the age of sixteen (16) years to
enter a vehicle, building, room or secluded place with intent to commit an act
which would constitute a crime under article 9 of the criminal code 1 , or
having possession of a child under the age of sixteen (16) years to commit such
a crime. (1996 Code § 9.20.030)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 30-9-1 et seq.
5-1E-4: SALE TO AND CONSUMPTION BY MINORS:
(Rep. by Ord. 752, 5-8-2007)
5-1E-5: LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Unlawful Presence In Liquor Establishments: It is unlawful for the
owner or operator of any establishment serving alcoholic beverages to permit
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to attend, frequent or loiter
in or about such premises unless such person is accompanied by his parent or
guardian. (1996 Code § 9.20.050; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Employment Of Minors:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection B2 of this section, it is a
violation of the liquor control act for any person licensed pursuant to the
provisions of the liquor control act or for any employee, agent or lessee of
that person knowingly to employ or use the service of any minor in the sale and
service of alcoholic beverages.
      2.   A person holding a dispenser's, restaurant or club license may
employ persons nineteen (19) years of age or older to sell or serve alcoholic
beverages in an establishment that is held out to the public as a place where
meals are prepared and served and the primary source of revenue is food, and
where the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages is not the primary
activity, except that a person under the age of twenty one (21) years of age
shall not be employed as a bartender. (2002 Code)
5-1E-6: OFFENSES BY MINORS:
   A.   False Statement Or Identification: It is unlawful for any minor to make
false statements or to furnish, present or exhibit any fictitious or false
registration card, identification card or other instrument, or to furnish,
present or exhibit any document issued to another person, for the purpose of
gaining admission to prohibited places or for the purpose of procuring the
sale, gift or delivery of prohibited articles including, but not limited to,
alcoholic beverages.
   B.   Procuring Unlawful Services: It is unlawful for any minor to engage or
authorize the services of any other person to procure for such minor any
article which the minor is prohibited by law to purchase. (Ord. 652, 6-25-2002)
5-1E-7: ABANDONMENT OF DANGEROUS OBJECTS:
   A.   Containers: It is unlawful to abandon, discard or keep in any place
accessible to children any refrigerator, icebox, freezer, airtight container,
cabinet or similar container of a capacity of one and one-half (11/2) cubic
feet or more which is no longer in use without sealing or removing the doors or
other entrances so as to make it impossible for any child to be imprisoned
therein or, being the owner, lessee or operator of any premises, to permit such
articles to remain upon such premises in a condition whereby a child may be
imprisoned therein.
   B.    Plastic Bags: It is unlawful for any person to abandon, expose, leave
in any place accessible to children or permit upon premises under his control
any plastic bag without first tearing the same sufficiently to render it no
longer dangerous to a child. (1996 Code § 9.20.090)
5-1E-8: GLUES, CEMENTS AND AEROSOL SPRAYS:
   A.    Definition: As used in this section, "glue" means what is commonly
referred to as plastic or model airplane cement and includes any cement
containing hexane, benzene, toluene, xylene, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform,
ethylene dichloride, acetone, cyclohexanone, methyl ethyl ketone, methyl
isobutyl ketone, amyl acetate, butyl acetate, ethyl acetate, tricresyl
phosphate, butyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, and methyl
cellosolve acetate. (1996 Code §§ 9.20.100, 9.20.110)
   B.    Sales Of Certain Glues And Cements:
      1.   Sales To Minors Prohibited: No person shall sell glue to any person
under eighteen (18) years of age. A driver's license or state of New Mexico
identification card shall be prima facie proof of age. (1996 Code § 9.20.110)
      2.   Records Of Sales: Wholesale distributors of glue shall make
available to the health services division of the state department of health and
to law enforcement agencies of the city during business hours their records of
all sales to retailers of glue. (1996 Code § 9.20.110; amd. 2002 Code)
      3.   Violation: Any person violating any provision of this subsection is
guilty of a petty misdemeanor. (1996 Code § 9.20.100)
   C.    Use, Possession Of Glue Or Aerosol Spray:
      1.   Prohibitions:
         a.   No person shall intentionally smell, sniff or inhale the fumes or
vapors from a glue, aerosol spray product or other chemical substance for the
purpose of causing a condition of or inducing symptoms of intoxication,
elation, euphoria, dizziness, excitement, irrational behavior, exhilaration,
stupefaction or dulling of the senses, or for the purpose of in any manner
changing, distorting or disturbing the audio, visual or mental processes.
         b.   No person shall intentionally possess a glue, aerosol spray
product or other chemical substance for any purpose set forth in subsection C1a
of this section.
      2.   Exemptions: The provisions of this subsection do not apply to any
aerosol product or other chemical substance used for legitimate medicinal
purposes and obtained either on a prescription basis or for medicinal purposes
by a person over the age of eighteen (18).
      3.   Violation; Waiver Of Penalty: Any person who violates any provision
of this subsection is guilty of a misdemeanor. The sentence or fine may be
waived in the discretion of the court in the case of any person who has not
been previously convicted of violating this subsection and who has successfully
completed a drug education or treatment program approved by the court. (1996
Code § 9.20.110)
5-1E-9: TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
   A.    Definition: As used in this section, "minor" means an individual less
than eighteen (18) years of age. (1996 Code § 9.20.120)
   B.    Prohibitions:
      1.   No person shall knowingly sell, offer to sell, barter or give any
tobacco product to any minor.
      2.   No minor shall procure or attempt to procure any tobacco products
for his own use or for use by any other minor.
      3.   No person shall sell, offer to sell or deliver a tobacco product in
a form other than an original factory sealed package. (1996 Code § 9.20.130)
   C.    Identification:
      1.   Evidence of the age and identity of the person may be shown by any
document that contains a picture of the person issued by a federal, state,
county or municipal government, including a motor vehicle driver's license or
an identification card issued to a member of the armed forces. (1996 Code §
9.20.140)
      2.   Any person selling goods at retail or wholesale may refuse to sell
tobacco products to any person who is unable to produce an identity card as
evidence that he is eighteen (18) years of age or over. (1996 Code § 9.20.150)
      3.   No minor shall present any written, printed or photostatic evidence
of age or identity that is false for the purpose of procuring or attempting to
procure any tobacco products. (1996 Code § 9.20.160)
   D.    Sales From Vending Machines: Tobacco products may be sold by vending
machines in the following locations only:
      1.   In locations not held open to the public, including controlled areas
within factories, businesses and offices;
      2.   In age controlled locations where minors are not permitted unless
accompanied by a parent or guardian; or
      3.   In locations where alcoholic beverages are offered for sale for the
purpose of consumption on the premises. (1996 Code § 9.20.170)
   E.    Free Samples: A person who sells, distributes, promotes or advertises
tobacco products shall not provide free samples of tobacco products to a minor.
The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to an individual who provides
free samples of tobacco products to a family member or to an acquaintance on
private property not held open to the public. (1996 Code § 9.20.180)
   F.    Sign Required: A person, firm, corporation, partnership or other
entity engaged in the sale at retail of tobacco products shall prominently
display in the place where tobacco products are sold and where a tobacco
product vending machine is located, a printed sign or decal that reads as
follows:
A person less than 18 years of age who purchases a tobacco product is subject
to a fine of up to $1,000. A person who sells a tobacco product to a person
less than 18 years of age is subject to a fine of up to $1,000.
   G.    Inspections: The alcohol and gaming division of the state regulation
and licensing department and the appropriate law enforcement authorities shall
conduct random, unannounced inspections of facilities where tobacco products
are sold to ensure compliance with the provisions of this section. (1996 Code §
9.20.200; amd. 2002 Code)
   H.    Violation; Penalties:
      1.   Any person who violates any provisions of subsection B, C2, D, E or
F of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be sentenced pursuant to
the provisions of New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 31-19-1. Each violation
is a separate and distinct offense.
      2.   Any minor who violates any provision of subsection B2 or C3 of this
section shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00)
or forty eight (48) hours of community service. (1996 Code § 9.20.210)
5-1E-10: FAILURE OF PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other adult person having the care
and custody of a minor to knowingly permit such minor to violate the provisions
of this section, subsection 5-1B-11C, section
5-1E-5 or
5-1E-6 of this chapter. (1996 Code § 9.20.080; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 752, 5-8-
2007)
5-1E-11: CURFEW:
   A.    Definition: "Juvenile" means anyone who has not reached his or her
eighteenth birthday.
   B.    Established: It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or other
person in lawful control of a juvenile to permit a juvenile in his or her
custody or control to be present in or upon any public assembly including any
public assembly on private property, or be present in or on any building,
place, street, or highway open or available to the public, or be present in or
on property on which the owner or occupant has contacted the mayor in writing
and requested that this provision be enforced with respect to such property,
unless such juvenile be accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal guardian,
or other person in lawful control of such juvenile and who is at least eighteen
(18) years of age, unless such juvenile be engaged and on duty in a business or
other occupation under which the laws of this state authorize a person less
than eighteen (18) years of age to perform, between the following hours of the
day:
      1.   Twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Friday and Saturday and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day, or
      2.   Eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday through Thursday and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day.
      3.   A juvenile who is in or on a moving vehicle during curfew hours
shall not be stopped unless a police officer has reason to believe, based upon
his observation and the surrounding circumstances, that the juvenile is out
after curfew as defined in this subsection B. No juvenile shall be arrested or
cited for any violation of this section.
   C.    Enforcement:
      1.   Report Of Violation: Any duly authorized law enforcement officer of
the city of Artesia who, during the hours of curfew set forth in subsection B
of this section, finds a juvenile in or upon any public assembly including any
public assembly on private property, or present on or within any building,
place, street, or highway open or available to the public, or present on
property on which the owner or occupant has contacted the mayor in writing and
requested that this provision be enforced, shall thereupon promptly ascertain
the name, phone number, and address of the parent, legal guardian or other
person in lawful control of the juvenile and shall promptly report such
violation to his/her superior officer, together with the name and address of
the juvenile and the parent, guardian, or other person in lawful control of
said juvenile.
      2.   Written Notice: Said superior officer or his designee shall cause a
written notice to be served, by personal service by a police officer, or by
certified mail, upon the parent, guardian or other person in charge of such
juvenile, setting forth the date and manner by which this section has been
violated.
      3.   Presumptions Of Responsibility: The parent, guardian, or other
person in lawful control of a juvenile, shall be presumed, in the absence of
evidence to the contrary, to have failed to exercise proper parental
responsibility and/or control and said juvenile shall further be deemed to have
committed the acts described herein with the knowledge and permission of such
parent, guardian, or other person in lawful control of said juvenile in
violation of this section.
   D.    Penalty: Any parent, guardian or person in charge of a juvenile, who,
during the curfew hours set forth in subsection B of this section and within a
period of one year from the date of any previous violation, shall permit such
juvenile again to violate this section shall be subject to the penalties which
are prescribed in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 735, 8-8-2006)
ARTICLE F. NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1F-1: Public Nuisance Prohibited And Defined
5-1F-2: Nuisances Declared
5-1F-3: Notice Of Nuisance
5-1F-4: Complaint And Penalties
5-1F-5: Removal Of Weeds; Costs; Lien
5-1F-6: Removal Of Nuisance By City
5-1F-7: Injunctions
5-1F-8: Conflicting Provisions
5-1F-9: Waivers And Exemptions Prohibited
5-1F-1: PUBLIC NUISANCE PROHIBITED AND DEFINED:
It is unlawful to commit public nuisance. Public nuisance consists of knowingly
creating, performing or maintaining anything affecting any number of citizens
without lawful authority which is either injurious to public health, safety,
morals or welfare, or interferes with the exercise and enjoyment of public
rights including the right to use public property. (Ord. 613, 3-14-2000)
5-1F-2: NUISANCES DECLARED:
In the interest of the inhabitants of the city, it is necessary to prohibit the
accumulation of junk, trash, weeds and refuse on property within the corporate
limits of the city by declaring such accumulation a nuisance. The following are
declared to be a public nuisance:
   A.   Unsanitary Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or
cause to remain in or about his premises any solid waste, weeds, motor vehicles
not in operating condition, wastewater or any conglomeration of residue thereof
which emits odors or serves as a feeding or breeding place for flies, insects
or rodents and which, in the opinion of the police department, building
inspector/code enforcement officer or fire marshal is unsanitary or injurious
to public health. The accumulation of building materials, pipes, lumber or
boxes may be maintained on the premises if the accumulation is evenly piled and
stacked for a reasonable length of time to be determined by the building
inspector/code enforcement officer.
   B.   Hazardous Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person to permit in or
about his premises weeds, briars, brush or any other solid waste to become in
any way hazardous or injurious to public health or to obstruct pedestrian and
vehicular traffic.
   C.   Weeds:
      1.   Definition: "Weeds", as used in this subsection, shall mean all
rank, noxious, poisonous, harmful, unhealthful vegetation, or any growth
whatsoever of an offensive nature or which is deleterious to health and safety.
      2.   Height Restrictions; Accumulation Prohibited: It shall be unlawful
for any owner, having charge or control of any lot within the city to permit or
maintain on any such lot, including the area located between the property line
and the middle of the alley adjacent to the property, and the area located
between the property line and the curb, and the area located ten feet (10')
outside the property line where there is no curb, any growth of weeds to a
greater height than eighteen inches (18"), or any accumulation of weeds which
may constitute a fire hazard or public nuisance.
      3.   Duty Of Owner To Remove: It shall be the duty of the owner to cut
the weeds and remove the cuttings or any accumulation of weeds or cause the
weeds to be cut and cause the cuttings of any accumulation of weeds to be
removed as often as necessary in order to comply with the provisions set out in
subsection D2 of this section.
      4.   Methods Of Controlling Weeds: The approved methods of controlling
weeds shall be mowing, cutting, digging or other methods designed to remove the
weeds but not disturb other vegetation or unnecessarily disturb the soil.
   D.   Solid Waste 1 :
      1.   Unlawful Accumulation And Deposit:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any solid waste to
accumulate upon premises owned, leased, rented or occupied by him during
intervals between collection thereof, except in the manner provided in this
chapter and title 7, chapter 4 of this code.
         b.   It shall be unlawful to deposit any solid waste in or upon the
streets, alleys, sidewalks, gutters, curbing, storm sewers, parkways or vacant
lots within the city, except in the manner and in the receptacles or containers
as provided in subsections D2 and D3 of this section and title 7, chapter 4 of
this code.
      2.   Solid Waste Receptacles: All solid waste receptacles shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition by the owner or person using the
receptacle, and such receptacles shall be located only in such places as shall
be readily accessible for removing and emptying the same, but shall not be
placed in such place or position as may constitute a nuisance or obstruction to
vehicular or pedestrian traffic. (Ord. 613, 3-14-2000; amd. 2002 Code)
      3.   Scattering Trash And Rubbish: It is unlawful for any person, except
city employees or agents in the performance of their official duties, to
scavenge, rummage through, collect or scatter garbage from any container placed
or provided for the collection of garbage (as defined by section
7-4-1 of this code). Further, it is unlawful for any person to throw or permit
to be deposited or scattered upon any sidewalk, alley, street or public
property or upon the private property of another, any garbage, rubbish, waste,
trash or other disposed material of any kind. (1996 Code § 9.12.030)
   E.   Outdoor Vehicle Storage:
      1.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:
DISMANTLED OR PARTIALLY DISMANTLED VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which some
part or parts which are ordinarily a component thereof have been removed or are
missing.
INOPERATIVE OR INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle which, by reason of
dismantling, disrepair or other cause, is incapable of being propelled under
its own power.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any wheeled vehicle which is self-propelled or intended to be
self-propelled.
      2.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
store on, place on, or permit to be stored or placed on, or allowed to remain
on any occupied or unoccupied land within the city limits, a dismantled,
partially dismantled or inoperative motor vehicle, or any parts of a motor
vehicle, except in areas where such activity is within the contemplated
purposes of duly licensed businesses and where such vehicles are kept in wholly
enclosed garages or structures. (Ord. 613, 3-14-2000; amd. 2002 Code)
      3.   Exceptions: Any person, being owner or tenant, may store, permit to
be stored or allow to remain upon his premises, any dismantled, partially
dismantled or inoperative motor vehicle, or parts thereof, for a period not to
exceed one week if such motor vehicle is registered in his name; and provided
further, that any such owner or tenant may, in the event of hardship, secure
permission from the city to extend such period of time.
      4.   Provisions Are Additional: This subsection shall be construed as
being supplementary to any sections of this chapter relating to rubbish, litter
and refuse, and shall not be construed to permit the parking or placing of
dismantled, partially dismantled or inoperable motor vehicles on any public
street. (Ord. 613, 3-14-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 4 of this code for garbage collection and disposal
  provisions.
5-1F-3: NOTICE OF NUISANCE:
Any city police officer, building inspector/code enforcement officer or fire
marshal, upon observing any violation of this article, shall issue a notice
directed to the owner of record of the property on which the nuisance occurs,
or to the occupant or tenant of the property, or both. The notice shall
describe the violation and shall establish a reasonable time limit for
abatement thereof by the owner or occupant or tenants, which limit shall be no
more than fifteen (15) days after date of mailing of the notice. A reasonable
extension of time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, may be granted by the
building inspector/code enforcement officer. The notice may be served either
personally, or by regular first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
owner's or occupant's last known address. In the event the owner of the lot or
tract cannot be determined or the owner does not respond to the notice of
violation, such notice may be served by posting a copy of the written notice
upon the premises. A notice may be given each time there is a violation. (Ord.
703, 6-14-2005)
5-1F-4: COMPLAINT AND PENALTIES:
In the event the owner or occupant of the property where the nuisance violation
of this chapter exists, has failed, within the prescribed time, to abate the
nuisance, then any city police officer, building inspector/code enforcement
officer or fire marshal shall file a complaint charging violation of this
chapter with the municipal court demanding that the owner of the property, or
the occupant thereof, or both, be held to answer to the court for the violation
of this chapter. Upon conviction thereof, the owner shall be subject to penalty
as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code; and each day on which such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. These penalties shall
be in addition to payment of any city costs for cutting or removal, or both.
(Ord. 613, 3-14-2000; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1F-5: REMOVAL OF WEEDS; COSTS; LIEN:
If the owner is notified and fails to comply with the provisions of this
article within fifteen (15) days or, in those cases where the owner cannot be
determined and compliance with the notice has not occurred within fifteen (15)
days, the building inspector/code enforcement officer shall cause such weeds to
be cut and the cuttings or any accumulation of weeds to be removed if such
accumulation creates a fire hazard or a nuisance. In any event, should it
appear to be a matter of public necessity for health or safety reasons, the
city planner or building inspector/code enforcement officer may give notice
that the weeds must be cut and/or removed immediately if circumstances warrant,
in which event, should there be noncompliance, the building inspector/code
enforcement officer is authorized to immediately cause such weeds to be cut and
the cuttings or any accumulation of weeds removed, and the owner billed the
actual costs plus a one hundred dollar ($100.00) administration fee. If the
bill remains unpaid after thirty (30) days, double cost of the cutting or
removal of weeds, administration fee, plus all other penalties or costs allowed
by law in connection therewith shall, in the manner prescribed by law, become a
lien upon the property from which such weeds were removed. (Ord. 703, 6-14-
2005)
5-1F-6: REMOVAL OF NUISANCE BY CITY:
In the event that a person is convicted of violating this article and still
refuses to remove the junk, trash, weeds or refuse, the city may enforce this
section in any manner consistent with law. Should the person refuse or fail to
pay the assessment, the city shall collect such assessment as provided by law.
(Ord. 613, 3-14-2000)
5-1F-7: INJUNCTIONS:
When a nuisance exists as set forth in this article, the chief of police, any
city police officer, the building inspector/code enforcement officer or fire
marshal may maintain a complaint in the name of the city, perpetually, to
enjoin all persons from maintaining or permitting the nuisance and to abate the
same. (Ord. 613, 3-14-2000; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1F-8: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Any city ordinance or part of ordinance which is in conflict with the
provisions of this article is hereby superseded to the extent that this article
provides more specific standards or stricter standards of compliance. (Ord.
613, 3-14-2000)
5-1F-9: WAIVERS AND EXEMPTIONS PROHIBITED:
No waivers or exceptions to the provisions of this article may be granted by
the city or the city council. (Ord. 613, 3-14-2000)
ARTICLE G. DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
SECTION:
5-1G-1: Definitions
5-1G-2: Relevant Factors
5-1G-3: Violations
5-1G-4: Penalties
5-1G-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
DESIGNED FOR USE: Designed, made, or modified with the specific intent that the
item so designed, made, or modified is to be used in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation of this
code and the state controlled substances act, New Mexico Statutes Annotated,
1978, section 30-31-1 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time.
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: All equipment, products and materials of any kind which are
used, intended for use, or designed for use, in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation of this
code and the state controlled substances act, New Mexico Statutes Annotated,
1978, section 30-31-1 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time. It
includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
   B.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled
substances;
   C.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
   D.   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
   E.   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
   F.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
   G.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed for use
in removing twigs, seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining marijuana;
   H.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, mixing devices and screens or
sifting devices used, intended for use, or designed for use in compounding
controlled substances;
   I.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes, plastic bags, and other containers used,
intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances;
   J.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed for
use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
   K.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for use,
or designed for use in injecting controlled substances into the human body;
   L.   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, hashish oil, or
other controlled substances into the human body, such as:
      1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with
or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
      2.   Water pipes;
      3.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
      4.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
      5.   Roach clips; meaning objects used to hold burning material, such as
a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand;
      6.   Miniature cocaine spoons, and cocaine vials;
      7.   Chamber pipes;
      8.   Carburetor pipes;
      9.   Electric pipes;
      10.   Air driven pipes;
      11.   Chillums;
      12.   Bongs;
      13.   Ice pipes or chillers;
      14.   Any object which is used, intended for use, or designed for use for
the introduction of tobacco products into the human body which objects are so
used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, hashish oil, or other
controlled substances into the human body. (Ord. 747, 3-13-2007)
5-1G-2: RELEVANT FACTORS:
In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or other
authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant factors,
the following:
   A.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object concerning
its use;
   B.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of the
object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled substance;
   C.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct violation
of the state controlled substances act, New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1987,
section 30-31-1 et seq.;
   D.   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
   E.   The existence of any residue of controlled substance on the object;
   F.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons who he knows, or
should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
section 12-4-9 of the uniform traffic ordinance or the state controlled
substances act, New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978, section 30-31-1 et seq.;
the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object, as to a
direct violation of section 12-4-9 of the uniform traffic ordinance or the
state controlled substances act, New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978, section
30-31-1 et seq., shall not prevent a finding that the object is intended for
use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
   G.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning its
use;
   H.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object, which explain or depict
its use;
   I.   National and local advertising concerning its use;
   J.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
   K.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a legitimate
supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a licensed
distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
   L.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the object
(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
   M.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community;
   N.   Expert testimony concerning its use. (Ord. 747, 3-13-2007)
5-1G-3: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Manufacture, Possession, Or Delivery Of Drug Paraphernalia: It is
unlawful for any person to possess, deliver, possess with intent to deliver, or
manufacture with intent to deliver, drug paraphernalia, knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be used to plant,
propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce,
process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject,
ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled
substance in violation of the state controlled substances act, New Mexico
Statutes Annotated, 1978, section 30-31-1 et seq.
   B.   Advertisement Of Drug Paraphernalia: It is unlawful for any person to
place in any newspaper, magazine, handbill, or other publication any
advertisement, knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should
know, that the purpose of the advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote
the sale of objects designed or intended for use as drug paraphernalia. This
provision shall not be construed to apply to any advertisement which advertises
the sale of drug paraphernalia outside the city; nor shall it be construed to
apply to any printed matter criticizing the drug laws, glorifying the drug
culture, glamorizing the use of drugs, providing information on how to use
illegal drugs, or similar noncommercial speech. (Ord. 747, 3-13-2007)
5-1G-4: PENALTIES:
Upon conviction for any violation of this article, the offender shall be
punished in accordance with title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 747, 3-13-
2007)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Definitions
5-2A-2: Licensing Requirements
5-2A-3: Rabies Vaccination Required
5-2A-4: Permits Required
5-2A-5: Facilities Standards; Care And Maintenance
5-2A-6: Prohibited Activities
5-2A-7: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
5-2A-8: Adoption
5-2A-9: Enforcement
5-2A-10: Penalties
5-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
ANIMAL: A vertebrate member of the animal kingdom other than humans.
ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES: A vehicle with two (2) or more wheels pulled by an
animal, which includes, but is not limited to, carriage horse tours.
ANIMAL EXHIBIT: A traveling animal show, petting zoo, circus, pony ride, animal
act or any premises or activity operated for the purposes of showing any
animal. This definition does not include resident or nonresident animal and cat
shows sponsored or sanctioned by the International Cat Association, American
Kennel Club, United Kennel Club, the Cat Fanciers Association, the American Cat
Fanciers and affiliates or any primary horse show.
ANTIESCAPE DEVICE: Housing, fencing or other device that prevents an animal
from leaving property.
AT LARGE: Any animal shall be deemed at large when he is off the property of
his owner and is not under the continuous supervised control of a competent
person.
BITE: Any puncture, tear of the skin or other bodily injury of a human or
animal inflicted by the teeth of an animal.
BREEDER: A person involved in controlled breeding of animals, cats, or exotic
or wild animals, which are registered with a nationally or internationally
recognized animal registry organization.
BREEDER FACILITY: Any residence, building or other structure used in whole or
in part for keeping, raising, or breeding animals registered with a nationally
or internationally recognized animal registry organization.
CITY: The city of Artesia, New Mexico.
CITY ANIMAL SHELTER, CITY SHELTER: A pound, lot, premises or building
maintained by the city for the care and custody of animals.
COLLECTION: The specific animals on the exotic animal permit.
COMMERCIAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Land or buildings zoned for or used for business purposes including
temporary sites; or
   B.   Vehicles used for business purposes within the city.
DANGEROUS ANIMALS: Any of the following:
   A.   An animal which, when unprovoked, engages in behavior that requires a
defensive action by a person to prevent bodily injury to a person or animal
when the person and the animal are off the property of the owner of the animal;
or
   B.   An animal which, when unprovoked, injures a person; or
   C.   An animal, which, because of its poisonous bite or sting, would
constitute a hazard to the public.
DOMESTIC ANIMAL: Any animal whose psychology has been determined or manipulated
through selective breeding and does not occur naturally in the wild as well as
any animal, which may be vaccinated against rabies with an approved rabies
vaccine and has an established rabies quarantine observation period.
ENCLOSED LOT: Land surrounded by a wall, fence or barrier.
ESTABLISHMENT: A place of business together with its grounds and equipment.
FECES: Excrement and other waste matter discharged from the bowels of an
animal.
FEE: A charge for labor or service provided by the City of Artesia. The amount
of each fee shall be adopted by resolution of the City of Artesia, New Mexico.
The following fees apply:
   A.   Adoption Fee: The fee charged for an adoption, subject to the
requirements contained in this Article.
   B.   Deposit for Sterilization: The City of Artesia will retain a Deposit
for Sterilization for animals for which proof of sterilization has not been
provided for thirty (30) days. If proof of sterilization is not provided within
this time, the Deposit for Sterilization will be forfeited. An owner will not
be charged this fee for an animal that is already sterilized.
   C.   Impound Fee, First Offense: The fee charged for the first time an
animal is impounded.
   D.   Impound Fee, Second Offense: The fee charged for the second time an
animal is impounded.
   E.   Impound Fee, Third Offense: The fee charged for the third time an
animal is impounded.
   F.   Microchip Implant Fee: The fee charged for the implantation of a
microchip. An owner will not be charged this fee for an animal that is already
microchipped.
   G.   Owner Release Fee: The fee charged for the release of an animal to an
owner.
   H.   Permit Application or Renewal Fee: The fee charged for processing the
application or renewal of a permit required by this Article.
GROOMING PARLOR: An establishment maintained for the purposes of performing
cosmetological services for animals.
HEAT OR SEASON: A regularly recurring state of estrus during which the female
animal is capable of attracting or accepting the male for breeding or is
capable of conceiving.
HOUSEHOLD: A social or family unit comprised of those living in the same
dwelling or on the same premises.
HUMANE OFFICER: Any individual employed in such capacity or purpose by the city
of Artesia.
HYBRID: An animal created by breeding animals of different species. For
purposes of this article, it includes, but is not limited to, the hybrid
offspring of domesticated animals and wolves, or domesticated animals and
coyotes.
INTACT ANIMAL: An animal that has not been neutered or spayed.
KENNEL: An establishment where animals are boarded, kept, or maintained, except
state inspected veterinary hospitals, pet shops, grooming parlors, and
shelters.
LICENSED: Registered microchip.
LICENSED VETERINARIAN OR VETERINARIAN: A doctor of veterinary medicine licensed
to practice in the state of New Mexico.
LIVESTOCK: Cattle, horses, mules, donkeys, swine, sheep or goats.
MICROCHIP: A passive transponder which can be implanted in an animal by
injection and which is a component of a radio frequency identification (RFID)
system. Such system must be compatible with a scanner used by the animal
services division.
NUISANCE: Means, but is not limited to, defecation, urination, disturbing the
peace, emitting noxious or offensive odors, or otherwise endangering or
offending the well being of the inhabitants of the city.
OWNER: An owner is a person who, for more than seven (7) days, owns, harbors,
keeps, knowingly causes or knowingly allows an animal to be harbored or kept,
has an animal in his or her care, has assumed ownership, or responsibility, or
who represents the owner, or has allowed a stray animal to remain on property
owned, leased or controlled by him.
PERMITTED PREMISES: The establishment, household, property or site for which a
valid permit has been issued for use as a kennel, grooming parlor, pet shop,
shelter, breeder site, animal exhibit site, exotic or wild animal site.
PERSON: An individual, household, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
society, association or legal entity, and every officer, agent or employee
thereof.
PERSON IN CHARGE: For the purpose of inspections, means the individual present
in an establishment who is the apparent supervisor of the establishment at the
time of inspection. If no individual is the apparent supervisor, then any
employee present shall be considered the person in charge.
PET SHOP: An establishment or premises maintained for the purchase, sale,
exchange or hire of animals except livestock.
QUARANTINE: The detaining and isolation of an animal suspected of contagion.
RABIES TAG: The tag supplied or recognized by the city of Artesia which
documents antirabies vaccination number and year and city license number.
RESCUE ORGANIZATION: Any organization which accepts pet animals for the purpose
of finding permanent adoptive homes for animals and does not maintain a central
facility for keeping animals but rather uses a system of fostering animals for
adoption by individuals.
RESIDENTIAL ZONE: Areas, districts, or zones, which have been defined by this
code as areas, districts, or zones which are designated for single-family or
multi-family dwellings.
RESTRAINT: A dog is under restraint if it is on its owner's property, or on a
leash, or at heel beside a person and obedient to that person's command, or is
under the continuous supervised control of a person.
SERVICE ANIMAL: An animal trained by a certified guide animal school to lead
blind persons; an animal trained by a certified hearing animal school to aid
hearing impaired persons; or an animal approved by an institution or program
including the vocational rehabilitation division of the New Mexico department
of public education to assist a mobility impaired person.
SHELTER: The city animal shelter established, owned and operated by the city of
Artesia whose sole function is to provide short term shelter and impoundment
services.
STRAY: An animal which is not physically restrained or controlled and is beyond
the boundaries of the premises of the owner.
THEATRICAL EXHIBIT: Any act or performance featuring or involving animals.
VACCINATION: Inoculation with an antirabies vaccine recognized and approved by
the state of New Mexico, given in an amount sufficient to provide immunity from
rabies for a minimum of one year.
VERMIN: Animals which are considered pests or nuisances, including, but not
limited to, disease carrying rodents and insects such as bats, rats, mice,
squirrels, flies, lizards, and lice.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any animal which kills or severely injures (so as to result in
muscle tears or disfiguring lacerations, requiring multiple sutures, or
corrective or cosmetic surgery) any person or other animal, but it does not
include an animal which bites, attacks or injures a person or animal which is
lawfully upon its owner's premises, or which is provoked. (Ord. 846, 8-24-2010;
amd. Ord. 1104, 10-11-2022)
5-2A-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall own, keep, harbor or permit any dog
or cat within the city limits unless such dog or cat has been licensed by the
city as provided in this article.
   B.   License Fee And Term: The owner or person keeping or maintaining any
dog or cat in the city shall pay a license fee to the city for each dog or cat;
however, no fee shall be charged for the licensure of qualified service animals
who are trained to lead partially or totally blind persons, aid hearing
impaired persons or assist mobility impaired persons. A license shall consist
of an implanted microchip as issued by the city of Artesia or its
representatives. All existing metal tags will be replaced (upon expiration of
such tag) with a microchip. All animals leaving the animal control shelter
shall be microchipped prior to release, at the expense of the owner or adopter.
      1.   All microchip identification implants shall be issued for the
natural life of the dog or cat in which the microchip is implanted. Microchip
implant fee shall be a onetime fee charged at current rate imposed at the time
of the implant.
   C.   License Issued:
      1.   Microchip Implant: The microchip implant may be implanted in the dog
or cat by the Artesia humane officer or any other authorized representative.
(Ord. 846, 8-24-2010)
5-2A-3: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED:
Dogs and cats over the age of three (3) months shall be vaccinated against
rabies. The animal shall receive a booster within the twelve (12) month
interval following the initial vaccination. Every dog and cat shall be
revaccinated against rabies within twelve (12) months if a one year vaccine is
administered or within thirty six (36) months if a three (3) year vaccine is
administered. Rabies vaccine shall be licensed by the United States department
of agriculture and administered according to label recommendations. A copy of
the current vaccination certificate shall be presented to the humane officer on
demand, for the purpose of verification during any investigation. (Ord. 846, 8-
24-2010)
5-2A-4: PERMITS:
   A.   Permits Required:
      1.   To operate a kennel, grooming parlor, pet shop, shelter, animal
drawn vehicle, theatrical exhibit, breeder, breeder facility, or parking lot
pet sales.
      2.   Exotic or wild animal permit requirements as established in section
5-2C-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Permit Applications:
      1.   Individuals who wish to apply for a permit shall file with the
humane officer on forms provided by the humane officer. The application shall
require information sufficient to assure the humane officer that the applicant
has knowledge and facilities adequate to care for the animals in a manner that
protects the public and the animals.
      2.   An application for a permit for a premises within an area zoned for
residential use shall include a list of all residents and private property
owners' names and addresses who own property located within one hundred feet
(100') for cats and two hundred feet (200') for dogs from the nearest point of
the proposed location of the permitted premises. This permit will be revoked if
any person files a complaint concerning the dogs or cats under any provision of
this article and the complaint results in a final judgment against the permit
holder. Under no circumstances shall any person have a number of dogs or cats
in any residence, which results in cruelty or violates any part of this article
including, but not limited to, enclosure size. This does not operate to waive
any applicable zoning requirements of the city of Artesia zoning code.
      3.   With the application, applicant shall file a certificate of
compliance, signed by the humane officer, showing all applicable city zoning
requirements have been met.
      4.   The applicant shall file with the humane officer proof of compliance
with all applicable city, state and federal requirements to the satisfaction of
the humane officer or his or her designee.
   C.   Permit Approval:
      1.   Within thirty (30) working days of receipt of an application for a
permit, the humane officer shall review the application and inspect the
premises to determine whether such complies with the standards established in
this article; and
      2.   The humane officer shall deliver to the police chief the application
for a permit and his recommendation for approval if such is appropriate.
      3.   The police chief shall review the permit application to ensure:
         a.   The standards established by this article and other applicable
laws and regulations have been met; and
         b.   The issuance of a permit will not result in activity which
presents a danger to the public health, safety or welfare or a danger or
nuisance to the neighborhood.
         c.   The application meets all applicable laws and regulations of this
article.
      4.   If the humane officer determines that the application does not meet
applicable laws and regulations of this article the humane officer shall submit
to the applicant in writing within five (5) days of the inspection of the
premises the reasons the application does not meet the laws or regulations of
this article.
      5.   The applicant may wish to appeal the humane officer's decision
regarding a permit application and may request an administrative review of the
application by the police chief. A written request for an administrative review
must be filed with the police chief within five (5) days of receipt of the
humane officer's decision.
      6.   The police chief shall review the application and all pertinent
information and may call the applicant and/or the humane officer to provide any
additional information for the determination of the application for a permit.
The police chief shall determine whether or not the application meets all
requirements of this article. The police chief may uphold the humane officer's
recommendation to deny a permit or may override the humane officer's denial and
issue the permit.
      7.   If the police chief denies the application the applicant may choose
to appeal the decision before the city council at the next regular meeting of
the city council.
      8.   Any notices given pursuant to this subsection shall be deemed served
when delivered in person to the applicant or sent by certified mail to the last
known address of the applicant.
   D.   Permit Requirements; Expiration; Renewal:
      1.   A valid permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place at each
permitted premises.
      2.   A permit holder shall notify the humane officer of any changes in
operations which may affect the status of the permit and shall keep the humane
officer informed of all changes in name, location, address, home and business
telephone number, of the site and activities covered by the permit.
      3.   Both the person in charge of a permitted premises and the owner of
the permitted premises shall be responsible for compliance with this article.
      4.   At each permitted premises a current record shall be kept which
describes all animals owned, purchased, received, or transferred and the final
disposition of each animal.
      5.   Permits shall expire one year after the date of issuance of the
permit. An application for renewal shall be filed at the Artesia police
department thirty (30) days before the date of expiration. Application and
inspection procedures and fees for permit renewals shall be the same as those
for new applications. Failure to renew permits as specified shall result in the
expiration of the permit or in the assessment of a late fee in addition to the
cost of renewing the permit.
      6.   Any application for an original permit or renewed permit shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable fee. This fee shall not be in addition to the
initial application fee/premises inspection.
      7.   The city council shall establish by resolution a schedule of fees,
charges, and expenses for the permits, renewal of permits and inspections and
any other matter pertaining to this section.
      8.   No permit shall be issued or granted unless and until such costs,
charges, fees, fines, or expenses have been paid in full.
   E.   Access To Permitted Premises:
      1.   Upon presentation of proper identification, and at any reasonable
time, the humane officer shall be allowed to enter any permitted premises for
the purpose of making inspections to determine compliance with this article.
The person in charge of the permitted premises shall be allowed to accompany
the humane officer on his inspection. The humane officer shall further be
allowed to examine all records pertinent to the origin and care of any animals
located at, or emanating from any permitted premises.
      2.   Whenever the humane officer inspects a permitted premises, the
humane officer shall prepare a written inspection report which shall state
whether or not the permitted premises is in compliance with or in violation of
the requirements of this section; if the premises is found to not be in
compliance, the report shall specify the nature of the noncompliance. The
humane officer and the person in charge of the permitted premises shall sign
the inspection report. A copy of the inspection report shall be furnished to
the person in charge.
      3.   Any permitted premises which are not in compliance with this section
shall be brought into compliance within twenty (20) days of the receipt of the
inspection report. In the event such premises are not brought into compliance
within such period then such permit shall be immediately revoked by the humane
officer.
      4.   No person, owner, manager, or tenant of any permitted premises shall
at any time permit, allow or cause any animal to be at or on any permitted
premises that may impede, prohibit, endanger, or interfere with any public
employee, when such public employee is engaged in the lawful discharge of his
duties. (Ord. 846, 8-24-2010)
5-2A-5: FACILITIES STANDARDS; CARE AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Facilities And Care Standards:
      1.   Specific housing and other facility regulations may be established
by Artesia animal control services for different kinds of animals. The
requirements will be made available, in writing, without charge upon request.
      2.   Animal housing facilities shall be structurally sound and
constructed of nontoxic materials. Interior floors shall be of smooth, easily
cleanable construction and impervious to water. The premises shall be kept
clean, sanitary and in good repair and in a manner which will protect animals
from disease and injury.
      3.   Animals maintained in kennels, or runs for periods exceeding twenty
four (24) hours shall be provided with adequate space to prevent overcrowding
and to maintain normal exercise according to species.
      4.   Adequate weatherproof housing shall be provided in all permitted
premises with proper ventilation and temperature, and sufficient lighting and
shade provided by either natural or artificial means.
      5.   Outside housing shall protect animals from weather that may be
detrimental to the health of the animals.
      6.   Provisions shall be made for the removal and proper disposal of
animal and food waste, soiled bedding, dead animals and debris. Disposal
facilities shall be operated in a manner, which will minimize vermin
infestation, odors and disease.
      7.   Unneutered adult animals shall be segregated by sex, except where
otherwise indicated for health, welfare or breeding purposes. This subsection
A7 does not apply to breeder facilities.
      8.   Vicious, diseased or injured animals and animals that have bitten a
person shall be individually quarantined when on the premises of a kennel,
grooming parlor, or pet shop.
      9.   Animals shall be provided with shade, clean, fresh, sufficient and
wholesome food and water. Food and water containers shall be kept clean.
      10.   Each animal shall be observed daily by the person in charge. Sick,
diseased, injured, lame or blind animals shall be provided with appropriate
veterinary care. The person in charge who suspects an animal of being rabid
shall immediately notify the humane officer and segregate the animal.
      11.   The number of adult dogs or cats, or any combination thereof, which
a breeder, breeder facility permit holders or general public may keep, is
limited by the following factors:
         a.   In a residential zone, the area of the permitted breeder or
breeder site, or general public shall be limited to ten percent (10%) of the
total area of the premises.
         b.   Within the kennel or animal living area of a breeder, breeder
site, or general public, seventy five (75) square feet of area shall be
provided for each animal weighing less than thirty (30) pounds, one hundred
(100) square feet for each animal weighing between thirty (30) and forty nine
(49) pounds and one hundred twenty five (125) square feet for each animal
weighing fifty (50) pounds or more.
   B.   Care And Maintenance: No person shall:
      1.   Fail, refuse or neglect to provide an animal in his charge or
custody with proper food, drink, shade, ventilation, necessary medical care,
basic grooming which is necessary for the health of the animal (infestation of
fleas, ticks), or shelter, which shall be a weatherproof and structurally sound
enclosure large enough to accommodate the animal; or
      2.   Leave an animal in an enclosed or upon a vehicle for a length of
time that may result in danger to or death of the animal. If the humane officer
determines that an animal in an enclosed vehicle is in immediate danger the
humane officer shall make reasonable effort to locate the owner of the vehicle
and notify him/her of the violation of this subsection. If the owner of the
vehicle cannot be located within a reasonable amount of time the humane officer
may enter the vehicle by whatever means is necessary, without being liable to
the owner of the vehicle and take the animal into protective custody.
      3.   The area where the animal is confined must be kept free of garbage
and other debris that might endanger the animal's health or safety. Feces will
be cleaned up regularly, but no less frequently than once a day.
      4.   The area where the animal is confined must be kept free of insect
infestation, such as anthills, wasps' nests, flea, tick, and maggot
infestations.
   C.   Restraint Devices: A rope, chain, or other device may be used to
restrain an animal, provided the following criteria are met:
      1.   The device must be affixed to the animal by use of a nonabrasive,
comfortably fitted collar or harness.
      2.   The device must be at least twelve feet (12') long unless such
length would violate subsection 5-2A-6B of this article in which case it shall
be no less than eight feet (8') long. The device must be fastened so the animal
can sit, walk and lie down comfortably; and must be unobstructed by objects
that may cause the device or animal to become entangled or strangled. Any chain
or tether shall have swivels on both ends. No chain or tether shall weigh more
than one-eighth (1/8) of the animal's weight.
      3.   The animal must have easy access to adequate shade, shelter, food
and potable water. (Ord. 846, 8-24-2010)
5-2A-6: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.    Animals Running At Large And/Or Unrestrained: It is unlawful for the
owner of an animal who fails to prevent or who allows the animal to run at
large and/or unrestrained in or on any public or private property without the
permission of the owner of the property. Any animal running at large and/or
unrestrained in violation of this subsection may be taken and impounded. A
citation may be issued to the owner whether or not the animal is impounded.
   B.    Animals On Unenclosed Premises: It is a violation of this subsection
for any person to chain, stake out, graze or herd any animal, including, but
not limited to, an animal or cat, on any unenclosed premises so any part of the
animal may extend within one foot (1') of a sidewalk, alley, street, or other
public property, or private property, or in any area which may be accessible to
the public.
   C.    Enclosure For Breeding Animals: Animals brought together for breeding
purposes shall be confined within an enclosure that obstructs such animals from
public view. This requirement does not apply to a zoo.
   D.    Vicious Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person, owning,
possessing or keeping any animal within the city which is known to be vicious
or dangerous to persons or other animals to permit such animal to run loose in
such a manner as to endanger life or limb of any other person or animal.
For the purpose of this section a vicious animal is a dog or cat which, without
provocation, bites or attacks any person or other animal or, in a vicious or
terrorizing manner approaches any person or other animal in apparent readiness
and attitude of attack.
Humane officers or police officers shall apprehend and impound vicious animals.
In the event a vicious animal cannot be impounded without danger of personal
injury from such animal, the impounding officer may destroy the animal without
notice to the owner, possessor or keeper thereof.
Vicious animals shall be euthanized in a humane manner upon conviction in a
court for a violation of this section. The court may order the owner to pay or
otherwise make restitution for the costs or expenses for the animal's
impoundment in addition to any fines, penalties or fees imposed.
   E.    Dangerous Animals: No person shall maintain a dangerous animal in a
manner, which constitutes a threat to any person, or other animal.
   F.    Animals Disturbing The Peace 1 : No person shall allow an animal in
his possession or control to persistently or continuously bark, howl or make
noise common to its species, or otherwise to disturb the peace and quiet of the
inhabitants of the city or keep or maintain an animal in a manner which
produces noxious or offensive odors or otherwise endangers the health and
welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
Upon complaint by any person residing upon premises adjacent to or in the
vicinity of any premises where any dog or cat is maintained that the dog or cat
is creating a nuisance by excessive barking or noise, it shall be the duty of
the owner, keeper or possessor of the dog or cat to confine the same within an
enclosure sufficient to abate such noise and nuisance.
With respect to any dog or cat complained of as creating a nuisance by
excessive noise, the humane officer or police officer handling the complaint
shall first contact the owner or keeper of such dog or cat and advise the owner
or keeper of such animal, and the first complaint shall not result in penalties
against the owner or keeper or impoundment of the animal if the owner or keeper
of such animal does confine the animal in an enclosure so as to abate the noise
and nuisance. Any second and subsequent complaint against the same animal shall
be grounds for filing of a complaint in municipal court, seeking penalties
against the owner or keeper of such animal or the impoundment of such animal,
or both such remedies.
   G.    Animal Nuisance; Defecation; Cleanup: No person shall allow an animal
to defecate upon public or private property other than the property of the
owner of the animal without immediately removing and disposing of the feces.
   H.    Unlawful Use Of Rabies Vaccination Tags: No person shall affix
antirabies or a license tag to the collar or harness of any animal other than
the animal for which the antirabies or license tag was issued. No person shall
keep, manufacture or use a stolen, counterfeit or forged animal antirabies
vaccination certificate or rabies tag.
   I.    Unlawful Retention Of Stray Animals: If a person does not have the
knowledge and consent of the owner of an animal, then that person shall report
the possession of the stray animal to the city animal shelter no later than
twenty four (24) hours after first coming into possession of the animal. The
person shall give his name and address, a description of the animal, the
circumstances under which he came into possession of the animal, and the
current location of the animal. He shall immediately surrender the animal to
the humane officer upon demand.
   J.    Interference With The Humane Officer: No person shall attack, assault
or in any way threaten or interfere with the humane officer in the performance
of his duties.
   K.    False Report: It is unlawful for any person to intentionally make a
report to a humane officer or police officer or other city official, which
report he knows to be false at the time of making it.
   L.    Unauthorized Removal Of Animals By Individuals: No person shall remove
an impounded animal from a city animal shelter, employee, city animal shelter
vehicle, or the city animal shelter premises, or any city animal capture
device, except as may be authorized by law.
   M.    Cruelty To Animals Prohibited:
      1.   Physical Abuse: No person shall wilfully or maliciously kill, maim,
disfigure, torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald or otherwise cruelly set upon
any animal, except that reasonable force may be employed to drive off vicious
or trespassing animals.
      2.   Work Cruelty: No person shall cause or force any labor, toil or act
upon any animal that is harsh, merciless, brutal, or with malice or spite.
   N.    Abandonment Of Animals: No person shall abandon an animal within the
city. An owner of an unwanted animal may turn over the animal to the humane
officer for adoption and/or euthanasia for a fee to be charged by the city.
This will include animals impounded by the humane officer that have a known or
identifiable owner.
   O.    Animal Poisoning And Trapping:
      1.   No person shall make accessible to an animal a substance, which
contains, or has been treated or prepared with a harmful or poisonous material
with the intent of harming or killing an animal.
      2.   No person shall use or set a steel leg hold trap.
      3.   This subsection does not prohibit the eradication of vermin, which
are a threat to public health.
   P.    Uncared For Animals; Protective Custody: Whenever the humane officer
finds that an animal is or will be without proper care because of neglect,
injury, illness, incarceration, or absence of the owner, the humane officer may
seize such animal for protective custody for a period not to exceed forty eight
(48) hours ("protective custody"), without prior notice to the owner or
custodian. While the animal is in protective custody, and upon the advice of a
licensed veterinarian, the humane officer may take such action necessary to
prevent undue pain and suffering of the animal, including the humane
destruction of the animal. After the forty eight (48) hour hold has expired and
the animal is unclaimed it will become available for adoption and held for an
additional seventy two (72) hours.
If the city of Artesia or the state of New Mexico brings criminal charges
against the owner or custodian while an animal is in protective custody, the
humane officer may retain custody of the animal during the pendency of the
case. If the owner or custodian is found guilty of any provision of this
article or of state law by a final adjudication, after all appeals have been
exhausted or waived, the animal shall immediately become the property of the
city and the owner or custodian shall pay a reasonable fee for the care and
feeding of the animal while held by the animal shelter with such fee to be
determined by the city. The owner or custodian is additionally subject to the
penalty provisions imposed in the criminal case. The humane officer may put the
animal up for adoption or otherwise dispose of the animal pursuant to this
article.
   Q.    Injury To Animals By Motorists: A motor vehicle operator who strikes
or runs down an animal shall immediately notify the humane officer or police
department of the injury and shall provide the facts regarding the accident,
and the injuries sustained by the animal. The operator shall remain at or near
the scene until such time as the owner, the humane officer, or police officer
arrives. In case of severe emergency to the animal, the operator may give aid
by taking the animal to a veterinary hospital or the city animal shelter.
Emergency vehicles are excluded from this provision.
   R.    Keeping Sick Or Diseased Animals: No person shall own an animal, which
is seriously sick or injured without providing proper veterinary care to the
animal. The humane officer may require a letter of health evaluation from a
licensed veterinarian describing the condition of the animal. The humane
officer may impound and humanely destroy abandoned or stray, sick or injured
animals. This subsection shall not be construed to apply to veterinary
hospitals or animals under active veterinary care.
   S.    Animal Fights:
      1.   No person shall promote, stage, hold, manage, conduct, carry on,
train for or attend a game, exhibition, contest or fight in which one or more
animals are injuring, killing, maiming or destroying themselves or other
animals.
      2.   No person shall provoke or entice an animal from the property of its
owner for the purpose of engaging the animal in an animal fight. (Ord. 846, 8-
24-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-1B-5E of this title.
5-2A-7: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Impoundment And Destruction: Dogs and cats not licensed and/or not
vaccinated for rabies and dogs and cats running at large may be caught and
impounded in the shelter provided by the city, and, if not redeemed by the
owner within seventy-two (72) hours, such dogs and cats may be destroyed by the
humane officer or his/ her designee.
   B.   Impoundment OfUnlicensed, Unvaccinated Or At Large Dogs And Cats: The
humane officer and any police officer of the city may impound any dog or cat
not licensed or vaccinated and any dog or cat running at large.
   C.   Redemption Provisions: In order to redeem any dog or cat impounded
under the provisions of this article, the owner or the custodian of such dog or
cat must appear within seventy-two (72) hours and do the following:
      1.   Pay the associated fees required to license the animal if the animal
is not licensed;
      2.   Furnish satisfactory evidence of vaccination and spay or neuter or
produce a prepaid receipt for vaccination and spay and neuter by a licensed
veterinarian; and
      3.   Pay a First Offense, Second Offense, or Third Offense impoundment
fee. An adoption fee and criminal fines will also apply for the third and any
subsequent impoundments of the animal. (Ord. 846, 8-24-2010; amd. Ord. 1104,
10-11-2022)
5-2A-8: ADOPTION:
   A.    Any dog or cat which has not been redeemed by its owner within seventy
two (72) hours of its impoundment may be adopted by any person upon payment to
the city for the animal in accordance with the schedule of fees adopted from
time to time by resolution of the city, and upon compliance with all other
requirements set forth by this section.
   B.    Any dog or cat which has no known or traceable owner may be adopted
immediately following intake by another person upon payment to the city of the
required fees adopted by the city for adoption of the animal.
   C.    The owner of any dog or cat that has been impounded three (3) times
over a period consisting of the next previous twelve (12) months will be
required to first pay the adoption fee as well as any fine imposed by the
municipal court of the city.
   D.    The city humane officer or other designee of the city shall execute
and deliver in the name of the city a bill of sale to the person adopting any
dog or cat under this section.
   E.    Any nonprofit organization may adopt an animal without a prepaid
receipt for sterilization from a licensed veterinarian for thirty (30) days.
After thirty (30) days the organization will need to produce proof the animal
was spayed or neutered, or transported out of Eddy County, New Mexico.
   F.    Upon adoption of any animal by a resident residing within Eddy County,
the resident shall first secure sterilization of the animal. The expense of
sterilization shall be borne by the adopting party. In the event that any
individual residing outside of Eddy County desires to either rescue, adopt, or
otherwise take possession of an animal from a shelter, then said party shall,
at its sole expense, first obtain sterilization of the animal prior to that
party taking possession of the animal.
   G.    No person shall adopt an animal, or knowingly allow an animal to be
adopted for the purpose of research, experimentation, breeding or fighting.
   H.    No person shall adopt an animal from the city animal shelter for the
purpose of thereafter selling or auctioning the animal to another party.
   I.    The animal shelter personnel shall have the right to deny adoption to
any party deemed to be unfit or unable to take possession of any animal in the
shelter after consideration of the following:
      1.   Conviction of the adopting party or any person presently residing
with the adopting party of a charge of animal cruelty or abuse or neglect of an
animal, in any court in the United States.
      2.   The adopting party is either adopting the animal for another party
or the animal being adopted shall not remain on the premises or otherwise
reside with the adopting party.
      3.   The adopting party appears to be intoxicated or under the influence
of drugs based upon the reasonable suspicion of the animal shelter staff.
   J.    Every dog or cat adopted from the animal shelter shall be altered by a
licensed veterinarian at the sole expense of the adopting party. The adopting
party shall produce a prepaid receipt with date of sterilization and
vaccination imprinted on it, at time of pickup of the animal. Any additional
fees assessed by the veterinarian in connection with preparing the animal for
adoption shall be paid by the adopting party. (Ord. 846, 8-24-2010)
5-2A-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.    Entry Powers: For the purpose of enforcing this article, the humane
officer and any police officer of the city, upon having reasonable grounds
based upon personal investigation which may include information from
eyewitnesses that a violation of this article has occurred, and subject to any
requirements otherwise imposed by law, is authorized to enter upon any premises
in which a dog or cat is kept or harbored. Such authorized officers may require
the owner or person keeping or harboring any dog or cat to exhibit to such
officers the license and vaccination certificate for such dog or cat.
   B.    Interference With Enforcement Official Prohibited: Any person who
shall interfere with, harm or impede the humane officer or any police officer
engaged in the performance of duties under this article shall be deemed guilty
of the violation of this article for such interference. (Ord. 846, 8-24-2010)
5-2A-10: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject to the
penalties as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. In prosecutions for
violation of this article, it shall not be necessary in order to obtain a
conviction to prove notice or knowledge on the part of the owner, possessor or
keeper of the animal in question that such animal was in violation of the
provisions of this article, it being the purpose and intent hereof to impose
strict liability upon the owner, possessor or keeper of such animal in order to
achieve compliance with all provisions hereof. (Ord. 846, 8-24-2010)
ARTICLE B. LIVESTOCK
SECTION:
5-2B-1: Keeping Certain Animals Prohibited; Exceptions
5-2B-2: Livestock Permitted In Certain Areas
5-2B-3: Slaughterhouses
5-2B-1: KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any persons, associations, firms, or corporations to
keep, cause, or permit to be confined one or more cows, horses, mules, burros,
goats, sheep, pigs, hogs, or swine at any place within the corporate limits of
the city except on premises within a district zoned SA as more particularly
provided in section
5-2B-2 of this article, or except animals that are being kept for slaughter as
provided in section
5-2B-3 of this article. Any persons, associations, firms, or corporations who
shall violate this section shall be subject to penalty as provided in title 1,
chapter 4 of this code in the discretion of the judge trying said case. If any
persons, associations, firms or corporations shall violate this section, each
day's violation shall constitute a separate offense. (1996 Code §§ 6.08.010,
6.08.040; amd. 2002 Code)
5-2B-2: LIVESTOCK PERMITTED IN CERTAIN AREAS:
   A.   Area Permitted: Except as provided in this section, it shall be lawful
and not a violation of this chapter to keep one or more of the animals
described in section
5-2B-1 of this article, or any combination thereof, on premises within the city
limits lying within a zoning district zoned as SA under title 9, chapters 3 and
4 of this code, said classification of SA district being and referring to a
rural-suburban district permitting the operation of farms and the keeping and
raising of livestock thereon, and said title 9, chapters 3 and 4 being part of
the comprehensive zoning ordinance of the city.
   B.   Area Prohibited: The city council determines that, due to the
concentration of residential occupancy in the area described in this section,
and notwithstanding that said area is zoned as an SA district, the keeping of
livestock, as described in
5-2B-1 of this article, constitutes a nuisance and a hazard to the health and
welfare of the residents in the area, and is therefore ordered to be
discontinued within one year from the effective date of the ordinance codified
in this article 1 , as set forth in section 5-2B-4 of this article, and shall
be unlawful after the expiration of said one year period in that area bounded
on the east by the Eagle Draw Channel; on the south by the city limits of the
city of Artesia, New Mexico; on the west by 26th Street; and on the north by
the West Main commercial district.
   C.   Compliance With Zoning Regulations: Nothing contained in this article
shall relieve those owners and persons keeping livestock in a permitted SA
district from complying with the provisions of title 9 of this code prescribing
the requirements for keeping livestock 2 . (1996 Code § 6.08.020)
 
Notes
1 1. This article derived from ordinance 420, passed in 1980.
2 2. See subsections 9-4-1B and 9-4-2B of this code.
5-2B-3: SLAUGHTERHOUSES:
It shall be lawful and not a violation of this article for any slaughterhouse
within the city limits which complies with all ordinances with regard to
slaughterhouses 1 , to keep animals which are brought in to be slaughtered upon
the premises for a period not to exceed twenty four (24) hours from the date
when such animal was brought in for slaughter. (1996 Code § 6.08.030)
 
Notes
1 3. See chapter 3 of this title.
ARTICLE C. EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-2C-1: Definitions
5-2C-2: Licensing Requirements
5-2C-3: Penalties
5-2C-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMALS: Any animal, native or nonnative to New Mexico, which is
poisonous or presents a danger to humans, animals or the environment,
including, but not limited to:
   A.   Class Reptilia: Order Phidia (such as, but not limited to, racers,
boas, water snakes and pythons) and order Loricata (such as, but not limited
to, alligators, caimans and crocodiles).
   B.   Class Aves: Order Falconiforms (such as, but not limited to, hawks,
eagles and vultures) and subdivision Ratitae (such as, but not limited to,
ostriches, rheas, cassowaries and emus). Not included are small caged birds
such as parakeets, canaries, lovebirds and finches.
   C.   Class Mammalia: Order Carnivora; family Felidae (such as, but not
limited to, ocelots, lions, tigers, jaguars, leopards and cougars), except
commonly accepted domesticated cats; the family Canidae (such as, but not
limited to, wolves, dingos, coyotes, jackals and hybrids produced by breeding
these canids with domesticated animals), except domesticated animals; family
Mustelidae (such as, but not limited to, weasels, martens, minks and badgers);
family Procynnidae (such as, but not limited to, raccoon); family Ursidae (such
as, but not limited to, bears); and order Marsupialia (such as, but not limited
to, kangaroos and common opossums); order Edentata (such as, but not limited
to, sloths, anteaters and armadillos); order Proposcidae (elephants); order
Primata (such as, but not limited to, monkeys, chimpanzees and gorillas); order
Rodenta (such as, but not limited to, porcupines); and order Ungulata (such as,
but not limited to, antelope, deer, bison, camels and hybrids produced by
breeding these ungulate animals).
PERMITTED PREMISES: The establishment, household, property or site for which a
valid permit has been issued for use as a kennel, grooming parlor, pet shop,
shelter, hobby breeder site, animal exhibit site, exotic or wild animal site,
or premises where guard animals are on duty. (Ord. 846, 8-24-2010)
5-2C-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Exotic Or Wild Animal Permit: A person who wishes to receive, purchase,
own or keep any exotic or wild animal shall first obtain an exotic or wild
animal permit. Exotic or wild animal permit requirements include the following:
      1.   In addition to the facilities and care standard requirements for
permitted premises required by this article, exotic or wild animals shall be
kept and cared for in a manner which does not constitute a nuisance or endanger
the safety of any person, property, or animal.
      2.   The holder of a permit for an exotic or wild animal must notify the
humane officer within thirty (30) days if the owner changes his residence or
the location of the exotic or wild animal, or sells or otherwise disposes of
the animal for which the permit was issued.
      3.   On a monthly basis, permitted premises will provide to the humane
officer, in writing, a list of the exotic animals or wild animals which are
sold during the preceding month. The list shall include the name and address of
each purchaser(s).
   B.   Prohibited Exotic Or Wild Animals: No person shall own, harbor or keep
any species in violation of federal or New Mexico law, including, but not
limited to, bats and skunks.
   C.   New Animal Addition: If the number of exotic or wild animals in a
collection increases as a result of the reproduction of members of the
collection or as a result of replacement of the same number and zoological
species as the permitted animals replaced, an additional permit is not required
during the permit year.
   D.   Consolidation Of Exotic Or Wild Animal Permit: If during the preceding
year more than one exotic or wild animal permit has been issued to an applicant
for an exotic or wild animal, the exotic or wild animal permits may be
consolidated so only one permit is required. However, the renewal date for the
consolidated permit shall be the date of issuance of the first issued permit.
   E.   Health Requirements: Exotic or wild animal owners must submit a health
certificate from a veterinarian to the humane officer within fourteen (14) days
of acquisition of each animal. The health certificate must certify that the
animal is in good health, is not carrying any communicable disease to animals
or people, and has been vaccinated as appropriate for the species.
   F.   Impoundment: The humane officer may impound any exotic or wild animal
if the owner fails to comply with any part of this article and shall use the
impound procedure set out in this chapter. If the exotic animal may present a
danger to the public or any other animal the humane officer or a police officer
may use any procedure necessary to protect the public or other animal.
   G.   Exclusion: Notwithstanding the above, zoological parks, veterinary
hospitals, humane society facilities, shelters, public laboratories, circuses,
sideshows, or educational and scientific facilities are excluded from the
provisions of this section, provided that the excluded facilities use
protective measures adequate to prevent the exotic or wild animals from
escaping, or injuring the public, or any other animal. (Ord. 846, 8-24-2010)
5-2C-3: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject to the
penalties as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. In prosecutions for
violation of this article, it shall not be necessary in order to obtain a
conviction to prove notice or knowledge on the part of the owner, possessor or
keeper of the animal in question that such animal was in violation of the
provisions of this article, it being the purpose and intent hereof to impose
strict liability upon the owner, possessor or keeper of such animal in order to
achieve compliance with all provisions hereof. (Ord. 846, 8-24-2010)
CHAPTER 3
SLAUGHTERHOUSES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Enforcement Officials
5-3-3: Permit Requirements
5-3-4: Construction Standards
5-3-5: Operation Standards
5-3-6: Employee Health Requirements
5-3-7: Inspection Of Carcasses
5-3-8: Sale Of Meat
5-3-9: Inspection Fees
5-3-10: Exemptions From Provisions
5-3-11: Penalties
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the definitions set forth in this
section govern this chapter:
HEALTH OFFICER: The sanitation officer of the state public health service
designated for the city, or other such person as may be designated as a health
officer for the city.
MEAT: Includes all edible portions of any animal held, exposed or offered for
sale for human consumption.
PERSON: Person, firm, corporation or association.
SLAUGHTERHOUSE: A building maintained for the purpose of slaughtering any
animals to be held, exposed for sale, or offered for sale for human
consumption.
UTENSILS: Includes all knives, saws, tables, containers, racks, hooks or other
equipment with which meat comes in contact. (1996 Code § 8.12.010)
5-3-2: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   Meat Inspector:
      1.   Appointment; Qualifications: The city council shall appoint one or
more meat inspectors to enforce the provisions of this chapter as to ante
mortem and post mortem examinations of animals. A meat inspector must be a
veterinarian licensed to practice veterinary medicine by the board of
veterinary examiners of the state. (1996 Code § 8.12.070)
      2.   Authority: The meat inspector is authorized to enter all places in
which the slaughtering of animals for food is being conducted and to make such
inspection of the animals as may be deemed necessary to determine their fitness
for human consumption. (1996 Code § 8.12.080)
      3.   Stamps: The meat inspector shall be provided with stamps to be used
in marking meat that has been inspected. It shall be unlawful for any person
except meat inspectors to have in his possession, keep or use said stamp or a
stamp containing similar characters or marks. (1996 Code § 8.12.090)
   B.   Health Officer: The health officer is empowered to enter any place
where meat or flesh of any animal mentioned in this chapter or the products
thereof may be stored, held, exposed or offered for sale and inspect the same,
and whenever such meat shall be found not marked, stamped but found to be
soured, unwholesome or otherwise unfit for food purposes, the health officer
shall have the power to condemn same and order such disposition as shall
prevent its use for human consumption. (1996 Code § 8.12.140)
5-3-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application For Permit: Any person desiring to construct or maintain a
slaughterhouse shall file with the city clerk a written request accompanied by
plans and specifications showing the arrangements, materials and equipment of
the slaughterhouse, together with the location or proposed location of same.
The application shall be considered by the city council with regard to the
promotion of public health and welfare and the suppression of disease, and to
determine its conformation to the building provisions provided in this chapter,
and if approved, the city clerk shall issue a written permit. (1996 Code §
8.12.020)
   B.   Revocation Of Permit: For violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, the permit granted to a slaughterhouse for operation may be revoked by
the city council in addition to the other penalties provided in this chapter.
Before the permit granted to a slaughterhouse may be revoked by the city
council, the city council shall hold a hearing and the owner or operator or
person in charge of such slaughterhouse shall be served with a written notice
at least five (5) days before the date set for such hearing, and such person
shall have an opportunity to be at the hearing. (1996 Code § 8.12.150)
5-3-4: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All slaughterhouses shall conform to the following standards of construction::
   A.   Floors: The floors of all rooms where slaughtering, cutting and
processing of meats is done shall be smooth and impervious to water.
   B.   Walls And Ceilings: The walls and ceilings of all rooms where
slaughtering, cutting and processing of meats is done shall be smooth and
painted with a light colored enamel.
   C.   Ventilation And Lighting:
      1.   All openings into outer air shall be screened with a wire screen not
to be more coarse than sixteen (16) mesh. Screen doors to the outer air shall
open outward and shall be self-closing.
      2.   All rooms where slaughtering, cutting and processing of meat is done
or utensils washed shall be properly vented and lighted with a minimum light
intensity of ten (10) foot-candles.
   D.   Water:
      1.   Hot and cold running water shall be accessible to all rooms where
slaughtering, cutting and processing of meats or washing of utensils is done.
      2.   The water supply shall be adequate and of a safe, sanitary quality.
   E.   Restrooms:
      1.   Adequate and convenient water flush toilets shall be provided for
all employees.
      2.   Adequate and convenient hand washing facilities shall be provided
within or adjacent to toilet rooms including hot and cold water, soap and
individual sanitary towels.
      3.   No toilet room shall open directly into any room where meat is
slaughtered, cut, processed or stored. The doors of all toilet rooms shall be
self-closing. Toilet rooms shall be kept in a clean condition and in good
repair, well lighted and ventilated to the outside air and be effectively
screened against insects and free from rodents.
      4.   Toilet floors shall be of cement or other nonabsorbent materials.
   F.   Sewers: All sewer drains shall be connected to a sewage disposal system
and shall be properly trapped.
   G.   Plumbing: All plumbing shall conform to the city plumbing code.
   H.   Equipment: Racks, receptacles or other equipment used for retaining
such parts as the head, tongue, tail, thymus glands, viscera and other usable
meats shall be constructed so as to prevent contact of said meats with the
floor.
   I.   Pens: The pens for feeding of livestock shall not be located within
seventy five feet (75') of the slaughterhouse. (1996 Code § 8.12.030)
5-3-5: OPERATION STANDARDS:
All slaughterhouses shall comply with the following standards of operation:
   A.   Floors, Walls And Ceilings: The floors, walls and ceilings of all rooms
where slaughtering, cutting and processing of meats is done shall be kept clean
and in good repair.
   B.   Utensils And Equipment:
      1.   All multiuse utensils, show and display cases or windows, counters,
shelves, tables, stoves, refrigerators and other equipment shall be kept clean
and in good repair.
      2.   All utensils used in the slaughtering, processing, cutting or
handling of meat or meat products shall be thoroughly clean and effectively
subject to an approved bactericidal process at the end of each day's operation;
provided, however, that if any diseased animal is slaughtered, all utensils and
equipment shall be thoroughly cleaned and effectively subjected to an approved
bactericidal process before being again used for any purpose. Bactericidal
treatment shall be accomplished by one or more of the following:
         a.   Immersion for at least five (5) minutes in hot water at a
temperature of at least one hundred seventy degrees Fahrenheit (170°F);
         b.   Exposure to live steam whereby the temperature of the utensils is
maintained at one hundred seventy degrees Fahrenheit (170°F) for two (2)
minutes; or
         c.   Immersion for at least two (2) minutes in a chlorine rinse
containing at least one hundred parts per million (100 ppm) of available
chlorine. For this method of bactericidal treatment, a three (3) compartment
vat shall be required. The first compartment is to be used for washing, the
second for plain rinsing and the third for chlorine immersion.
      3.   After bactericidal treatment, utensils shall be stored in a clean,
dry place, protected from flies, dust and other contamination. All single
service utensils or materials shall be kept in a sanitary container and stored
in a clean dry place until used, and shall be handled in a sanitary manner.
   C.   Storage Temperature: All readily perishable meat and meat products
shall be stored at or below fifty degrees Fahrenheit (50°F).
   D.   Surrounding Premises: All corrals, yards and pens and surrounding
premises shall be kept clean of filth and offal so as to prevent fly breeding,
rodent infestation and the creation of a nuisance.
   E.   Employees:
      1.   All employees and owners, while engaged in slaughtering, cutting and
processing meats, shall wear clean outer garments, shall keep their hands clean
and shall not expectorate or use tobacco in any form.
      2.   No employee shall resume work in a slaughterhouse after visiting the
toilet without first washing his hands, and signs shall be posted in each
toilet room specifying this requirement. (1996 Code § 8.12.040)
5-3-6: EMPLOYEE HEALTH REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Diseased Employees Prohibited: No person who has a communicable disease
or who is a carrier of a communicable disease shall work or be permitted to
work in a slaughterhouse.
   B.   Health Certificate Required: All employees, owners or other persons
employed or working in a slaughterhouse shall obtain a health certificate from
a licensed medical physician showing that such employee, owner or person is
free from any communicable disease, and such certificate shall be obtained
within not to exceed seven (7) days after such owner, employee or person
commences work. Such health certificate shall be renewed at least once each
year, and all such health certificates shall be posted or kept on file at the
slaughterhouse.
   C.   Authority To Require Medical Exam: The health officer shall also have
the authority to require a medical examination by a licensed physician of any
person working in a slaughterhouse whom he has reason to believe is infected
with a communicable disease, and if any person shall refuse to have any such
examination made, he shall not work or be permitted to work in any such
slaughterhouse. (1996 Code § 8.12.050)
5-3-7: INSPECTION OF CARCASSES:
It shall be unlawful for any slaughterhouse to permit the removal therefrom of
any carcass or any part thereof until the same shall be inspected and stamped
as approved or condemned by the meat inspector. Condemned carcasses or parts
thereof shall be placed in a separate locked room until the meat inspector has
treated same in such fashion as to prevent its use for food. (1996 Code §
8.12.060)
5-3-8: SALE OF MEAT:
   A.   Refrigeration And Cleanliness Of Premises: All fresh meats offered for
sale or sold for consumption or resale within the city shall be offered for
sale or sold within a building, which building shall be equipped with proper
iceboxes, refrigerators or storage rooms for the handling of such fresh meats,
and the building shall be thoroughly screened to exclude ingress of flies and
shall be kept free of insects and rodents. (1996 Code § 8.12.110)
   B.   Inspection Required: Except as provided in this chapter, it shall be
unlawful for any person to sell, expose for sale, or have in his possession
with intent to sell for human consumption any meat of any cattle, sheep, swine
or goats, or other like animals (but not including fowl), unless such animal
shall have been slaughtered in a slaughterhouse holding a permit issued by the
city and the meat thereof inspected and stamped by a meat inspector of the
city. (1996 Code § 8.12.120)
5-3-9: INSPECTION FEES:
Each slaughterhouse shall pay to the city clerk each thirty (30) days a fee of
fifty cents ($0.50) per head for all cattle and calves, and twenty five cents
($0.25) per head for all swine, sheep or goats inspected by the meat inspector
in the preceding calendar month. Payment of inspection fees shall be made on or
before the tenth of the month for all inspections made during the preceding
calendar month. (1996 Code § 8.12.100)
5-3-10: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the meat or food products
manufactured from the meat of animals slaughtered or inspected under the
supervision of the United States government or the meat inspection of any other
city in the state of New Mexico in which the inspection of meats has been
approved by the city council and bearing the stamp showing that such meat has
been inspected and passed by the meat inspector of such other city. (1996 Code
§ 8.12.130)
5-3-11: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of
this code. (1996 Code § 8.12.160; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FLAMMABLE MATERIALS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Scope And Application Of Provisions; Exemptions
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Flammable Materials Prohibited; Exceptions
5-4-4: Existing Nonconforming Uses
5-4-5: Aboveground Fuel Tanks; Approval Procedure
5-4-6: Emergency Situations
5-4-7: Exemptions From Provisions
5-4-1: SCOPE AND APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   This chapter shall apply to all automotive service stations, service
stations located inside buildings, and fleet vehicle service stations, bulk
plants, systems, equipment, devices, or containers, of whatsoever kind of
character, presently maintained, hereinafter constructed or installed within
the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   This chapter shall apply to the storage, handling, and use of flammable
and combustible liquids, including waste liquids, as herein defined and
classified.
   C.   All applications and installations must meet or exceed the requirements
as set forth by the current editions of NFPA on flammable/combustible liquids
and the automotive and marine service station codes.
   D.   The use and sale of flammable/combustible liquids other than liquefied
petroleum gas in containers not exceeding ten (10) gallons and which have
received, and have printed thereon, the approval of the national board of fire
underwriters and interstate commerce commission, are specifically exempted from
the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 623, 11-28-2000)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
Including, but not limited to the following, as defined in the current editions
of NFPA, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section:
ABOVEGROUND TANK: A tank that is installed above grade, at grade, or below
grade without backfill.
APPROVED: Acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction.
AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION: The organization, office, or individual
responsible for approving equipment, materials, and installation, or a
procedure.
BUILDING OF IMPORTANCE: A building that is considered not expendable in an
exposure fire.
COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID: A. A liquid having a flash point at or above one hundred
degrees Fahrenheit (100°F) (37.8°C).
   B.   "Combustible liquids" shall be subdivided as follows:
      1.   Class II liquids shall include those having flash points at or above
one hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100°F) (37.8°C) and below one hundred forty
degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C).
      2.   Class IIIA liquids shall include those having flash points at or
above one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C) and below two hundred
degrees Fahrenheit (200°F) (93°C).
      3.   Class IIIB liquids shall include those having flash points at or
above two hundred degrees Fahrenheit (200°F) (93°C).
FLAMMABLE LIQUID: A. A liquid having a flash point below one hundred degrees
Fahrenheit (100°F) (37.8°C) and having a vapor pressure not exceeding forty
(40) psia (2,068 mm Hg) at one hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100°F) (37.8°C)
shall be known as a class I liquid.
   B.   Class I liquids shall be subdivided as follows:
      1.   Class IA liquids shall include those having flash points below
seventy three degrees Fahrenheit (73°F) (22.8°C) and having a boiling point
below one hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100°F) (37.8°C).
      2.   Class IB liquids shall include those having flash points below
seventy three degrees Fahrenheit (73°F) (22.8°C) and having a boiling point at
or above one hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100°F) (37.8°C).
      3.   Class IC liquids shall include those having flash points at or above
seventy three degrees Fahrenheit (73°F) (22.8°C) and below one hundred degrees
Fahrenheit (100°F) (37.8°C).
LABELED: Equipment or materials to which has been attached a label, symbol, or
other identifying mark of an organization that is acceptable to the authority
having jurisdiction and concerned with product evaluation, that maintains
periodic inspection of production of labeled equipment or materials, and by
whose labeling the manufacturer indicates compliance with appropriate standards
or performance in a specified manner.
LISTED: Equipment, materials, or services included in a list published by an
organization that is acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction and
concerned with evaluation of products or services, that maintains periodic
inspection of production of listed equipment or materials or periodic
evaluation of services, and whose listing states that either the equipment,
material, or service meets appropriate designated standards or has been tested
and found suitable for a specified purpose.
STORAGE TANK: Any vessel having a liquid capacity that exceeds sixty (60)
gallons (227 l), is intended for fixed installation, and is not used for
processing. (Ord. 623, 11-28-2000)
5-4-3: FLAMMABLE MATERIALS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity to
use, handle, store, sell, keep or have in possession flammable and/or
combustible liquids on any premises within the corporate limits of the city
aboveground, except for those uses specifically excepted in sections
5-4-1 and
5-4-7 of this chapter. Any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity
found guilty of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of committing a misdemeanor and shall be punished. (Ord. 623, 11-
28-2000)
5-4-4: EXISTING NONCONFORMING USES:
Presently existing bulk plants, service stations and existing liquefied
petroleum gas services, and existing fuel tanks for class IIIA flammable
liquid, with a capacity of not more than two hundred fifty (250) gallons, used
for residential use, provided they are protected from physical damage, and the
installation meets or exceeds current governing codes, as required in the
current edition of NFPA, may continue operation as a nonconforming use and
shall be governed by title 9, chapter 6 of this code. Storage tanks shall be in
accordance with NFPA specifications as to distance requirements. (Ord. 623, 11-
28-2000; amd. 2002 Code)
5-4-5: ABOVEGROUND FUEL TANKS; APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
Firms, corporations or other legal entities (applicants) may request, in
writing, addressed to the Artesia fire department, permission to install and
operate each aboveground fuel tank. The fire chief and fire marshal shall
review each application for compliance of this chapter. The fire chief shall
take the application before the governing body of the city, along with the
department's recommendation for approval or denial. If approved, the applicant
will be granted written permission by the Artesia fire department (fire chief
and fire marshal) Permission may be granted for as long as the entity making
application and receiving permission is the legal owner of the tank and/or the
facility where the tank is located. Upon change of ownership of the tank and/or
facility, the new entity may operate the tank for the same purpose intended in
the original request and at the existing location and/or facility, or the new
owner has thirty (30) days to remove and dispose of the tank. Any change of
usage of the tank on the same facility or relocation of the tank to a new
facility will constitute need for a new application for permission for
installation and operation. Application shall be made in writing to the Artesia
fire department (fire marshal) including the following information:
   A.   Legal ownership of the tank.
   B.   Legal ownership of the facility where the tank will be located.
   C.   Reason for the request; need for the tank and intended usage.
   D.   Specifications of construction of the tank.
   E.   Specifications of the tank appurtenances.
   F.   Specifications of the material to be stored in the tank.
   G.   Drawing of the installation, including spill containment, volume and
construction type, surface and surrounding drainage and topography of the
facility proposed as a location, tank location on the facility in relation to
all structures and property lines, safety and firefighting provisions for
specific items relating to a particular location and facility.
   H.   Details and plans for usage relating to number and quantity of fill
cycles and any other pertinent details.
   I.   Tanks shall be installed in accordance with the current edition of NFPA
and other building codes and city ordinances as approved by the Artesia fire
department (fire marshal). (Ord. 623, 11-28-2000)
5-4-6: EMERGENCY SITUATIONS:
   A.   Emergency Situations Enumerated: Aboveground fuel tanks may be
installed for a one year period for the following reasons:
      1.   Current underground tanks are leaking; or
      2.   Underground tanks need to be brought up to code; and/or
      3.   The city council determines that an emergency exists.
   B.   Permit Required: Firms, corporations or other legal entities may
request (in writing), to install and operate each aboveground fuel tank under
this emergency clause and may be granted written permission by the Artesia fire
department (fire marshal).
   C.   Tank Capacity: The capacity of each temporary aboveground tank shall
not exceed two thousand (2,000) gallons each.
   D.   Removal Required: After a one year period, the firms, corporations, or
other legal entities receiving permission to install a tank shall remove the
aboveground tank or tanks. (Ord. 623, 11-28-2000)
5-4-7: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
This chapter specifically excludes the following: petroleum refining operations
and sales, storage and distribution located within an M-1 or M-2 district; dry
cleaning establishment located in a C district; aviation operations within an
airport zone; liquefied petroleum gas service locations where natural gas is
not available; the use and storage of flammable and/or combustible liquids that
are within an NFPA approved storage tank or vessel; the use or storage of
liquefied petroleum gas with a container capacity not exceeding twenty five
(25) gallons; motor vehicles that use liquefied petroleum gas for propulsion
fuel; and health, safety or emergency type applications. (Ord. 623, 11-28-2000)
CHAPTER 5
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS AND PREMISES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Dangerous Conditions Prohibited
5-5-2: Notice Of Dangerous Conditions
5-5-3: Abatement Required; Objections
5-5-4: Appeals
5-5-5: Abatement By City
5-5-1: DANGEROUS CONDITIONS PROHIBITED:
Whenever any building or structure is ruined, damaged and dilapidated, or any
premises is covered with ruins, rubbish, wreckage or debris, the city council
may, by resolution, find that the ruined, damaged and dilapidated building or
structure or premises is a menace to the public comfort, health, peace or
safety and require the removal from the city of the building, structure, ruins,
rubbish, wreckage or debris. (Ord. 683, 6-22-2004)
5-5-2: NOTICE OF DANGEROUS CONDITIONS:
A copy of the resolution shall be served on the owner, occupant or agent in
charge of the building, structure or premises. If the owner, as shown by the
real estate records of the county clerk, occupant or agent in charge of the
building, structure or premises cannot be served within the city, a copy of the
resolution shall be posted on the building or structure or premises, and a copy
of the resolution shall be published one time in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city. (Ord. 683, 6-22-2004)
5-5-3: ABATEMENT REQUIRED; OBJECTIONS:
A. Within ten (10) days of the receipt of the copy of the resolution or of the
posting and publishing of a copy of the resolution, the owner, occupant or
agent in charge of the building, structure or premises shall commence removing
the building, structure, ruins, rubbish, wreckage or debris, or file a written
objection with the municipal clerk asking for a hearing before the city
council.
B. If a written objection is filed as required in this chapter, the city
council shall:
1. Fix a date for a hearing on this resolution and objection;
2. Consider all evidence for and against the removal resolution at the hearing;
and
3. Determine if the resolution should be enforced or rescinded. (Ord. 683, 6-
22-2004)
5-5-4: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by the determination of the city council may appeal to the
district court by giving written notice of appeal to the city council by filing
such notice with the municipal clerk within five (5) days after the
determination made by the city council and additionally by filing a petition in
the district court within twenty (20) days after the determination made by the
city council. The district court shall hear the matter de novo and enter
judgment in accordance with its findings. The burden of persuasion shall be
upon the party taking the appeal to show by a preponderance of the evidence
that the decision rendered by the city council is erroneous. (Ord. 893, 8-27-
2012)
5-5-5: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
A. Abatement By City; Costs: If the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the
building, structure or premises fails to commence removing the building,
structure, ruins, rubbish, wreckage or debris:
1. Within ten (10) days of being served a copy of the resolution or of the
posting and publishing of the resolution; or
2. Within five (5) days of the determination of the city council that the
resolution shall be enforced; or
3. After the district court enters judgment sustaining the determination of the
city council;
the city may remove the building, structure, ruins, rubbish, wreckage or debris
at the cost and expense of the owner. The reasonable cost of the removal shall
constitute a lien against the building, structure, ruins, rubbish, wreckage or
debris so removed and against the lot or parcel of land from which it was
removed. The lien shall be foreclosed in the manner provided in sections 3-36-
1 through 3-36-6 New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978.
B. Salvageable Material As Payment: With the consent of the owner, the city may
pay for costs of removal of any condemned building, structure, wreckage,
rubbish or debris, by granting to the person removing such materials the legal
title to all salvageable materials in lieu of all other compensation.
C. Restoration Of Premises: Any person or firm removing any condemned building,
structure, wreckage, rubbish or debris, shall leave the premises from which the
materials have been removed in a clean, level and safe condition, suitable for
further occupancy or construction and with all excavations filled. (Ord. 683,
6-22-2004)
CHAPTER 6
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-6-1: Policy
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Unlawful Practice
5-6-4: Discrimination In The Sale Or Rental Of Housing
5-6-5: Discrimination In Residential Real Estate Related Transactions
5-6-6: Discrimination In The Provision Of Brokerage Services
5-6-7: Exemption
5-6-8: Administration
5-6-9: Education And Conciliation
5-6-10: Enforcement
5-6-11: Investigations; Subpoenas; Giving Of Evidence
5-6-12: Enforcement By Private Persons
5-6-13: Interference, Coercion Or Intimidation
5-6-14: Separability Of Provisions
5-6-15: Prevention Of Intimidation In Fair Housing Cases
5-6-1: POLICY:
It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations, for
fair housing throughout the city. (Ord. 820, 5-12-2009)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
AGGRIEVED PERSON: Includes any person who:
   A.   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice; or
   B.   Believes that they will be injured by a discriminatory housing practice
that is about to occur.
COMPLAINANT: The person (including the chief elected official) who files a
complaint under section
5-6-10 of this chapter.
DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: An act that is unlawful under section
5-6-4,
5-6-5 or
5-6-6 of this chapter.
DWELLING: Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
FAMILIAL STATUS: One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of 18
years) being domiciled with:
   A.   A parent or another person having legal custody of such individual or
individuals; or
   B.   The designee of such parent or other person having such custody, with
the written permission of such parent or other person.
The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status
shall apply to any person who is pregnant, or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of eighteen (18)
years.
FAMILY: Includes a single individual.
HANDICAP: With respect to a person:
   A.   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or more
of such person's major life activities;
   B.   A record of having such an impairment; or
   C.   Being regarded as having such an impairment, but such term does not
include current, illegal use of or addiction to, a controlled substance (as
defined in section 102 of the controlled substances act [21 USC 802]).
MAYOR: The person who holds the highest elected position in the city and who is
signatory to the small cities community development block grant agreement with
the local government division.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
RESPONDENT: A. The person or other entity accused in a complaint of an unfair
housing practice; and
   B.   Any other person or entity identified in the course of investigation
and notified as required with respect to respondents so identified under
section
5-6-10 of this chapter.
TO RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant. (Ord. 820, 5-
12-2009)
5-6-3: UNLAWFUL PRACTICE:
Subject to the provisions of subsection B of this section and section
5-6-7 of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in this section shall apply to:
   A.   All dwellings except as exempted by subsection B of this section.
   B.   Nothing in section
5-6-4 of this chapter shall apply to:
      1.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three (3) such single-
family houses at any one time; provided further, that in the case of the sale
of any such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in
such house at the time of such sale, or who was not the most recent resident of
such house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this subsection shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any twenty four (24) month
period; provided further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not
own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any
express or voluntary agreement, title to, or any right to all or a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of, more than three (3) such single-family
houses at any one time; provided further, that the sale or rental of any such
single-family house shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only
if such house is sold or rented:
         a.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson
or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent,
salesperson or person, and
         b.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of subsection 5-6-4C of this
chapter, but nothing in this proviso shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title, or
      2.   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as their residence.
   C.   For the purposes of subsection B of this section, a person shall be
deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      1.   They have, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      2.   They have, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of their own personal residence in providing
sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      3.   They are the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five (5) or more families. (Ord. 820, 5-12-2009)
5-6-4: DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING:
As made applicable by section
5-6-3 of this chapter and except as exempted by subsection 5-6-3B and section
5-6-7 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   A.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   B.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   C.   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   D.   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   E.   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin. (Ord. 820, 5-12-2009)
5-6-5: DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE RELATED TRANSACTIONS:
   A.   In General: It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose
business includes engaging in residential real estate related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   B.   Definition: As used in this section, the term "residential real estate
related transaction" means any of the following:
      1.   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         a.   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining
a dwelling; or
         b.   Secured by residential real estate.
      2.   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   C.   Appraisal Exemption: Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged
in the business of furnishing appraisals of real property to take into
consideration factors other than race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial
status or national origin. (Ord. 820, 5-12-2009)
5-6-6: DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES:
It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers'
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against them in
the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation because of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin. (Ord.
820, 5-12-2009)
5-6-7: EXEMPTION:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association or
society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised or
controlled by, or in conjunction with, a religious organization, association or
society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, color, national origin or handicap.
Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to
the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members. (Ord. 820, 5-12-2009)
5-6-8: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the mayor of the city.
   B.   The mayor may delegate any of these functions, duties and powers to
employees of the city or to boards of such employees, including functions,
duties and powers with respect to investigating, conciliating, hearing,
determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or otherwise acting as to any
work, business or matter under this chapter. The mayor shall by rule prescribe
such rights of appeal from the decisions of their hearing examiners, to other
hearing examiners or to other offices in the city, to boards of officers or to
themselves, as shall be appropriate and in accordance with law.
   C.   All city departments and agencies shall administer their programs and
activities relating to housing and community development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the mayor to further such purposes. (Ord. 820, 5-12-2009)
5-6-9: EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION:
Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the mayor shall commence such
educational conciliatory activities as will further the purposes of this
chapter. He/she shall call conferences of persons in the housing industry and
other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of this chapter
and the suggested means of implementing it and shall endeavor with their advice
to work out programs of voluntary compliance and enforcement. (Ord. 820, 5-12-
2009)
5-6-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that they will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter "aggrieved
person") may file a complaint with the mayor. Complaints shall be in writing
and shall contain such information, and be in such form as the mayor requires.
Upon receipt of such a complaint, the mayor shall furnish a copy of the same to
the person or persons, who have committed, or are about to commit, the alleged
discriminatory housing practice. Within thirty (30) days after receiving a
complaint or within thirty (30) days after the expiration of any period
referenced under subsection C of this section, the mayor shall investigate the
complaint and give notice in writing to the aggrieved person whether they
intend to resolve it. If the mayor decides to resolve the complaints, they
shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing
practice by informal methods of conference, conciliation and persuasion.
Nothing said or done in the course of such informal endeavors may be made
public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this chapter
without the written consent of the persons concerned. Any employee of the city
who shall make public any information in violation of this provision shall be
deemed guilty of violation of this chapter, and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more
than ninety (90) days, or both.
   B.   A complaint under subsection A of this section shall be filed within
one hundred eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice
occurred. Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which
the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may
be reasonably and fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer
to the complaint against him and with the leave of the mayor, which shall be
granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his answer
at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   C.   If within thirty (30) days after a complaint is filed with the mayor,
the mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this chapter, the
aggrieved person may, within thirty (30) days thereafter, file a complaint with
the secretary of the department of housing and urban development. The mayor
will assist in this filing.
   D.   If the mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance within
thirty (30) days of the complaint, the aggrieved person may, within thirty (30)
days thereafter commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint.
If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is
about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such
practice or order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   E.   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this chapter, the burden of proof
shall be on the complainant.
   F.   Whenever an action filed by an individual comes to trial, the mayor
shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary compliance. (Ord.
820, 5-12-2009)
5-6-11: INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS; GIVING OF EVIDENCE:
   A.   In conducting an investigation, the mayor shall have access at all
reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and other
evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and copy such
materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such persons as
are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided,
however, that the mayor first complies with the provisions of the fourth
amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The mayor may issue
subpoenas to compel their access to, or the production of, such materials, or
the appearance of such persons and may issue interrogatories to a respondent,
to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as would apply if the
subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a civil action in
the United States district court for the district in which the investigation is
taking place. The mayor may administer oaths.
   B.   Upon written application to the mayor, a respondent shall be entitled
to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in the name of the
mayor to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as subpoenas
issued by the mayor. Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall show
on their face the name and address of such respondent and shall state that they
were issued at their request.
   C.   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the mayor shall be entitled to the
same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings in United States
district courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a subpoena issued at the
request of a respondent shall be paid by the respondent.
   D.   Within five (5) days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the mayor to revoke or modify the subpoena. The mayor shall
grant the petition if they find that the subpoena requires appearance or
attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it requires production of
evidence which does not relate to any matter under investigation, that it does
not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be produced, that
compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other good reason.
   E.   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena the mayor, or other
person at whose request it was issued, may petition for its enforcement in the
municipal or state court for the district in which the person to whom the
subpoena was addressed resides, was served or transacts business.
   F.   Any person who wilfully fails or neglects to attend and testify, or to
answer any lawful inquiry, or to produce records, documents or other evidence,
if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order of the
mayor shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned
not more than ninety (90) days, or both. Any person who, with intent thereby to
mislead the mayor, shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement
of fact in any report, account, record or other document submitted to the mayor
pursuant to his subpoena or other order, or shall wilfully neglect or fail to
make or cause to be made full, true and correct entries in such reports,
accounts, records or other documents, or shall wilfully mutilate, alter or by
any other means falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined not more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than ninety (90) days, or
both.
   G.   The city attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the mayor
participates as a party or as amicus curiae pursuant to this chapter. (Ord.
820, 5-12-2009)
5-6-12: ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS:
   A.   The rights granted by sections
5-6-3 through
5-6-6 of this chapter, may be enforced by civil actions in the appropriate
United States district, state or local court. A civil action shall be commenced
within one hundred eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing
practice occurred; provided, however, that the court shall continue such civil
case brought pursuant to this section or subsection 5-6-10D of this chapter
from time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes that the
conciliation efforts of the mayor are likely to result in satisfactory
settlement of the alleged discriminatory housing practice complained of in the
complaint made to the mayor and which practice forms the basis for the action
in court; and provided, however, that any sale, encumbrance or rental
consummated prior to the issuance of any court order issued under the authority
of this chapter and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrances or tenant
without actual notice of the filing of a complaint or civil action under the
provisions of this chapter shall not be affected.
   B.   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) punitive damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney
fees in the case of a prevailing plaintiff; provided, that the said plaintiff
in the opinion of the court is not financially able to assume said attorney
fees. (Ord. 820, 5-12-2009)
5-6-13: INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION:
It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by sections
5-6-3 through
5-6-6 of this chapter. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action. (Ord. 820, 5-12-2009)
5-6-14: SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the chapter and the application
of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other
circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 820, 5-12-2009)
5-6-15: PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES:
Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of force
wilfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   A.   Any person because of their race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because they are or have been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or negotiating for the
sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any dwelling, or applying
for or participating in any service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   B.   Any person because they are or have been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      1.   Participating, without discrimination because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in subsection A of
this section; or
      2.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   C.   Any citizen because they are or have been, or in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection A of
this section, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to so participate, shall be fined not more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00), or imprisoned not more than ninety (90) days or
both. (Ord. 820, 5-12-2009)
CHAPTER 7
CLEANUP OF CLANDESTINE DRUG LABORATORY SITES
SECTION:
5-7-1: Title
5-7-2: Findings And Intent
5-7-3: Definitions
5-7-4: Declaration Of Public Nuisance
5-7-5: Clandestine Drug Laboratories
5-7-6: Penalties
5-7-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CLEANUP OF CLANDESTINE DRUG
LABORATORY SITES ORDINANCE. (Ord. 745, 2-13-2007)
5-7-2: FINDINGS AND INTENT:
The city council finds and states its intent as follows: Clandestine drug
laboratory sites are increasing in number in Artesia and are a serious health
threat to the community. Remediation and cleanup of the residually contaminated
portions of clandestine drug laboratory sites is essential to assure the
health, safety and welfare of the community. Property owners must share the
responsibility for the clandestine drug laboratory sites on their property by
bearing the initial costs of remediation and cleanup of such sites, subject to
restitution as provided in this chapter. This chapter is timely and appropriate
because current laws and city regulations are insufficient to address the
aforementioned problems. The restrictions contained herein are neither
overbroad nor vague and are narrowly tailored to serve a substantial government
interest. (Ord. 745, 2-13-2007)
5-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
CLANDESTINE DRUG LABORATORY: Property on which methamphetamine, ecstasy, LSD or
any other controlled substance is being manufactured or on which there is an
attempt to manufacture, or where a person is arrested for having on any
property any chemicals or equipment used in manufacturing methamphetamine,
ecstasy, LSD or any other controlled substance. In the case of a mobile home or
recreational vehicle space rental park, clandestine drug laboratory means the
mobile home or recreational vehicle in which methamphetamine, ecstasy, LSD or
any other controlled substance is being manufactured or where a person is
arrested for having in the mobile home or recreational vehicle any chemicals or
equipment used in manufacturing methamphetamine, ecstasy, LSD or any other
controlled substance.
Clandestine drug laboratory shall include any place or area where chemicals or
other waste materials used in clandestine drug laboratories have been located.
COMMUNITY: The city of Artesia, New Mexico.
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Any drug or substance or counterfeit substance listed in
the controlled substances act, chapter 30, article 31 New Mexico Statutes
Annotated, 1978, and all regulations which shall at any time be adopted by the
state of New Mexico thereunder.
DRUG LABORATORY SITE REMEDIATION FIRM: A firm that is approved by the Artesia
police department and that performs remediation and cleanup of residual
contamination from the manufacture of methamphetamine, ecstasy, LSD or any
other controlled substance or the storage of chemicals or equipment used in the
manufacture of methamphetamine, ecstasy, LSD or any other controlled substance.
ECSTASY (3,4-METHYLENEDIOXY AMPHETAMINE): Has the same meaning prescribed in
section 30-31-6 New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978, and includes any of the
precursor chemicals, regulated chemicals, or such other substances or equipment
as may be used in the unlawful manufacture of ecstasy and any derivatives
thereof.
GROSS CONTAMINATION: The chemicals, equipment and other items that are found in
a clandestine drug laboratory and that are removed by a law enforcement officer
or law enforcement agency.
INDUSTRIAL OR ENVIRONMENTAL HYGIENIST FIRM: A firm that is recommended by the
Artesia police department to conduct preremediation testing and postremediation
testing for the remediation and cleanup of residual contamination from the
manufacture of methamphetamine, ecstasy, LSD, or any other controlled substance
or the storage of chemicals or equipment used in manufacturing methamphetamine,
ecstasy, LSD or any other controlled substance.
LSD (LYSERGIC ACID DIETHYLAMIDE): Has the same meaning prescribed in section
30-31-6 New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978, and includes any of the precursor
chemicals, regulated chemicals, other substances or equipment used in the
unlawful manufacture of LSD and any derivatives thereof.
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Any employee of a police or public safety department
administered by the state or any political subdivision of the state where the
employee is responsible for the prevention and detection of crime and the
enforcement of the penal, traffic or highway laws of this state as defined in
section 30-20A-2D New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978, and specifically
includes the Artesia police department.
METHAMPHETAMINE: Has the same meaning prescribed in section 30-31-7 New Mexico
Statutes Annotated, 1978, and includes any of the precursor chemicals,
regulated chemicals, other substances or equipment used in the unlawful
manufacture of methamphetamine and any derivatives thereof.
OWNER: Any person, firm, corporation or other entity that owns, in whole or in
part, any property subject to this chapter.
PROPERTY: Real or personal property, including the area within a structure and
the area that surrounds a structure and that is within the land boundary or
property lines of any of the following:
   A.   Property that can be used for residential purposes or is occupied by
people for any length of time for any purpose.
   B.   Property that is governed by the uniform owner- resident relations act,
sections 47-8-1 et seq., New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978, or the mobile
home park act, sections 47-10-2 et seq., New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978.
   C.   A mobile home as defined in section 47-10-2 New Mexico Statutes
Annotated, 1978.
   D.   A recreational vehicle as defined in section 66-1-4.15 New Mexico
Statutes Annotated, 1978, and for purposes of this chapter, "recreational
vehicle" shall also include a recreational travel trailer as defined in section
66-1-4.15 New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978.
   E.   A vehicle as that term is defined in the uniform traffic ordinance as
adopted by the city of Artesia.
RESIDUALLY CONTAMINATED PORTION OF THE PROPERTY: The structure or unit where
gross contamination was removed and the area of any adjacent structure, unit or
land where visible evidence of residual contamination is observed by a law
enforcement officer, including any of the following:
   A.   If gross contamination is removed from a house, mobile home or
recreational vehicle and the notice of removal is posted for the entire house,
mobile home or recreational vehicle, then the entire house, mobile home or
recreational vehicle, not just the room or rooms in which the gross
contamination is found, shall be deemed the residually contaminated portion of
the property.
   B.   If gross contamination is removed from a detached shed or garage, the
other structures or property on the land are not affected and the notice of
removal is posted only for the detached shed or garage, then the detached shed
or garage shall be deemed the residually contaminated portion of the property.
   C.   If gross contamination is removed from a hotel room, motel room or
apartment unit, the adjacent rooms are not affected and the notice of removal
is posted only for the contaminated room or apartment unit, then the
contaminated room or apartment unit shall be deemed the residually contaminated
portion of the property.
   D.   If gross contamination is removed from a vehicle, then the entire
vehicle shall be deemed the residually contaminated portion of the property.
(Ord. 745, 2-13-2007)
5-7-4: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Upon identification by a law enforcement officer of the existence of a
clandestine drug laboratory site, the property shall be deemed to constitute a
public nuisance until such time as the remediation and cleanup required by this
chapter is completed. (Ord. 745, 2-13-2007)
5-7-5: CLANDESTINE DRUG LABORATORIES:
   A.   Procedures: If a law enforcement officer discovers a clandestine drug
laboratory or arrests a person for having on any property chemicals or
equipment used in manufacturing methamphetamine, ecstasy, or any other
controlled substance or a derivative of methamphetamine, ecstasy, LSD or any
other controlled substance, the law enforcement officer shall:
      1.   At the time of the discovery or arrest, deliver a copy of the notice
of removal pursuant to subsection B of this section to the owner of the
property if the owner is on the site at the time of delivery, or to the on site
manager if the manager is on the site at the time of delivery, or to the on
site drop box if available. In the case of a tenant owned unit in a mobile home
or recreational vehicle space rental park, the officer shall deliver a copy of
the notice of removal to the occupant of the unit if the occupant is on site at
the time of delivery and to the on site park landlord if the park landlord is
on site at the time of delivery.
      2.   If the owner or the owner of a mobile home or recreational vehicle
space rental park or their agent for service is not personally provided a copy
of the notice of removal under the procedures of subsection A1 of this section,
then within ten (10) city business days after the discovery or arrest, the law
enforcement officer shall mail the notice of removal by certified mail to the
owner of the property and the owner's on site manager or, in the case of a
mobile home or recreational vehicle space rental park, to the owner of the
mobile home or recreational vehicle, if applicable, and to the park landlord.
These persons are deemed to have received the notice of removal three (3) days
after the notice is mailed.
      3.   If the owner or the owner of a mobile home or recreational vehicle
space rental park cannot be identified, the notice of removal may be posted on
any conspicuous place in or upon the property pursuant to subsection A6 of this
section.
      4.   The notice of removal shall also be sent to the following:
         a.   The Artesia water department.
         b.   The Artesia fire department.
The law enforcement officer shall complete an affidavit of service and of any
posting of notice on the property.
      5.   After a law enforcement or other agency removes the gross
contamination on the property, a law enforcement officer shall order the
removal of all persons from the residually contaminated portion of the property
or dwelling unit, or, in the case of a mobile home or recreational vehicle
space rental park, from the unit located on the property.
      6.   After the law enforcement officer removes all persons pursuant to
subsection A5 of this section, the law enforcement officer shall affix the
notice of removal in a conspicuous place on the property or, in the case of a
mobile home or recreational vehicle space rental park, on the unit located on
the property.
   B.   Notice: The notice of removal shall be in writing and shall contain all
of the following:
      1.   The following shall be printed in large bold type at the top and
bottom of the notice:
Substandard Building. Do Not Enter. Unsafe To Occupy.
      2.   A statement that it is unlawful for any person other than the owner,
landlord, manager, law enforcement, an industrial or environmental hygienist
firm and/or a drug laboratory site remediation firm to enter the residually
contaminated portion of the property until the owner remediates the residually
contaminated portion of the property, or in the case of a mobile home or
recreational vehicle space rental park, the unit located on the property.
      3.   A statement that a clandestine drug laboratory was seized or a
person was arrested on the property for having chemicals or equipment used in
the manufacturing of methamphetamine, ecstasy, LSD or any other controlled
substance on the property.
      4.   The date of the seizure or arrest.
      5.   The address or location of the property, including the
identification of any dwelling unit, room number, apartment number or vehicle
identification number.
      6.   The name of the law enforcement agency or other agency that seized
the clandestine drug laboratory or made the arrest and the agency's contact
telephone number.
      7.   A statement that hazardous substances, toxic chemicals or other
waste products may still be present on the property or, in the case of a mobile
home or recreational vehicle space rental park, in the unit located on the
property.
      8.   A statement that the failure to remediate the residual contamination
pursuant to the cleanup of clandestine drug laboratory sites ordinance is
punishable by imprisonment up to ninety (90) days and/or a fine up to five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
      9.   A statement that disturbing the notice of removal posted on the
property is punishable by imprisonment up to ninety (90) days and/or a fine up
to five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      10.   A statement that the owner of the property shall remediate the
residually contaminated portion of the property in compliance with subsection C
of this section.
      11.   A statement that if an owner fails to provide any notice required
by this section, the owner is subject to penalty and a buyer, tenant or
customer may void a purchase contract, rental agreement or other agreement
related to the property.
   C.   Remediation By Owner: The owner of the property shall remediate the
residually contaminated portion of the property by retaining an industrial or
environmental hygienist firm to pretest the property to determine the extent of
the contamination and the nature of the required remediation. When the
industrial or environmental hygienist firm determines that remediation is
required, the owner shall retain a drug laboratory site remediation firm to
conduct the remediation. The industrial or environmental hygienist firm and the
drug laboratory site remediation firm shall be separate and unaffiliated
business entities. Both firms shall be approved by and currently registered
with the Artesia police during the time they participate in the remediation of
residual contamination. The owner shall retain the industrial or environmental
hygienist firm and the drug laboratory site remediation firm within thirty (30)
days from the day of delivery of personal service of the notice of removal or
within thirty five (35) days of the date the notice of removal is mailed by
certified mail or posted on the property. Remediation shall be completed in
accordance with the standards for remediation of residual contamination
approved by the Artesia police department within sixty (60) days of the day of
delivery of personal service of notice to the owner or within sixty five (65)
days of the date notice is mailed by certified mail to the owner.
   D.   Remediation Procedures: An industrial or environmental hygienist firm
and the drug laboratory site remediation firm retained to remediate the
residually contaminated portion of any property pursuant to this section shall
comply with the best practices and standards for remediation of residual
contamination as approved by the Artesia police department. The industrial or
environmental hygienist firm shall notify the owner whenever the firm
determines that any structure requires remediation of contamination as required
in this section. The owner shall send such notification of required remediation
of contamination to the Artesia police department. Within one city working day
after the remediation is complete, the drug laboratory site remediation firm
shall notify the Artesia police department and the industrial or environmental
hygienist firm that the property is ready for final inspection. After
inspection by the industrial or environmental hygienist firm and approval by
the Artesia police department, the industrial or environmental hygienist firm
shall issue a final clearance document certifying that remediation of the
residually contaminated portion of the property was completed pursuant to the
standards for remediation of residual contamination and shall deliver the
certification document or send the document by certified mail, or by personal
service to the owner. The owner shall provide a copy of the certification of
completed remediation to each person and entity listed in subsection A4 of this
section, the city's chief building official, and the law enforcement agency
that issued the notice. After the final clearance document has been issued,
both of the following apply:
      1.   The owner, landlord, lien holder or manager of the property is not
required to comply with subsection G of this section.
      2.   Any person may thereafter use, enter, occupy, rent or sell the
property. The issuance of the document certifying that remediation of the
residually contaminated portion of the property was completed pursuant to the
standards for remediation of residual contamination shall be a prerequisite for
a certificate of occupancy to be issued by the city.
   E.   Contaminated Vehicles: If gross contamination is removed from a
vehicle, the notice of removal required in subsection B of this section shall
be sent by certified mail to the owner and lien holder of record of the
vehicle, if any exists. Impounded vehicles containing residual contamination
shall not be released to the owner or lien holder until the remediation has
been completed and paid for by the owner or lien holder. Remediation shall be
accomplished by following the same procedures as set forth in subsection D of
this section. "Remediation costs" as defined in subsection J of this section
shall be in addition to any other towing, storage, or other impoundment fees.
   F.   Record Retention: The city shall maintain and make available on request
all notices of removal and any documents that are created pursuant to
subsection D of this section. A retention schedule for such documents shall be
established by the city clerk.
   G.   Notice To Buyers And Occupants: The following notice requirements apply
until the remediation is complete as provided in subsection D of this section:
      1.   Within five (5) days after a buyer signs a contract to purchase
property, the owner shall notify the buyer in writing that methamphetamine,
ecstasy, or any other controlled substance was manufactured on such property or
that an arrest, as described in subsection A of this section, was made. The
buyer shall acknowledge receipt of the notice. A buyer may cancel the purchase
contract within five (5) days after receiving the notice without liability. If
the owner does not comply with this subsection G1, the buyer may void the
purchase contract.
      2.   Landlords and their agents shall provide written notice to all
prospective tenants for dwelling units that the dwelling unit was the subject
of a notice of removal, as described in subsections A and B of this section,
that methamphetamine, ecstasy, or any other controlled substance was
manufactured on the property or that an arrest, as described in subsection A of
this section, was made. The tenant shall acknowledge receipt of the notice
before taking possession of the property or before signing a rental agreement
for the property. The notice shall be attached to the rental agreement. If the
landlord or their agent does not comply with this subsection G2, the tenant may
void the rental agreement. For purposes of this paragraph, "dwelling unit"
shall include, but not be limited to, mobile homes and recreational vehicles.
      3.   Before a customer occupies a room that was the subject of the notice
of removal, as described in subsection A of this section, the owner or manager
shall notify the customer in writing the room was the subject of a notice of
removal as described in subsections A and B of this section, that
methamphetamine, ecstasy, LSD or any other controlled substance was
manufactured in the room or that an arrest, as described in subsection A of
this section, was made. The customer shall acknowledge receipt of the notice
before taking possession of the room and before signing a room rental
agreement. If the owner or manager does not comply with this subsection G3, the
customer may void the agreement.
      4.   Owners are required to notify all agents selling, leasing or renting
property that is the subject of a notice of removal that such property is the
subject of a notice of removal. When a sales, leasing or rental agent is
notified that the property is the subject of a notice of removal, such agent
shall notify in writing all prospective buyers, tenants or other occupants
about the notice of removal and manufacture of methamphetamine, ecstasy, LSD or
any other controlled substance on the property or that an arrest, as described
in subsection A of this section, was made on the property. Notice shall be made
in the same manner as required of the owner in this subsection G.
      5.   When a law enforcement officer has ordered the removal of all
persons from property pursuant to this chapter, owners, landlords and their
agents shall continue to be subject to the requirement to not permit people to
occupy such property. Compliance with this subsection shall under no
circumstances eliminate the requirement that the property not be occupied.
   H.   Mobile Home Or Recreational Vehicle Space Rental Parks: If a mobile
home or recreational vehicle in a space rental park contains a clandestine drug
laboratory, the landlord of the park, on receipt of a notice pursuant to
subsection A of this section, shall notify the owner and lien holder of record
of the unit to remove the unit from the park within thirty (30) days. This
provision shall not apply when the owner of the contaminated mobile home or
recreational vehicle is also the owner of the mobile home or recreational
vehicle space rental park in which such contaminated mobile home or
recreational vehicle is located. If the unit is not removed within thirty (30)
days, the landlord of the park shall remediate the contamination following the
requirements set forth in subsections C and D of this section.
   I.   Restitution To Owner: A person who operates a clandestine drug
laboratory and who is not the owner of the property shall pay restitution to
the owner of the property for all costs that the owner incurred to remediate
the property and, in the instance of a mobile home or recreational vehicle, the
cost incurred by the owner of a space rental park for moving and/or remediating
such property.
   J.   Remediation By City: If an owner of property, a vehicle owner, a
vehicle lien holder or an owner of a mobile home or recreational vehicle space
park, as described under subsection H of this section, fails to comply with the
remediation of the residually contaminated property or portion of the property
as required in this section, the city may remediate the residually contaminated
portion of the property. If the city is unable to locate the owner within ten
(10) days after the notice provided in subsection B1 of this section, the city
may proceed with remediation. If the city remediates the contamination, the
owner shall immediately pay to the city all costs related to such remediation.
If the owner fails to pay the city for its costs of remediation, the city shall
be entitled to file a lien against such property for all costs related to the
remediation and additionally bring a personal action against the owner for such
remediation costs and for foreclosure of the lien. "Remediation costs" shall
include, but are not limited to, the expense for posting, physical security of
the contaminated site, notification of affected people and notification of
businesses or any other entity, expenses related to the recovery of costs,
laboratory fees, cleanup services, costs for testing for residual
contamination, removal costs, cost incurred for an industrial or environmental
hygienist firm and a drug laboratory site remediation firm, and impoundment
fees, reasonable attorney fees and any other expenses incurred by the city.
When a contaminated vehicle is impounded, the vehicle shall not be released to
the owner or a lien holder until remediation is completed and paid by the owner
or lien holder and impoundment fees are paid by the owner or lien holder.
Remediation costs for vehicles in which gross contamination is found shall
include the costs for testing for residual contamination regardless of whether
residual contamination is actually required to be remediated. The city or its
contractors may remove any real or personal property as part of its remediation
effort. (Ord. 745, 2-13-2007)
5-7-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any violation of this chapter shall be punished in accordance with the
provisions contained within title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
   B.   Each day of noncompliance with any provision of this chapter shall be
deemed to be a separate offense. (Ord. 745, 2-13-2007)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS AND ALLEYS
(Rep. by Ord. 833, 12-8-2009)
CHAPTER 2
RESERVED
(Ord. 809, 1-27-2009)
CHAPTER 3
SWIMMING POOL DRAINING
SECTION:
6-3-1: Purpose
6-3-2: Draining Requirements
6-3-3: Responsible Parties
6-3-4: Penalties
6-3-1: PURPOSE:
The city council has determined that the draining of swimming pools into the
alleys within the city can create soil conditions in which the city's solid
waste collection trucks and service trucks of other utilities will create
severe rutting, making said alleys impassable, and therefore, the city has
determined to enact this chapter prohibiting the draining of swimming pools
into alleys of the city and providing that they shall be drained only into the
nearest storm sewer or street improved with curb, gutter and pavement designed
to carry off the excess water. (1996 Code § 12.16.010)
6-3-2: DRAINING REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drain any swimming pool into any alley
within the city, and all waters drained from swimming pools within the city
shall be carried into the nearest storm sewer or street improved with curb,
gutter and pavement designed to carry excess water. (1996 Code § 12.16.020)
6-3-3: RESPONSIBLE PARTIES:
The owners of the property on which the swimming pools are constructed are
hereby declared to be responsible to see that there is compliance with this
chapter, and such owners shall be the responsible party to be prosecuted for
any violations hereof. (1996 Code § 12.16.030)
6-3-4: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to penalty, as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this
code, to be imposed by the municipal court of the city. (1996 Code § 12.16.040;
amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Liability For Resurfacing Expense: In addition to the penalty imposed
for violation hereof, the owner of the property from which a swimming pool has
been drained into an alley, in violation of this chapter, shall be assessed the
actual cost and expense of any grading, filling and resurfacing necessary to
restore the alley to its condition prior to such unlawful draining of swimming
pool water into said alley. The public works director shall determine the cost
of any such repair and restoration and report it to the city clerk-treasurer
who shall separately designate and assess same on the next ensuing monthly
statement for municipal water, sewer and solid waste collection charges sent to
the owner of the property violating any provision of this chapter. (1996 Code §
12.16.050; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PARADES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Short Title
6-4-2: Definitions
6-4-3: Permit Required
6-4-4: Application For Permit
6-4-5: Standards For Issuance Of Permit
6-4-6: Approval Or Denial Of Permit; Issuance
6-4-7: Compliance With Permit Requirements
6-4-8: Public Conduct During Parades
6-4-9: Exemptions From Provisions
6-4-10: Revocation Of Permit
6-4-11: Violation; Penalties
6-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter will be known as the PARADE ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ARTESIA.
(1996 Code § 12.08.010)
6-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms set out in this section shall have
the following meanings:
PARADE: Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession of
any kind or any similar display, in or upon any street, park or other public
place within the corporate limits of the city.
PARADE PERMIT: A permit as required by this chapter. (1996 Code § 12.08.020)
6-4-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful and in violation of this chapter for any person to engage in,
participate in, aid, form or start any "parade", as defined in section
6-4-2 of this chapter, without first having obtained a permit therefor as
provided in this chapter. (1996 Code § 12.08.030)
6-4-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit under the provisions of
this chapter shall file in duplicate a written application for such permit to
the chief of police at least ten (10) days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade, and said written application shall set forth
the following information: (1996 Code § 12.08.050; amd. 2002 Code)
      1.   The name and address of the person seeking to conduct such parade.
      2.   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization or organizations, the name and address of the headquarters of
such organization or organizations and the authorized and responsible head or
heads thereof.
      3.   The name and address of the person who will be the parade chairman
and who will be responsible for its conduct.
      4.   The date when the parade is to be conducted.
      5.   The route to be traveled by the parade from the starting point to
the termination point.
      6.   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles
which, will constitute such parade, including the types of animals and the
description of vehicles.
      7.   The hours when such parade will commence and terminate.
      8.   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets proposed to be traveled.
      9.   The location by streets of any assembly areas for such parade.
      10.   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at any
such assembly area or areas.
      11.   If the parade is designated to be held by, or on behalf of, or for
any person or organization other than the person making the application, then
the application shall be accompanied by a written authority from the person or
organization proposing to hold the parade authorizing the person applying
therefor to apply for the permit on behalf of the person or organization
proposing to hold the parade. (1996 Code § 12.08.050)
   B.   The chief of police, where good cause is shown, shall have the
authority to consider any application hereunder which is filed less than ten
(10) days before the date such parade is proposed to be conducted. (1996 Code §
12.08.050; amd. 2002 Code)
6-4-5: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The chief of police may issue a parade permit when, from considering the
application and such other information as may be otherwise obtained, he finds
that:
   A.   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safety
or orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to the parade route;
   B.   The conduct of the parade and of the assembly areas for the parade will
not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection or ambulance
service within the city;
   C.   The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury to
persons or property or to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance;
and
   D.   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays during the course
of such parade. (1996 Code § 12.08.060)
6-4-6: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF PERMIT; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Notice Of Denial: The chief of police shall act upon the application
for a parade permit within forty eight (48) hours after the filing thereof. If
the chief of police disapproves the application, he shall mail to the applicant
immediately a notice of his actions stating the reasons for his denial of a
parade permit. (1996 Code § 12.08.070; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Alternate Permit: The chief of police, in denying an application for a
parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of a parade on a
date, at a time or over a route different from that named by the applicant. An
applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall, within five (5) days
after the notice of the action of the chief of police, or within such shorter
period of time as may be required on account of the alternate date designated,
file a written notice of acceptance of the alternate permit with the chief of
police. Any alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements of, and
have the effect of, any other parade permit under the provisions of this
chapter. (1996 Code § 12.08.080)
   C.   Issuance Of Permit; Possession Required: The duplicate copy of the
application for a parade permit shall, if and when approved by the chief of
police, serve as the parade permit. If the chief of police approves an
application, he shall mark both the original copy of the application and the
duplicate copy thereof "Approved" and affix his signature to such approval. The
parade chairman or other person heading or leading a parade shall carry the
duplicate approved copy of the application upon his person during the conduct
of the parade. (1996 Code § 12.08.090)
6-4-7: COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
A permittee hereunder shall comply with all of the conditions set forth in the
parade permit; that is, with all requirements set forth in the application and
approved by the chief of police, and all other applicable laws and ordinances
relating to the parade. (1996 Code § 12.08.100)
6-4-8: PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES:
During an authorized parade, the chief of police shall:
   A.   See that no person unreasonably hampers, obstructs, impedes or
interferes with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating in or used in a parade.
   B.   See that no driver of a vehicle not involved in the parade shall drive
between the vehicles or persons comprising the parade; provided, that the
vehicles, persons and animals in the parade are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
   C.   Prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along the street or
thoroughfare or part thereof constituting a part of the route of the parade if,
in the opinion of the chief of police, it is reasonably necessary to prohibit
or restrict parking along the parade route. (1996 Code § 12.08.110)
6-4-9: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Funeral processions;
   B.   Students participating in educational activities; provided, that such
conduct is under the immediate direction and supervision of the public school
authorities; and
   C.   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions. (1996
Code § 12.08.040)
6-4-10: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The chief of police shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued
hereunder if at any time the conduct of the parade is in violation of the terms
of authorization and it appears that such violation is likely to result in a
violation of the standards under which he is authorized to issue a parade
permit, as set forth in section
6-4-5 of this chapter. (1996 Code § 12.08.120)
6-4-11: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of any section of this chapter shall
be subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (1996
Code § 12.08.130; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
SECTION:
6-5-1: Lease Of Airplane Hangar
6-5-2: Business Operations
6-5-3: Contract Specifications
6-5-1: LEASE OF AIRPLANE HANGAR:
   A.   Application For Lease; Hangar Space Assigned: Any person desiring to
enter into a lease agreement for the placement of an airplane hangar at the
Artesia municipal airport shall make application to the airport manager
specifying the space needed, the proposed plans for construction, and the
duration and lease terms desired. The airport manager shall tentatively assign
hangar space to the applicant within the area designated on the airport master
plan for such purpose. The application shall then be presented to the city
council for consideration and negotiation of an appropriate lease agreement.
(1996 Code § 2.44.010; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Construction Of Hangar: Upon approval of a lease agreement, the
applicant may commence construction; however, any hangar constructed shall be
built and continuously maintained in accordance with design plans and standards
approved by the city council and in compliance with all applicable building
codes and federal, state and local laws and regulations.
   C.   Airport Rental Contracts: With the prior consent of the city council
and subject to such terms and regulations as the city council may impose,
persons having airport rental contracts, may, as a use incident to the storage
of aircraft and aircraft accessories, utilize the leased premises for: 1) the
storage of other personal properties of the lessee; 2) conduct business
operations for others; and 3) the placement of gasoline and fuel storage tanks.
(1996 Code § 2.44.010)
6-5-2: BUSINESS OPERATIONS:
   A.   Application For Space: Any person desiring to use space at the Artesia
municipal airport to conduct the business of aircraft sales, aircraft parts and
accessories sales, aircraft maintenance or repair, or any type of flight
operation permitted by FAA regulations, including charter flights, flight
training, air taxi service, air ambulance service, demonstrations for sales,
financing and insuring of aircraft, loading and unloading of aircraft, fueling,
lubrication and servicing of aircraft or any other business operations using
the municipal airport as a base therefor, shall make application to the city
council, and no such business operations shall be commenced or continued except
pursuant to the terms of an agreement in writing approved by the city council.
(1996 Code § 2.44.020)
   B.   Compliance With Other Laws: Any person conducting business at the
Artesia municipal airport shall at all times be in full compliance with all
federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations and requirements
applicable to such business operations. (1996 Code § 2.44.030)
6-5-3: CONTRACT SPECIFICATIONS:
Contracts made between the city and persons desiring to conduct business
operations at the municipal airport shall specify that the municipal airport
will at all times be maintained as a public airport and that none of the rights
granted pursuant to such contracts shall be exclusive rights and that all
business operations shall be conducted without discrimination as to any person
on account of race, color, creed, sex, age, national origin, or religion. Such
contracts shall further provide that the city reserves the right to further
develop and improve the municipal airport and to enter into such other
contracts for the conducting of the same or similar or other business
operations as the city may deem appropriate. (1996 Code § 2.44.040; amd. 2002
Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Short Title
7-1-2: Utility Rates
7-1-2-1: Service Outside City Limits
7-1-3: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
7-1-4: Disposition Of Proceeds
7-1-5: Protest Of Rates
7-1-6: Violation; Penalties
7-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the UTILITY ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ARTESIA, NEW
MEXICO. (1996 Code § 13.02.010)
7-1-2: UTILITY RATES:
   A.   Water Rates:
      1.   Rates Established:
         a.   The rates charged for consumption and use of City water shall be
as follows:
WATER RATE SCHEDULE
                            Base Rate (For 5,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                            Gallons)
Domestic users inside City
(effective date May 1, 2018                      
for water used in April
2018):
                               Base Rate (For 5,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                               Gallons)
Domestic users inside City
(effective date May 1, 2018                         
for water used in April 2018):
 First 5,000 gallons          $ 8.45               $0.00
 5,001 - 10,000               8.45                 1.57
 10,001 - 25,000              16.32                1.66
 25,001 - 50,000              41.24                1.75
 50,001 - 100,000             84.92                1.84
 100,001 - 9,999,999+         176.67               1.97
 
                             Base Rate (For 6,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                             Gallons)
Domestic users outside City
(effective date May 1, 2018                       
for water used in April
2018):
                               Base Rate (For 6,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                               Gallons)
Domestic users outside City
(effective date May 1, 2018                         
for water used in April 2018):
 First 6,000 gallons          $ 18.30              $0.00
 6,001 - 10,000               18.30                2.62
 10,001 - 25,000              28.79                2.71
 25,001 - 50,000              69.44                2.88
 50,001 - 100,000             138.99               2.97
 100,001 - 9,999,999+         287.69               3.92
 
                             Base Rate (For 12,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                             Gallons)
Domestic users outside City
with 2 dwellings on 1 meter
(effective date May 1, 2018,                       
for water used in April
2018):
                             Base Rate (For 12,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                             Gallons)
Domestic users outside City
with 2 dwellings on 1 meter
(effective date May 1, 2018,                       
for water used in April
2018):
 First 12,000 gallons       $ 34.44               $0.00
 12,001 - 20,000            34.44                 2.62
 20,001 - 50,000            55.42                 2.71
 50,001 - 100,000           136.72                2.88
 100,001 - 200,000          280.92                2.97
 200,001 - 9,999,999+       578.32                3.99
 
                             Base Rate (For 18,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                             Gallons)
Domestic users outside City
with 3 dwellings on 1 meter
(effective date May 1, 2018,                       
for water used in April
2018):
                             Base Rate (For 18,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                             Gallons)
Domestic users outside City
with 3 dwellings on 1 meter
(effective date May 1, 2018,                       
for water used in April
2018):
 First 18,000 gallons       $ 50.58               $0.00
 18,001 - 30,000            50.58                 2.62
 30,001 - 75,000            82.04                 2.71
 75,001 - 150,000           203.99                2.88
 150,001 - 300,000          420.29                2.97
 300,001 - 9,999,999+       866.39                3.99
 
                             Base Rate (For 24,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                             Gallons)
Domestic users outside City
with 4 dwellings on 1 meter
(effective date May 1, 2018,                       
for water used in April
2018):
                             Base Rate (For 24,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                             Gallons)
Domestic users outside City
with 4 dwellings on 1 meter
(effective date May 1, 2018,                       
for water used in April
2018):
 First 24,000 gallons       $ 70.10               $0.00
 24,001 - 40,000            70.10                 2.62
 40,001 - 100,000           112.05                2.71
 100,001 - 200,000          271.47                2.88
 200,001 - 400,000          544.17                2.97
 400,001 - 9,999,999+       1,127.17              3.99
 
                              Base Rate (For 7,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                              Gallons)
Commercial users inside City
(effective date May 1, 2018,                       
for water used in April
2018):
                               Base Rate (For 7,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                               Gallons)
Commercial users inside City
(effective date May 1, 2018,                        
for water used in April 2018):
 First 7,000 gallons          $ 21.52              $0.00
 7,001 - 10,000               21.52                1.84
 10,001 - 25,000              27.02                1.92
 25,001 - 50,000              55.85                2.10
 50,001 - 100,000             108.30               2.27
 100,001 - 9,999,999+         221.90               2.96
 
                              Base Rate (For 6,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                              Gallons)
Commercial users outside City
(effective date May 1, 2018,                       
for water used in April
2018):
                               Base Rate (For 6,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                               Gallons)
Commercial users outside City
(effective date May 1, 2018,                        
for water used in April 2018):
 First 6,000 gallons          $ 26.36              $0.00
 6,001 - 10,000               26.36                2.27
 10,001 - 25,000              35.45                2.45
 25,001 - 50,000              72.15                2.62
 50,001 - 100,000             137.70               2.80
 100,001 - 9,999,999+         277.50               4.11
 
                             Base Rate (For 7,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                             Gallons)
Morningside users (effective
date May 1, 2018, for water                       
used in April 2018):
                             Base Rate (For 7,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                             Gallons)
Morningside users (effective
date May 1, 2018, for water                       
used in April 2018):
 First 7,000 gallons        $ 11.83              $0.00
 7,001 - 10,000             11.83                1.57
 10,001 - 25,000            16.55                1.66
 25,001 - 50,000            41.47                1.75
 50,001 - 100,000           85.15                1.84
 100,001 - 9,999,999+       176.90               2.97
 
                            Base Rate (For 6,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                            Gallons)
Transport users for use
inside the City (effective                       
date May 1, 2018, for water
used in April 2018):
                               Base Rate (For 6,000 Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
                               Gallons)
Transport users for use inside
the City (effective date May                        
1, 2018, for water used in
April 2018):
 First 6,000 gallons          $ 21.50              $0.00
 6,001 - 10,000               21.50                2.10
 10,001 - 25,000              29.89                2.27
 25,001 - 50,000              63.97                2.45
 50,001 - 100,000             125.15               2.62
 100,001 - 9,999,999+         256.25               3.93
 
(Ord. 1022, 2-13-2018)
         b.   Water usage in excess of the amounts shown on the water rate
schedule shall be permitted only pursuant to contract negotiated on an
individual basis with approval of the City Council.
      2.   Computation Of Charges: Water charges shall be computed in multiples
of five cents ($0.05) and billed to the next five cents ($0.05) figure.
      3.   Hearing Regarding Disputes: Any person so desiring shall be entitled
to a hearing before the City Council with respect to his water rate
classification. (Ord. 624, 1-9-2001)
      4.   Annual Rate Increase: Beginning in March 2019 and every year
thereafter, the usage rates for water service shall be reviewed by the Artesia
City Council, and may be increased as determined by the City Council.
   B.   Sewer Rates:
      1.   Rates Established: The sewer charges levied under this section shall
be as follows:
      SEWER RATE SCHEDULE
      Based On Water Usage Over The Winter Months
      Of November, December And January Of Each Year
                                          Base Rate Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
Domestic and commercial users inside City           
limits:
                                          Base Rate Per 1,000 Gallons Over Base
Domestic and commercial users inside City           
limits:
 First 7,000 gallons                     $13.48    $2.72
Domestic and commercial users outside               
City limits:
 First 6,000 gallons                     15.10     2.85
Morningside users                         9.41      1.76
Navajo refining use:                                
 First 7,000 gallons                     7.00      1.55
 
(Ord. 1022, 2-13-2018)
      2.   Hearing Regarding Disputes: Any person so desiring shall be entitled
to a hearing before the City Council with respect to his sewer rate
classification. (Ord. 624, 1-9-2001)
      3.   Annual Rate Increase: Beginning in March 2019 and every year
thereafter, the usage rates for sewer service shall be reviewed by the Artesia
City Council, and may be increased as needed as determined by the City Council.
   C.   Garbage Rates Established:
      1.   The rates charged for collection and disposal of garbage, trash,
rubbish and refuse, except tree toppings, large brush and tree limbs 1 , shall
be as follows:
      GARBAGE COLLECTION RATES
Inside City limits:  
Inside City limits:                           
 Residential (effective May 1, 2018)        $ 26.95
 Commercial (effective May 1, 2018)          
  Twice a week/shared dumpster             29.98
  Twice a week/per dumpster (not shared)   45.90
  3 times a week/shared dumpster           44.30
  3 times a week/per dumpster (not shared) 69.70
  5 times a week/per dumpster (not shared) 109.46
 Institutional                              Same as commercial
 Trailer parks, per space                   $20.78
 Apartments, per unit                       23.45
Outside City limits:                          
 Residential (effective May 1, 2018)        36.36
 Commercial:                                 
  2 times a week (effective May 1, 2018)   55.08
  3 times a week (effective May 1, 2018)   79.62
 Institutional                              Same as commercial
 Trailer parks, per space                   $23.92
 Apartments, per unit                       26.64
 
(Ord. 1022, 2-13-2018)
      2.   Each property with one or more residences and one or more businesses
shall be charged for each residence and each business. (Ord. 624, 1-9-2001)
      3.   Commencing the month of March 2019, and every year thereafter, all
garbage collection rates shall be reviewed by the Artesia City Council, and may
be increased as needed as determined by the City Council. (Ord. 1022, 2-13-
2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-4-6 of this title.
7-1-2-1: SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   The city of Artesia, New Mexico owns and operates a municipal water
system, a municipal solid waste system, and a municipal wastewater system
(herein "systems"). The primary responsibility of said city systems is to
furnish city utility services for the use of the residents and inhabitants
within the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   Prospective utility customers outside the corporate city limits may
have access to city utility services upon application to and approval by the
city council conditioned upon the applicant's agreement to abide by the
provisions of this chapter and such other conditions as the city council may
require.
   C.   Any new or existing customer receiving water or wastewater services
within or without the city corporate limits shall also be required, as a
condition for service or continued service of water or wastewater utility
services, to additionally receive solid waste services from the city, unless
the city determines that providing solid waste services would not be in the
best interests of the city due to logistic or economic factors. (Ord. 861, 2-
22-2011)
7-1-3: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Rendition Of Bills: The city shall bill persons, firms or corporations
subject to this chapter for utility service charges monthly under a cycle
billing schedule established by the city clerk. Such bills shall include
charges for water service, sewer service and garbage collection and shall be
payable upon receipt. All such bills shall be payable at the office of the city
clerk in the city hall of Artesia.
   B.   Charges A Lien: Utility charges shall, until paid, constitute a lien on
the property connected with said utilities, and in the event of nonpayment,
certificates of lien shall be filed and foreclosed in the manner provided by
law. (1996 Code § 13.24.020)
   C.   Delinquent Payments; Discontinuance Of Service; Fees: In the event a
billing for water, sewer and garbage service is not paid within fourteen (14)
days after the date billed, it shall be delinquent. In the event any billing
for water, sewer and garbage services has not been paid within thirty (30) days
after the due date, utility service to the user shall be discontinued. A
fifteen dollar ($15.00) late fee, in addition to the past due bill shall be
paid prior to restoration of utility service. If restoration of utility service
occurs after normal business hours (8:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M., Monday through
Friday), an additional ten dollar ($10.00) fee shall be paid. In order to avoid
the utility service being discontinued, the past due utility billing must be
received at the office of the city clerk in the city hall of Artesia by five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the last normal workday immediately preceding the date
set for disconnection of the utility service. (Ord. 606, 5-11-1999)
   D.   Assessment Of Charges; Protests:
      1.   Whenever any person shall fail or refuse to pay the charges for
utility services established in this chapter, the city council may make an
assessment against the property where the services were furnished in the amount
of the delinquency. The city clerk shall prepare an assessment roll on or
before June 30 of each year showing the name of the owner of the property, a
description of the property, the amount and period of the unpaid charge for the
fiscal year in which the delinquency occurred, and in such case, after the
assessment roll is prepared and filed with and by the city clerk, the city
clerk shall give ten (10) days' notice by one publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city, which notice shall state the property against
which the assessment has been made and shall state a time at which the city
council will meet to hear the appeals or protests of parties aggrieved by such
assessment. (1996 Code § 13.24.020; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   At the time fixed for such protest meeting, the city council shall
meet and hear and determine upon all appeals, protests and objections which may
be made by any interested party, and the city council shall correct any error
which may have been found in the assessments and, if the proceedings are found
to be regular, shall thereupon, by resolution, declare the confirmation of such
proceedings, and the proceedings and assessments so confirmed shall thereafter
be deemed the final determination of the regularity, validity and correctness
of the assessments.
      3.   On or before October 1 of each year, the city clerk shall certify to
the city council a statement of all delinquent assessments describing the land
affected, after which the assessment shall be a lien upon each lot or parcel of
land described in such confirmed assessment roll. It shall be the duty of the
city clerk to make out, sign, attest and file for record in the office of the
county clerk a claim of lien therefor, which lien shall bear interest and be
subject to foreclosure and collection of reasonable attorney fees as allowed by
law.
   E.   Contract For Collection: If an account becomes three (3) months
delinquent, and after diligent means to collect the balance owed, the city
clerk may enter into a contract with a collection agency for collection of
amounts due.
   F.   Payments Returned For Insufficient Funds: Payments that are returned
for insufficient funds are assessed an additional penalty of twenty dollars
($20.00) and subjects the utility service to disconnection. (1996 Code §
13.24.020)
7-1-4: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS:
   A.   Enterprise Funds: There will be permanent enterprise funds established
wherein all of the proceeds collected pursuant to this chapter shall be placed.
There shall be a "water fund", a "sewer fund", and a "garbage fund". Each
particular utility shall be self-sustaining, and the city shall set the rates
to be charged at a self-sustaining level. Each fund shall be segregated, and
the city may transfer excess funds from one fund to another fund. Excess funds
are funds that are not:
      1.   Obligated for equipment and operation of the utility;
      2.   Guaranteed for the payment of money for the city;
      3.   Designated for authorized payment of bonds or other evidence of the
city's indebtedness; or
      4.   Designated for a specified purpose.
   B.   Reserve Funds: There shall be established a reserve fund for each
utility fund to equal an amount necessary for six (6) months' operation of each
utility. These reserve funds shall be fully funded within at least five (5)
years. (1996 Code § 13.24.030)
7-1-5: PROTEST OF RATES:
Any person, firm or corporation shall have the right to protest the rates
established by the city council by filing a written protest with the city
clerk, and such protest shall be considered and acted upon by the city council,
and the protestant shall have the right to appear before the city council in
person and state the reasons for such protest. The city council shall have the
right to reconsider and increase the rates or decrease the rates, as may be
determined by the city council, to provide a just and fair charge for utility
services for each property within the city, so long as the rates are sufficient
to make each utility self-sustaining. (1996 Code § 13.24.040)
7-1-6: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a petty misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (1996 Code § 13.24.050;
amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Application For Water Service
7-2-3: Customer Deposits
7-2-4: Installation Of Meters
7-2-5: Separate Connections Required; Exceptions
7-2-6: Service Outside City Limits 1  (Rep. by Ord. 861, 2-22-2011)
7-2-7: Prohibited Acts
7-2-8: Tampering With, Damage To System
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-1-2-1 of this title.
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
COMMERCIAL USERS: All users or consumers of city water who are neither
classified as domestic or transport users.
DOMESTIC USER: Any user or consumer whose primary use of city water is in the
maintenance and habitation of a family dwelling house, apartment or mobile
home.
MULTIPLE UNIT: A building or group of buildings containing three (3) or more
separate dwelling units.
TRANSPORT USER: Any user or consumer whose primary use of city water is the
transportation of such water by common carrier or other means of conveyance,
either alone or in combination with other chemicals or elements, to a location
other than the property where the water is furnished by the city. (1996 Code §
13.04.010)
7-2-2: APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE:
Any person desiring utility service shall make written application to the city
clerk. The application shall be accompanied by a customer deposit and payment
for meter installation charges as may be required by this chapter. The
application shall contain the applicant's name, address, description of the use
for which water is desired, and such other information as the city clerk may
reasonably require. (1996 Code § 13.04.020)
7-2-3: CUSTOMER DEPOSITS:
   A.   Deposits Established: Applicants for utility services shall deposit
with the city clerk the following sums to ensure payment of charges for water
service:
      1.   Deposit Amounts:
 
                                Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
                                                   
Commercial users                 $100.00            $120.00
Domestic users                   60.00              70.00
Ice house, car wash, and laundry 350.00             400.00
Multiple units                   150.00             150.00
 
      2.   Multiple Unit Deposits: Owners and managers of multiple units are
required to place one deposit in the amount of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) for all units managed under their name. In the event the water
service charge of the rental unit becomes delinquent, the service deposit is
not applied to the rental unit account, but the utility charges are transferred
to the owner's utility account. The transferred amount is due and payable. If
the owner's account becomes delinquent, the owner's utility account service
deposit, or as much as may be necessary, may be applied by the city clerk to
the payment of the delinquent charges. Water utility service may be
discontinued to the owner's utility account until a new customer deposit is
made. (Ord. 728, 5-23-2006)
   B.   Refund Of Deposit: An applicant's service deposit shall be refunded
when his use of city water services shall cease; provided, that all water
service charges have been paid.
   C.   Application Of Deposit To Delinquent Bills: In the event water service
charges to any user become delinquent, the service deposit, or so much thereof
as may be necessary, may be applied by the city clerk to the payment of the
delinquent charges, and water utility services may be discontinued until a new
customer deposit is made. (1996 Code § 13.04.030)
7-2-4: INSTALLATION OF METERS:
   A.   Supervision; Access: Meters for the measurement of water utility
services shall be installed by or under the supervision of the city at each
premises where water service may be provided. Free access to utility meters
shall be granted the city at all times.
   B.   Charges: Charges for installation of meters shall include charges for
extension of a lateral line from the water main to the nearest property line
and shall be paid by the user in addition to water service charges and customer
deposits otherwise required by this chapter. Meter installation charges shall
be as established from time to time in amounts reasonably calculated to recover
the direct costs of labor and materials to the city for such installation.
(1996 Code § 13.04.040)
7-2-5: SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
A separate water tap and meter shall be required for each lot or tract of land
upon which a residence, mobile home, dwelling unit or business establishment
requiring water is located except as follows:
   A.   A lot containing more than one residence or business establishment
under the same ownership may be serviced by one water tap and meter under a
single monthly minimum charge. (1996 Code § 13.04.060)
   B.   Separate adjoining tracts or lots under the same ownership may be
serviced by one water tap and meter, but if there are two (2) or more
residences or business establishments on the lots, an appropriate monthly
minimum charge for the first seven thousand (7,000) gallons of water used
inside the city limits and six thousand (6,000) gallons of water used outside
the city limits shall be paid for each lot. (Ord. 626, 4-10-2001; amd. 2002
Code)
7-2-6: SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 861, 2-22-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 7-1-2-1 of this title.
7-2-7: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Prohibited Acts Generally: No person, other than employees or
representatives of the city, shall be authorized to connect, turn on, turn off,
or disconnect any water utility service or to remove, replace or repair any
equipment connected with such utility service.
   B.   Resale Of Water: It shall be unlawful for any person to resell to
others any city water services obtained from the city except by special
arrangement with the city council.
   C.   Unlawful Connections: No person shall make any connection in any manner
to the city water system without the prior knowledge, consent and supervision
of the city. (1996 Code § 13.04.080)
7-2-8: TAMPERING WITH, DAMAGE TO SYSTEM:
   A.   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful for any person not having authority
to do so to open any water hydrant or tamper with water utility services
furnished by the city to consumers or in any other way to molest, damage or
trespass upon any equipment or premises belonging to the city or used in
connection with the city water system.
   B.   Damage Assessment Fee: Damage by the customer to any water hydrant or
water utility service connection will result in a damage assessment fee of cost
plus labor to be billed on the utility billing. In the event any billing,
including the damage assessment, has not been paid, the utility service is
subject to disconnection of service. (1996 Code § 13.04.070)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER USE AND WASTEWATER CONTROL
SECTION:
7-3-1: General Provisions
7-3-1-1: Purpose And Policy
7-3-1-2: Administration
7-3-1-3: Abbreviations
7-3-1-4: Definitions
7-3-2: General Sewer Use Requirements
7-3-2-1: Prohibited Discharge Standards
7-3-2-2: National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
7-3-2-3: Local Limits
7-3-2-4: Right of Revision
7-3-3: Pretreatment Of Wastewater
7-3-3-1: Pretreatment Facilities
7-3-3-2: Accidental Discharge/ Slug Discharge Control Plans
7-3-3-3: Hauled Wastewater
7-3-4: Wastewater Discharge Permits
7-3-4-1: Wastewater Analysis
7-3-4-2: Wastewater Discharge Permit Requirement
7-3-4-3: Wastewater Discharge Permitting: Existing Connections
7-3-4-4: Wastewater Discharge Permitting: New Connections
7-3-4-5: Wastewater Discharge Permit Application Contents
7-3-4-6: Application Signatories And Certifications
7-3-4-7: New Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Decision
7-3-5: Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance
7-3-5-1: Wastewater Discharge Permit Duration
7-3-5-2: Wastewater Discharge Permit Contents
7-3-5-3: Permit Modification
7-3-5-4: Wastewater Discharge Permit Transfer
7-3-5-5: Wastewater Discharge Permit Revocation
7-3-5-6: Wastewater Discharge Permit Reissuance
7-3-5-7: Regulation Of Waste Received From Other Jurisdictions
7-3-6: Reporting Requirements
7-3-6-1: Baseline Monitoring Reports
7-3-6-2: Compliance Schedule Progress Reports
7-3-6-3: Reports On Compliance With Categorical Pretreatment Standard Deadline
7-3-6-4: Periodic Compliance Reports
7-3-6-5: Reports Of Changed Conditions
7-3-6-6: Reports Of Potential Problems
7-3-6-7: Reports From Unpermitted Users
7-3-6-8: Notice Of Violation/Repeat Sampling And Reporting
7-3-6-9: Analytical Requirements
7-3-6-10: Sample Collection
7-3-6-11: Date Of Receipt Of Reports
7-3-6-12: Recordkeeping
7-3-6-13: Certification Statements
7-3-7: Compliance Monitoring
7-3-7-1: Right Of Entry: Inspection And Sampling
7-3-7-2: Monitoring Facilities
7-3-7-3: Search Warrants
7-3-8: Confidential Information
7-3-9: Publication Of Users In Significant Noncompliance
7-3-10: Administrative Enforcement Remedies
7-3-10-1: Notification Of Violation
7-3-10-2: Consent Orders
7-3-10-3: Show Cause Hearing
7-3-10-4: Compliance Orders
7-3-10-5: Cease And Desist Orders
7-3-10-6: Administrative Fines
7-3-10-7: Emergency Suspension
7-3-10-8: Termination Of Discharge
7-3-11: Judicial Enforcement Remedies
7-3-11-1: Injunctive Relief
7-3-11-2: Civil Penalties
7-3-11-3: Criminal Prosecution
7-3-11-4: Remedies Nonexclusive
7-3-12: Supplemental Enforcement Action
7-3-12-1: Penalties For Late Reports
7-3-12-2: Performance Bonds
7-3-12-3: Liability Insurance
7-3-12-4: Payment Of Outstanding Fees And Penalties
7-3-12-5: Water Supply Severance
7-3-12-6: Public Nuisances
7-3-12-7: Informant Rewards
7-3-12-8: Contractor Listing
7-3-13: Affirmative Defenses To Discharge Violations
7-3-13-1: Upset
7-3-13-2: Prohibited Discharge Standards
7-3-13-3: Bypass
7-3-14: Wastewater Treatment Rates
7-3-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
7-3-1-1: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for Users of the Publicly Owned
Treatment Works (POTW) for the City of Artesia (COA or City) and enables the
COA to comply with all applicable State and Federal laws, including the Clean
Water Act (33 United States Code (U.S.C.) section 1251 et seq.) and the General
Pretreatment Regulations (Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)
Part 403). The objectives of this chapter are:
   A.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the City’s POTW that
will interfere with its operation.
   B.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the City’s wastewater
system passing through inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or
otherwise being incompatible with the City’s POTW.
   C.   To protect both POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater and
sludge in the course of their employment and the general public;
   D.   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge from
the City’s POTW.
   E.   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, inspection and improvement of the City’s POTW.
   F.   To enable the City to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit conditions, sludge use and disposal
requirements, and any other Federal or State laws to which the City’s POTW is
subject.
   G.   To provide for the City to regulate discharges into the wastewater
collection system through the issuance of permits to certain nondomestic users
along with enforcement of general requirements for other users, authorize
monitoring and enforcement activities, establish administrative review
procedures, require user reporting, and provide feesetting for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   H.   All users of the City’s wastewater system are subject to the provisions
of this chapter. Users beyond the City’s limit shall comply with this chapter
as well as any permits or orders issued hereunder as if located within the COA
boundaries and subject to the jurisdiction of the City and courts in the same
manner as any discharger located within the City limits. (Ord. 1097, passed - -
)
7-3-1-2: ADMINISTRATION:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the City’s POTW shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or
duties imposed upon the POTW may be delegated by the City’s POTW to a duly
authorized City employee. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-1-3: ABBREVIATIONS:
The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
BOD    - Biochemical Oxygen Demand
BMP    - Best Management Practice
BMR    - Baseline Monitoring Report
CFR    - Code of Federal Regulations
CIU    - Categorical Industrial User
COD    - Chemical Oxygen Demand
EPA    - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
gpd    - gallons per day
IU     - Industrial User
mg/l   - milligrams per liter
NPDES  - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
NSCIU  - Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User
POTW   - Publicly Owned Treatment Works POC - Pollutants of Concern
RCRA   - Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIU    - Significant Industrial User
SNC    - Significant Noncompliance
TSS    - Total Suspended Solids
U.S.C. - United States Code
 
(Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated.
ACT OR “THE   The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as
ACT”:         amended, 33 U.S.C. section 1251 et seq.
APPROVAL        EPA Region 6 Administrator
AUTHORITY:
                A.   If the User is a corporation:
                   1.   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice president of the corporation in
                charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar
                policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
                   2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating facilities,
                provided the manager is authorized to make management decisions that govern the
                operation of the regulated facility including having the explicit or implicit duty of
                making major capital investment recommendations, and initiate and direct other
                comprehensive measures to assure long term environmental compliance with environmental
                laws and regulations; can ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions
AUTHORIZED OR   taken to gather complete and accurate information for wastewater discharge permit
DULY AUTHORIZED requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to
REPRESENTATIVE  the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
OF THE USER:    B.   If the User is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner or
                proprietor, respectively.
                C.   If the User is a Federal, State, or local governmental facility: a director or
                highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
                the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
                D.   The individuals described in paragraphs A. through C., above, may designate a
                Duly Authorized Representative if the authorization is in writing, the authorization
                specifies the individual or position responsible for the overall operation of the
                facility from which the discharge originates or having overall responsibility for
                environmental matters for the company, and the written authorization is submitted to
                the COA.
                Schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other
                management practices to implement the prohibitions listed in Section
BEST MANAGEMENT 7-3-2-1 A. and B. [40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b)]. BMPs include treatment requirements,
PRACTICES OR    operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks,
BMPS:           sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage. [Note: BMPs also
                include alternative means (i.e., management plans) of complying with, or in place of
                certain established categorical Pretreatment Standards and effluent limits.]
BIOCHEMICAL     The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under
OXYGEN DEMAND   standard laboratory procedures for five (5) days at 20 degrees centigrade, usually
OR BOD:         expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
BYPASS:         Shall have the meaning set forth in Section
                7-3-13 of this chapter.
CATEGORICAL     Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance
PRETREATMENT    with sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. section 1317) that apply to a
STANDARD OR     specific category of Users and that appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts
CATEGORICAL     405 to 471.
STANDARD:
CATEGORICAL     An Industrial User subject to a categorical Pretreatment Standard or categorical
INDUSTRIAL      Standard.
USER:
COA OR CITY:    The City of Artesia or the City Council of Artesia.
CHEMICAL OXYGEN A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize all compounds, both organic and inorganic,
DEMAND OR COD:  in water.
CONTROL         The City of Artesia.
AUTHORITY:
DAILY MAXIMUM:  The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a pollutant collected during a
                calendar day.
                The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant during a calendar day. Where
DAILY MAXIMUM   Daily Maximum Limits are expressed in units of mass, the daily discharge is the total
LIMIT:          mass discharged over the course of the day. Where Daily Maximum Limits are expressed
                in terms of a concentration, the daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement
                of the pollutant concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
                Any person who contributes, causes, or allows the contribution of wastewater to the
                POTW that is of similar volume and/or chemical makeup to that of a residential
DOMESTIC USER:  dwelling unit. Discharges from a residential dwelling unit typically include up to 100
                gallons per capita per day, 0.2 pounds of BOD per capita per day and 0.17 pounds of
                TSS per capita per day.
ENVIRONMENTAL   The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water
PROTECTION      Management Division Director, the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized
AGENCY OR EPA:  official of said agency.
EXISTING        Any source of discharge that is not a “New Source.”
SOURCE:
EXISTING USER:  Any user which was discharging wastewater prior to the effective date of this chapter.
GRAB SAMPLE:    A sample that is taken from a waste stream without regard to the flow in the waste
                stream and over a period of time not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes.
INDIRECT
DISCHARGE OR    The introduction of pollutants into the POTW from any nondomestic source.
DISCHARGE:
                The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time,
INSTANTANEOUS   determined from the analysis of any discrete or composited sample collected,
LIMIT:          independent of the industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event. Daily
                Maximum and Instantaneous Limits will be established for each user.
                A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other
                sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations or its
                sludge processes, use or disposal; and therefore, is a cause of a violation of COA’s
                NPDES permit or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with
                any of the following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or
INTERFERENCE:   any more stringent State or local regulations: section 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste
                Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and
                Recovery Act (RCRA); any State regulations contained in any State sludge management
                plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act; the Clean Air
                Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the Marine Protection, Research, and
                Sanctuaries Act.
                Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the COA upon industrial or
LOCAL LIMIT:    commercial facilities to implement the general and specific discharge prohibitions
                listed in 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
LONG TERM       Data from a period of record of at least one (1) year.
AVERAGE:
                Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood products, pathological
MEDICAL WASTE:  wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding, surgical wastes, potentially
                contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis wastes.
MONTHLY         The sum of all “daily discharges” measured during a calendar month divided by the
AVERAGE:        number of “daily discharges” measured during that month.
MONTHLY AVERAGE The highest allowable average of “daily discharges” over a calendar month, calculated
LIMIT:          as the sum of all “daily discharges” measured during a calendar month divided by the
                number of “daily discharges” measured during that month.
                A.   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there is (or may
                be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the
                publication of proposed Pretreatment Standards under section 307(c) of the Act that
                will be applicable to such source if such Standards are thereafter promulgated in
                accordance with that section, provided that:
                   1.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed at a site at
                which no other source is located; or
                   2.   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces the
                process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an Existing
                Source; or
                   3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building, structure,
                facility, or installation are substantially independent of an Existing Source at the
                same site. In determining whether these are substantially independent, factors such as
                the extent to which the new facility is integrated with the existing plant, and the
                extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general type of activity as
                the Existing Source, should be considered.
NEW SOURCE.     B.   Construction on a site at which an Existing Source is located results in a
                modification rather than a New Source if the construction does not create a new
                building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of Section A.2. or
                3. above but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to existing process or production
                equipment.
                C.   Construction of a New Source as defined under this paragraph has commenced if the
                owner or operator has:
                   1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite construction program
                      a.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or equipment; or
                      b.   Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation, or
                removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary for the
                placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or equipment; or
                   2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities
                or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable time.
                Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or modified without
                substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering, and design studies do
                not constitute a contractual obligation under this paragraph.
NONCONTACT      Water used for cooling that does not come into direct contact with any raw material,
COOLING WATER:  intermediate product, waste product, or finished product.
                A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United States in quantities or
PASS THROUGH:   concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from
                other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the City’s NPDES
                permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
                Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, corporation, association,
PERSON:         joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, or any other legal entity; or
                their legal representatives, agents, or assigns. This definition includes all Federal,
                State, and local governmental entities.
pH:             A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution expressed in standard units.
                Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash, sewage, garbage,
                sewage sludge, munitions, Medical Wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials,
POLLUTANT:      radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt,
                municipal, agricultural and industrial wastes, and certain characteristics of
                wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or
                odor).
                The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the
                alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater prior to, or in lieu
PRETREATMENT:   of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW. This reduction or alteration can be
                obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes; by process changes; or by
                other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by
                an applicable Pretreatment Standard.
PRETREATMENT    Any substantive or procedural requirement related to pretreatment imposed on a User,
REQUIREMENTS:   other than a Pretreatment Standard.
PRETREATMENT    Prohibited discharge standards, categorical Pretreatment Standards, and Local Limits.
STANDARDS:
PROHIBITED
DISCHARGE       Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
STANDARDS OR    appear in Section
PROHIBITED      7-3-2-1 of this chapter.
DISCHARGES:
                A treatment works, as defined by section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. section 1292),
PUBLICLY OWNED  which is owned by the COA. This definition includes any devices or systems used in the
TREATMENT WORKS collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial
OR POTW:        wastes of a liquid nature and any conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment
                plant.
SEPTIC TANK     Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
WASTE:          and septic tanks.
SEWAGE:         Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing operations, etc.).
                Except as provided in paragraphs C. and D. of this Section, a Significant Industrial
                User is:
                A.   An Industrial User subject to categorical Pretreatment Standards; or
                B.   An Industrial User that:
                   1.   Discharges an average of twenty-five thousand (25,000) gpd or more of process
                wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown
                wastewater);
                   2.   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up five (5) percent or more of
                the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment plant; or
                   3.   Is designated as such by the COA on the basis that it has a reasonable
                potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for violating any
                Pretreatment Standard or Requirement.
SIGNIFICANT     C.   The COA may determine that an Industrial User subject to categorical Pretreatment
INDUSTRIAL USER Standards is a Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User rather than a Significant
(SIU):          Industrial User on a finding that the Industrial User never discharges more than one
                hundred (100) gallons per day (gpd) of total categorical wastewater (excluding
                sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater, unless specifically
                included in the Pretreatment Standard) and the following conditions are met:
                   1.   The Industrial User, prior to COA’s finding, has consistently complied with
                all applicable categorical Pretreatment Standards and Requirements.
                   2.   The Industrial User never discharges any untreated concentrated wastewater.
                D.   Upon a finding that a User meeting the criteria in Subsection B. of this part has
                no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for violating
                any Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, COA may at any time, on its own initiative
                or in response to a petition received from an Industrial User, and in accordance with
                procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6), determine that such User should not be considered a
                Significant Industrial User.
                Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration, which could cause a violation of the
                prohibited discharge standards in Section
SLUG LOAD OR    7-3-2-1 of this chapter. A Slug Discharge is any Discharge of a non-routine, episodic
SLUG DISCHARGE: nature, including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
                Discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause Interference or Pass Through, or
                in any other way violate the POTW’s regulations, Local Limits or Permit conditions.
STORM WATER:    Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural precipitation, and
                resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
                The person designated by COA to supervise the operation of the POTW, and who is
SUPERINTENDENT: charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter. The term also means
                a Duly Authorized Representative of the City of Artesia.
TOTAL SUSPENDED
SOLIDS OR       The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water,
SUSPENDED       wastewater, or other liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
SOLIDS:
USER OR         A source of indirect discharge. The source shall not include “domestic user” as
INDUSTRIAL      defined herein.
USER:
                Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from residential dwellings,
WASTEWATER:     commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities, and institutions,
                whether treated or untreated, which are contributed to the POTW.
WASTEWATER      An authorization or equivalent control document issued by the COA to users discharging
TREATMENT       wastewater to the POTW. The permit may contain appropriate treatment standards and
PERMIT:         requirements as set forth in this chapter.
WASTEWATER
TREATMENT PLANT That portion of the POTW which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage
OR TREATMENT    and industrial waste.
PLANT:
WEEKLY AVERAGE: The sum of all “daily discharges” measured during a calendar week divided by the
                number of “daily discharges” measured during that week. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
 
7-3-2: GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS:
7-3-2-1: PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS:
   A.   General Prohibitions. No User shall introduce or cause to be introduced
into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater resulting in Pass Through or
Interference. These general prohibitions apply to all Users of the POTW whether
or not they are subject to categorical Pretreatment Standards or any other
National, State, or local Pretreatment Standards or Requirements.
   B.   Specific Prohibitions. No User shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW, except as authorized by the COA, the following
pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred forty (140) degrees F (60 degrees C) using the test
methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
      2.   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.6 s.u. or greater than 9.0 s.u.
or otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment.
Notwithstanding the forgoing, alternate wastewater pH limitations of no less
than 5.0 s.u. and no greater than 11.0 s.u. may be established in individual
wastewater discharge permits subject to approval of the COA.
      3.   Cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper,
wood, plastics, gas, tar asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing
of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes or any
other solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction of
the flow in the POTW resulting in interference;
      4.   Pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause Interference
with the POTW.
      5.   Wastewater with a TDS concentration in excess of 2,500 mg/L.
      6.   Wastewater with a chlorine residual greater than 2.5 mg/L.
Wastewater discharge shall be monitored, in accordance with the Users
wastewater discharge permit, for chlorine residual. In the event that the
wastewater discharge contains chlorine concentrations in excess of 2.5 mg/L,
the User shall immediately inform the City and the POTW Supervisor in
accordance with Section
7-3-6-6 of this chapter.
      7.   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 95 degrees F (35
degrees C)], or which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant
resulting in Interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the
temperature at the introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104 degrees
F (40 degrees C);
      8.   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause Interference or Pass Through.
      9.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
      10.   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the City in accordance with Section
7-3-3-3 of this chapter.
      11.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair.
      12.   Wastewater imparting color which cannot be removed by the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s effluent,
thereby violating the COA’s NPDES permit. Color (in combination with turbidity)
shall not cause the treatment plant effluent to reduce the depth of the
compensation point for photosynthetic activity by more than ten (10) percent
from the seasonably established norm for aquatic life.
      13.   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
      14.   Storm Water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, de-ionized
water, Noncontact Cooling Water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the City.
      15.   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes.
      16.   Medical Wastes, except as specifically authorized by the City in a
wastewater discharge permit.
      17.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the
treatment plant’s effluent to fail toxicity test.
      18.   Detergents, surface active agents, or other substances which might
cause excessive foaming in the POTW.
      19.   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 50 mg/l.
      20.   Any hazardous wastes as defined in 40 CFR Part 261.
      21.   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES and/or
other disposal system permits.
      22.   Any wastewater, which in the opinion of the Infrastructure Director
(ID) can cause harm either to the sewers, sewage treatment process, or
equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or can otherwise
endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance, unless allowed
under special agreement by the City.
      23.   The contents of any tank or other vessel owned or used by any
person in the business of pumping sewage, effluent, septic tank waste or other
wastewater unless said person has first obtained testing and approval as may be
generally required by the City and paid all fees assessed for the privilege of
said discharge.
      24.   Persistent pesticides and/or pesticides regulated by the Federal
Insecticide Fungicide Rodenticide Act (FIFRA).
   C.   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this Section shall
not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to
thePOTW. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-2-2: NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Users subject to categorical Pretreatment Standards found at 40 CFR
Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471 must comply accordingly along with any
applicable local limits. The categorical pretreatment standards as amended and
promulgated by EPA pursuant to the Act and as found at 40 CFR Chapter I,
Subchapter N, Parts 405-471, are hereby incorporated and shall be enforceable
under this chapter.
   B.   The POTW reserves the right to establish by ordinance or resolution or
in wastewater discharge permits, stricter limitations or requirements on
discharges to the POTW when deemed reasonably necessary to comply with the
objectives presented in this chapter, or the general and specific prohibitions
within this part, or with any other reasonable objectives of the City.
   C.   When wastewater subject to a Categorical Pretreatment Standard is mixed
with water not regulated by the same standard the City shall impose an
alternate limit in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e).
   D.   Dilution is prohibited as a substitute for treatment unless expressly
authorized to do so by an applicable Pretreatment Standard or Requirement; no
industrial user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any other
way attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement. The City may impose mass limitations on industrial users which are
using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements or in
other cases where the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate. (Ord.
1097, passed - - )
7-3-2-3: LOCAL LIMITS:
   A.   The COA is authorized to establish Local Limits pursuant to 40 CFR
403.5(c.)
   B.   Local limits will be established during the application review process
for each discharge permit applicant. Local limits will be provided in each
separate discharge permit.
   C.   Local limits may be presented as concentration loadings and/or mass
loadings. Discharge permits allowing for mass loading will be based on the
dischargers permitted flowrate at the point of discharge.
   D.   The City may develop Best Management Practices (BMPs), by ordinance or
in wastewater discharge permits, to implement Local Limits and the requirements
of this Section
7-3-2-3.
   E.   The City reserves the right to revise all Local Limits as presented in
the User’s discharge permit for a period up to 12 months following the initial
wastewater discharge to the POTW collection system or the effective date of the
permit, whichever is later, if necessary, to prevent pass through or
interference or to protect POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater and
sludge in the course of their employment and the general public.
      1.   If interference with the normal operations of the plant has occurred
and a permitted User has been determined to be the source of the POC, the City
reserves the right to modify the User’s discharge limit(s). (Ord. 1097, passed
- - )
7-3-2-4: RIGHT OF REVISION:
The City reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in wastewater
discharge permits, more stringent Standards or Requirements on discharges to
the POTW consistent with the purpose of this chapter. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-3: PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER:
7-3-3-1: PRETREATMENT FACILITIES:
   A.   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with
this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical Pretreatment
Standards, Local Limits, and the prohibitions set out in Section
7-3-2-1 of this chapter within the time limitations specified by EPA, or the
City, whichever is more stringent.
   B.   Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated,
and maintained at the User’s expense.
   C.   Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the City for review and shall be approved before such
facilities are constructed. The review of such plans and operating procedures
shall in no way relieve the User from the responsibility of modifying such
facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the City under the
provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Significant changes to the User’s pretreatment facilities or methods of
operation (for example, but not limited to, those changes that would
significantly affect wastewater volume or characteristics of discharge since
the time of wastewater discharge permit issuance) should be reported to the
City prior to User’s initiation of such changes.
   E.   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW may require Users to restrict their
discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain wastewater be
discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of
discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste streams, and
such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the
User’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   F.   The City may require any person discharging into the POTW to install
and maintain, on their property and at their expense a suitable storage and
flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow, monitoring facilities for
inspection, and sampling and flow measurement of the building sewer and
internal drainage systems that discharge to the sanitary sewer system.
   G.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the City, they are necessary for the proper handling of wastewater
containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; all interception units
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the City, and located for easy
cleaning and inspection access. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned,
and repaired by the User at their expense.
   H.   Users shall permit the POTW access to all wastewater facilities that
are connected to the potential discharge for inspection and monitoring during
any time of facility operation.
   I.   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-3-2: ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/ SLUG DISCHARGE CONTROL PLANS:
The City shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental discharge/slug
discharge control plan or other action to control Slug Discharges. The City may
require any User to develop, submit for approval, and implement such a plan or
take such other action that may be necessary to control Slug Discharges. An
accidental discharge/Slug Discharge control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
   A.   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges.
   B.   Description of stored chemicals.
   C.   Procedures for immediately notifying the City of any accidental or Slug
Discharge, as required by Section
7-3-6-6 of this chapter, including any discharge in violation with Section
7-3-2 of this chapter; and
   D.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or Slug
Discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
Users shall provide oral notice the COA Wastewater Treatment Plant immediately
after the occurrence of a slug or accidental discharge of substances regulated
by this chapter. The notification shall include location of discharge, date and
time of discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective
actions. Any affected user shall be liable for any expense, loss or damage to
the POTW, in addition to the amount of any fines imposed by the
COA on account thereof under state or federal law. Voicemails, texts, and
emails shall not constitute an acceptable means of oral notice.
Within five (5) days following a Slug or an accidental discharge, the user
shall submit to the City a detailed written report describing the cause of the
discharge and the measures taken by the user to prevent similar future
occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user from any expense,
loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to
the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or property nor shall such
notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties, or other liability
which may be imposed by this chapter or other applicable law. (Ord. 1097,
passed - - )
7-3-3-3: HAULED WASTEWATER:
   A.   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the City, and at such established times. Such waste shall not
violate Section
7-3-2 of this chapter or any other requirements established by the City. (Ord.
1097, passed - - )
7-3-4: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS:
7-3-4-1: WASTEWATER ANALYSIS:
When requested, a User must submit information on the nature and
characteristics of its wastewater within forty-five (45) days of the request.
The City is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically
require Users to update this information. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-4-2: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
   A.   No Significant Industrial User shall discharge wastewater into the POTW
without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the City, except
that a Significant Industrial User that has filed a timely application pursuant
to Section
7-3-4-3 of this chapter may continue to discharge as set forth therein.
   B.   The City may require other Users to obtain wastewater discharge permits
as necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   C.   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the wastewater
discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in Sections
7-3-10 through
7-3-12 of this chapter. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not
relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all Federal and State
Pretreatment Standards or Requirements or with any other requirements of
Federal, State, and local law. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-4-3: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING: EXISTING CONNECTIONS:
Any User who 1) is required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit; 2) was
discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter; and 3) wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
thirty (30) days after said effective date, apply to the City for a wastewater
discharge permit in accordance with Section
7-3-4-5 of this chapter. In this case, the User may continue to discharge
during application review and subsequent permit development by the COA. If the
User submits a complete permit application within the timeframe required by
this section, and the City fails to issue a wastewater discharge permit through
no fault of the applicant, the User may continue to discharge to the POTW under
the applicable requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Any User required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who was
discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter and who also has an existing wastewater discharge agreement or
memorandum of understanding in place with the City, shall be allowed to
continue to discharge in the future without further action until ninety (90)
days prior to expiration of the agreement or memorandum, at which time the
discharger must submit an application for a wastewater discharge permit as set
forth in Section
7-3-4-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-4-4: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING: NEW CONNECTIONS:
Any User required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who proposes to begin
or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to the
beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this wastewater
discharge permit in accordance with Section
7-3-4-5 of this chapter, must be filed at least ninety (90) days prior to the
date upon which any discharge will begin or recommence. A new source or new
discharger cannot discharge without first receiving a wastewater discharge
permit from the City. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-4-5: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS:
   A.   All Users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit must submit
a permit application. The City may require Users to submit all or some of the
following information as part of a permit application:
      1.   Identifying Information.
         a.   The name and address of the facility, including the name of the
operator and owner.
         b.   Contact information, description of activities, facilities, and
plant production processes on the premises.
      2.   Environmental Permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      3.   Description of Operations.
         a.   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of
production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by such User. This description should include a schematic process
diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes.
         b.   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW.
         c.   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours of operation.
         d.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         e.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location,
and elevation, and all points of discharge.
      4.   Time and duration of discharges.
      5.   The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit.
      6.   Flow Measurement. Information showing the measured average daily and
maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in Section
7-3-2-2C (40 CFR 403.6(e)).
      7.   Measurement of Pollutants.
         a.   The categorical Pretreatment Standards, or other pretreatment
standards, applicable to each regulated process and any new categorically
regulated processes for Existing Sources.
         b.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the Standard or by the City, of
regulated pollutants, including constituents which are regulated under the
categorical Pretreatment Standards, in the discharge from each regulated
process.
         c.   Instantaneous, Daily Maximum, and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported.
         d.   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and shall
be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in Section
7-3-6-10 of this chapter. Where the Standard requires compliance with a BMP or
pollution prevention alternative, the User shall submit documentation as
required by the City or the applicable Standards to determine compliance with
the Standard.
         e.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in Section
7-3-6-11 of this chapter.
      8.   Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a renewal of an approved
monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be present
in the discharge based on Section
7-3-6-4B [40 CFR 403.12(e)(2)].
      9.   The User shall submit a statement which has been reviewed by an
authorized representative of the User, and certified by a qualified
professional, indicating whether applicable Pretreatment Standards are being
met on a consistent basis, and, if not, whether additional operation and
maintenance and/or additional pretreatment is required for the User to meet the
applicable Pretreatment Standards and requirements.
      10.   Evaluation Fee.
         a.   The User shall submit an analysis and evaluation fee with the
permit application. The fee will be determined by the City based on the type of
industrial user applying for a discharge permit as well as the anticipated
contaminants in the wastewater stream.
         b.   The fee will be used to cover technical analysis and evaluation
costs the City may incur during the application review process.
      11.   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the City to
evaluate the permit application, to include all application fees as set by City
Council Resolution.
   B.   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be
returned to the User for revision. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-4-6: APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATIONS:
   A.   All wastewater discharge permit applications, User reports and
certification statements must be signed by an Authorized Representative of the
User and contain the certification statement in Section 7-3-6-14 A.
   B.   If the designation of an Authorized Representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this Section must be submitted to the City prior to or together
with any reports to be signed by an Authorized Representative. (Ord. 1097,
passed - - )
7-3-4-7: NEW INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISION:
   A.   The City will evaluate the data furnished by the User and may require
additional information. Within ninety (90) days of receipt of a complete permit
application, the City will determine whether to issue an individual wastewater
discharge permit. The City may deny any application for a wastewater discharge
permit. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-5: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE:
7-3-5-1: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DURATION:
A wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time period, not
to exceed five (5) years from the effective date of the permit. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued for a period less than five (5) years, at the
discretion of the City. Each wastewater discharge permit will indicate a
specific date upon which it will expire. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-5-2: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CONTENTS:
A wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the City to prevent Pass Through or Interference,
protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment plant’s effluent,
protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge management and disposal,
and protect against damage to the POTW. A wastewater discharge permit shall
include an accompanying Fact Sheet/Rationale Statement (or equivalent), giving
the rationale (and supporting calculations/documentation, as deemed
appropriate) for relevant permitting decisions.
   A.   Wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      1.   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date;
      2.   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the City in accordance with Section
7-3-5-4 of this chapter, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or
operator with a copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit.
      3.   Effluent limits, including Best Management Practices, based on
applicable Pretreatment Standards.
      4.   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency, and sample type based on Federal, State, and local law.
      5.   The process for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant
neither present nor expected to be present in the Discharge in accordance with
Section
7-3-6-4 B.
      6.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of Pretreatment Standards and Requirements, and any applicable compliance
schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance beyond that
required by applicable Federal, State, or local law.
      7.   Requirements to control Slug Discharge, if determined by the City to
be necessary.
      8.   Requirements to report any upset or bypass of a pretreatment
facility.
      9.   Requirements for the user who reports non-compliance to repeat the
sampling and analysis and submit results to the COA within thirty (30) days
after becoming aware of the violation.
      10.   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the City (Section
7-3-6-4 B.) must be included as a condition in the User’s permit [or other
control mechanism].
   B.   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited to,
the following conditions:
      1.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization.
      2.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works.
      3.   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill control
plans or other special conditions including management practices necessary to
adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or non-routine discharges.
      4.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to reduce
the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW.
      5.   The unit charge or schedule of User charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW.
      6.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices.
      7.   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable Federal and State Pretreatment Standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit.
      8.   Any special agreements the City chooses to continue or develop
between the COA and User; and
      9.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the City to ensure
compliance with this chapter, and State and Federal laws, rules, and
regulations. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-5-3: PERMIT MODIFICATION:
   A.   The City may modify a wastewater discharge permit for good cause,
including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      1.   To incorporate any new or revised Federal, State, or local
Pretreatment Standards or Requirements.
      2.   To address significant alterations or additions to the User’s
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
wastewater discharge permit issuance.
      3.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge.
      4.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the City’s POTW, City personnel, the receiving waters or beneficial sludge
use;
      5.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual wastewater
discharge permit.
      6.   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting.
      7.   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical Pretreatment
Standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13.
      8.   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit, or
      9.   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator where requested in accordance with Section
7-3-5-4. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-5-4: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT TRANSFER:
Wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or operator only
if the permittee gives at least thirty (30) days advance notice to the City and
the City approves the wastewater discharge permit transfer. The notice to the
City must include a written certification by the new owner or operator which:
   A.   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent to
change the facility’s operations and processes.
   B.   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
   C.   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the wastewater
discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer. (Ord. 1097, passed -
- )
7-3-5-5: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REVOCATION:
The City may revoke a wastewater discharge permit for, including, but not
limited to, the following reasons:
   A.   Failure to provide prior notification to the City of significant
changes to the User’s operations or system conditions pursuant to Section
7-3-6-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application.
   C.   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements.
   D.   Tampering with monitoring equipment.
   E.   Refusing to allow the City timely access to the facility premises and
records.
   F.   Failure to meet discharge limitations.
   G.   Failure to pay fines.
   H.   Failure to pay sewer charges.
   I.   Failure to meet compliance schedules.
   J.   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater discharge
permit application.
   K.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business ownership
of a permitted facility.
   L.   If the City must invoke its emergency powers, as set forth in this
chapter; or
   M.   Violation of any Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, or any terms of
the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of operations or
transfer of business ownership. All wastewater discharge permits issued to a
User are void upon the issuance of a new wastewater discharge permit to that
User. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-5-6: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REISSUANCE:
A User with an expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for wastewater
discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application, in
accordance with Section
7-3-4-5 of this chapter, a minimum of one hundred twenty (120) days prior to
the expiration of the User’s existing wastewater discharge permit. A user whose
existing wastewater discharge permit has expired and who has submitted its re-
application in the time period specified herein shall be deemed to have an
effective wastewater discharge permit until the City issues or denies the
wastewater discharge permit. A user whose existing wastewater discharge permit
has expired and who has failed to submit its re-application in the time period
specified herein shall be deemed to be discharging without a wastewater
discharge permit. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-5-7: REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS:
   A.   If another municipality, or User located within another municipality,
contributes wastewater to the POTW, the City shall enter into an inter-
municipal agreement with the contributing municipality.
   B.   Prior to entering into an agreement required by paragraph A, above, the
City shall request the following information from the contributing
municipality:
      1.   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing municipality.
      2.   An inventory of all Users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      3.   Such other information as the City may deem necessary.
   C.   An inter-municipal agreement, as required by paragraph A, above, shall
contain the following conditions:
      1.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer use
ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and Local Limits,
including Baseline Monitoring Reports (BMRs) which are at least as stringent as
those set out in Section
7-3-6-1 of this chapter. The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and
limits must be revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the City’s
ordinance or Local Limits.
      2.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
User inventory on at least an annual basis.
      3.   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation activities,
including wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and sampling, and
enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing municipality; which of these
activities will be conducted by the City; and which of these activities will be
conducted jointly by the contributing municipality and the City;
      4.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the City
with access to all information that the contributing municipality obtains as
part of its pretreatment activities.
      5.   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
municipality’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW.
      6.   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality’s
discharge.
      7.   A provision ensuring the City access to the facilities of Users
located within the contributing municipality’s jurisdictional boundaries for
the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any other duties deemed necessary by
the City;
      8.   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms of
the intermunicipal agreement. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-6: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
7-3-6-1: BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS:
   A.   Within either one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date of
a categorical Pretreatment Standard, or the final administrative decision on a
category determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
Categorical Industrial Users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge
to the POTW shall submit to the City a report which contains the information
listed in paragraph B, below. At least ninety (90) days prior to commencement
of their discharge, New Sources, and sources that become Categorical Industrial
Users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical Standard,
shall submit to the City a report which contains the information listed in
paragraph B, below. A New Source shall report the method of pretreatment it
intends to use to meet applicable categorical Standards. A New Source also
shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be
discharged.
   B.   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      1.   All information required in Section
7-3-4-5A.1.a., Section
7-3-4-5A.2., Section
7-3-4-5A.3.a., and Section
7-3-4-5A.6.
      2.   Measurement of pollutants.
         a.   The User shall provide the information required in Section
7-3-4-5A.7.a. through d.
         b.   The User shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this paragraph.
         c.   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment the User should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined waste stream formula in
40 CFR 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the Pretreatment Standards. Where
an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated in accordance with
40 CFR 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be
submitted to the Control Authority.
         d.   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with
Section
7-3-6-10;
         e.   The City may allow the submission of a baseline report which
utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides information
sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures.
         f.   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
Discharges to the POTW.
      3.   Compliance Certification. A statement, reviewed by the User’s
Authorized Representative as defined in Section
7-3-1-4 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
Pretreatment Standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the Pretreatment Standards and Requirements.
      4.   Compliance Schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the Pretreatment Standards, the shortest schedule by which the
User will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable Pretreatment Standard. A compliance schedule
pursuant to this Section must meet the requirements set out in Section
7-3-6-2 of this chapter.
      5.   Signature and Report Certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be certified in accordance with Section 7-3-6-14 A. of this chapter and
signed by an Authorized Representative as defined in Section 7-3-1-4C. (Ord.
1097, passed - - )
7-3-6-2: COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS:
The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
Section
7-3-6-1B.4. of this chapter:
   A.   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates for
the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and
operation of additional pretreatment required for the User to meet the
applicable Pretreatment Standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   B.   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine (9) months.
   C.   The User shall submit a progress report to the City no later than
fourteen (14) days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the User to return to the established schedule; and
   D.   In no event shall more than nine (9) months elapses between such
progress reports to the City. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-6-3: REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE:
Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in the case of a New Source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any User subject
to such Pretreatment Standards and Requirements shall submit to the City a
report containing the information described in Section
7-3-4-5A.6. and 7. and
7-3-6-1B.2. of this chapter. For Users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in Section
7-3-2-2, this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the User’s long-term
production rate. For all other Users subject to categorical Pretreatment
Standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
User’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with Section 7-3-6-14 A. of
this chapter. All sampling will be done in conformance with Section
7-3-6-11. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-6-4: PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS:
   A.   All Significant Industrial Users must, at a frequency determined by the
City submit no less than twice per year (June and December) reports indicating
the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are limited
by Pretreatment Standards and the measured or estimated average and maximum
daily flows for the reporting period. In cases where the Pretreatment Standard
requires compliance with a Best Management Practice (BMP) or pollution
prevention alternative, the User must submit documentation required by the City
or the Pretreatment Standard necessary to determine the compliance status of
the User. The User’s wastewater discharge permit may require that additional
information be submitted as part of User’s periodic compliance report.
   B.   The City may authorize an Industrial User subject to a categorical
Pretreatment Standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated by a
categorical Pretreatment Standard if the Industrial User has demonstrated
through sampling and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither
present nor expected to be present in the Discharge, or is present only at
background levels from intake water and without any increase in the pollutant
due to activities of the Industrial User. [see 40 CFR 403.12(e)(2)] This
authorization is subject to the following conditions:
      1.   The waiver may be authorized where a pollutant is determined to be
present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility provided
that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable categorical
Standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater.
      2.   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the wastewater discharge permit, but in no case longer than
five (5) years. The User must submit a new request for the waiver before the
waiver can be granted for each subsequent wastewater discharge permit. See
Section
7-3-4-5A.8.
      3.   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the
Industrial User must provide data from at least one sampling of the facility’s
process wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility that is
representative of all wastewater from all processes.
      4.   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed in accordance
with Section
7-3-1-4 and include the certification statement in 7-3-6-14 A. (40 CFR 403.6(a)
(2)(ii)).
      5.   Non-detectable sample results may be used only as a demonstration
that a pollutant is not present if the EPA approved method from 40 CFR Part 136
with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant was used in the
analysis.
      6.   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the City must be included as a
condition in the User’s permit. The reasons supporting the waiver and any
information submitted by the User in its request for the waiver must be
maintained by the City for three (3) years after expiration of the waiver.
      7.   Upon approval of the monitoring waiver and revision of the User’s
permit by the City, the Industrial User must certify on each report with the
statement in Section 7-3-6-14 B. below, that there has been no increase in the
pollutant in its waste stream due to activities of the Industrial User.
      8.   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or is
expected to be present because of changes that occur in the User’s operations,
the User must immediately: Comply with the monitoring requirements of Section
7-3-6-4 A., or other more frequent monitoring requirements imposed by the City,
and notify the City.
      9.   This provision does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in categorical Pretreatment Standards, except as
otherwise specified in the categorical Pretreatment Standard.
   C.   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with Section 7-3-6-14 A. of this chapter.
   D.   All wastewater samples must be representative of the User’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a User to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the User to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge
   E.   If a User subject to the reporting requirement in this section monitors
any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more frequently
than required by the City, using the procedures prescribed in Section
7-3-6-11 of this chapter, the results of this monitoring shall be included in
the report. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-6-5: REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS:
Each User must notify the City of any significant changes to the User’s
operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or volume of its
wastewater at least sixty (60) days before the change.
   A.   The City may require the User to submit such information as may be
deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of
a wastewater discharge permit application under Section
7-3-4-5 of this chapter.
   B.   The City may issue a wastewater discharge permit under Section
7-3-5-6 of this chapter or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under
Section
7-3-5-3 of this chapter in response to changed conditions or anticipated
changed conditions. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-6-6: REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS:
   A.   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to, accidental
discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch
discharge, a Slug Discharge or Slug Load, that might cause potential problems
for the POTW, the User shall immediately telephone and notify the City of the
incident. This notification shall include the location of the discharge, type
of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by
the User.
   B.   Within five (5) days following such discharge, the User shall, unless
waived by the City, submit a detailed written report describing the cause(s) of
the discharge and the measures to be taken by the User to prevent similar
future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the User of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be incurred as a result
of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the User of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   A notice shall be permanently posted on the User’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in paragraph A., above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   D.   Significant Industrial Users are required to notify the City
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a Slug
Discharge. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-6-7: REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS:
All Users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the City as may be required. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-6-8: NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING:
If sampling performed by a User indicates a violation, the User must notify the
City within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the violation. The User
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the City within thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the
violation. Re-sampling by the Industrial User is not required if the City
performs sampling at the User’s facility at least once a month, or if the City
performs sampling at the User between the time when the initial sampling was
conducted and the time when the User or the City receives the results of this
sampling, or if the City has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
Industrial User. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-6-9: ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS:
All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as part
of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed in
accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136 and amendments
thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical Pretreatment
Standard. If 40 CFR Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques
for the pollutant in question, or where the EPA determines that the Part 136
sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in
question, sampling and analyses shall be performed by using validated
analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical procedures,
including procedures suggested by the City or other parties approved by EPA.
(Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-6-10: SAMPLE COLLECTION:
Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on data
obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period
covered by the report, based on data that is representative of conditions
occurring during the reporting period.
   A.   Except as indicated in Section B and C below, the User must collect
wastewater samples using 24-hour flow proportional composite sampling
techniques, unless time proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by City. Where time proportional composite sampling or grab sampling
is authorized by the City, the samples must be representative of the discharge.
Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified in 40 CFR Part
136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples collected during a 24
hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as follows: for cyanide,
total phenols, and sulfides the samples may be composited in the laboratory or
in the field; for volatile organics and oil and grease, the samples may be
composited in the laboratory. Composite samples for other parameters unaffected
by the compositing procedures as documented in approved EPA methodologies may
be authorized by the City, as appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be
required to show compliance with Instantaneous Limits.
   B.   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   C.   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90 day
compliance reports required in Section
7-3-6-1 and
7-3-6-3 [40 CFR 403.12(b) and (d)], a minimum of four (4) grab samples must be
used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile
organic compounds for facilities for which historical sampling data do not
exist; for facilities for which historical sampling data are available, the
City may authorize a lower minimum. For the reports required by paragraphs
Section
7-3-6-4 (40 CFR 403.12(e) and 403.12(h)), the Industrial User is required to
collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance by
with applicable Pretreatment Standards and Requirements.
   D.   Samples shall be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such facilities exist, immediately downstream from the regulated
or manufacturing process if no pretreatment facilities exist, or at a location
determined by the City and specified in the user’s wastewater discharge permit.
For categorical users, if other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment, the user shall measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined waste stream formula of
40 CFR 403.6(e) in order to evaluate compliance with the Applicable Categorical
Pretreatment Standards. For other users, for which the COA has adjusted its
local limits to factor out dilution flows, the user shall measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to evaluate compliance with the adjusted pretreatment
standards.
   E.   All sample results shall include the date, exact place, method, and
time of sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples and shall
certify that the waste stream sampled is representative of normal work cycles
and expected pollutant discharges from the user. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-6-11: DATE OF RECEIPT OF REPORTS:
Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date postmarked.
For reports, which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail facility
serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of the report
shall govern. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-6-12: RECORDKEEPING:
Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain, and
make available for inspection and copying, all records of information obtained
pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter, any additional
records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities undertaken by
the User independent of such requirements, and documentation associated with
Best Management Practices established under Section
7-3-2-3 C. Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three (3) years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the User
or the City, or where the User has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the City. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-6-13: CERTIFICATION STATEMENTS:
   A.   Certification of Permit Applications, User Reports, Data Accuracy, and
Initial Monitoring Waiver-The following certification statement is required to
be signed and submitted by Users submitting permit applications in accordance
with Section
7-3-4-6; Users submitting baseline monitoring reports under Section
7-3-6-1B.5.; Users submitting reports on compliance with the categorical
Pretreatment Standard deadlines under Section
7-3-6-3; Users submitting periodic compliance reports required by Section
7-3-6-4 A. through C., and Users submitting an initial request to forego
sampling of a pollutant on the basis of Section
7-3-6-4 B.4. The following certification statement must be signed by an
Authorized Representative as defined in Section
7-3-1-4:
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.
   B.   Certification of Pollutants Not Present. Users that have an approved
monitoring waiver based on Section
7-3-6-4 B. must certify on each report with the following statement that there
has been no increase in the pollutant in its waste stream due to activities of
the User.
Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for managing
compliance with the Pretreatment Standard for 40 CFR                        
[specify applicable National Pretreatment Standard part(s)], I certify that, to
the best of my knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the level of
                       [list pollutant(s)] in the wastewaters due to the
activities at the facility since filing of the last periodic report under
Section
7-3-6-4  A.
(Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-7: COMPLIANCE MONITORING:
7-3-7-1: RIGHT OF ENTRY: INSPECTION AND SAMPLING:
The City shall have the right to enter the premises of any User to determine
whether the User is complying with all requirements of this chapter and any
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the
City ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance of any
additional duties.
   A.   Where a User has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the User shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the City shall be permitted to enter without delay
for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   B.   The City shall have the right to set up on the User’s property or
require installation of such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/
or metering of the User’s operations.
   C.   The City may require the User to install monitoring equipment as
necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained
at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the User at its own
expense.
   D.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the User
at the written or verbal request of the City and shall not be replaced. The
costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the User.
   E.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the City access to the User’s premises
shall be a violation of this chapter.
   F.   Should the monitoring facility be located within the public right-of-
way or easement, the User shall provide ample room in or near the monitoring
facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples and analysis and
whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring facilities
should be provided in accordance with the City’s requirements and all
applicable local construction standards and specifications, and such facilities
shall be constructed and maintained in such manner so as to enable the City to
perform independent monitoring activities if required. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-7-2: MONITORING FACILITIES:
Each user shall provide and operate at its own expense a monitoring facility to
allow inspection, sampling, and flow measurements of each sewer discharge to
the POTW. Each monitoring facility shall be situated on the user’s premises,
except, where such a location would be impracticable or cause undue hardship on
the user, the COA may concur with the facility being constructed in the public
street or sidewalk area subject to Section
7-3-7-1F. above. All monitoring facilities must be constructed and maintained
in accordance with all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall
be calibrated to ensure their accuracy. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-7-3: SEARCH WARRANTS:
If the City has been refused access to a building, structure, or property, or
any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that
there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need to inspect
and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to
verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or
to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, the
City may seek issuance of a search warrant from an appropriate Court of the
City or State. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-8: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
Information and data on a User obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits, and monitoring
programs, and from the City inspection and sampling activities, shall be
available to the public without restriction, unless the User specifically
requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City, that the
release of such information would divulge information, processes, or methods of
production entitled to protection as trade secrets under applicable State law.
Any such request must be asserted at the time of submission of the information
or data. When requested and demonstrated by the User furnishing a report,
survey, or wastewater discharge permit application or other document, that such
information or data contained therein should be held confidential, the portions
of the aforesaid which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall
not be made available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available
immediately upon request to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES
program or pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the
person furnishing the confidential information or data. Wastewater constituents
and characteristics and other effluent data, as defined at 40 CFR 2.302 shall
not be recognized as confidential information and shall be available to the
public without restriction. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-9: PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE:
The City shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general circulation that
provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions served by COA POTW,
a list of the Users which, at any time during the previous twelve (12) months,
were in Significant Noncompliance with applicable Pretreatment Standards and
Requirements. The term Significant Noncompliance shall be applicable to all
Significant Industrial Users (or any other Industrial User that violates
paragraphs C., D. or H. of this Section) and shall meet one or more of the
following criteria:
   A.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty- six percent (66%) or more of all the measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period exceed (by
any magnitude) a numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, including
Instantaneous Limits as defined in Section
7-3-2;
   B.   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken for
each pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period equals or exceeds the
product of the numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement including
Instantaneous Limits, as defined by Section
7-3-2 multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   C.   Any other violation of a Pretreatment Standard or Requirement as
defined by Section
7-3-2 (Daily Maximum, monthly average, Instantaneous Limit, or narrative
standard) that the POTW determines has caused, alone or in combination with
other discharges, Interference or Pass Through, including endangering the
health of POTW personnel or the general public;
   D.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment or has resulted in the City’s exercise of its
emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge.
   E.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance.
   F.   Failure to provide within forty-five (45) days after the due date, any
required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance
with categorical Pretreatment Standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring
reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   H.   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of Best
Management Practices, which the POTW determines will adversely affect the
operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program. (Ord. 1097,
passed - - )
7-3-10: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
7-3-10-1: NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION:
When the City finds that a User has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, the City may
serve upon that User a written Notice of Violation. Within thirty (30) days of
the receipt of such notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required
actions, shall be submitted by the User to the City. Submission of such a plan
in no way relieves the User of liability for any violations occurring before or
after receipt of the Notice of Violation. Nothing in this Section shall limit
the authority of the City to take any action, including emergency actions or
any other enforcement action, without first issuing a Notice of Violation.
(Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-10-2: CONSENT ORDERS:
The City may enter into Consent Orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or
other similar documents establishing an agreement with any User responsible for
noncompliance. Such documents shall include specific action to be taken by the
User to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the
document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to Sections
7-3-10-4 and
7-3-10-5 of this chapter and shall be judicially enforceable. (Ord. 1097,
passed - - )
7-3-10-3: SHOW CAUSE HEARING:
The City may order a User which has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, to appear before
the City and show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. Notice shall be served on the User specifying the time and place for the
meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a
request that the User show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered
or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least thirty (30) days prior to
the hearing. Such notice may be served on any Authorized Representative of the
User as defined in Section
7-3-1-4 and required by Section
7-3-4-6A. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the User. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-10-4: COMPLIANCE ORDERS:
When the City finds that a User has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, the City may
issue an order to the User responsible for the discharge directing that the
User come into compliance within a specified time. If the User does not come
into compliance within the time provided, sewer service may be discontinued
unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances
are installed and properly operated.
Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address the
noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management practices
designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A
compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a
Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the
User of liability for any violation, including any continuing violation.
Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the User. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-10-5: CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS:
When the City finds that a User has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, or that the
User’s past violations are likely to recur, the City may issue an order to the
User directing it to cease and desist all such violations and directing the
User to:
   A.   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   B.   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and desist
order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the User. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-10-6: ADMINISTRATIVE FINES:
   A.   When the City finds that a User has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, the City may fine
such User in an amount not to exceed $1,000. Such fines shall be assessed on a
per-violation, per-day basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term average
discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of
violation.
   B.   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after sixty (60) calendar
days, be assessed an additional penalty of ten percent (10 %) of the unpaid
balance, and interest shall accrue thereafter at a rate of one half percent (1
½%) per month. A lien against the User’s property shall be sought for unpaid
charges, fines, and penalties.
   C.   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the City to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine amount
within thirty (30) days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has
merit, the City may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the User’s
appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto,
shall be returned to the User. The City may add the costs of preparing
administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
   D.   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the User. (Ord. 1097, passed
- - )
7-3-10-7: EMERGENCY SUSPENSION:
The City may immediately suspend a User’s discharge, after informal notice to
the User, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge, which reasonably appears to present or cause an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The City may also
immediately suspend a User’s discharge, after notice and opportunity to
respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which
presents, or may present, an endangerment to the environment.
   A.   Any User notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a User’s failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the City may take
such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer
connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or
endangerment to any individuals. The City may allow the User to recommence its
discharge when the User has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the City that
the period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings in
Section
7-3-10-8 of this chapter are initiated against the User.
   B.   A User that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the City prior to the date of any show cause
or termination hearing under Sections
7-3-10-3 or
7-3-10-8 of this chapter.
Nothing in this Section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior to
any Emergency Suspension under this Section. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-10-8: TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE:
In addition to the provisions in Section
7-3-5-5 of this chapter, any User who violates the following conditions is
subject to discharge termination:
   A.   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
   B.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
   C.   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
   D.   Refusal of reasonable access to the User’s premises for the purpose of
inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
   E.   Violation of the Pretreatment Standards in Section
7-3-2 of this chapter.
Such User will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge and be
offered an opportunity to show cause under Section
7-3-10-3 of this chapter why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise
of this option by the City shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking
any other action against the User. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-11: JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
7-3-11-1: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
When the City finds that a User has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, the City may
petition the appropriate Court through the City’s Attorney for the issuance of
a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels
the specific performance of the wastewater discharge permit, or other
requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the User. The City may
also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable
relief, including a requirement for the User to conduct environmental
remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a User. (Ord. 1097, passed -
- )
7-3-11-2: CIVIL PENALTIES:
   A.   A User who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
Pretreatment Standard or Requirement shall be liable to the City for a maximum
civil penalty of not more than $1,000 per violation, per day. In the case of a
monthly or other long term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for
each day during the period of the violation.
   B.   The City may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, and other
expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the City.
   C.   In determining the amount of civil liability, the Court shall take into
account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the extent
of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the violation,
any economic benefit gained through the User’s violation, corrective actions by
the User, the compliance history of the User, and any other factor as justice
requires.
   D.   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a User. (Ord. 1097, passed -
- )
7-3-11-3: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION:
   A.   A User who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
Pretreatment Standard or Requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than the maximum fine allowed
under State law per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than
thirty (30) days, or both.
   B.   A User who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into the
POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least maximum fine
allowable under State law, or be subject to imprisonment for not more than one-
hundred twenty (120) days, or both. This penalty shall be in addition to any
other cause of action for personal injury or property damage available under
State law.
   C.   A User who knowingly makes any false statements, representations, or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter, wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies, tampers with, or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than the
maximum fine allowable under State law per violation, per day, or imprisonment
for not more than thirty (30) days, or both.
   D.   In the event of a second conviction, a User shall be punished by a fine
of not more than the maximum fine allowable under State law per violation, per
day, or imprisonment for not more than five (5) years, or both. (Ord. 1097,
passed - - )
7-3-11-4: REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The City reserves
the right to take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant User. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the City’s enforcement response plan. However, the City may
take other action against any User when the circumstances warrant. Further, the
City is empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any
noncompliant User. These actions may be taken concurrently. (Ord. 1097, passed
- - )
7-3-12: SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION:
7-3-12-1: PENALTIES FOR LATE REPORTS:
A penalty of one-hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) shall be assessed to any User
for each day that a report required by this chapter, a permit or order issued
hereunder is late, beginning five (5) business days after the date the report
is due. Higher penalties may also be assessed where reports are more than
forty-five (45) days late. Actions taken by City to collect late reporting
penalties shall not limit the City authority to initiate other enforcement
actions that may include penalties for late reporting violations. (Ord. 1097,
passed - - )
7-3-12-2: PERFORMANCE BONDS:
The COA may decline to issue or reissue a wastewater discharge permit to any
User who has failed to comply with any provision of this chapter, a previous
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, unless such User first files a
satisfactory bond, payable to the City, in a sum not to exceed a value
determined by the City to be necessary to achieve consistent compliance. (Ord.
1097, passed - - )
7-3-12-3: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
The COA may decline to issue or reissue a wastewater discharge permit to any
User who has failed to comply with any provision of this chapter, a previous
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, unless the User first submits proof that
it has obtained financial assurances sufficient to restore or repair damage to
the POTW caused by its discharge. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-12-4: PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING FEES AND PENALTIES:
The COA may decline to issue or reissue a wastewater discharge permit to any
User who has failed to pay any outstanding fees, fines or penalties incurred as
a result of any provision of this chapter, a previous wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-12-5: WATER SUPPLY SEVERANCE:
Whenever a User has violated or continues to violate any provision of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, water service to the User may be severed.
Service will recommence, at the User’s expense, only after the User has
satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-12-6: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
A violation of any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or
order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement is
hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed
by the City. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the
provisions of City Code governing such nuisances, including reimbursing the
City for costs incurred in removing, abating, or remedying said nuisance. (Ord.
1097, passed - - )
7-3-12-7: INFORMANT REWARDS:
The COA may pay up to one-thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for information leading
to the discovery of noncompliance by a User. In the event that the information
provided results in a civil penalty or an administrative fine levied against
the User, the City may disperse up to fifty percent (50%) of the collected fine
or penalty to the informant. However, a single reward payment may not exceed
five-thousand dollars ($5,000.00). (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-12-8: CONTRACTOR LISTING:
Users which have not achieved compliance with applicable Pretreatment Standards
and Requirements are not eligible to receive a contractual award for the sale
of goods or services to the COA. Existing contracts for the sale of goods or
services to the COA held by a User found to be in Significant Noncompliance
with Pretreatment Standards or Requirements may be terminated at the discretion
of the City. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-13: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS:
7-3-13-1: UPSET:
   A.   For the purposes of this Section, upset means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
Pretreatment Standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
User. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   B.   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical Pretreatment Standards if the requirements
of paragraph C., below, are met.
   C.   A User who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      1.   An upset occurred and the User can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      2.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      3.   The User has submitted the following information to the City within
twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five (5) days):
         a.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         b.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         c.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   D.   In any enforcement proceeding, the User seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   E.   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical Pretreatment Standards.
   F.   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical Pretreatment Standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-13-2: PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS:
A User shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in Section
7-3-2-1A. of this chapter or the specific prohibitions in Sections
7-3-2-1B.3. through
7-3-2-2, except
7-3-2-1B.8., of this chapter if it can prove that it did not know, or have
reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges
from other sources, would cause Pass Through or Interference and that either:
   A.   A Local Limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the User was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the Pass Through or
Interference; or
   B.   No Local Limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the User’s prior discharge when the City was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of Interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements. (Ord.
1097, passed - - )
7-3-13-3: BYPASS:
   A.   For the purposes of this Section,
      1.   Bypass means the intentional diversion of waste streams from any
portion of a User’s treatment facility.
      2.   Severe property damage means substantial physical damage to
property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become
inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property
damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   B.   A User may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause Pretreatment
Standards or Requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of paragraphs C. and D. of this Section.
   C.   Bypass Notifications.
      1.   If a User knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall submit
prior notice to the City, at least ten (10) days before the date of the bypass,
if possible.
      2.   A User shall provide oral notice to the City of an unanticipated
bypass that exceeds applicable Pretreatment Standards within twenty-four (24)
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five (5) days of the time the User becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The City may waive the written report on a case-by-
case basis if the oral report has been received within twenty-four (24) hours.
   D.   Bypass Conditions.
      1.   Bypass is prohibited, and the City may take an enforcement action
against a User for a bypass, unless
         a.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         b.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         c.   The User submitted notices as required under paragraph (C) of
this section.
      2.   The City may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its
adverse effects, if the POTW determines that it will meet the three conditions
listed in paragraph D.1. of this Section. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
7-3-14: WASTEWATER TREATMENT RATES:
There shall be charged the following monthly rate for industrial users
receiving City of Artesia sewer service. Rate schedule applies up to and
including flows of 100,000 GPD (0.1 MGD). Rates for flows beyond 0.1 MGD will
be individually determined.
 
Industrial User Rates for 100,000 GPD or less
Base Rate for First 10,000 Gallons Rate per 1,000 Gallons over Base
$20.00                             $2.00
 
   A.   (In addition to monthly rates industrial users shall pay a twenty
dollar ($20.00) facilities inspection charge as necessary.
   B.   All industrial users served directly by the COA and located outside the
City limits shall pay at a rate of one and a half (1 ½) times the rate for the
same classification of service inside the City limits. In determining the
amount, the Finance Director shall charge these customers, the same user rates
applicable to customers inside the City and the City Council by Resolution will
add to this amount as an ‘other charge’, an amount sufficient to make the total
charge payable by such customers equal to one and a half (1 ½) time the amount
paid for the same classification in the City. (Ord. 1097, passed - - )
ARTICLE A. INDUSTRIAL WASTES
SECTION:
7-3A-1: Short Title
7-3A-2: Definitions
7-3A-3: Discharges Into System
7-3A-4: Grease Interceptor Facilities
7-3A-5: Preliminary Treatment
7-3A-6: Control Manhole And Meters
7-3A-7: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
7-3A-8: Rates And Charges
7-3A-9: Penalties
7-3A-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER ORDINANCE of the city.
(1996 Code § 13.16.010)
7-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter by standard methods procedure in five
(5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C) expressed in milligrams per liter
(mg/l).
BUILDING SEWER: Any pipe or sewer transporting wastewater or process water from
a building, structure or equipment to a public sewer.
COD (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): A measure of the oxygen consuming capacity of
organic and inorganic matter present in wastewater as milligrams per liter (mg/
l).
GARBAGE: Solid wastes, unless waterborne, from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storing and sale of produce.
HEAVY METALS: Those metals listed in subsection 7-3A-3C1m of this article, plus
any other metals which are listed in the New Mexico state and/or federal water
quality control standards for effluent regulations. If amendments to the list
occur at the state or federal level, the list in this chapter is automatically
amended accordingly.
INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY: The recovery by the city from the industrial users of
a wastewater facility of the federal grant amount allocable to the treatment of
industrial wastewater.
INDUSTRIAL USERS: A. Any nongovernmental user of publicly owned treatment works
which discharges more than twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons per day (gpd)
of sanitary waste, or volume of process waste, or combined process and sanitary
waste equivalent to twenty five thousand (25,000) gpd of sanitary waste. The
grantee, with the regional administrator's approval, shall define the strength
of the residential discharges in terms of parameters including, as a minimum,
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and suspended solids (SS) per volume of flow.
Dischargers with a volume exceeding twenty five thousand (25,000) gpd or the
weight of BOD or SS equivalent to that weight found in twenty five thousand
(25,000) gpd of sanitary waste are considered industrial users.
   B.   Any nongovernmental user of a publicly owned treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER: All wastewater discharged into the sanitary sewer system
other than normal domestic wastewater.
INTERCEPTOR/TRAP: A device for retaining sand, silt, grit, mineral material,
petroleum solvent, grease or oil by gravity differential separation from
wastewater and of a design and capacity approved by the city.
INTERFERENCE WITH ANY WASTEWATER FACILITY: Any condition or combination of
conditions which causes degradation of the operational efficiency of the
wastewater facility.
NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER: Wastewater normally discharged from the sanitary
conveniences of buildings (including residential structures, apartment houses
and hotels), office buildings, factories and institutions free from surface
water and industrial wastewater. Wastewaters containing concentrations of BOD5,
and suspended solids between two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l) and
five hundred milligrams per liter (500 mg/l) shall be considered normal
domestic wastewater.
OWNER: The owner of the property on which the facility discharging into the
public sanitary sewer is located.
PERSON: Any human, private corporation, individual partnership, firm,
association, company or other private entity.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
of a solution.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: That portion of a wastewater facility which transports
wastewater and to which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally
admitted.
SETTLEABLE SOLIDS: Those solids which settle during a preselected period of
time as expressed in milliliters per liter (ml/l) of sample.
SOLID WASTES: Solid or semisolid discarded material, except wastewater.
STANDARD METHODS: The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition, at
the time of analysis, of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And
Wastewater", as prepared, approved and published jointly by the American Public
Health Association and American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
STORM SEWER: A sewer which carries storm surface waters, drainage and
unpolluted process water but excludes normal domestic wastewater and industrial
wastewater.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Those solids expressed as milligrams per liter (mg/l), which
are filtered through a standard filter in accordance with standard methods.
TREATMENT OF WASTEWATER: Methods and procedures defined by the New Mexico state
environmental improvement agency and/or the federal environmental protection
agency.
UNPOLLUTED PROCESS WATER: Any water which does not violate the standards or
restrictions of this article and which contains none of the following: free or
emulsified grease or oil; acid or alkali, phenols or other substances imparting
taste and odor to receiving water; toxic substances in suspension, colloidal
state or solution; and noxious or odorous gases.
USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of wastewater facilities for the city's
initial capital cost of operation and maintenance of such facilities.
WASTEWATER: The used water of a community. Such used water may be a combination
of the liquid and solid waterborne wastes from residences, commercial
buildings, industrial plants and institutions, excluding storm surface water
and unpolluted process water.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, transport and treat domestic and/or industrial wastewater and
disposition of the effluent.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating domestic and industrial wastewater and sludge, sometimes used as
synonymous with "wastewater treatment plant". (1996 Code § 13.16.020; amd. Ord.
798, 7-8-2008)
7-3A-3: DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM:
   A.    Storm And Process Waters: Stormwater and other unpolluted process
water shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as
storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the governing body of the
city. (1996 Code § 13.16.040)
   B.    Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any water other than wastewater into the sanitary sewer system.
(1996 Code § 13.16.030)
   C.    Restricted Discharges:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described wastewaters:
         a.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) or sixty degrees Celsius (60°C).
         b.   Any wastewater containing fats, grease, wax or oils in excess of
one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at a temperature between thirty two (32) and one
hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) or between zero and sixty degrees
Celsius (60°C).
         c.   Any solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference
with the proper operation of the wastewater facility. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder larger than those normally manufactured and
sold for residential and noncommercial use will not be installed without
specific review and approval by the governing body of the city.
         d.   Any wastewater containing reducing substances of an organic or
inorganic nature, toxic or nontoxic, which exert a substantial chlorine demand
if the discharge of such agents will prevent the achievement of an adequate
chlorine residual in the effluent of the wastewater treatment works.
         e.   Any wastewater containing taste producing or odor producing
substances which cause a public nuisance.
         f.   Any wastewater containing radioactive substances of such half-
life or concentrations as may exceed limits established by the governing body
of the city, in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations. (1996
Code § 13.16.050)
         g.   Any wastewater having a pH in excess of 8.0 or a pH lower than
6.0, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard
to structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater facility. (Ord. 798,
7-8-2008)
         h.   Materials which exert or cause:
            (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended and/or dissolved
solids.
            (2)   Excessive discoloration.
            (3)   Unusual chemical oxygen demand, or biochemical oxygen demand,
or chlorine requirements in such quantities as to constitute a significant load
on the wastewater treatment works.
"Unusual" means ten percent (10%) of the average daily loading as treated at
the Artesia wastewater treatment plant.
            (4)   Any unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes which
will disturb the normal functioning of the wastewater facility. An "unusual
volume of flow or concentration" means a volume of flow or concentration which
significantly exceeds a thirty (30) day arithmetic average measured at the
inlet of the wastewater facility.
         i.   Any wastewater containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment works employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the effluent cannot meet the
requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving
waters.
         j.   Any flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
         k.   Any wastewater containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastewater to injure or interfere with the wastewater facility, constitute a
hazard to humans, animals or plants, create a public nuisance or create any
hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
         l.   Any persistent herbicides or pesticides or other toxic refractory
organic chemicals.
         m.   Any wastewater from point source discharges either untreated or
treated by the best practicable control technology available shall not exceed
the following concentration for the listed heavy metals. Any heavy metal not
listed in this subsection C1m shall not be discharged into the city sewerage
system until the allowable discharge concentration is agreed upon by the New
Mexico environmental improvement agency and the governing body of the city:
  Milligrams Per Liter
                 Milligrams Per Liter
                   
Arsenic            0.05
Barium             5.0
Boron              1.0
Cadmium            0.02
Chromium (total)   5.0
Copper             1.0
Cyanide            2.0
Lead               0.1
Manganese          1.0
Mercury            0.005
Nickel             1.0
Selenium           0.02
Silver             0.1
Zinc               5.0
 
The dilution of the wastewater of any point source which would reduce the
concentration of any of the aforesaid metals in the wastewater discharged does
not constitute an acceptable manner of disposition. The point source discharge
requirements set out in this subsection C1m shall become effective upon passage
of the ordinance codified in this article 1 .
         n.   Any wastewater discharge that, collectively with other
discharges, contains concentrations of metals which cause the treated effluent
discharge from the city wastewater treatment facilities to exceed the following
values:
  Milligrams Per Liter
                 Milligrams Per Liter
                   
Arsenic            0.05
Barium             1.0
Boron              0.75
Cadmium            0.01
Chromium (total)   0.01
Copper             0.1
Lead               0.05
Manganese          1.0
Mercury            0.001
Molybdenum         0.01
Nickel             0.1
Selenium           0.01
Silver             0.05
Zinc               0.5
 
The concentration of metals specified must not be interpreted to mean that the
dilution of wastewater constitutes an acceptable manner of disposition. These
metals will be excluded or removed to the lowest degree that is practicable and
attainable. The concentration of a heavy metal in the background will be
subtracted from the total concentration of the metal in the effluent in
determining whether the effluent of the city wastewater treatment works is in
compliance with this subsection C1n. Any heavy metal not listed in this
subsection C1n shall not be discharged into the city sewerage system until the
allowable discharge concentration is agreed upon by the New Mexico
environmental improvement agency and the governing body of the city.
         o.   The effluent discharge from the city's wastewater facilities
shall in no case exceed the following values for the metals listed:
  Milligrams Per Liter
         Milligrams Per Liter
           
Arsenic    0.075
Cadmium    0.015
Chromium   0.05
Copper     0.20
Lead       0.075
Mercury    0.0015
Silver     0.10
 
(1996 Code § 13.16.050)
      2.   If any wastewaters are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in subsection C1 of this section and which, in the
judgment of the governing body of the city, may have a deleterious effect upon
the wastewater facilities or receiving waters or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the governing body of the city
may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers; or
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge.
If the governing body of the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the governing body of the city and the
state, and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and
laws. (1996 Code § 13.16.060)
 
Notes
1 1. This article derived from ordinance 415, passed in 1979.
7-3A-4: GREASE INTERCEPTOR FACILITIES:
   A.    Description: The purpose of an interior or exterior grease interceptor
is to remove grease or oil from the sewage prior to discharge to the public
sanitary sewer. These interceptors serve as small flotation chambers where
grease rises to the water surface and is retained, while the clearer water
underneath is discharged. As used in this section, the word "interceptor" is
interchangeable with the word "trap".
   B.    Regulatory Guideline: No water or waste containing substances as
defined in subsection 7-3A-3C of this article shall be discharged into any
public sanitary sewer.
   C.    Special Requirements: The size and type of grease interceptor shall be
subject to the prior approval of the city's building inspector. The grease
interceptor shall be installed in a plumbing line separate from the sanitary
plumbing facilities. In general, all grease interceptors shall be designed for
exterior installation and be of capacity sufficient to service those grease
generating fixtures connected thereto. Wastes other than those requiring
separation shall not be discharged into the grease interceptor. Grease
interceptors shall be designed, located and constructed in a manner that will
permit easy access and maintenance by the user and for inspection by the city.
   D.    Grease Interceptor Standards: The minimum requirements for interceptor
sizing, construction, materials and other features shall be those required by
the uniform plumbing code (UPC), latest edition, together with any
modifications, revisions or amendments which may be made by the state of New
Mexico and/or the city building inspector.
   E.    Grease Interceptor Requirements:
      1.   Grease interceptors existing upon the adoption of this chapter shall
not be exempt from the provisions in this section.
      2.   All restaurants, cafeterias, institutional kitchens, and other
installations having facilities for the preparation and serving of food in
quantity, laundromats, car washes, gas stations, auto machinery garages and art
shops or art galleries where the potential for discharge of grease, oils and
waxes into the sanitary sewer system exists, whose location is within the
city's sanitary sewer service area shall be required to install a grease
interceptor.
      3.   Any facility as listed above that is currently operating without the
required grease interceptor, even though there may have been no history of
blockages caused at or downstream from their location, shall be required to
install a grease interceptor.
      4.   Owner shall submit plans or technical drawings for installation of a
grease interceptor as required by this section within three (3) months
following receipt of any notice of noncompliance.
      5.   Owner shall then have up to six (6) additional months from date of
approval of the drawings by the city building inspector within which to install
the grease interceptor.
      6.   An application for new water or sewer service connection may be
denied pending the installation of a grease interceptor.
      7.   Any commercial or industrial facility, currently on an on site sewer
system and making an application to connect to the public sanitary sewer, shall
install or otherwise show proof of the existence of a grease interceptor
installed in compliance with this section, prior to approval of the
application.
      8.   Any commercial or industrial facility which is not in compliance
with this section and is connected to the public sanitary sewer system shall be
required to be in compliance with these rules and regulations on or before the
date of any sale of the premises to a new owner and prior to the new owner
being allowed to commence discharge. In the event of any failure to bring such
premises into compliance on the date of sale, the city may elect to refuse to
accept any discharge into the system until such facility be brought into
compliance.
   F.    Maintenance: Grease interceptors shall be cleaned prior to the
receptacle achieving a total content of seventy five percent (75%) of its
design capacity. The operator of a grease interceptor shall maintain a log book
showing date and description of all maintenance activities together with a log
book containing entries indicating the name and address for each person making
disposal of grease or oil, which shall be readily available for immediate
inspection upon request by the city. Grease interceptors shall additionally be
subject to unannounced inspections by the city's wastewater department,
building inspector or code enforcement officer, or any other lawful
representative of the city at any time during their operation.
   G.    Penalty; Publication: The penalties designated within section
7-3A-9 of this article shall apply. In addition, the city may publish in a
newspaper published within the city the name of any person or entity who may be
determined by judgment of the municipal court to be in violation of this
section. (Ord. 798, 7-8-2008)
7-3A-5: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT:
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for any
industrial wastewater, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his expense. (1996 Code § 13.16.090)
7-3A-6: CONTROL MANHOLE AND METERS:
The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial
wastewater shall install a suitable control manhole, together with such meters
and other appurtenances on the building sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of the wastewater. Water use records shall be kept by
the owner and shall be made available to the governing body of the city. Such
manhole, meters and other appurtenances shall be accessible and safely located,
constructed in such a manner as to prevent infiltration of ground and surface
waters, and should be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
governing body of the city. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his
expense and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all
times. (1996 Code § 13.16.100)
7-3A-7: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
   A.    Testing of industrial wastewater will be performed at least twice a
year or whenever found necessary by the governing body of the city. The persons
discharging the wastewater shall be liable for payment of all costs arising
from the testing of the industrial wastewater. (1996 Code § 13.16.070)
   B.    All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastewaters shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of
"Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater", published
jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation and shall be determined
at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at the control
manhole. The control manhole shall be located so that sampling of the
industrial waste will be performed before discharge into the public sewer
system.
   C.    Sampling shall be carried out in accordance with present or future
state or federal standard methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon
the wastewater facilities and to determine the existence of hazards to life,
limb and property. The particular analyses involved will determine whether a
twenty four (24) hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always,
COD, BOD, suspended solids and settleable solids analyses are obtained from
twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined
from periodic grab samples. (1996 Code § 13.16.110)
7-3A-8: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.    Rate Schedule Established: The governing body of the city shall take
necessary steps to establish a rate schedule for sewer service that assures an
equitable system of user charge and cost. The intent of this schedule is that
all users shall pay for the costs incurred by the governing body of the city in
the construction, operation and maintenance of this wastewater facility. (1996
Code § 13.16.120)
   B.    User Charge System:
      1.   Conditions: The user charge system shall satisfy the following
conditions:
         a.   The apportionment of costs must take into consideration each
user's contribution as related to the total waste load, taking into account the
volume and strength of all discharges. The volume shall be determined by either
winter water usage or by number of outlets per user. The method for determining
volume to be used will be reviewed annually concerning its equitability as to
each user's contribution.
         b.   The user charge to be considered should include, but not be
limited to:
            (1)   Amortization of the applicant's indebtedness for the cost of
the treatment facilities (plant and interceptors).
            (2)   Operation and maintenance of the treatment facilities.
            (3)   Any additional costs which are necessary to assure adequate
treatment on a continuous basis.
         c.   The user charge system shall be evaluated on an annual basis to
reflect annual costs. (1996 Code § 13.16.130)
      2.   Formula: A user charge will be assessed against persons discharging
industrial wastewater based on volume and strength. The industrial user charge
will be calculated with a formula acceptable to the governing body of the city,
as shown on the forms entitled appendix A attached to ordinance 415 which is on
file in the office of the city clerk. The governing body of the city or its
designated employee shall insert cost figures in the appropriate blanks of
appendix A attached to ordinance 415 as soon as such cost figures are
available. (1996 Code § 13.16.140)
   C.    Additional Charges:
      1.   In addition to the user charge referred to in subsection B2 of this
section, each industrial user shall pay that portion of the public law 92-500
federal grant amount allocable to the treatment of its industrial wastewater.
An "industrial user" is defined in section
7-3A-2 of this article.
      2.   A signed letter of intent from each industrial user is required in
order for the user to discharge into the wastewater facilities. No discharge
will be permitted if the industrial wastewater has significant impact on the
wastewater facilities. The industrial cost recovery charge will be calculated
with a formula acceptable to the governing body of the city, as set out in
appendix A of ordinance 415 which is on file in the office of the city clerk.
      3.   Each year during the industrial cost recovery period, each
industrial user of the wastewater facilities shall pay its share of the total
federal grant amount divided by the "recovery period" which is defined as the
useful life of the wastewater treatment works or thirty (30) years, whichever
is less.
      4.   If there is a substantial change in the strength, volume or delivery
flow rate characteristics introduced into the treatment works by an industrial
user, such user's share shall be adjusted accordingly. (1996 Code § 13.16.150)
7-3A-9: PENALTIES:
   A.    General Penalty: Every person convicted of a violation of this article
shall be punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per
day and/or imprisonment of up to ninety (90) days in jail for each violation,
and each day this article is violated shall constitute a separate offense
against the municipality. The conviction and punishment of any person for a
violation of this article shall not excuse or exempt such person from the
payment to the municipality of any separate fee, civil or otherwise, which may
be due, owing, or unpaid at the time of such conviction.
   B.    Other Remedies: All remedies prescribed or liens created hereunder or
under the provisions of the law for collection and enforcement of the fees
shall be cumulative to any other remedies provided within this article or by
law and the use of one or more remedies by the city shall not bar the use of
any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this article or
any liens created by the law. The fees fixed by this article shall be a lien in
favor of the city upon both the real and personal property of the person used
in connection with the sewer line or facilities which gave rise to the fee, and
such lien shall be imposed, collected, enforced and paid as provided by the
law. (Ord. 798, 7-8-2008)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL 1
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Administration
7-4-3: Collection Of Solid Waste, Contracts
7-4-4: Collection Authorization
7-4-5: Accumulation Of Solid Waste
7-4-6: Residential Collection
7-4-7: Commercial Collection
7-4-8: General Residential And Commercial Collection Regulations
7-4-9: Holidays
7-4-10: Utility Rates And Fees
7-4-11: Compulsory Collection, Responsible Party
7-4-12: No Withholding Of Payment Of Any Account Holder
7-4-13: Failure To Place In Proper Collection Containers; Failure To Use City
Authorized Collection Service; Failure To Pay Fees
7-4-14: Unauthorized Use Of Collection Containers
7-4-15: Supervision Of Collection Containers, Notice To The Department Of
Failure To Empty Collection Containers
7-4-16: Enforcement; Compliance; Violation; Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-1F-2D of this code.
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
singular include the plural, and words used in gender text are not descriptive.
The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
ASHES: The residue from burning of wood, coal, coke, or other combustible
materials.
AUTHORIZED CONTRACTOR: Any solid waste hauler who has been contracted by the
city to provide solid waste hauling services.
BULKY WASTE: Used and discarded mattresses, furniture, white goods
(appliances), and other waste materials other than construction debris, dead
animals, prohibited materials, infectious or hazardous waste.
CITY: The city of Artesia, New Mexico.
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The employee of the city who enforces designated
portions of this code.
COLLECTION CONTAINERS: City approved receptacles, bins, roll- offs, roll-out
carts, or other containers authorized by the city and utilized by generators of
solid waste and/or recyclables for temporary storage during the process of
collection, disposal, or recycling.
COMMERCIAL COLLECTION: Solid waste collected from any source other than from
residential accounts.
COMMERCIAL HAULER: Anyone that collects or transports solid waste as a part of
his business or for a fee, to include handymen and landscapers, and/or anyone
who transports solid waste by use of a vehicle defined as commercial by the
state or the federal government (i.e., requiring a commercial driver's
license).
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS: Materials such as dirt, rocks/stones,
concrete, masonry, bricks, mortar, asphalt, shingles, wood, etc. Residential
customers producing or hauling construction debris in quantities larger than
three (3) cubic yards, and commercial producers or haulers of construction
debris in any quantity shall be defined as a "commercial customer" and the
designated fees shall be charged for use of the city's transfer station.
DEPARTMENT: The department of infrastructure.
DIRECTOR OF INFRASTRUCTURE: The employee of the city designated to be
responsible for the administration and compliance of this chapter.
DOMESTIC/RESIDENTIAL USER: Any person who uses city collection services or
designated transfer station to dispose of household waste.
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
HAZARDOUS WASTES: Solid waste that is deemed as hazardous under federal
statutes, rules or regulations.
INFECTIOUS WASTE: A limited class of substances that carry a risk of
transmitting disease, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Microbiological laboratory wastes, including clinical and stocks of
infectious agents from clinical research and industrial laboratories, and
disposable culture dishes and devices used to transfer, inoculate and mix
cultures;
   B.   Pathological wastes, including human or animal tissues, organs and body
parts, removed during surgery, autopsy, or biopsy;
   C.   Disposable equipment, gloves, instruments, utensils, and other
disposable materials which require special precautions because of contamination
by highly contagious diseases;
   D.   Blood and blood products, including waste blood, blood serum and
plasma;
   E.   Used gloves, sharps, including used hypodermic needles, syringes,
scalpel, blades, Pasteur pipettes, and broken glass; and contaminated animal
carcasses, body parts and bedding, especially those intentionally exposed to
pathogens in research, in the production of biological or the in vivo testing
of pharmaceuticals.
LANDFILL: A New Mexico environment department (NMED) permitted landfill.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any plot of ground upon which three (3) or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located regardless of whether
or not a charge is made for such accommodation.
PERSON/RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation,
cooperative, association, or any other entity owning, operating, managing,
leasing, controlling, or inhabiting any house, unit of residence, shop,
establishment, or other premises within the corporate boundaries of the city.
PREMISES: Any property within the city corporate boundaries adaptable for human
occupancy, and shall also mean, but not be limited to, business places,
apartment houses, offices, theaters, hotels, residences, cafes, restaurants,
eating places, tourist facilities, hospitals, schools, vacant lots, and any
other places or locations within the city boundaries where solid waste
accumulates.
PROHIBITED MATERIALS: Any and all materials listed as prohibited by NMED, city,
state, or federal rules, regulations, or law.
QUALIFIED PHYSICALLY DISABLED RESIDENT: As determined by a physician, means a
residential account where there are no residents who are physically capable of
moving a residential container (roll-out) to and from the standard curbside
location for collection.
RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION: Solid waste collected from premises occupied as
individual residential dwellings, containing no more than four (4) families per
lot, and mobile home park where the water and/or sewage service is furnished by
the city and billed to the individual occupant of the mobile home.
RUBBISH: Shall include, but is not limited to, all nonputrescible solid wastes
(excluding ashes), such as paper, cardboard, cans, wood, yard clippings,
leaves, dirt, glass, bedding, crockery, and similar materials.
SOLID WASTE: Any discarded garbage, rubbish, refuse, sludge from a waste
treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control
facility and other discarded material including solid, liquid, semisolid or
contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining and
agricultural operations and from community activities, but does not include
those items excluded as solid waste by the solid waste rules adopted by the
environmental improvement board of the state of New Mexico.
SOLID WASTE SUPERVISOR: The supervisor responsible for day to day operations
for the solid waste department, to include the implementation of policy and
procedures as instructed by the director of infrastructure.
SPECIAL WASTES: Types of solid wastes that have unique handling,
transportation, or disposal requirements to assure protection of the
environment and the public health and safety as defined by New Mexico solid
waste rules.
TRANSFER STATION: A facility designated by the city as a disposal site for
solid waste.
YARD WASTE: Grass clippings and/or leaves. (Ord. 880, 11-8-2011)
7-4-2: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Duties Of The Director Of Infrastructure: The director of
infrastructure is responsible for the administration and enforcement of this
chapter utilizing the solid waste supervisor and the code enforcement officer.
It shall be the duty of the director of infrastructure to oversee the handling
and collection of all solid waste in the city and disposal or processing
thereof. He shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations to
implement this chapter.
   B.   Service Conversions: All service conversions from a current collection
system to an alternate service (i.e., roll-out containers to shared containers
or shared containers to roll-out containers), shall be recommended by the solid
waste supervisor. Should the conversion be approved by the infrastructure
director, reasonable notice will be given to the affected customers.
   C.   Size, Location, Quantity And Type Of Service Needed: The solid waste
supervisor, under the direction of the director of infrastructure, is
responsible for evaluating the size, type of collection container, location,
quantity, and type of service or equipment necessary to provide the required
services to residential and commercial accounts. In cases of disputes or
complaints arising from such decisions, the department shall designate the
size, location, quantity, and type of service needed for said containers,
taking into consideration among other things, convenience to collection crews,
convenience to customers, safety of residents and employees, and if hazardous
conditions exist (i.e., electrical wires, etc.).
   D.   Duties Of The Solid Waste Supervisor: The solid waste supervisor shall:
      1.   Monitor residential and commercial compliance as outlined in this
chapter.
      2.   Oversee bid or contract work as applicable to the solid waste
department.
      3.   Monitor and follow departmental rules and regulations, and meet all
city, state, and environmental requirements.
      4.   Hear and decide complaints brought by a person concerning another
person's compliance with the terms of this chapter.
      5.   Notify persons whose collection containers are not in conformity
with the requirements in this chapter.
      6.   Approve the locations of, and need for, all containers.
      7.   Notify persons if unsanitary conditions exist.
      8.   Resolve disputes regarding placements of solid waste collection
containers.
      9.   Order additional residential and commercial pick ups or collection
containers, at the responsible party's expense, if unsanitary conditions exist.
   E.   Grievance Procedure: Any person aggrieved by a decision of the solid
waste supervisor may appeal first to the director of infrastructure. If the
matter is not resolved, then to the infrastructure committee. A final appeal
can be brought before the full city council.
   F.   Designation Of Enforcement Authority: The solid waste supervisor may
issue notice for lack of compliance or violation of this chapter, and/or the
solid waste rules and regulations. Any city police officer, building inspector,
code enforcement officer, fire marshal, or any other city employee authorized
by the governing body, is authorized to issue citations for any violation of
this chapter, and proceed with enforcement. (Ord. 880, 11-8-2011)
7-4-3: COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE, CONTRACTS:
   A.   The city shall provide for suitable equipment and personnel sufficient
to collect solid waste within the city. This may be provided internally or by
contract. To achieve such purposes, the governing body may enter into contract
for the collection, transportation, facilities, or disposal of solid waste.
   B.   Collection companies providing services not yet offered by the city
may, by authorization of the department, contract with persons for the
placement and removal of roll-off containers for the purpose of hauling
construction debris or large quantities of solid waste, provided all rules and
regulations for the temporary storage, collection, transportation, and control
of solid waste are followed. (Ord. 880, 11-8-2011)
7-4-4: COLLECTION AUTHORIZATION:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, solid waste accumulated
in the city shall be collected, conveyed, and disposed of by the city or its
contractors. No person other than the city, a commercial hauler, or an
authorized contractor shall collect, transport or dispose of any solid waste
accumulated in the city. Except that the actual producer of solid waste, or
responsible party for the property where solid waste has accumulated, may
personally collect and transport such solid waste providing it is done in a
sanitary manner, which will prevent any waste from spilling, blowing, or in any
other manner being deposited on any public or private property. Said person
shall deposit such solid waste in an authorized landfill site or transfer
station.
   B.   Notwithstanding the terms of this section, all persons shall arrange
for residential or commercial solid waste collection with the city, and shall
pay for such service, whether or not the city services are actually used. (Ord.
880, 11-8-2011)
7-4-5: ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTE:
   A.   No person shall allow any solid waste to accumulate upon premises or
real property owned, leased, or occupied by him during intervals between
collection thereof, except in the manner provided by this chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to deposit any solid waste in or upon the streets,
alleys, sidewalks, gutters, rights of way, or vacant land within the city,
except in the assigned containers as hereinafter specified.
   C.   No person shall allow any material or solid waste to accumulate in or
around the circumference of a fire hydrant. A minimum of twenty feet (20') of
clear space from the fire hydrant must be maintained at all times.
   D.   Should accumulation of solid waste become a nuisance, create a fire
hazard, or should it appear to be a matter of public necessity for health or
safety reasons, or should such accumulation be otherwise violative of this
chapter, the responsible party of the premises shall be notified in person, by
notice posted upon the premises, or by regular first class mail. The notice
shall describe the violation and shall establish a reasonable time limit for
abatement thereof by the person/responsible party, at his own expense.
Compliance shall be within fifteen (15) days after the date of notice, except
in cases where hazardous materials are involved, in which case the compliance
period shall be shortened to forty eight (48) hours.
   E.   In the event the responsible party does not respond to the notice of
violation, or compliance, the city will proceed with enforcement and abatement
as described in this chapter. (Ord. 880, 11-8-2011)
7-4-6: RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION:
   A.   Residential Container Required; Maintenance Required: Every person or
responsible party within the city boundaries shall cause to be provided, on his
premises, one or more of the solid waste collection containers in sufficient
number to contain all solid waste accumulated by said person between
collections. Such containers shall meet the following specifications and be
maintained as required:
      1.   Containers shall be provided by the city without exception.
      2.   Containers supplied by the city shall remain the property of and
responsibility of the city.
      3.   Containers shall be maintained in mechanically sound condition by
the city.
      4.   The city shall be entitled to seek restitution from the responsible
party assigned the collection container for all maintenance, repairs, or loss
occasioned by the negligent or intentional acts of the person or third parties
from which damage has occurred.
      5.   The combined weight of the collection containers and contents shall
not exceed one hundred fifty (150) pounds for roll-out carts and one thousand
eight hundred (1,800) pounds for large three (3) yard containers.
   B.   Residential Collection Regulations: All collection containers shall be
loaded with bagged solid waste only and in such a manner as they will self-
empty when inverted. Yard waste is exempt from the bagging requirement.
      1.   Solid waste that is too long or "bulky" to be placed in the
collection containers as required by this chapter, shall be prepared for
collection by compressing the rubbish as flat as practicable, or by breaking or
cutting items into shorter lengths, and securely tying them in a bundle not
exceeding four feet (4') in length and fifty (50) pounds in weight. No solid
waste such as light packing materials, or other similar and easily scattered
materials shall be included in the bundle, nor shall any solid waste or
material not defined as rubbish. Such bundles and bulky waste shall be placed
as instructed by the city.
      2.   The owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of each premises shall store
the containers in such a manner as to keep the containers from being overturned
or upset and scattered in any manner.
      3.   The solid waste supervisor shall notify and advise any person out of
compliance with this chapter, in writing by ordinary first class mail or by
posting on the premises, and order corrective action as appropriate. If the
issue is not corrected within fifteen (15) days of the date of mailing of the
notice or posting on the premises, the person shall be deemed in violation of
this chapter, and enforcement action may be taken.
   C.   Residential Collection Times, Locations And Frequency:
      1.   The department will determine scheduled pick up days and times,
placement locations, and types of collection containers based on routing, safe
access, staffing, and equipment available. All residential roll-out containers,
other than at a qualified physically disabled residence, shall be placed out
for pick up no later than seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on the regularly scheduled
day, but no earlier than seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. the evening prior to pick up
unless otherwise authorized by the department.
      2.   Roll-out containers shall be placed as close to the front curb as
possible, wheels shall be touching or within six inches (6") of the curb. It
shall be placed so the opening faces the street assigned for pick up, without
causing interference with pedestrians, vehicular traffic, or fire hydrants.
      3.   Containers shall be clearly visible and accessible to collection
equipment and employees, and free from any obstructions including, but not
limited to, trees, shrubbery, walls, fences, and vehicles. All emptied
containers shall be removed from the curb area within twelve (12) hours of
collection.
      4.   Qualified physically disabled residents will contact the solid waste
supervisor for a physician approved application. The solid waste supervisor
will establish pick up procedures for their current circumstance. (Ord. 880,
11-8-2011)
7-4-7: COMMERCIAL COLLECTION:
   A.   Commercial Container Required; Maintenance Required: Such containers
shall meet the following specifications and be maintained in the specified
manner:
      1.   Commercial or business establishments and multiple-family dwellings
with more than four (4) dwellings on a single site are required to have a
commercial container unless each individual unit establishes a single
residential account.
      2.   It is the responsibility of the city to arrange for commercial
containers, which are compatible with the city's solid waste collection
equipment.
      3.   The size and specifications of a commercial collection container
shall be based on the volume and type of solid waste produced by the particular
business, or commercial account establishment, or multiple-family dwelling. In
cases of disputes or disagreements concerning the appropriate size or
quantities of collection containers, the department may order a change in the
size of the container or frequency of collections.
      4.   The city shall collect all solid waste which is contained inside the
approved commercial collection container to be serviced for that premises. The
solid waste shall not exceed the collection container's capacity and the
container's lid must be closed when not in use. The person shall not place any
solid waste in any area other than inside the solid waste collection container.
      5.   The city shall maintain, repair, or repaint a container as needed.
The city shall be entitled to seek restitution for all maintenance, repairs, or
loss occasioned by the negligent or intentional acts of the person or third
parties from which damage or loss occurred.
      6.   All collection containers shall be loaded with bagged solid waste
only and in such a manner as they will self-empty when inverted.
      7.   All solid waste collection containers shall be kept in a clean,
sanitary condition by the user. It shall be a violation of this chapter to
deposit used grease from any commercial account holder established to produce
food products. Grease from such shall be deposited into a grease dumpster. It
shall be the responsibility of the account holder to prevent such activity.
      8.   Should the responsible party wish to temporarily or permanently
relocate a collection container, or make a change in service he may request a
review from the solid waste supervisor. It is the responsibility of the owner
of the premises to notify the department of any change in business type.
   B.   Criterion For The Placement Of Commercial Collection Containers:
      1.   Container shall at all times be located in such a manner as to be
readily accessible for removing and emptying. Criteria for placement shall
include consideration of accessibility to the container, and the safety to
residents, equipment and employees.
      2.   No commercial container shall be placed on any premises, street, or
alley without prior approval of the department.
      3.   A person, property owner, or his agent, whose site will require
commercial collection, shall submit to the department an accurate site plan of
the whole site for which service is desired. The plan shall include a legal
description and shall show lot lines, existing and planned buildings, proposed
collection points and enclosures (including the design of the enclosure), and
the proposed location of each commercial container.
      4.   The specific location for a commercial container shall be approved
by the department. Commercial containers and enclosure facilities shall be
located according to the criteria approved by the department.
      5.   The department may require alternative locations, enclosures, or
designs as necessary.
   C.   Commercial Collection Times, Container Size And Frequency:
      1.   Commercial Collection Times: Commercial containers shall be serviced
between the hours of four o'clock (4:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on
the regularly scheduled pick up days.
      2.   Commercial Collection Frequency: It shall be the responsibility of
the city and the commercial user to determine the quantity, cubic yard size,
and number of pick ups per week for commercial containers. The minimum number
of pick ups shall be one time per week. If, in the opinion of the solid waste
supervisor, unsanitary or unsafe premises are being maintained, he shall notify
the responsible party of this fact either in person, by notice posted upon the
premises, or by regular first class mail. If within fifteen (15) days of the
date of mailing or posting of the notice the premises are not brought into
compliance, the person shall be in violation of this chapter.
      3.   Shared Commercial Containers: For commercial business that do not
warrant three (3) yard containers or larger, and when so determined by the
department, commercial users may be allowed to share three (3) yard containers
and the fees for such. (Ord. 880, 11-8-2011)
7-4-8: GENERAL RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL COLLECTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Bagging: All collection containers shall be loaded with bagged solid
waste only and in such a manner as they will self-empty when inverted. Yard
waste is exempt from the bagging requirement.
   B.   Burning: It shall be unlawful to burn any material inside any
collection container, or otherwise place smoldering or burning items into or
next to any city collection container.
   C.   Construction Debris Containment: All construction sites shall have a
method of containment for construction debris to prevent the debris from
blowing or scattering upon the site or adjacent properties and streets. The
method of containment shall meet with the approval of the department.
   D.   Construction Debris Collection: Construction debris and/or materials
(herein "construction debris") in quantities larger than three (3) cubic yards,
or which may be produced or collected by a commercial business or hauler shall
be also considered as commercial or construction debris, and fees for such
shall apply. Producers of construction debris shall arrange for the collection
and removal of such at his own expense. If the city provides this service, said
person shall contract with the city, except that the producer may personally
collect said construction debris and transport it to the designated transfer
station. Transportation shall be in a vehicle, and shall be both covered and
secured in such manner to prevent the construction debris from spilling,
blowing, or in any other manner from being deposited on any street, roadway, or
property.
   E.   Flammable Or Explosive Materials: It shall be unlawful to place
flammable or explosive materials in any residential or commercial containers.
The producers of such materials shall provide a method of disposal which meets
with current New Mexico state solid waste rules.
   F.   Hot Ashes And Other Combustible Material: It shall be unlawful to
deposit into any city container hot ashes, cinders, smoldering coals, or any
greasy or oily substances which may spontaneously combust.
   G.   Infectious Waste: It shall be unlawful to place in any container for
regular collection any infectious waste or an item that has come in contact
with infectious waste.
   H.   Special And Hazardous Waste: It shall be unlawful to place or cause to
be placed in any container for collection any special or hazardous waste of any
kind. Any special or hazardous waste shall be removed from the city at the
owner's or producer's expense to an approved site. (Ord. 880, 11-8-2011)
7-4-9: HOLIDAYS:
The city shall observe holidays as noncollection days as approved annually by
the city's governing body. Residential collection shall occur on an alternate
day approved by the department. Commercial collections during such holidays
shall be performed on the day either prior or after the holiday. (Ord. 880, 11-
8-2011)
7-4-10: UTILITY RATES AND FEES:
   A.   Fees: The governing body may from time to time, by resolution, set fees
for the use of the transfer station, monthly collection services, and special
services offered by the solid waste department. Charges will be levied each
month for all utilities offered and any special services requested for the
collection and disposal of solid waste, in addition to other city utilities,
whether or not the solid waste collection service is actually used. Failure to
comply is a violation of this chapter.
   B.   Notice To Stop Services: Continuation of charges set forth by this
chapter shall continue until the responsible party or owner of such premises
provides notice in writing to the municipal clerk requesting such services be
stopped, and after all city issued collection containers have been returned to
the solid waste department.
      1.   Vacant premises shall continue to incur charges until all city
issued collection containers have been returned to the solid waste department,
and the city documents the vacancy through contact with the tenant or the
owner.
      2.   Accounts where a collection container has been assigned by the city
shall continue to incur monthly fees until the issued collection containers
have been returned to and received by the city's solid waste department or the
replacement costs for such container are collected.
      3.   Any person making a false statement upon any application or request
to stop services pursuant to this chapter shall be in violation of this
chapter.
   C.   Rendition Of Bills: The city shall bill persons, responsible parties,
firms, corporations, or other legal entities subject to this chapter for all
fees and associated costs to said persons residential or commercial account on
a monthly billing schedule established by the municipal clerk. Such bills may
include, but are not limited to, charges for commercial dumping, use of
transfer station, loss or damage to collection containers, special services,
water service, sewer service, and garbage collection, and shall be payable upon
receipt whether or not the service is actually used. All said bills shall be
payable at the office of the municipal clerk or billing office.
   D.   Past Due Bills: Residential and commercial utility accounts, commercial
dumping accounts, and any other account established with the city that remains
unpaid for over ninety (90) days from the billing date shall be processed for
collection by any lawful means; and/or in the event a property be connected for
said services and no payment be timely received, then the city may have any
recourse against the responsible party or property as provided by law,
including, but not limited to, filing a lien against the property for said
unpaid indebtedness. (Ord. 880, 11-8-2011)
7-4-11: COMPULSORY COLLECTION, RESPONSIBLE PARTY:
Any person or responsible party of any real property or premises within the
city upon which solid waste is generated or accumulated shall make arrangements
with the city for the collection of solid waste. Such persons shall pay to the
city the fees established and set forth from time to time by resolution of the
city council, whether or not the solid waste collection service is actually
used. Failure to comply is a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 880, 11-8-2011)
7-4-12: NO WITHHOLDING OF PAYMENT OF ANY ACCOUNT HOLDER:
No persons shall withhold payments owed to the city for services furnished
under this chapter for any reason to include before, during, or after a
customer feels aggrieved by the city. Upon failure to pay appropriate
statements or to bring current the delinquent account the city may thereupon
pursue its legal remedies under applicable laws. (Ord. 880, 11-8-2011)
7-4-13: FAILURE TO PLACE IN PROPER COLLECTION CONTAINERS; FAILURE TO USE CITY
AUTHORIZED COLLECTION SERVICE; FAILURE TO PAY FEES:
The city may remove or order the removal of any solid waste from any real
property or any premises, if:
   A.   Any person or responsible party of a property or premises allows solid
waste to be deposited or accumulated upon said property other than in the
proper collection container and fails to remove solid waste or to place the
solid waste in the proper collection container.
   B.   The person or responsible party for any real property or premises
refuses to use the solid waste collection service provided by the department.
Such persons shall pay to the city the fees established in this chapter,
whether or not the solid waste collection service is actually used. Failure to
comply is a violation.
   C.   After such removal of solid waste the city shall bill said person the
charge allowed under this chapter for any required removal. The city may file a
lien against the premises if the charges not be paid in full within thirty (30)
days after billing date. Failure to pay such charge is a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 880, 11-8-2011)
7-4-14: UNAUTHORIZED USE OF COLLECTION CONTAINERS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the person/responsible party to remove solid
waste from any rights of way within the city. It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, or permit another to place, any solid waste inside any
collection container at any collection point used in the city for collection
service, unless the solid waste is from the premises served by the collection
container or from the premises at which the container or collection point is
located.
   B.   City collection containers are placed at several points in city areas
to provide for solid waste collection from residential and commercial areas,
i.e., apartments, businesses, parks, and institutions within the city
boundaries for use of city customers only.
No solid waste from outside the city boundaries shall be placed in any city
collection containers or on the ground at such locations.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit, or permit
another to place or deposit, prohibited or hazardous solid waste into or next
to any city serviced collection containers.
   D.   The responsible party for any building, house, structure or land shall
cause to be removed, at his own expense, all hazardous and prohibited solid
wastes which are located, owned, or deposited on the property or on or within
the public right of way adjacent to the property within forty eight (48) hours
of notice from the solid waste supervisor or code enforcement officer. Notice
of the fact may be made in person, posted on the premises, or sent by first
class mail. The existence of any hazardous or prohibited materials on the
property or within the adjacent public right of way after notice has been given
and the required time has expired, shall be prima facie evidence that such
person, owner or occupant has failed or refused to remove the item or items so
stored or located thereon and shall be held to answer for the violation.
   E.   No person shall deposit or otherwise place in any collection container
to be serviced by the city or its contractor, any carcass, offal, or portion of
any animal, bird or reptile, including blood of the same. Any person in the
city having knowledge of the existence and location of a dead animal, bird or
reptile shall immediately notify the animal control officer of the location of
such dead animal, bird or reptile and shall provide such information as the
animal control officer or agent designated by the city may require.
   F.   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter to deposit any
solid waste on the public streets, alleys, or public ways except in proper
collection containers; or to deposit such waste on vacant lots or outside of
collection containers with the intent to avoid proper collection, or payment
for services under the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 880, 11-8-2011)
7-4-15: SUPERVISION OF COLLECTION CONTAINERS, NOTICE TO THE DEPARTMENT OF
FAILURE TO EMPTY COLLECTION CONTAINERS:
Each person, owner, manager, occupant, tenant or lessee of a house or building
used for residential, business or commercial purposes shall maintain
supervision and surveillance over the solid waste and the collection containers
serving such premises. If such collection containers are not emptied and the
contents removed by an employee of the city or other duly authorized person,
said person shall notify the department of the fact. (Ord. 880, 11-8-2011)
7-4-16: ENFORCEMENT; COMPLIANCE; VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any city police officer, building inspector/code enforcement officer,
agent, fire marshal, or any other authorized person, may issue a notice that a
citation will be issued for any violation of this chapter. The notice shall be
directed to the owner or responsible party of the property on which the
violation occurs. Said notice may be issued in person, by notice posted upon
the premises, or by regular first class mail. After such notice is issued,
correction or abatement of said violation shall be done within forty eight (48)
hours from the time of issuance of the notice, at the owner or responsible
person's sole expense. In the event of failure to correct or abate said
violation within forty eight (48) hours from the issuance of the notice, a
citation or complaint against the offender shall be issued for the violation.
Additionally, failure to comply with the correction or abatement of said
violation shall be deemed to be an additional separate offense for each day for
which such violation continues.
   B.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a petty misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
   C.   In addition, the city may seek restitution from the owner or
responsible party for the costs of all cleanup, removal, abatement, or
remediation for any solid, hazardous, or prohibited wastes billed the city. The
owner or responsible party for said property will be billed the actual costs
for the cleanup, removal, abatement, or remediation by the city, plus a one
hundred dollar ($100.00) administration fee. If the amount owed remains unpaid
after thirty (30) days after the billing date, a finance charge equal to one
percent (1%) per month commencing thirty (30) days after invoice date shall be
charged by the city until the account be paid in full, and the city shall have
all legal remedies for collection of the amounts owed.
   D.   The city shall additionally have lien rights against a particular
property for all amounts which may be owed and unpaid to the city. (Ord. 880,
11-8-2011)
CHAPTER 5
WATER WASTE
SECTION:
7-5-1: Title And Purpose
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Watering Restrictions
7-5-4: Water Conservation Incentives
7-5-5: Violation, Enforcement, And Fines
7-5-6: Variances, Exemptions And Administrative Appeals
7-5-7: Severability Clause
7-5-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known as the WATER WASTE AND DEMAND MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE.
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Assist in reducing overall per capita water use by twenty five percent
(25%) by improving the management of water demand.
   B.   Reduce outdoor irrigation and irrigation related water waste, which
comprise over forty percent (40%) of the total annual water use.
   C.   Reduce peak summer usage, which can be two (2) to three (3) times
winter usage and is a major driver for capital, operations and maintenance
investment.
   D.   Reduce water waste, including: ineffective, inefficient or over
watering; and release of water resulting in fugitive water in the public right
of way.
   E.   Reduce damage to publicly owned streets and appurtenances, and the
public expenditures necessary to repair and maintain such damages.
   F.   Increase roadway safety by reducing the potential of standing, flowing
or frozen water in the public right of way.
   G.   Reduce the rate of capital, operation, maintenance and replacement
investment needed to adequately meet system demand and consequently reduce the
cost to water consumers. (Ord. 966, 4-28-2015)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words or phrases shall be defined as:
CITY SERVICE AREA: That area that is served by the city both within the city
limits and within Eddy County.
CITY WATER: Shall include all water supplied or intended to be supplied through
the city of Artesia municipal water system for use. The term shall not include
effluent water or water obtained from either a private well or from private
irrigation water rights.
COMMERCIAL WATER USER: A business that uses city water for the purpose of
domestic use, in quantities that reflect such. This definition includes
companies using city water on construction sites for the purpose of dust
control.
DOMESTIC PURPOSES: The use of water for household or other domestic use.
FUGITIVE WATER: The pumping, flow, release, escape, or leakage of any water
from any pipe, valve, faucet, connection, diversion, well, or any facility for
the purposes of water supply, irrigation, transport, storage, disposal,
recreational use, cleaning process or deliver onto adjacent property or the
public right of way.
HAND WATERING: Watering plants or crops with one handheld hose, fitted with a
self-canceling or automatic shutoff nozzle, or a water can or pail.
INDUSTRIAL WATER USER: Any water user, in the city's sole and final
determination, which has used or does use city water for any nondomestic
purposes including, but not limited to, the following uses:
   A.   Oil field servicing and oil and gas production.
   B.   Manufacturing and production industries.
   C.   Any other industrial usage other than domestic use.
PERSON: Any individual, entity, partnership, association, agency, corporation,
or business organization of any kind, whether profit and not for profit, or any
other organization or entity of any kind, whether profit or nonprofit, except
for a municipal corporation.
PRIVATE WELL: Any water well for which a valid permit and diversion right has
been granted to any person by the office of the New Mexico state engineer.
SPRAY IRRIGATION: Shall include any irrigation by permanent sprinkler
installation and hose connected portable sprinkler devices.
SWIMMING POOL: Shall include any structure that is twenty four (24) or more
inches in depth and capable of containing at least one thousand one hundred
twenty two (1,122) gallons of water and which is intended primarily for
recreational or for exercise purposes. The term shall not include indoor pools
used for medical or rehabilitative purposes.
TREATED EFFLUENT: Those waters the city recovers through its sanitary sewer
system and treats at the city of Artesia wastewater treatment plant facility
for irrigation purposes, for discharge into the Pecos River, or for other
permissible and appropriate purposes.
WASH A VEHICLE: Includes the washing of any type vehicle by an individual or
individuals including, but not limited to, the operation of vehicle washes as a
fundraiser, subject to the limitations contained in the definition of "treated
effluent" herein and section
7-5-3 of this chapter. It does not include the washing of vehicles when that
activity is conducted either by attendants, with automatic equipment, or by
self-service, and is done as part of a normal business operation on the
premises of a commercial car wash or a commercial service station, provided
that such business holds a current business license from the city.
WATER WASTE: The nonbeneficial use of city water.
   A.   Nonbeneficial uses of city water include, but are not restricted to:
      1.   Applying water to outdoor vegetation in such a manner, rate, or
quantity that it overflows the area being watered and runs onto or seeps into
adjacent property or any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public right of way.
      2.   Using a sprinkler, sprinkler system, or other outdoor vegetation
water application device in such a manner as to spray water onto adjacent
property or any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public right of way; or
      3.   Washing down of vehicles or hard surfaces such as parking lots,
sidewalks, driveways, pads, or aprons when water is applied without a shutoff
hose nozzle and in an excessive amount or quantity of water such that it flows
from that surface onto adjacent property or any street, alley, sidewalk, or
other public right of way.
      4.   Water applied in sufficient quantity to cause ponding on impervious
surfaces or ice formation on adjacent property or the public right of way.
   B.   "Water waste" shall not include:
      1.   The use of water for firefighting, or firefighting training, or the
inspection or testing of fire hydrants.
      2.   The appropriate use of water to abate spills of flammable or
otherwise hazardous materials.
      3.   The use of water to prevent or abate health, safety, or accident
hazards when alternative methods are not available.
      4.   The use of water as a dust control measure as may be required by
regulations or work practice.
      5.   Water flow resulting from the construction, inspection, operation,
or maintenance of the city of Artesia municipal water supply system.
      6.   The use of water by contractors or utilities in saw cutting of
pavement, for compaction, or for other use required under the terms of their
construction contracts; or
      7.   Water which reaches or flows onto adjacent property or public right
of way when caused by an emergency, vandalism, or an act of God. (Ord. 966, 4-
28-2015)
7-5-3: WATERING RESTRICTIONS:
The following restrictions apply to all customers within the city service area:
   A.   No person shall cause or permit water waste of city water.
   B.   Self-canceling or automatic shutoff nozzles are required on any hoses
used for hand watering, car washing or other outdoor use.
   C.   All spray irrigation during the period beginning on April 1 and ending
on October 31 of each calendar year must occur only between seven o'clock (7:
00) P.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. This restriction shall not apply to
drip irrigation and low head bubblers, hand watering, or watering of
containerized plants and plant stock.
   D.   Plants which cannot be kept alive without daily watering may be watered
from a container, but shall not be watered through a sprinkler, sprinkler
system, hose or any other source on the days or during the times when watering
is otherwise prohibited.
   E.   Restaurants and food service facilities shall provide drinking water to
customers only upon request.
   F.   Any leak in a system which carries, transports, delivers, or stores
city water must be repaired within five (5) working days after first discovery
of the leak.
   G.   The city may require and enforce the elements of the most recently
adopted or amended emergency response and drought management plan.
   H.   The city may require that customers water no more than one, two (2) or
three (3) time(s) per week.
   I.   The city may prohibit curbside car washing. (Ord. 966, 4-28-2015)
7-5-4: WATER CONSERVATION INCENTIVES:
   A.   The city may, at its sole discretion, implement a water conservation
incentive program.
   B.   The mayor or his/her designee is delegated authority to implement the
provisions of a water conservation incentive program.
   C.   A water conservation incentive program may include:
      1.   Conversion to low water use (xeric) landscaping.
      2.   Replacement of indoor plumbing fixtures to low flow.
      3.   Installation of an indoor hot water recirculation system.
      4.   Installation of rainfall sensors with automatic sprinkler irrigation
systems.
      5.   Incentives and rebates.
   D.   If implemented, incentives and rebates will be through the utility
bills for the responsible party's billing account. (Ord. 966, 4-28-2015)
7-5-5: VIOLATION, ENFORCEMENT, AND FINES:
   A.   Any officer of the Artesia police department and/or any employee of the
city of Artesia engaged in code enforcement duties is authorized to enforce
this chapter.
   B.   All violations of this chapter shall be subject to and within the
jurisdiction of the municipal court of the city of Artesia.
   C.   Upon conviction for a violation of this chapter, the schedule for
imposition of fines by the court upon conviction for violations of this chapter
is as follows:
      1.   First violation: Twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      2.   Second violation: Seventy five dollars ($75.00).
      3.   Third violation: Three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      4.   Fourth and any subsequent violation: Five hundred dollars ($500.00).
No fine imposed for violation of this chapter may be suspended or deferred by
the court.
   D.   With respect to violations of this chapter that are continuous with
respect to time, each day the violation occurs shall constitute a separate
offense.
   E.   In addition to or in lieu of such fine, the person's access to city
water may be administratively terminated or otherwise restricted by the city of
Artesia. (Ord. 966, 4-28-2015)
7-5-6: VARIANCES, EXEMPTIONS AND ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS:
The mayor may prescribe policies, rules, or regulations to carry out the intent
and purposes of this chapter. Any variance or exemptions from this chapter
shall be addressed to the mayor or upon appointment by the mayor for such
purpose, the designee of the mayor.
   A.   Variances Or Exemptions: Variances or exemptions to section
7-5-3, "Watering Restrictions", of this chapter or the definition of "water
waste" in section
7-5-2 of this chapter:
      1.   Administrative variances or exemptions to the restrictions in this
chapter may be issued by the mayor or his/her designee, only for the purposes
of installing or retrofitting landscaping, provided that the general intent of
this chapter has been met, compliance with this chapter is proven to cause
practical difficulties and unnecessary hardship, and all options for abatement
through modified water management have been exhausted. The criteria to
determine hardship shall include level of capital outlay required and time
required to be in compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Water waste variances may be issued for a period not to exceed one
year and shall stipulate both short term corrective measures and a schedule for
completion of long term corrective measures. Variances may be renewed on an
annual basis if long term corrective measures cannot in the exercise of due
diligence, reasonably be completed within one year.
      3.   Watering restriction variances may be issued for a period not to
exceed one hundred twenty (120) days to establish a turf area on properly
prepared barren ground.
      4.   Watering restriction exemptions may be issued for a period not to
exceed forty five (45) days to establish a newly sodded turf and/or landscape.
      5.   Watering restriction exemptions may be issued for a period not to
exceed forty five (45) days to establish inter-seeded areas within an
established turf area.
   B.   Administrative Appeals: Appeal of administrative actions by mayor or
designee of section
7-5-3, "Watering Restrictions", of this chapter or the definition of "water
waste" in section
7-5-2 of this chapter.
   C.   Judicial Review: The exclusive remedy for parties dissatisfied with the
actions of the mayor or his/her designee taken under section
7-5-3, "Watering Restrictions", of this chapter or the definition of "water
waste" in section
7-5-2 of this chapter shall be by filing an appeal of the administrative action
taken by the mayor or his designee to the district court of Eddy County and
shall be limited to the record of any administrative hearing held pursuant to
this section. Such appeal shall be taken by the appellant by filing an appeal
with the district court of Eddy County and service of a copy of the appeal upon
the city clerk of Artesia within fifteen (15) days following final action taken
by the mayor or his/her designee pursuant to this section. (Ord. 966, 4-28-
2015)
7-5-7: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
The provisions of this chapter are severable, and if any provision or
circumstance is held invalid or unenforceable, then such invalidity or
unenforceability shall not affect any other provision or application of this
chapter which can be given effect without the invalid or unenforceable
provision or application. (Ord. 966, 4-28-2015)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES; FEES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Building Code
8-1-2: Residential Code
8-1-3: Plumbing And Mechanical Code
8-1-4: Fire And Safety Codes
8-1-5: Copies Of Codes
8-1-6: Fees
8-1-7: Existing Building Code
8-1-8: Property Maintenance Code
8-1-9: National Electrical Code
8-1-10: National Electric Safety Code
8-1-11: State Electrical Code And Electrical Safety Code
8-1-12: Violations And Penalties
8-1-1: BUILDING CODE:
The city adopts by this section all conditions, provisions, limitations and
terms of the latest edition of the building code adopted by the state, and all
amendments thereto. (Ord. 911, 2-12-2013)
8-1-2: RESIDENTIAL CODE:
The city adopts by this section all conditions, provisions, limitations and
terms of the latest edition of the residential code adopted by the state, and
all amendments thereto. (Ord. 911, 2-12-2013)
8-1-3: PLUMBING AND MECHANICAL CODE:
The city adopts by this section all conditions, provisions, limitations and
terms of the latest edition of the plumbing and mechanical code adopted by the
state, and all amendments thereto. (Ord. 911, 2-12-2013)
8-1-4: FIRE AND SAFETY CODES:
   A.   The city adopts, the international fire code, 2015 edition, including
appendices B, C and D, all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions, limitations and terms of said fire code, together with all
amendments thereto, and revisions, modifications and recompilations thereof,
with exception only to the following specific sections:
Section 101.1 - Insert the following values:
Name of jurisdiction = City of Artesia
Section 109.4 - Insert the following values:
Offense = misdemeanor
Dollar amount = $500
Number of days = 90
Section 105.7 shall be amended to read:
Section 105.7 - Required Construction Permits. The fire code official is
authorized to issue construction permits for work as set forth in sections
105.7.1 through 105.7.20.
Section 105.7.9 shall be amended to read:
Section 105.7.9 - Gates, Fences, And Barricades. A construction permit is
required for the installation of or modification to a gate, fence, or barricade
across a fire apparatus road, within 75 feet of a structure, or within 10 feet
of a fire hydrant. This includes temporary barricades, fences, or gates.
Section 105.7.13 shall be amended to read:
Section 105.7.13 - Fire Hydrants. A construction permit is required for the
installation, removal, or modification of fire hydrants. Maintenance performed
in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does
not require a permit.
Exception: Fire hydrant installation conducted by those employed by the city of
Artesia.
Section 105.7.19 shall be added:
Section 105.7.19 - Means Of Egress. A construction permit is required for any
new construction involving a means of egress, alteration to any existing means
of egress, or removal of any component of an existing means of egress.
Exceptions: Any work limited to replacement of the existing door or door
hardware with the same type/rating of door and hardware.
Section 105.7.20 shall be added:
Section 105.7.20 - Demolitions. A permit is required for the demolition of any
structure, including but not limited to, buildings, fire department access
roads, bridges, or towers.
Section 111.4 shall be amended to read:
Section 111.4 - Failure To Comply. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform by the appropriate city official to remove a violation or
unsafe condition, shall be cited into municipal court.
Section 5704.2.9.6.1 shall be amended to read:
Section 5704.2.9.6.1 - The storage of class I and class II liquids in above-
ground tanks is prohibited in zoning districts: SA-1, SA-2, R1-A, R1-B, R-2, C,
H, P, MH, PUD, and SU-1.
Section 5706.2.4.4 shall be amended to read:
Section 5706.2.4.4 - The storage of class I and class II liquids in above-
ground tanks is prohibited in zoning districts: SA-1, SA-2, R1-A, R1-B, R-2, C,
H, P, MH, PUD, and SU-1.
Section 5806.2 shall be amended to read:
Section 5806.2 - The storage of flammable cryogenic fluids in stationary
containers is prohibited in zoning districts: SA-1, SA-2, R1-A, R1-B, R-2, C,
P, MH, PUD, and SU-1.
Section 6104.2 shall be amended to read:
Section 6104.2 - The storage of liquefied petroleum gas in stationary
containers is prohibited in zoning districts: SA-1, SA-2, R1-A, R1-B, R-2, C,
P, MH, PUD, and SU-1.
   B.   The city adopts NFPA-1, fire code, 2015 edition, and NFPA-101, life
safety code, 2015 edition, for reference purposes only.
   C.   The city adopts NFPA 13, standard for the installation of sprinkler
systems, 2016 edition, all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions, limitations and terms of said fire code, together with all
amendments thereto, and revisions, modifications and recompilations thereof.
   D.   The city adopts NFPA 72, national fire alarm and signaling code, 2016
edition, all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, limitations
and terms of said fire code, together with all amendments thereto, and
revisions, modifications and recompilations thereof, with exception only to the
following specific sections:
Section 10.12.2 shall be amended to read:
Section 10.12.2 - When an occupant notification alarm signal deactivation means
is actuated, only audible notification appliances shall be deactivated. Visual
notification appliances shall remain active until a successful reset of the
system occurs.
Section 18.5.7 shall be added:
Section 18.5.7 - An audible and visual appliance shall be placed on the
exterior of the building. This appliance shall be located near the main
entrance unless otherwise specified by the fire code official. The appliance
shall be mounted not less than 80 in. and not greater than 96 in. in height,
unless approved by the fire code official.
(Ord. 1000, 8-9-2016)
8-1-5: COPIES OF CODES:
One copy each of the codes adopted in this chapter is available for inspection
during the normal and regular business hours at the office of the city clerk in
the city hall, and a copy of each of said codes will be available upon request
and payment of the cost thereof at the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 911, 2-
12-2013)
8-1-6: FEES:
   A.   Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Expenses: The City Council shall
establish by resolution a schedule of fees, charges and expenses for building,
plumbing, mechanical and electrical permits and inspections and any other
matters related thereto. The schedule of fees may be altered or amended from
time to time by the City Council, which action may additionally be done by
resolution.
   B.   No Action Until Fees Paid: No permit shall be issued or granted unless
and until such costs, charges, fees or expenses have been paid in full.
   C.   Collection System: The City Planning Department is hereby authorized to
institute a system to account for and collect such permit and inspection fees.
(Ord. 911, 2-12-2013)
8-1-7: EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
The City adopts by this section all conditions, provisions, limitations and
terms of the latest edition of the International Existing Building Code adopted
by the State, and all amendments thereto; known as the New Mexico Existing
Building Code (NMEBC). (Ord. 1045, 1-8-2019)
8-1-8: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
The City adopts the International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 edition, all
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, limitations and terms of
said code, together with all amendments thereto, and revisions, modifications
and recompilations thereof, with exception only to the following specific
sections:
Section 101.1 Title. Insert; the City of Artesia, NM.
Section 102.3 Application of other codes. Shall be amended to read:
Repairs, additions, or alterations to a structure, or changes of occupancy,
shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of the latest
editions of the New Mexico Commercial Building Code (NMCBC); New Mexico
Residential Building Code (NMRBC); New Mexico Plumbing Code (NMPC); New Mexico
Mechanical Code (NMMC); New Mexico Electrical Code (NMEC); New Mexico Energy
Conservation Code (NMECC); New Mexico Swimming Pool, Spa, and Hot Tub Code; and
NMMC or the LP gas standards.
Section 102.7 Referenced codes and standards. Shall be amended to read:
All references in the IPMC to the International Building Code shall be deemed
references to the latest edition of the New Mexico Commercial Building Code
(NMCBC). All references to the International Residential Code shall be deemed
references to the latest edition of the New Mexico Residential Building Code
(NMRBC). All references to the International Existing Building Code shall be
deemed references to the latest edition of the New Mexico Existing Building
Code (NMEBC). All references to the International Plumbing Code shall be deemed
references to the latest edition of the New Mexico Plumbing Code (NMPC). All
references to the International Mechanical Code shall be deemed references to
the latest edition of the New Mexico Mechanical Code (NMMC). All references to
the International Electrical Code shall be deemed references to the latest
edition of the New Mexico Electrical Code (NMEC). All references to the
International Energy Conservation Code shall be deemed references to the latest
edition of the New Mexico Energy Conservation Code (NMECC). All references to
the International Fuel Gas Code are deemed references to the latest edition of
the NMMC or the LP gas standards.
Section 103.2 Appointment. Shall be amended to read:
The Chief Building Official of the City of Artesia shall be known as the code
official.
Section 103.3 Deputies. Shall be amended to read:
Deputies shall consist of the City's code enforcement officer, building
inspector and the planning and zoning administrator. Deputies shall have the
power and authority to enforce all sections of the IPMC.
Section 103.5 Fees. Delete this section of the IPMC.
Section 111.2-Membership of board. Shall be amended to read:
The board of appeals shall consist of all the members of the Governing Body of
the City of Artesia. The code official shall be an ex-officio member but shall
not vote on any matter before the board.
Section 111.2.1 to 111.2.5-Delete this section of the IPMC.
Section 111.3-Notice of meeting. Shall be amended to read:
The board may conduct a public hearing and decide on the appeal within forty-
five (45) days of the acceptance of the appeal. Notice shall be given not less
than five (5) days prior to the public hearing by the posting of not less than
one (1) sign of at least nine (9) square feet in area with a white background
and black letters, containing notice of the public hearing in a conspicuous
place on or near the property upon which the appeal has been made. Also, notice
of the public hearing shall be published in a local newspaper of general
circulation, seventy-two (72) hours prior to the public hearing.
Section 111.4.1 Procedure. Shall be amended to read:
The board of appeals shall have the authority to administer oaths and
affirmations, examine witnesses and receive evidence. The rules of evidence
shall not apply in hearings before the board of appeals. The City, property
owners, and other parties entitled to be served with the code official's
complaint or notice and order may participate as parties in the hearing and
each party may call witnesses. The City's Open Meeting Resolution shall apply
in all hearings.
Section 111.6 Board decision. Shall be amended to read:
The board shall modify or reverse the decision of the code official only by a
concurring vote of a majority of the total number of board members.
Section 112.4 Failure to comply. Insert: $50 to $500.
Section 201.1 Scope. Add the following:
If the same term is defined in both the New Mexico Construction Codes and in
the IPMC, the term shall have the meaning given it in the New Mexico
Construction Code, with the exception of BASEMENT and EASEMENT.
Section 201.3 Terms defined in other codes. Shall be amended to read:
If a term is not defined in this code but is defined in a New Mexico
Construction Code, the term shall have the meaning given it in New Mexico
Construction Code, with the exception of BASEMENT and EASEMENT.
Section 202 General Definition. The following words shall be amended to read:
BASEMENT- The portion of a building that is partly or completely below grade,
which may be used for dwelling purposes if ceiling height, emergency escape and
rescue openings meet the requirements outlined in the International Residential
Code adopted by the city.
EASEMENT- The right, liberty, advantage or privilege that one (1) individual or
entity has in lands of another, either express or imputed (utility, grant or
necessity).
Section 302.4 Weeds. Insert: Eighteen (18) inches
Section 303.2 Enclosures. Shall be amended to read:
Required enclosures installation shall comply with Section R4205.1 "Barrier
Requirements" of the latest edition of the New Mexico Residential Building Code
(NMRBC).
Section 304.14 Insect screens. Insert: January to December.
Section 602.2 Residential occupancies. Shall be amended to read:
Dwellings shall be provided with heating facilities capable of maintaining a
room temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet
rooms. Cooking appliances shall not be used, nor shall portable unvented fuel-
burning space heaters be used, as a means to provide required heating.
Section 602.3 Heat Supply. Insert: January to December.
DELETE THE FOLLOWING: EXCEPTION: #1 The winter outdoor design temperature for
the locality shall be as indicated in Appendix D of the International Plumbing
Code.
Section 602.4 Occupiable work spaces. Insert: January to December.
Section 604.2 Service. Shall be amended to read:
The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall serve as a basis for
determining the need for additional facilities in accordance with the latest
edition of the New Mexico Electrical Code (NMEC).
(Ord. 1045, 1-8-2019)
8-1-9: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
The City adopts by this section the latest edition of the National Electrical
Code, all amendments thereto, and all revisions, modifications and
recompilations thereof. (Ord. 911, 2-12-2013)
8-1-10: NATIONAL ELECTRIC SAFETY CODE:
The City adopts by this section the latest edition of the National Electric
Safety Code, all amendments thereto, and all revisions, modifications and
recompilations thereof. (Ord. 911, 2-12-2013)
8-1-11: STATE ELECTRICAL CODE AND ELECTRICAL SAFETY CODE:
The City adopts by this section the New Mexico Electrical Code (14.10.4 NMAC),
all amendments thereto, and all revisions, modifications and recompilations
thereof.
The City adopts by this section the New Mexico Electrical Safety Code (14.10.5
NMAC), all amendments thereto, and all revisions, modifications and
recompilations thereof. (Ord. 911, 2-12-2013)
8-1-12: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation Of Codes: It shall be unlawful and a violation of this title
for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to erect, construct, enlarge,
alter, repair, move, improve, convert or demolish, or to equip, use, occupy or
maintain any building or structure or building service equipment in the City of
Artesia, or to cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation
of any of the provisions of this title.
   B.   Actions For Violation: Any building official, Code Enforcement Officer,
or other designated enforcement employee of the City of Artesia may, for any
violation of this title, take any one or more of the following actions:
      1.   Stop inspections, and/or revoke any or all permits issued to the
owner or contractor for the project until each such violation be corrected.
      2.   Impose double the usual amount of permit fee(s) if work be commenced
without first having a valid issued permit.
      3.   Impose a reinspection fee for any repeat inspection performed after
any violation is corrected.
      4.   Refuse to authorize installation of gas, electric, water service, or
other utility service until the violation be corrected.
      5.   Cause gas, electric or water service to be removed from the premises
until the violation be corrected.
      6.   Cause a certificate of occupancy to not be issued or, if issued, to
be withdrawn.
      7.   Issue a Municipal citation as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this
Code.
Any violation of this title shall be considered a separate offense for each and
every day which such violation is committed, continued, permitted, or otherwise
not corrected. (Ord. 911, 2-12-2013)
TITLE 9
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Purpose
9-1-3: Interpretation; Compliance With Provisions
9-1-4: Buildings And Lots
9-1-5: Multiple Use; Reduction Of Lot Areas
9-1-6: Sight Triangle Requirements
9-1-7: Driveway Location Requirements
9-1-8: Building Placement And Stormwater Requirements
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title is cited as and referred to as the ZONING ORDINANCE or the ZONING
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ARTESIA. (Ord. 1028, 8-28-2018)
9-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is enacted for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals,
convenience, orderly prosperity and welfare of the present and future
inhabitants of the City by lessening of congestion in the streets and roads;
securing safety from fire and other danger; providing adequate light and air;
the classification of land uses and the distribution of land development and
utilization; avoiding undue congestion of population; facilitating the adequate
provision of transportation, water, schools, sewerage and other public
requirements; and by other means in accordance with the comprehensive plan, and
the zoning map adopted herewith. (Ord. 1028, 8-28-2018)
9-1-3: INTERPRETATION; COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
   A.   Interpretation: In interpreting and applying the provisions of this
title, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public safety, health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general
welfare. It is not intended by this title to interfere with or abrogate or
annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties; except,
that if this title imposes a greater restriction, this title shall control.
   B.   Compliance Required: The use of premises and all buildings in the City
shall be in accordance with the minimum standards established in this title.
(Ord. 1028, 8-28-2018)
9-1-4: BUILDINGS AND LOTS:
Every building shall be on a lot, and accessory buildings shall not be placed
on a lot without a main building occupying the same lot. (Ord. 1028, 8-28-2018)
9-1-5: MULTIPLE USE; REDUCTION OF LOT AREAS:
Yards, number of parking spaces or lot area required for one main building
cannot be used for another main building, nor can the size of a lot be reduced
below the requirements of this title unless a variance is approved in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 1028, 8-28-
2018)
9-1-6: SIGHT TRIANGLE REQUIREMENTS:
In all districts, and except as cited below, no obstruction to view in excess
of three feet (3') in height, including, but not limited to, buildings/
structures, driveways and parking spaces (where a parked vehicle or vehicles
would be a visual obstruction), fences/walls, landscaping and associated design
features (berms, boulders, decorative lighting, statues, etc.) and signs, shall
be placed in the following areas:
   A.   On any corner lot/parcel within a triangle formed by street property
lines and a line connecting them at points twenty feet (20') from the
intersection of the street property lines.
   B.   On any lot/parcel within a triangle formed by a newly platted alley
line and a street property line and a line connecting them at points ten feet
(10') from the intersection of the newly platted alley line and street property
line.
   C.   On any lot/parcel within a triangle formed by a driveway line and
street property line and a line connecting them at points ten feet (10') from
the intersection of the driveway line and street property line, on both sides
of the driveway.
Street light poles, traffic control signal poles, traffic regulating signs and
utility poles (but not utility boxes or pedestals) that exceed three feet (3')
in height may be located in the sight triangle areas if they are placed in a
manner that permits unobstructed vision to pedestrians and vehicle drivers.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8c85ba56d28ea2897d39ed92e67a92923b877ac2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1319.gif]
(Ord. 1028, 8-28-2018)
9-1-7: DRIVEWAY LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
In all districts, the location of driveways on a lot/parcel shall be placed in
a manner that provides safe ingress and egress, taking into account both
vertical sight distance (determining visual obstructions extending vertically
from property and adjoining street right-of-way grades) and horizontal sight
distance (determining visual obstructions due to changes in street grade
elevations). A driveway shall not be placed within twenty feet (20') of an
intersection of street property lines unless a variance is approved in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 1028, 8-28-
2018)
9-1-8: BUILDING PLACEMENT AND STORMWATER REQUIREMENTS:
In all districts, and regardless of whether there are no setback requirements
in some districts, and regardless of any setback encroachment allowances, the
following building placement and stormwater requirements shall apply:
   A.   The roof of a building shall not project across a property line.
   B.   Stormwater runoff from the building shall not run onto an adjacent
property.
   C.   No building shall be placed over any drainage or utility easement.
   D.   All other provisions of this title and applicable Building and Fire
Codes regarding buildings shall be adhered to. (Ord. 1028, 8-28-2018)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
As used in this title, the words and phrases set out in this chapter shall be
interpreted and defined in accordance with the provisions set forth in this
chapter. Any words not listed among the definitions in this chapter shall be
defined by Webster's Dictionary for their common usage.
   A.   The particular controls the general.
   B.   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text of
this title and the captions for each section, the text shall control.
   C.   The words "will" and "shall" are always mandatory and not directory.
The word "may" is permissive.
   D.   Words used in the present tense include the future, unless the context
clearly indicates the contrary.
   E.   Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used in
the plural number include the singular, unless the context clearly indicates
the contrary.
   F.   A "building" or "structure" includes any part thereof. A "building" or
"other structure" includes all other structures of every kind, regardless of
similarity of buildings. (Ord. 1029, 8-28-2018)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY BUILDING/     A subordinate building/structure, that is not a portion of the main building/
STRUCTURE:              structure, the use of which is incidental to that of the main building/structure
                        on the same lot/parcel, except as otherwise provided in this title.
ACCESSORY USE:          A use which:
                       A.   Is subordinate to and serves the principal building/structure or principal
                        use;
                       B.   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal building/
                        structure or principal use served;
                       C.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of occupants of the
                        principal building/structure or principal use served; and
                       D.   Is located on the same lot/parcel as the principal building/structure or
                        principal use served, except as otherwise provided in this title.
                        A facility licensed by the State as an adult daycare center or as an adult
                        respite facility, which provides care, services and supervision for less than
ADULT DAYCARE CENTER:   twenty four (24) hours a day to three (3) or more adults, who because of
                        diminished mental or physical capacity, find it difficult to care for themselves
                        in their own residence during the day. Adult daycare does not include public or
                        private school facilities or senior recreation centers.
                        A private dwelling in which a resident of the dwelling has been licensed by the
                        State to provide adult daycare home services or adult respite home services, and
                        who provides care, services and supervision for less than twenty four (24) hours
ADULT DAYCARE HOME:     a day to at least three (3) adults but not more than five (5) adults, who because
                        of diminished mental or physical capacity find it difficult to care for
                        themselves in their own residence during the day. The use as an adult daycare
                        home or adult respite home shall be an accessory use. The primary use shall be as
                        a private residence.
AGRI-BUSINESS:          A business directly supportive of an agricultural use, including agricultural
                        businesses that also incorporate entertainment and tourism.
                        Land and/or structures whose principal use includes the growing of farm crops,
AGRICULTURE:            truck garden crops, animal/poultry husbandry, dairying, floriculture, pasturage,
                        and accessory uses customarily incidental to agricultural activities, but does
                        not include feed lots, slaughterhouses, or stockyards.
                        Any landing area, runway or other facility designed, used or intended to be used,
AIRPORT:                either privately or publicly, by any person or persons for the landing and
                        takeoff of aircraft, including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie
                        down areas, hangars and other necessary buildings and open space.
ALLEY:                  A public way generally providing secondary access to abutting properties.
                        Any arcade, building or premises, providing as its primary business, the
                        following: amusement parks; billiard or pool halls; bowling alleys; driving
AMUSEMENT               ranges; game rooms with mechanical or electronic amusement devices, including,
ESTABLISHMENT:          but not limited to, pinball machines, electronic or video games of skill or
                        chance, claw or scoop machines, jukeboxes, or coin operated table games; go-cart
                        tracks; miniature golf courses; skating rinks; and similar type uses.
                        The use of any property or structure or portion thereof for the keeping,
ANIMAL BOARDING:        breeding, selling, or training of animals for commercial gain, but not including
                        animals or livestock related to an agricultural use, feed lots, slaughterhouses,
                        or stockyards.
ANIMAL CLINIC OR ANIMAL An establishment where animals are examined and treated by veterinarian
HOSPITAL:               professionals.
ANIMAL GROOMING PARLOR: An establishment maintained for the purposes of performing cosmetological
                        services for animals.
ANIMAL SHELTER:         Any premises designated by the City for the purpose of impounding and caring for
                        animals coming into the City’s custody.
APARTMENT:              A room or set of rooms fitted especially with housekeeping facilities and usually
                        leased as a dwelling.
APPELLANT:              A person requesting that a decision be appealed.
APPLICANT:              A person submitting an application in accordance with the procedures established
                        in this Code.
                        Any State-licensed facility that is operated for the maintenance or care of two
ASSISTED LIVING         (2) or more adults who need or desire assistance with one or more activities of
FACILITY:               daily living. This does not apply to the residence of an individual who maintains
                        or cares for a maximum of two (2) relatives.
AUDITORIUM:             A building for private or public gatherings to hear and/or watch performances or
                        other presentations.
BANK/CREDIT UNION:      A financial institution offering checking and savings accounts, loans, and other
                        financial services.
                        Any commercial establishment licensed by the State Department of Alcoholic
                        Beverage Control to serve any alcoholic beverages for consumption on the
BAR:                    premises. Food service, dancing with music provided by bands, disc jockeys or
                        jukeboxes, or other entertainment may be provided incidental to the primary use.
                        A bar includes a lounge, microbrewery, nightclub, tavern and wine bar.
BARBERSHOP:             A place of business for a barber, licensed by the State of New Mexico, who cuts,
                        trims and/or shaves hair.
                        The portion of a building that is partly or completely below grade, which may be
BASEMENT:               used for dwelling purposes if ceiling height and emergency escape and rescue
                        openings meet the requirements outlined in the International Residential Code
                        adopted by the City.
BATCH PLANT, ASPHALT OR A facility in which asphalt or concrete and their ingredients or products are
CONCRETE:               ground up, mixed, or otherwise prepared for use on site or for transportation to
                        another site.
BEAUTY SHOP:            An establishment licensed in the State of New Mexico, providing personal services
                        that include hair treatment, facials, manicures/pedicures and tanning.
                        The subordinate use of a dwelling unit, for which the main use is the owner’s or
BED AND BREAKFAST INN:  operator’s permanent residence, for short-term guest lodging with a morning meal
                        provided only to overnight guests.
BOARD:                  The Board of Appeals. The Board shall consist of the members of the City Council
                        of the City.
BUILD:                  To construct, assemble, erect, convert, enlarge, reconstruct or structurally
                        alter a building or structure.
BUILDING:               Any structure built for use by persons or animals or for storage of inanimate
                        objects.
                        The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point of: a) a flat roof; b)
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF:    the deck line of a mansard roof; or c) the average height between eaves and the
                        ridge of gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
BUILDING INSPECTOR/
CODE ENFORCEMENT        The official designated by the City Council to enforce this title.
OFFICER:
BUILDING, MAIN/         The building in which the principal use of the site is conducted.
PRINCIPAL:
                        Any profession, trade or occupation and all and every kind of calling whether or
BUSINESS:               not carried on for profit, except those organizations exempt from the Federal
                        Income Tax pursuant to section 501(c)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue
                        Code as amended or renumbered.
                        Any location, building or portion thereof, or premises in which or from which a
BUSINESS, PLACE OF:     business is carried on. The term includes, but is not limited to, an office,
                        warehouse, yard, location where books and records are kept, and the location from
                        which business is solicited.
                        A roofed structure supported by a building and/or supports extending to the
CANOPY:                 ground directly underneath the canopy, and providing a protective shield for an
                        approved principal or accessory use on the lot/parcel.
CARETAKER’S DWELLING/ Housing for supervisory, maintenance, custodial or security personnel at a place
QUARTERS:               of business.
                        Any portable, reusable container, generally referred to as a sea cargo container,
                        cargo container or shipping container, made as a prefabricated metal structure
CARGO CONTAINER:        and primarily designed or used for transporting freight by commercial
                        transportation on ships, by rail or mounted on a chassis for movement by a
                        tractor trailer, and is built in accordance with the U.S. Department of
                        Transportation standards. Cargo container does not include semitrailers.
CARPORT:                An open-sided shelter, either attached to or detached from a building/structure,
                        for the parking of a vehicle or vehicles.
                        A business which provides or prepares food for consumption at parties or similar
CATERING:               events, where such events occur at locations other than where the food is
                        prepared.
CELLAR:                 The portion of a building or stand-alone structure that is partly or completely
                        below grade, which is not designed for dwelling purposes.
                        Land used for the burial of the dead, whether human or animal, including a
CEMETERY:               mausoleum or columbarium, but shall not include the interment or inurnment of
                        human cremated remains at a religious institution unless that use of interring or
                        inurning is limited to an accessory use.
CERTIFICATE OF          A certificate issued to the property owner by the Building Official or other
OCCUPANCY:              designated City official, evidencing the fact that the requirements of applicable
                        codes and ordinances have been met.
                        Any place other than an occupied residence that is licensed by the State and
                        provides care, services and supervision to one or more children for less than
CHILD DAYCARE CENTER:   twenty four (24) hours a day; or an occupied residence that is licensed by the
                        State and provides care, services and supervision to more than twelve (12)
                        children for less than twenty four (24) hours a day.
CITY:                   The City of Artesia, New Mexico.
CLINIC, DENTAL OR       An establishment where patients are not lodged overnight, but are admitted for
MEDICAL:                examination and treatment by dental or medical professionals.
                        An organization, group or association, including lodges, supported by the members
                        thereof, the sole purpose of which is to render a service customarily rendered
CLUB, PRIVATE:          for members and their guests for social, intellectual, recreational, and/or
                        athletic purposes, but shall not include any service, the chief activity of which
                        is customarily carried on as a business, and does not include labor organizations
                        or similar labor or business organizations.
                        A room or building/structure with recessed niches used for the containment of
COLUMBARIUM:            cremated remains in urns or other approved containers, and which may be part of a
                        mausoleum.
COMMISSION:             The Planning and Zoning Commission of the City.
COMMON AREA:            Any portion of land or building area designed for the common usage of all owners
                        within a development.
COMMUNITY GARDEN:       A piece of land gardened collectively by a group of people.
COMMUNITY RESIDENCE:    A State-licensed or State-operated dwelling for persons with a mental or
                        developmental disability, and serving ten (10) or fewer persons.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:     The official public document adopted by the City as a policy guide for land use
                        decisions that affect the physical development of the community.
                        One of a group of units in a multiunit building, whether residential, office,
CONDOMINIUM:            commercial or industrial, where each owner owns their individual unit space, and
                        all the unit owners share ownership of areas of common use.
CONVALESCENT/ NURSING   A home in which patients are admitted for recuperation and rehabilitation after
HOME:                   suffering from a debilitating illness or injury.
                        A retail establishment, generally with less than two thousand five hundred
                        (2,500) square feet of gross floor area, offering for sale a limited line of
CONVENIENCE STORE:      automotive supplies, groceries and household items. The establishment may include
                        the sale of fuel, and the sale of packaged alcoholic beverages for off-premises
                        consumption.
                        A facility that includes space for rent by the general public, or private or
CONVENTION CENTER:      public organizations, for conferences, gatherings, marketing products, meetings,
                        performances, presentations, special events, training sessions, and other similar
                        uses, for the primary purpose of increasing tourism.
COUNCIL:                The City Council of Artesia, New Mexico.
                        An open space, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as
COURT/COURTYARD:        otherwise provided in this title, bounded on three (3) or more sides by exterior
                        building walls or other enclosing devices.
CREMATORIUM:            A furnace or establishment for the incineration of corpses.
CUL-DE-SAC:             A local street with only one outlet that terminates in a vehicular turnaround.
DANCE HALL:             A large building or room where people pay to enter and dance to live or recorded
                        music.
DENSITY, RESIDENTIAL:   The number of dwelling units in any given area, usually designated as dwelling
                        units per acre (du/ac).
                        Specific criteria and limitations placed on development, which are intended to
DESIGN STANDARDS:       protect the public health, safety, and welfare of the community, and to enhance
                        the aesthetic value of a development. Design standards may specify criteria for
                        architectural, engineering, landscaping, and other features of a development.
                        A pond or drainage facility designed to temporarily hold, store, or otherwise
DETENTION AREA:         detain storm flows with the intent of releasing the storm flows at a controlled
                        rate.
                        The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or the owner’s agent who is
DEVELOPER:              responsible for any undertaking that requires review and/or approval under these
                        regulations.
DEVELOPMENT:            A planning or construction project involving substantial property improvement
                        and, usually, a change of land use character within the site.
DISTRICT/ZONE:          A part of the City wherein zoning regulations of this title are uniform.
DRIVE-IN/DRIVE-THR OUGH Any establishment that, by design or use, encourages or permits customers to
FACILITY:               receive products or services while they remain in their vehicles.
                        An area on a lot providing vehicular egress onto and ingress from a public right-
DRIVEWAY:               of-way, as well as access around the lot and for the parking spaces located on
                        the lot, which meets the location, surface and width requirements outlined in
                        chapter 10 of this title.
                        A facility or area designed for practicing golf drives, which may or may not be
DRIVING RANGE:          located on a golf course, and which may include accessory uses such as a parking
                        lot, clubhouse, dining facilities, other practice facilities such as putting
                        greens, pro shop, and snack bar.
DUPLEX:                 See definition of dwelling, two-family.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-     A building or group of buildings occupied by three (3) or more families living
FAMILY:                 independently of each other in separate dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-       A detached building, arranged and designed as a single dwelling unit, other than
FAMILY:                 a mobile home or recreational vehicle (RV), and intended to be occupied by not
                        more than one family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY:   A building, commonly designated as a duplex, containing two (2) dwelling units
                        and occupied by two (2) families living independently of each other.
                        A single unit providing complete independent living facilities for one or more
DWELLING UNIT:          persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
                        sanitation.
DWELLING UNIT           A land planning technique in which some areas of a subdivision are reserved as
CLUSTERING:             open space while the permitted dwelling units are allowed to be grouped more
                        densely in the most developable parts of the site.
EASEMENT:               The right, liberty, advantage or privilege that one individual or entity has in
                        lands of another, either express or imputed (utility, grant or necessity).
                        A person engaged in the practice of civil engineering and qualified to so
ENGINEER:               practice as attested by his/her legal registration as a professional engineer in
                        the State of New Mexico.
ENLARGEMENT:            Increasing the cubical contents of a building/structure.
EROSION:                The movement of soil due to water or wind.
EROSION CONTROL:        Those Best Management Practices utilized to prevent or reduce erosion or
                        sedimentation, and which are typically necessary when ground disturbances occur.
ESTABLISHMENT:          A place of business together with its grounds and equipment.
EXCAVATION:             Digging and removal of earth by mechanical means.
                        Any separate external face of a building or structure, including parapet walls.
FACADE:                 Where separate faces are oriented in the same direction, or in directions within
                        forty five degrees (45°) of one another, they are to be considered as part of a
                        single facade.
FACILITY:               A building, structure or device whose sum of all parts provides a functional use.
                        An individual or a group of two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage or
FAMILY:                 adoption, including foster children and domestic servants, or a group not to
                        exceed four (4) persons not related by blood, marriage or adoption, living
                        together as a single housekeeping unit and using common cooking(s) facilities.
                        An occupied residence in which a person is licensed by the State to provide care,
FAMILY DAYCARE HOME:    services and supervision to at least four (4) but not more than twelve (12)
                        children, including the provider’s children who are under six (6) years old, for
                        less than twenty four (24) hours a day.
                        An area which is used for the growing of the usual farm products, such as
                        vegetables, fruit trees and grain and their storage on the area, as well as for
                        the raising thereon of the usual farm poultry and farm animals, such as horses,
                        cattle, sheep and swine. The term farm includes the operating of such an area for
                        one or more of the above uses, including dairy farms with the necessary accessory
                        uses for treating or storing the produce; provided, however, that the operation
FARM:                   of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the normal farming
                        activities. A farm does not include intensive livestock raising, such as
                        commercial feed lots or large batteries of rabbit hutches on farms, nor does it
                        include feeding or disposal of garbage or rubbish. Residential structures
                        occupied by persons primarily engaged in farming are included in the term
                        farming, as are roadside stands for the sale of farm products, and signs not
                        exceeding twenty (20) square feet in area advertising the sale of farm products.
FARMERS MARKET:         A congregation of seasonal outdoor sales of fresh produce and other items
                        associated with the local farming and artisan industries.
                        An operation on a parcel of land where livestock are kept in corrals or yards for
FEED LOT:               extended periods of time at a density that permits little movement, and where all
                        feed is provided for the purpose of fattening or maintaining the condition of the
                        livestock prior to their shipment to a stockyard for sale.
FENCE/WALL:             A constructed barrier of any material or combination of materials erected to bar
                        passage, enclose areas of land, or serve as screening for privacy.
                        A fence/wall having or possessing a permanent foundation consisting of anchor
FENCE/WALL, PERMANENT:  poles/posts to allow for chain link, metal, vinyl, wood or other fence material,
                        and/or consisting of a concrete foundation for brick, rock or cinder block.
                        A continuous opaque vertical surface kept in good repair. A fence/wall with
FENCE/WALL, SOLID:      inserts or non-rigid or cloth-like materials attached to the fence/wall does not
                        constitute a solid fence/wall.
                        A fence/wall having a decorative border no more than thirty inches (30") in
                        height, which does not require the use of any permanent materials, such as anchor
FENCE/WALL, TEMPORARY:  poles/posts, a concrete foundation, or any other solid masses, or any fence/wall
                        erected around construction sites which does not exceed eight feet (8') in height
                        and which is removed immediately after completion of the construction project.
FILL:                   The placement of material, such as soil or rock, to replace existing material, or
                        to create an elevated embankment. Fill also refers to the placed material itself.
FITNESS CENTER:         A private or public facility, including athletic clubs and gymnasiums, used by
                        people for exercising and sports activities.
                        An open-air market in which spaces are offered for rent or lease for the retail
FLEA MARKET:            sale of crafts and/or other new or used items. Swap meets are also considered
                        flea markets.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE    An official map of the City on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has
MAP (FIRM):             delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones
                        applicable to the City.
                        The City building inspector/Code Enforcement Officer appointed to administer and
FLOODPLAIN              implement the provisions of title 11 of this Code, flood control regulations, and
ADMINISTRATOR:          other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance program
                        regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.
FLOODPLAIN OR           Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source.
FLOODPRONE AREA:
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY    The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
FLOODWAY):              be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing
                        the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
                        The square feet of floor space within the outside line of walls and includes the
FLOOR AREA:             total of all space on all floors of a building. It does not include porches,
                        garages or space in a basement or cellar when said basement or cellar space is
                        used for storage or incidental uses.
FRONTAGE:               The distance along a street right-of-way line from one intersecting street to
                        another, or from one intersecting street to the end of a dead end street.
FRONTAGE, LOT OR        The portion of a lot or parcel measured along a street.
PARCEL:
FUNERAL HOME:           An establishment with facilities for the preparation of the dead for burial or
                        cremation, for the viewing of bodies, and for funerals.
FUTURE STREET RIGHT-OF- A line running more or less parallel to the centerline of an existing or proposed
WAY LINE:               street, as established by ordinance, for the purpose of delineating the future
                        width of the public right-of-way for that street.
                        An accessory building or an accessory portion of a main building, designed for
GARAGE, PRIVATE:        the shelter or storage of motor vehicles owned or operated by the occupants of
                        the main building.
                        A garage, other than a private garage, used for the housing or care of motor
GARAGE, PUBLIC:         vehicles, or where such vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired or kept for
                        remuneration, hire or sale.
GARAGE, STORAGE:        A garage where vehicles are used or housed by persons other than occupants of the
                        building.
                        An area or tract of land designed or used for playing at least nine (9) holes of
GOLF COURSE:            golf. A golf course may also include accessory uses such as a parking lot,
                        clubhouse, dining facilities, other practice facilities such as a driving range
                        and putting greens, pro shop, and snack bar.
                        The average elevation of the finished surface of the ground, paving or sidewalk
GRADE, ADJACENT GROUND  within the area between the building/structure and the property line, or when the
ELEVATION:              property line is more than five feet (5') from the building/structure, between
                        the building/structure and a line five feet (5') from the building/structure.
                        Any movement of rock, soil, or vegetation by artificial means, to include any or
GRADING:                all of the following acts: clearing, excavating, leveling of land, grubbing, or
                        the placement of fill material.
                        An accessory building on the same lot/parcel as the main dwelling, for the
GUEST HOUSE:            temporary housing of guests, that does not contain kitchen facilities, and is not
                        rented for compensation.
                        Space under a sloping roof, all of which space must be at least three feet (3')
HALF-STORY:             high, but not more than sixty percent (60%) of which floor area may be finished
                        off for use.
                        An area that is used or intended to be used for the landing or takeoff of
HELIPORT:               helicopters, and any related buildings/structures and facilities thereon.
                        Helipads are also considered heliports.
HOME OCCUPATION:        A clearly incidental or secondary use of a home property where restricted
                        business activity will take place in a zoned area that allows residential use.
HOME PROPERTY:          A lot/parcel and the principal residential dwelling located on the property.
HOSPICE CENTER:         A facility that incorporates a program designed to provide a caring environment
                        for meeting the physical and emotional needs of the terminally ill.
                        An institution that provides medical, surgical and/or psychiatric care and
HOSPITAL:               treatment, through same day, overnight or extended stay service, for ill or
                        injured patients.
HOSTEL:                 A building providing lodging on a temporary basis, with a shared kitchen and
                        other facilities in a dormitory setting.
                        A building or group of buildings containing lodging accommodations for temporary
HOTEL OR MOTEL:         paying guests. Related ancillary uses may include, but not be limited to,
                        recreational facilities, lounges, restaurants, meeting rooms, and a convention
                        center.
                        An animal ordinarily permitted in the house and kept for company and pleasure,
HOUSEHOLD PET:          such as a bird, cat, dog and fish. A household pet shall not include inherently
                        or potentially dangerous animals.
                        A site to where a vehicle is towed and stored by order of an impounding agency
                        until the vehicle’s owner or operator clears the reason for the impoundment
IMPOUND LOT:            (including payment for the towing fee), or until the vehicle is recycled for its
                        metal and stripped of its parts at a wrecking yard, or auctioned off for the
                        benefit of the impounding agency.
INOPERABLE VEHICLE:     Any motor vehicle which, by reason of dismantling, disrepair or other cause, is
                        incapable of being propelled under its own power.
INSTITUTION, PRIVATE:   A nonprofit charitable, educational, recreational, religious or philanthropic
                        establishment, which primarily serves the public.
                        Any cast-off, damaged, discarded, obsolete, salvaged, scrapped, secondhand,
                        unusable, worn-out or wrecked material, object or thing, including, but not
JUNK:                   limited to those composed of, in part or in whole, asphalt, brick, carbon,
                        cement, plaster of Paris, terra cotta, sand, wood, plastic or other synthetic
                        substance, glass, paper, rubber, metal, wire, canvas, cloth, cotton, wool, or
                        other fiber, organic matter or other substance.
                        An open area where any junk, waste, used or secondhand materials are bought,
                        sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled. A junkyard also
JUNKYARD:               includes a vehicle wrecking yard and the storage or keeping of one or more
                        inoperative motor vehicles, but does not include uses established entirely within
                        enclosed buildings.
KENNEL:                 An establishment where animals are boarded, kept, or maintained, except State
                        inspected veterinary hospitals, pet shops, grooming parlors, and shelters.
                        A facility for making crowns, bridges, dentures and other dental products, or a
LABORATORY, DENTAL OR   facility for medical testing, including a medical facility certified to perform
MEDICAL:                diagnostic and/or clinical tests independent of a clinic, hospital, or
                        physician’s office.
LABORATORY, SCIENTIFIC/ A facility for scientific research and testing that does not include living human
RESEARCH:               subjects, but may include, but not be limited to, biotechnology, pharmaceuticals,
                        genetics, plastics, resins, coatings, and fibers/optics.
                        Any facility primarily engaged in the retail sales or wholesale of materials used
LANDSCAPE NURSERY:      for landscaping purposes, such as flowers, plants, trees, chemicals and
                        fertilizers, soil, decorative items, landscaping and gardening tools, personal
                        protective equipment, and lawn furniture.
LICENSE:                The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession or
                        occupation.
                        Any portion of land or building area designed for the limited usage of one or
LIMITED COMMON AREA:    more property owners within a development, but not for all of the owners of the
                        entire development.
LIVESTOCK:              Animals typically associated with farms and ranches, including, but not limited
                        to, cattle, horses, mules, donkeys, swine, sheep or goats.
LODGE:                  See definition of club, private.
                        A dwelling consisting of not more than one living unit occupied by not more than
LODGING HOUSE:          twenty (20) persons not related by blood, marriage or adoption. This term
                        includes rooming houses, bed and breakfast inns, boarding houses, tourist homes
                        and hostels.
                        A parcel of land adequate in size for occupancy by a permitted use which is part
LOT:                    of a subdivision or described by metes and bounds with a legal description
                        recorded with the County.
LOT AREA:               The acreage or square footage of a lot.
LOT, CORNER:            A lot abutting on two (2) or more streets or rights-of-way at their
                        intersections.
LOT DEPTH:              The average horizontal distance between the front and rear property lines of a
                        lot.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE:   A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel streets.
                        A lot shaped like a flag on a pole, where access to a public or private street is
                        provided by means of a long, narrow driveway (within the pole portion of the lot)
LOT, FLAG:              between abutting lots, where the flag portion of the lot meets minimum lot width
                        requirements, where the pole portion of the lot meets minimum lot frontage
                        requirements, and where the entire lot meets minimum lot area requirements.
                        The shortest distance between any two (2) lot lines of a lot which are
LOT WIDTH:              intersected by the same front setback line, measured from either any point on
                        each line or the points of intersection with the front setback line.
                        An establishment where the machining of parts and the overhauling of engines,
MACHINE SHOP:           transmissions and other major components of automobiles and larger vehicles takes
                        place.
                        To carry out any repairs, reconstruction, refinishing, or replacement of any part
MAINTAIN:               or parts of a building, structure or property. Maintain shall also mean the
                        grooming of yards.
                        A manufactured home or modular home that is a single-family dwelling with a
                        heated area of at least thirty-six feet by twenty-four feet (36' x 24') and at
                        least eight-hundred sixty-four (864) square feet, and constructed in a factory to
MANUFACTURED HOME,      the standards of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development,
MULTISECTIONAL:         the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974,
                        and the Housing and Urban Development Zone Code 2 or the Uniform Building Code,
                        as amended to the date of the unit’s construction, and installed consistent with
                        the Manufactured Housing Act (New Mexico Statutes Annotated chapter 60 article
                        14), and with the rules made pursuant thereto relating to permanent foundations.
                        A movable or portable housing structure larger than forty feet (40') in length,
                        eight feet (8') in width, or eleven feet (11 ‘) in overall height, as a single-
                        family dwelling, and constructed in a factory to the standards of the United
MANUFACTURED HOME,      States Department of Housing and Urban Development, the National Manufactured
SINGLEWIDE:             Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, and the Housing and Urban
                        Development Zone Code 2 or the Uniform Building Code, as amended to the date of
                        the unit’s construction and installed consistent with the Manufactured Housing
                        Act (New Mexico Statutes Annotated chapter 60 article 14), and with the rules
                        made pursuant thereto relating to permanent foundations.
MANUFACTURED HOUSING:   See definitions of manufactured home, multisectional and manufactured home,
                        singlewide.
                        Any site, lot, tract or parcel of land designed, used, maintained, or intended to
                        be used for the purpose of providing a location, accommodation or facilities for
MANUFACTURED/ MOBILE    two (2) or more manufactured/mobile homes on a permanent or temporary basis, and
HOME PARK:              shall include all structures used or intended for use as part of the equipment
                        thereof. Spaces may be leased, rented or made available at no charge.
                        Manufactured/Mobile home parks shall not be construed to include:
                       A.   A manufactured/mobile home subdivision, where subdivided lots are offered
                        for sale for the placement of manufactured/mobile homes thereon.
                        B.   Motor vehicle, manufactured/mobile home or RV sales lots upon which motor
                       vehicles or unoccupied manufactured/mobile homes or RVs are parked for the
                        purpose of inspection and sale.
MANUFACTURED/ MOBILE    A plot of ground or a lot in a manufactured/mobile home park designed for the
HOME SPACE:             location of only one manufactured/mobile home and one or more automobiles.
MANUFACTURED/ MOBILE    A subdivision designed and developed for long term residential use and intended
HOME SUBDIVISION:       for sale where the residents are in manufactured/mobile homes.
                        The mechanical or chemical production or transformation of materials or
MANUFACTURING:          substances into new products, including the assembling of component parts, the
                        creation of products, and the blending of materials such as liquors, lubricating
                        oils, plastics, or resins.
                        A duly adopted plan, or any of its parts, for the development of the area within
                        the planning and platting jurisdiction of the City, for the general purpose of
MASTER PLAN:            guiding and accomplishing coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious development. It
                        includes the City’s comprehensive plan, and the City master plans for streets,
                        parks, and other City infrastructure and facilities.
MAUSOLEUM:              An above-ground building used to contain the remains of the deceased in sealed
                        crypts.
                        The process of obtaining useful minerals, including sand and gravel, from the
                        earth’s crust, or from previously disposed or abandoned mining wastes, including,
MINING:                 but not limited to, exploration, open-cut mining and surface operations, the
                        disposal of refuse from underground and in situ mining, concentration,
                        evaporation, leaching, milling, mineral transportation, and other processing.
MOBILE HOME:            See definitions of mobile home, doublewide and mobile home, singlewide.
                        A mobile home consisting of two (2) sections combined horizontally at the site to
                        form a single dwelling unit, while still retaining their individual chassis for
MOBILE HOME,            future movement, that is not constructed to the standards of the United States
DOUBLEWIDE:             Department of Housing and Urban Development, the National Manufactured Housing
                        Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, and the Housing and Urban
                        Development Zone Code 2 or Uniform Building Code, as amended to the date of the
                        unit’s construction or built to the standards of any Municipal Building Code.
MOBILE HOME PARK:       See definition of manufactured/mobile home park.
                        A movable or portable housing structure larger than forty feet (40') in body
                        length, eight feet (8') in width, or eleven feet (11') in overall height,
                        designed for and occupied by no more than one family for living and sleeping
MOBILE HOME,            purposes, that is not constructed to the standards of the United States
SINGLEWIDE:             Department of Housing and Urban Development, the National Manufactured Housing
                        Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, and the Housing and Urban
                        Development Zone Code 2 or Uniform Building Code, as amended to the date of the
                        unit’s construction or built to the standards of any municipal building code.
MOBILE HOME SPACE:      See definition of manufactured/mobile home space.
MOBILE HOME             See definition of manufactured/mobile home subdivision.
SUBDIVISION:
                        A home or homes within a subdivision, or within an entire development for
                        multiple subdivision phases, to show potential buyers the style of home or homes
                        that will be built within the subdivision(s) in which it or they will be located.
MODEL HOME(S):          Model homes may include a marketing/sales office area and areas to display
                        various finishing materials that are options in which buyers may choose for the
                        homes, and in which said areas will be converted back to residential use no later
                        than when all units have been sold in the subdivision(s).
MODULAR HOME:           A home that is built off-site, as opposed to on-site. These homes are often
                        called factory-built, system-built or prefab (short for prefabricated) homes.
MORTUARY:               A building, or a room in a hospital, where dead bodies are kept before they are
                        buried or cremated, or before they are identified or examined.
MOTOR HOME:             See definition of recreational vehicle (RV).
MULTIGENERATIONA L      An accessory dwelling unit on the same lot/parcel as the main dwelling, for the
HOUSING:                housing of family members related by blood, marriage or adoption, that may
                        contain kitchen facilities, and is not rented for compensation.
NONCONFORMING ACTIVITY  The lawful activity that does not conform with the requirements of chapter 12 of
(HOME OCCUPATION):      this title on the effective date of this title, or any amendment thereto.
                        A building/structure lawfully constructed, with approved permits issued by the
NONCONFORMING BUILDING/ jurisdiction having authority at the time of construction if required, that does
STRUCTURE:              not conform with the requirements of this title on the effective date this title,
                        or any amendments thereto.
NONCONFORMING LOT/      A lot/parcel with a legal description recorded with the County Clerk’s Office
PARCEL:                 that does not conform with the requirements of this title on the effective date
                        of this title, or any amendments thereto.
NONCONFORMING USE:      The lawful use of premises that does not conform with the requirements of this
                        title on the effective date of this title, or any amendment thereto.
                        Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any act or
                        activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of inhabitants
NUISANCE:               of the City, or any activity which by its perpetuation can reasonably be said to
                        have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or persons within the
                        community.
OFF STREET PARKING      An area on a lot for the parking of a vehicle, which meets the access, size,
SPACE:                  striping and surface requirements outlined in chapter 10 of this title.
OFFICE:                 A place of business within a building where clerical and/or professional
                        activities and services are conducted.
                        Land area unoccupied by buildings, driveways, parking areas, roads, streets or
                        structures. Such open space includes, but is not limited to, sidewalks, walkways,
                        landscaped areas, gardens, common courtyards and other common open areas.
OPEN SPACE:             Specialties, such as sheltered and open picnic areas, covered and uncovered play
                        areas, uncovered sports courts, or open-walled structures, may be considered on
                        their own merits as qualifying for open space characterization. Open space may
                        include privately owned courtyards and other yards if they are not enclosed by
                        fences or walls.
OUTDOOR SALES, REPAIRS, The sale, repair, display, or provision of products or services primarily outside
AND ACTIVITIES:         of a building or structure.
                        A parcel of land within a platted subdivision, to be used for purposes other than
OUTLOT:                 the principal uses for which the subdivision is designed. An example of an outlot
                        is a tract of land designated for open space or a retention pond.
OWNER:                  Any person, agent, firm or corporation having a legal or equitable interest in
                        real or personal property.
PARCEL:                 A unit of land capable of being described by location and boundaries.
                        A developed or natural area set aside and/or dedicated for passive or physical
PARK:                   recreation, relaxation, playground activities, sporting activities, biking,
                        hiking and walking.
                        An open area for the parking of passenger vehicles and on which no servicing,
PARKING LOT,            repair, dismantling or storage of automobiles which are for sale or which are to
COMMERCIAL:             be repaired, being repaired or have been repaired in a manner accessory to a
                        sales or repair garage is permitted.
PATIO HOME, ATTACHED:   See definition of townhouse, attached.
PATIO HOME, DETACHED:   See definition of townhouse, detached.
                        A store that offers loans in exchange for personal property as equivalent
                        collateral. If the loan is repaid in the contractually agreed time frame, the
PAWN SHOP:              collateral may be repurchased at its initial price plus interest. If the loan
                        cannot be repaid on time, the collateral may be liquidated by the pawn shop
                        through sales to customers.
                        An official document issued by the Building Inspector, Code Enforcement Officer,
PERMIT:                 or other authorized authority, as appropriate, authorizing performance of a
                        specified activity.
                        The use of a building/structure or premises which complies with the applicable
PERMITTED USE:          use regulations of the district in which said building/structure or premises is
                        located.
                        A business that provides services for personal or home use, including, but not
PERSONAL SERVICE        limited to, photographic studios, barbershops, beauty salons, acupuncture therapy
ESTABLISHMENT:          establishments, massage therapy establishments, physical therapy establishments,
                        tanning salons, tattoo parlors, body piercing parlors, martial arts studios,
                        dance studios, and classrooms for art and music lessons.
PET SHOP:               An establishment or premises maintained for the purchase, sale, exchange or hire
                        of animals, except livestock, and the purchase of animal supplies.
                        A development of a single owner or group of owners acting through a legal entity,
                        involving a related group of structures, planned as an entity and susceptible to
PLANNED UNIT            development and regulation as one land use rather than as an aggregation of
DEVELOPMENT (PUD):      separate and individual buildings located on separate and unrelated lots. A PUD
                        includes a development process whereby the intent and purpose is to promote
                        design and development standard flexibility in cases where strict application of
                        zoning regulations would inhibit the overall goals and objectives of the City.
                        Any map, chart, survey, plan or replat certified by a licensed or registered
PLAT:                   surveyor which contains a description of the subdivided land with ties to
                        permanent monuments.
PREMISES:               Land, together with any buildings or structures occupying it.
PRESCHOOL:              An educational institution, either private or public, with a curriculum that
                        prepares children for elementary school.
                        The official boundary of a lot, parcel or tract of land as designated either by a
PROPERTY LINE:          metes and bounds description or subdivision plat recorded with the County Clerk’s
                        Office.
PROPERTY OCCUPANT:      Any person who is occupying any property, whether by legal right or without legal
                        right.
PROPERTY OWNER:         The person who is the recorded owner of any real property according to the
                        records contained in the Eddy County Assessor’s Office.
                        Any area, lot or parcel which is separately identified for assessment by the Eddy
                        County Assessor’s Office. This definition is intended to be inclusive and not
PROPERTY, REAL:         limiting, and shall therefore include all land within the boundaries of the City
                        of Artesia, Eddy County, New Mexico which is identified for assessment by the
                        Eddy County Assessor’s Office.
                        A building or complex of buildings that house Municipal offices and services, and
PUBLIC BUILDING:        which may include athletic, civic, convention, cultural, entertainment or
                        recreational facilities owned and/or operated by the City.
                        A duly advertised hearing open to the public and conducted in accordance with the
PUBLIC HEARING:         requirements of this Code and applicable State law, which provides an opportunity
                        for interested parties to present their opinions and/or evidence.
PUBLIC MEETING:         An informal meeting or other public gathering to discuss a topic or set of topics
                        not requiring formal decision-making.
PUBLIC UTILITIES:       Sewerage system, water system, natural gas lines, and electrical service.
RECREATION/ COMMUNITY   A private or public facility used by people for classroom instruction, community
CENTER:                 gatherings and meetings, exercising, recreational activities, special events, and
                        sports activities.
RECREATIONAL FACILITY:  A permanent facility devoted to recreational purposes, such as parks,
                        playgrounds, sports courts and fields, and recreation/community centers.
                        A self-contained driven or towed portable unit not designed to be installed on a
                        temporary or permanent foundation, except in RV subdivisions, which shall be
                        defined to include, but not be limited to: pickup campers, chassis mounted motor
                        homes, mini motor homes, recreational vans, pop-up tent/hard-top trailers,
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE    converted buses, camping trailers, recreational travel trailers, fifth wheel
(RV):                   trailers, park models or any other vehicles which are constructed to include a
                        chassis, integral wheels and a towing hitch and primarily designed or constructed
                        to provide temporary or readily moveable living quarters for recreation, camping,
                        travel or other uses. Recreational Vehicles may be referred to anywhere in this
                        Ordinance as RV.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE    Real property utilized for or intended for use as temporary occupancy space for
(RV) PARK:              transient users of RVs.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE    Designated facilities or areas where recreational vehicles (RVs) are securely
(RV) STORAGE:           kept when not in use. Recreation Vehicle (RV) Storage options include outdoor
                        lots, covered parking, or indoor storage spaces.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE    A subdivision designed and developed for long term residential use and containing
(RV) SUBDIVISION:       lots or parcels of land intended for sale and where the residents reside within
                        recreational vehicles exclusively.
                        A place or structure that is used primarily for religious worship, which may
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION:  include onsite housing, as permitted in this title, for religious leaders and
                        similar staff, and which may include accessory facilities and structures.
REMODEL OR REPAIR:      Any change in a building that is not a structural alteration or enlargement.
RENEWABLE/ ALTERNATIVE  A site where a renewable/alternative energy system is placed or installed to
ENERGY SITE:            produce energy for sale.
RENEWABLE/ ALTERNATIVE  Equipment used in the collection, conversion, storage and/or transfer of
ENERGY SYSTEM:          renewable/alternative energy into a usable form of energy.
                        An establishment that serves food and beverages which are consumed on its
                        premises by customers seated at tables and/or counters, either inside or outside
RESTAURANT:             the building thereon, and which may be engaged in providing customers with take-
                        out service of food and non-alcoholic beverages for off-site consumption. The
                        sale of alcoholic beverages is controlled by other provisions in this Code and
                        the New Mexico State Statutes regarding alcoholic beverage sales.
RETAIL:                 Sale to the ultimate consumer for direct consumption and not for resale.
RETENTION AREA:         A pond or drainage facility designed to permanently hold, store, or otherwise
                        retain storm flows without the intent of releasing the storm flows.
                        A strip of land opened, reserved, or dedicated for a street, walk, utility,
RIGHT-OF-WAY:           drainage, alley or other public purpose dedicated to the City as defined on a
                        plat of survey or deed.
SCHOOL, ACADEMIC:       An educational institution, either private or public, with a curriculum similar
                        to elementary and secondary schools, and/or accredited colleges and universities.
SCHOOL, TECHNICAL:      An educational institution, either private or public, with a curriculum for
                        training in the business and professional trades.
SETBACK:                The shortest distance between a building or structure and a property line or
                        future street right-of-way line.
                        The minimum distance, as required by the zoning district in which a lot or parcel
SETBACK, FRONT:         is located, between the front property line or future street right-of-way line
                        and a building or structure, as measured parallel along the front property line
                        or future street right-of-way line.
SETBACK, FRONT, CUL-DE- The minimum distance, as required by the zoning district in which a lot or parcel
SAC:                    is located, between the cul-de-sac front property line and a building or
                        structure, as measured parallel along the cul-de-sac front property line.
                        The minimum distance, as required by the zoning district in which a lot or parcel
SETBACK, REAR:          is located, between the rear property line and a building or structure, as
                        measured parallel along the rear property line.
SETBACK, SIDE,          The minimum distance, as required by the zoning district in which a lot or parcel
INTERIOR:               is located, between the interior side property line and a building or structure,
                        as measured parallel along the interior side property line.
                        The minimum distance, as required by the zoning district in which a lot or parcel
SETBACK, SIDE, STREET:  is located, between the street side property line or future street right-of-way
                        line and a building or structure, as measured parallel along the street side
                        property line or future street right-of-way line.
                        An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty shop, adult video store, adult
                        cabaret, adult motion picture theater, adult theater, or nude model studio. The
SEXUALLY ORIENTED       definition of sexually oriented business shall not include an establishment where
BUSINESS:               a medical practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional
                        person licensed by the State engages in medically approved and recognized sexual
                        therapy. A sexually oriented business is subject to the provisions of title 4,
                        chapter 6 of this Code.
SHARED ACCESS:          Joint use of a curb cut or drive aisle utilized by more than one use, building/
                        structure, or property.
SHARED PARKING:         Joint use of a parking area by more than one use, building/structure, or
                        property.
SHOPPING CENTER:        Multiple retail sales establishments of various sizes, planned, constructed, and
                        managed as an entity with off street parking meant to be shared by the tenants.
                        A triangular portion of land where streets intersect with each other or alleys,
SIGHT TRIANGLE:         and where driveways intersect with streets, in which those portions of land are
                        to be kept free of visual impairment to allow full view of both pedestrian and
                        vehicular traffic.
                        Any device or structure visible from a public place that displays either
                        commercial or noncommercial messages by means of a graphic presentation of
SIGN:                   alphabetical text, pictorial symbols, or other representations. Flags displayed
                        from flagpoles permanently embedded in the ground or on a mounting device
                        attached to a building, holiday lights, and seasonal decorations shall not be
                        considered signs.
                        A temporary sign consisting of two (2) sign faces placed together at an angle to
SIGN, A-FRAME:          form an “A” shaped structure that tapers from a wide base to a narrow top. A-
                        frame signs are sometimes referred to as sandwich board signs.
                        A sign that is void of copy, no longer contains legible copy, or is in a state of
SIGN, ABANDONED:        disrepair for more than six (6) months, or where the sign owner no longer has the
                        right to occupy or possess the site on which the sign is located.
                        A sign displayed on the surface of (i.e., painted on, sewn into, etc.) an
                        architectural projection or shelter projecting from and supported by the exterior
SIGN, AWNING:           wall of a building, and composed of a covering of rigid or non-rigid materials
                        and/or fabric on a supporting framework that may be either permanent or
                        retractable.
                        A temporary sign composed of lightweight, flexible material, which may or may not
SIGN, BANNER:           be supported by a rigid frame, on which an advertisement or message may be
                        displayed.
SIGN, BILLBOARD:        See definition of sign, off premises.
                        A sign that is mounted to the wall of a structure that projects off the face of a
SIGN, CANOPY:           building more than eighteen inches (18"), or a sign that is mounted to a
                        freestanding structure, not attached to a building, that creates a canopy or
                        covering for an area below.
SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY   A sign whose message or content is changed manually in the field (i.e., reader
(MANUAL):               boards with changeable letters or pictorial panels).
                        Figures, graphic elements, letters, logos, numerals and symbols comprising the
SIGN COPY:              message or advertisement on the face of a sign. Addresses (comprising of letters,
                        numerals and street names) are not considered sign copy.
SIGN, DIRECTIONAL:      A sign that is designed and erected for the purpose of providing direction and/or
                        orientation for pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
SIGN, DISPLAY SURFACE   The square footage of the portion of a sign containing sign copy, not including
AREA (DSA) OF:          the architectural ornamentation, bracing, framework or support structures
                        incidental to the sign itself.
                        A sign with two (2) faces, back to back, or attached to each other at an angle no
SIGN, DOUBLE-FACED:     greater than forty five degrees (45°). Only one sign face of a double faced sign
                        shall be measured for calculating the display surface area (DSA) of the sign.
                        A sign whose message or content is changed electronically or mechanically, or by
                        remote control, by movement or rotation of panels or slats, light emitting diodes
                        (LEDs), or an electronic sign that utilizes technology through a programmable
SIGN, ELECTRONIC        display of variable text or symbolic imagery to form multiple advertisements.
MESSAGE:                Electronic message signs include, but are not limited to, tri-vision and other
                        rotating slat technology. The use of electronic message sign technology shall
                        not, in itself, constitute the use of flashing, intermittent or moving light or
                        lights.
SIGN FACE:              See definition of sign, display surface area (DSA) of.
SIGN, FASCIA:           See definition of sign, wall.
SIGN, FREESTANDING:     A permanent stand-alone sign erected on a self-supporting brace, column or pole
                        that is placed in the ground, and not supported by a building.
SIGN, ILLUMINATED:      A sign utilizing artificial light, either internally or externally, to reflect
                        off its surface.
                        An object either continuously or intermittently inflated (intermittently inflated
                        to provide motion to the object or figure) that is larger than eighteen inches
                        (18") in any dimension and that is tethered or otherwise attached to the ground,
SIGN, INFLATABLE:       a structure or other object. Inflatable signs are typically representations of
                        objects or figures such as products, cartoon characters, animals, or human shapes
                        in either life-like or abstract form. Inflatable signs do not include individual
                        balloons under eighteen inches (18") in diameter.
SIGN, MARQUEE:          See definition of sign, canopy.
                        A sign that is attached or placed on a vehicle, trailer or other mobile device
SIGN, MOBILE:           parked on public or private property, and is not permanently affixed to real
                        property or a sign structure. The following conditions shall not constitute a
                        mobile sign:
                       A.   The primary purpose of such vehicle, trailer or other mobile device is not
                        for the display of a sign.
                        B.   The sign is a magnet or decal, or is painted upon an integral part of the
                       vehicle, trailer or other mobile device, and does not break the silhouette of the
                        vehicle, trailer or other mobile device.
                        C.   The vehicle, trailer or other mobile device is in operating condition,
                       currently registered and licensed to operate on public streets where applicable,
                        and is actively used or available for use in the daily function of the business
                        to which such sign relates.
                        A freestanding sign that is placed upon a permanent foundation, usually made of
SIGN, MONUMENT:         brick, concrete, masonry or stone, which identifies a commercial or noncommercial
                        service, business or entity.
                        A sign with two (2) or more faces oriented in the same direction, or are attached
SIGN, MULTI-FACED:      to each other at an angle greater than forty five degrees (45°). All sign faces
                        of a multi-faced sign shall be measured for calculating the display surface area
                        (DSA) of the sign.
                        A sign that was legally installed, with or without a permit, in conformance with
SIGN, NONCONFORMING:    all City regulations and codes in effect at the time of installation, but which
                        may no longer comply with subsequently enacted regulations or codes having
                        jurisdiction relative to the sign.
                        A sign erected, maintained or used in the outdoor environment for the purpose of
SIGN, OFF PREMISES:     advertising an activity, product or service which is not conducted on the
                        property upon which the sign is located.
                        A sign or notice erected and maintained by public officers or public agencies
                        within Artesia City limits and pursuant to and in accordance with authorization
SIGN, OFFICIAL:         contained in Federal, State or local laws for the purpose of carrying out an
                        official duty or responsibility. Historical markers authorized by law and erected
                        by Federal, State or local government agencies or non-profit historical societies
                        shall be considered official signs.
                        A sign erected, maintained or used in the outdoor environment for the purpose of
SIGN, ON PREMISES:      advertising an activity, product or service conducted on the property upon which
                        the sign is located, and which is located within the area actually utilized for
                        the purpose of the activity, product or service it advertises.
SIGN, PORTABLE:         A temporary sign that is not permanently placed or attached to the ground or to a
                        building.
SIGN, PROJECTING:       A sign that is secured to a wall of a building that extends perpendicularly from
                        the wall more than eighteen inches (18").
SIGN, ROOF:             A sign mounted on and supported by the roof portion of a building, and which is
                        entirely or partially supported by such building.
                        A sign intended to display either commercial or noncommercial messages of a
SIGN, TEMPORARY:        transitory or temporary nature, that is not permanently embedded in the ground,
                        or is not permanently affixed to a building or sign structure that is permanently
                        embedded in the ground.
SIGN, UNDER AWNING/     A sign that projects downward from the bottom of an awning/canopy.
CANOPY:
                        A type of banner sign which is typically feather or rectangular shaped and made
SIGN, VERTICAL BANNER:  of cloth or other fabric, and which is attached to a rigid pole that is not
                        permanently embedded in the ground.
                        A sign that is affixed to or painted upon any wall or parapet of a building or
                        structure, and that projects no more than eighteen inches (18") from the building
SIGN, WALL:             or wall structure, including a sign affixed to an architectural projection from a
                        building, provided the copy area of such sign remains on a parallel plane to the
                        face of the building facade or to the face of the architectural projection to
                        which it is affixed.
SIGN, WINDOW:           A sign affixed to the surface of a window with its message intended to be visible
                        to and readable from the public way or from adjacent property.
                        A drawing that shows the boundaries of a lot or parcel of land, and the placement
                        of all anticipated major improvements, including buildings/structures with
SITE PLAN:              setback dimensions, roads and driveways, parking lots/spaces, landscaped
                        features, fences/walls, freestanding signs, storm and sanitary sewer lines, and
                        utility connections.
                        A material designed and utilized to enclose a space between the lowest floor of a
SKIRTING:               manufactured home, mobile home, or modular home and the ground, and utilized to
                        completely conceal the undercarriage portion of such homes.
SLAUGHTERHOUSE:         A building maintained for the purpose of slaughtering any animals to be held,
                        exposed for sale, or offered for sale for human consumption.
SLOPE:                  The ratio of vertical distance to horizontal distance (rise over run).
SOLAR ENERGY CONVERSION A device that collects energy from the sun and converts it to produce electricity
SYSTEM/SOLAR PANELS:    or other forms of energy.
                        Any garbage, refuse, or sludge from a waste treatment plant, water supply
                        treatment plant, or air pollution control facility, and other discarded
                        materials, including solid, liquid, semi-solid, or contained gaseous material
SOLID WASTE:            resulting from agricultural, commercial, industrial, and mining operations, and
                        from community and residential activities, but does not include those items
                        specifically excluded from the definition of solid waste in the solid waste
                        management regulations of the New Mexico Environmental Department, as such
                        definition may be amended from time to time.
                        A use in which a permit must be secured and conditions must be observed to help
SPECIAL USE:            alleviate potential negative impacts to the area surrounding the site where the
                        use is sought.
STOCKYARD:              A large yard containing pens and sheds, in which livestock is temporarily kept
                        and sorted for slaughter, market, or shipping.
STORMWATER DRAINAGE     A plan indicating an on site drainage proposal for the retention or detention of
PLAN:                   stormwater or for the passage of stormwater through the development for safe
                        discharge into storm drainage facilities. Also, a comprehensive analysis of:
                       A.   The existing storm drainage conditions of a proposed development; and
                       B.   The disposal of the increased runoff that is generated by the proposed
                        development.
STORY:                  The portion of a building included between the upper surface of a floor and the
                        upper surface of the floor or roof next above.
STREET:                 A paved public or private highway or right-of-way that is giving primary access
                        to abutting properties.
STREET CENTERLINE:      A line halfway between the street right-of-way lines.
                        Any change in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls or
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION:  partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any complete rebuilding of the roof or
                        the exterior walls.
STRUCTURE:              That which is built or constructed.
STRUCTURE, HEIGHT OF:   The vertical distance from grade to the highest point on the structure.
SUBDIVIDER:             A property owner or owner’s agent who undertakes the subdivision of land as set
                        forth in title 10 of this Code.
                        The division of land into two (2) or more parts by platting or by metes and
SUBDIVISION:            bounds description into tracts and/or lots in any one calendar year for the
                        purpose of:
                       A.   Selling for building purposes;
                       B.   Laying out a municipality or any part thereof;
                       C.   Adding to a municipality;
                       D.   Laying out suburban lots; or
                       E.   A resubdivision.
                        A person who is engaged in the practice of surveying and is qualified to so
SURVEYOR:               practice as attested by his/her legal registration as a professional land
                        surveyor in the State of New Mexico.
SWAP MEET:              See definition of flea market.
TELECOMMUNICATI ON      Structures, antennae and equipment for providing wireless telecommunication
FACILITY:               services. The structures typically include a building to house the equipment and
                        a tower to support the antennae.
TELECOMMUNICATI ON      A support structure for the placement of antennae that provide wireless
TOWER:                  telecommunication services. The tower may be a wooden pole, steel monopole,
                        lattice tower, or similar structure.
TEMPORARY OUTSIDE       The display or sale of goods or merchandise not in or from an enclosed permanent
DISPLAYS AND SALES:     building/structure, to be conducted for a period of five (5) days or less.
                        A specific, permitted use established for a specific period of time. Temporary
TEMPORARY USE:          uses do not involve the construction or alteration of any permanent building/
                        structure, and may include real estate sales offices ancillary to model home
                        sales.
                        Temporary housing in a barracks or dormitory style setting, where the entire
TEMPORARY WORKFORCE     facility is designed, constructed and managed by a single entity, and is
HOUSING:                established for a specified period of time and subject to specific operational
                        and other requirements.
THEATER:                A building or part of a building used to show motion pictures, or used for drama,
                        dance, musical, or other live performances.
                        One structural unit of contiguous single-family dwelling units that is joined by
TOWNHOUSE, ATTACHED:    a common wall or walls with another one or more of the contiguous units. A patio
                        home is also considered a townhouse.
                        One structural unit among a group of separate detached single-family dwelling
TOWNHOUSE, DETACHED:    units that are part of a unified development, typically with common areas for all
                        of the units and separate limited common areas for each unit. A patio home is
                        also considered a townhouse.
TRACT:                  A lot or parcel.
                        A technical study performed by a qualified engineer, which assesses the impacts
                        of a proposed facility or development on existing and proposed rights-of-way. It
TRAFFIC IMPACT          may analyze the impacts on safety, intersections, circulation patterns, ingress/
ANALYSIS/TRAFFIC STUDY: egress, traffic loads, parking and loading areas, on site circulation, and
                        vehicles per day, and may set forth mitigation measures to eliminate or
                        substantially reduce such impacts.
TRAILER, UTILITY:       Any trailer intended for and capable of hauling supplies, equipment or vehicles,
                        and that may be moved by a powered vehicle.
                        Any facility, including containers, vehicles, buildings or structures
TRANSFER STATION:       constructed, used, and managed for the intermediate storage and/or processing and
                        placement of solid waste for a limited period of time prior to transfer to a
                        sanitary landfill, incinerator, or other solid waste disposal facility.
TRAVEL TRAILER          See definition of recreational vehicle (RV).
(CAMPER):
TRAVEL TRAILER PARK:    See definition of recreational vehicle (RV) park.
                        An area or building/structure designed or used for the temporary parking of large
TRUCK STOP/TRAVEL       or commercial vehicles such as, but not limited to, freight vehicles, busses, or
PLAZA:                  heavy equipment. In addition to parking, the area or building/structure may
                        include ancillary services, such as, but not limited to, fuel, food, vehicle
                        repair, and overnight rest facilities.
                        A property or building/structure used primarily for the temporary parking of
TRUCK TERMINAL:         trucks of common or contract carriers during loading or unloading, including
                        necessary warehouse space for the storage of transitory freight.
                        The purpose for which land or buildings/structures thereon is designed, arranged
USE:                    or intended to be occupied or used, or for which it is occupied, maintained,
                        rented or leased.
USE, PRINCIPAL:         The primary use of a building/structure or premises.
                        Sewerage systems, water systems, natural gas lines, electrical services, cable
UTILITIES:              television services, computer internet services, telephone services, stormwater
                        systems.
VARIANCE:               Variation from the strict, literal application of this title; however, the
                        allowable use of premises shall never be changed via a variance.
                        An establishment where the repairing and replacing of exterior and interior body
                        components and parts for boats, recreational vehicles (RVs) and vehicles takes
VEHICLE BODY SHOP:      place. The components and parts may include, but are not limited to, materials
                        made from cloth, fiberglass, glass, leather, metal, plastic, rubber, vinyl and
                        wood.
                        An establishment that provides the servicing and cleaning of passenger vehicles,
                        light and medium trucks, and other consumer motor vehicles such as boats,
                        motorcycles, and recreational vehicles (RVs). Vehicle repairs may include battery
                        charging and replacement, brake replacement and service, lubrication, fluid and
VEHICLE REPAIR SHOP:    oil changes, radiator service, suspension service and replacement of parts, tire
                        repair and replacement (but not tire retreading, recapping or rebuilding),
                        transmission service, tune-ups, vehicle alignment, and other minor vehicle
                        repairs. Accessory uses may include offices, parts sales, vehicle storage, and
                        the washing of vehicles.
VEHICLE SERVICE         An establishment where gasoline, diesel fuel and other vehicle fuels and oils are
STATION:                offered for sale, and where vehicle repairs may be offered.
                        A type of junkyard in which there is open storage of one or more inoperable
VEHICLE WRECKING YARD:  vehicles or in which salvaged motor vehicle bodies, motor vehicle parts, scrap,
                        or waste materials of any kind are displayed, exchanged, handled, processed,
                        sold, or stored.
WAREHOUSE:              A place for the storage of commodities and/or merchandise.
WATERCOURSE:            Any arroyo, channel, creek, lake, river, stream, or other body of water having
                        banks and a bed through which water flows at least periodically.
WHOLESALE:              The sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for
                        the purpose of resale.
WIDTH OF LOT:           See definition of lot width.
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION  A device that collects energy from the wind and converts it to produce
SYSTEM/WIND TURBINE:    electricity or other forms of energy.
XERISCAPING:            Landscaping characterized by the use of vegetation that is drought tolerant or of
                        low water use in character.
                        An open space on the same lot or parcel as a principal building/structure or
YARD:                   group of principal buildings/structures, unoccupied and unobstructed from the
                        ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this title.
                        That portion of a lot or parcel lying between the front property line and the
                        front facades of a principal building/structure or group of principal buildings/
                        structures occupying the lot or parcel, and extending to both side property
YARD, FRONT:            lines. For corner lots or parcels, the front yard shall face the shortest street
                        dimension on the lot or parcel; except that if the lot or parcel is square or
                        almost square, i.e., has dimensions in a ratio of from three to two (3:2) to
                        three to three (3:3), then the front yard may face either street.
                        That portion of a lot or parcel lying between the rear property line and the rear
YARD, REAR:             facades of a principal building/structure or group of principal buildings/
                        structures occupying the lot or parcel, and extending to both side property
                        lines.
                        That portion of a lot or parcel lying between an interior side property line and
YARD, SIDE, INTERIOR:   the side facades of a principal building/structure or group of principal
                        buildings/structures occupying the lot or parcel, and which does not include a
                        front yard or rear yard as defined above.
                        That portion of a lot or parcel lying between a street side property line and the
YARD, SIDE, STREET:     side facades of a principal building/structure or group of principal buildings/
                        structures occupying the lot or parcel, and which does not include a front yard
                        or rear yard as defined above.
ZERO LOT LINE:          A lot/parcel containing no required setback area along said lot line. (Ord. 1029,
                        8-28-2018; amd. Ord. O-1110, 6-27-2023; Ord. O-1132, 7-9-2024)
 
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
9-3-1: Districts Established
9-3-2: Zoning District Map
9-3-3: Determination Of District Boundaries
9-3-4: Vacation Of Streets And Alleys
9-3-5: Zoning Of Annexed Land
9-3-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to regulate the location, height, bulk and size of buildings and other
structures, the percentage of a lot which may be occupied, the size of lots,
courts and other open spaces, the density and distribution of population, the
location and uses of land, buildings and structures for trade, industry,
residence, recreation, public activities or other purposes, the city is divided
into the following classes of districts:
SA-1       Suburban acreage, type 1
SA-2       Suburban acreage, type 2
R-1A, R-1B Single-family districts
R-2        General residential district
MH         Manufactured/mobile home district
C          Business district
M-1        Light industrial district
M-2        Heavy industrial district
P          Public use district
PUD        Planned unit development
H          Hospital
SU-1       Special use zone
 
(Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
9-3-2: ZONING DISTRICT MAP:
The boundaries of the districts are as shown on the district map, properly
certified and on file with the city clerk where it may be inspected and
examined. (1996 Code § 17.12.020; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-3: DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts, as shown on the district map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Public Ways: The district boundaries are either streets or alleys
unless otherwise shown, and where the districts designated on the zoning
district map are bounded approximately by street or alley lines, the street or
alley shall be construed to be the boundary of the district.
   B.   Lot Lines: Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated,
and where the property has been or is divided into blocks and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines, and where the
districts designated on the district map are bounded approximately by lot
lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundary of the districts
unless the boundaries are otherwise indicated on the map.
   C.   Zoning District Map: In unsubdivided property, the district boundary
lines on the zoning district map shall be determined by use of the scale
appearing on the map. (1996 Code § 17.12.050; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-4: VACATION OF STREETS AND ALLEYS:
Whenever the council vacates a street or alley, adjacent districts shall extend
to the centerline of the vacation. (1996 Code § 17.12.030)
9-3-5: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND:
Prior to annexation of any land to the city, the area shall be studied by the
commission, which shall recommend to the council a zoning plan designed to
conform to the master plan of the city. Upon annexation, the lands will
automatically be zoned accordingly. (1996 Code § 17.12.040)
CHAPTER 4
PERMITTED USES
SECTION:
9-4-1: SA-1 District
9-4-2: SA-2 District
9-4-3: R-1A And R-1B Districts
9-4-4: R-2 District
9-4-5: MH District
9-4-6: C District
9-4-7: M-1 District
9-4-8: M-2 District
9-4-9: P District
9-4-10: H District
9-4-11: SU-1 District
9-4-1: SA-1 DISTRICT:
   A.   In the SA-1 district, there may be:
Such uses as are permitted in R-1A and R-1B districts; provided, that no parcel
of land contains less than one acre and is not less than one hundred twenty
feet (120') wide at the building line and that there shall be water available
to irrigate or sprinkle the entire land. In the event well water is used, the
tract must have a recognizable legal and approved water right and there must be
a proper well permit. In the event city water is piped, the supply line must be
of sufficient size to make irrigation or sprinkling of the entire tract a
feasible undertaking.
Any use permitted in P districts.
Private stables may board and keep as many as three (3) horses; provided, that
no stallion is either permanently or temporarily quartered. The minimum lot
size shall be one acre; however, the lot shall consist of at least one acre per
horse accommodation provided. The stable itself, the accessory buildings and
the corral fence shall be well and substantially built in a neat and
workmanlike manner and painted, and shall be so maintained and in general
conform to the residence standards.
Raising of crops, whether field or truck, ranching or livestock raising, such
as would be permitted in farming.
   B.   Insofar as any of the uses set out in this section permit the keeping
of livestock, reference is made to title 5, chapter 2, article B of this code,
and any successor provision, governing the keeping of livestock within the city
limits. Any such provision specifically addressed to the keeping of livestock
in the city shall govern and control over the provisions of this section. (1996
Code § 17.16.010)
9-4-2: SA-2 DISTRICT:
   A.   In the SA-2 district, there may be:
Any use permitted in SA-1; provided that there shall be a minimum lot size of
six thousand (6,000) square feet and a minimum width of fifty feet (50') at the
building line; the SA-1 rule concerning water does not apply to the SA-
2 district.
Farming; to be termed a farm in this district, the minimum area shall be twenty
(20) acres.
Public stables may board and keep horses; provided that no stallion is either
permanently or temporarily quartered, that the buildings be substantially built
in a neat and workmanlike manner, that the stable space of at least one hundred
(100) square feet per horse is provided, and that corral space of at least two
thousand (2,000) square feet is provided. (Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
   B.   Insofar as any of the uses set out in this section permit the keeping
of livestock, reference is made to title 5, chapter 2, article B of this code,
and any successor provision, governing the keeping of livestock within the city
limits. Any such provision specifically addressed to the keeping of livestock
in the city shall govern and control over the provisions of this title. (1996
Code § 17.16.020; amd. 2002 Code)
9-4-3: R-1A AND R-1B DISTRICTS:
In the R-1A and R-1B districts, only the following uses are permitted:
   Churches.
   Golf courses, but not miniature courses or driving tees.
   Manufactured homes, multisectional.
   Model homes.
   Private schools with a curriculum similar to public elementary and high
schools.
   Public parks, public libraries, public elementary and high schools and
public community buildings.
   Single-family dwellings. (Ord. 969, 6-9-2015; amd. Ord. O-1110, 6-27-2023)
9-4-4: R-2 DISTRICT:
In the R-2 district, in addition to the uses permitted in section
9-4-3 of this chapter, there may also be:
   Hospitals and institutions.
   Lodging houses.
   Multiple-family dwellings.
   Two-family dwellings. (1996 Code § 17.16.040; amd. 2002 Code)
9-4-5: MH DISTRICT:
Permitted uses:
   Community gardens.
   Manufactured homes, including both singlewide and multisectional.
   Manufactured/mobile home parks.
   Manufactured/mobile home subdivisions.
   Mobile homes, including both singlewide and doublewide.
   RV parks.
   RV subdivisions.
   Single-family dwellings. (Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
9-4-6: C DISTRICT:
In the C district, in addition to uses permitted in sections
9-4-3 and
9-4-4 of this chapter, there may also be:
   Bakeries.
   Banks, offices and studios.
   Book binderies.
   Clinics.
   Cold storage or refrigeration plants.
   Commercial parking lots.
   Commercial schools.
   Downtown type motor hotels.
   Dressmaking, millinery, tailoring, shoe repair, laundry and dry cleaning
establishments, and similar trade.
   Filling stations.
   Garages.
   Hotels.
   Lumberyards.
   Machinery, farm sales, repairing and overhauling.
   Manufactured home sales.
   Motels.
   Paint mixing and treatment (not employing a boiling process).
   Parcel delivery services.
   Personal service shops, such as barbershops and beauty parlors.
   Print, furnace, heating, typewriter, sheet metal, plumbing and tire shops.
   Printing establishments.
   Recreational vehicle (RV) parks.
   Recreational vehicle (RV) sales.
   Recreational vehicle (RV) storage.
   Restaurants, cafeterias, dining clubs and semipublic buildings.
   Sale of goods and products at retail.
   Sheet metal products (light).
   Shops for repair and servicing of bicycles, electrical, radio and television
appliances, keys and similar articles.
   Sign painting shops.
   Television and radio broadcasting transmitters.
   Theaters.
   Undertaking establishments.
   Used car lots.
   Warehouse or storage buildings.
   Wholesale businesses. (Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
9-4-7: M-1 DISTRICT:
In the M-1 district, in addition to uses permitted in sections
9-4-3,
9-4-4 and
9-4-6 of this chapter, as long as the uses are not obnoxious or offensive due
to emission of noise, odor, dust, gas or vibration, there may also be:
   Animal hospitals and animal clinics where there are no open kennels or
corrals.
   Assembly plants.
   Cellophane products manufacturing.
   Ceramic products (previously pulverized clay; kilns fired only by
electricity or gas).
   Cleaning and dyeing works.
   Clothing manufacturing.
   Dairy products manufacturing.
   Distributing plant.
   Dress manufacturing.
   Drug manufacturing.
   Electric parts, assembly and manufacturing.
   Fiber products manufacturing (previously prepared fiber).
   Food products manufacturing (except fish and meat products, sauerkraut,
vinegar, yeast and rendering or refining of fats and oils).
   Fruit or vegetable cannery.
   Garment manufacturing (previously manufactured cloth).
   Ironworks, ornamental (no foundry, drop hammer and punch presses over 20
tons’ capacity).
   Leather products manufacturing (previously prepared leather).
   Milk bottling or distributing station.
   Oil and oil well equipment, supply and repair, but not machine shops.
   Open storage of building material, lumber, coal, machinery and pipe when the
material is enclosed within a six foot (6') fence within required building
lines and the material is stored on racks in an orderly fashion.
   Pharmaceutical manufacturing.
   Plastic products manufacturing (previously prepared material).
   Soft drink manufacturing or bottling.
   Textile products manufacturing.
   Tire retreading, recapping or rebuilding.
   Tool manufacturing (no drop hammer or punch presses).
   Toy manufacturing.
   Truck terminals, truck and trailer services.
   Well drilling services.
   Wholesale petroleum distributors and storage.
   Wood products manufacturing (assembling work and finishing).
   Other uses similar to those set out in this section, as provided in
subsection 9-13-1B1e of this title. (1996 Code § 17.16.060; amd. Ord. 969, 6-9-
2015)
9-4-8: M-2 DISTRICT:
In the M-2 district, there may be any use; except, that:
   A.   There may be no building for residential use and no trailers; provided,
however, that this shall not preclude housing for supervisory, maintenance or
custodial personnel where industrial processes require them to live on the
premises.
   B.   Junkyards must have specific approval of the council as to location and
other requirements. Junkyards will be disapproved on or within sight of heavily
traveled thoroughfares. The council may require a shield fence of specific
height and may require landscaping and other screening.
   C.   The following uses must be given separate council approval before a
building or occupancy permit is issued after a report by the commission and the
fire chief:
      Acid manufacture.
      Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of paris manufacture.
      Distillation of bones.
      Explosives manufacture or storage.
      Fat rendering.
      Fertilizer manufacture.
      Garbage, offal or dead animals reduction or dumping.
      Glue manufacture.
      Smelting of tin, copper, zinc or iron ores.
      Stockyards or slaughter of animals. (1996 Code § 17.16.070; amd. Ord.
969, 6-9-2015)
9-4-9: P DISTRICT:
Public districts permit the following uses only:
   Flood control channels or structures, and associated parks and areas
occasionally inundated.
   Municipal, state, county or federal airports.
   Parking facilities in conjunction with any of the authorized uses.
   Parks, botanical gardens, zoological parks.
   Public buildings.
   Public recreational facilities.
   Raising of crops, whether field or truck. (1996 Code § 17.16.080; amd. Ord.
969, 6-9-2015)
9-4-10: H DISTRICT:
Hospital districts permit the following health and health related activities:
   Hospitals.
   Medical or dental clinics.
   Medical supply retail outlets.
   Optometrical facilities.
   Outpatient diagnostic facilities.
   Pharmacies.
   Other health related activities similar to the above uses. (1996 Code §
17.16.090; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
9-4-11: SU-1 DISTRICT:
   A.   Uses Permitted: Special use (SU-1) districts permit the following uses:
      All uses permitted in R-1A, R-1B, and R-2 districts.
      Banks, offices and studios.
      Churches.
      Clinics.
      Commercial parking lots.
      Sale of goods and products at retail.
      Recreational Vehicle (RV) storages.
      Uses similar to the uses enumerated immediately above; provided, that no
use that emits noxious or offensive odors or dust and no use that involves
excessive light or vibration or creates excessive waste or trash, involving a
nuisance to adjoining property, shall be permitted in SU-1 districts.
      Accessory uses customarily associated with the uses permitted in the SU-
1 district shall also be permitted; provided that, such an accessory use is
incidental to the main use of the property in the SU-1 district.
   B.   Special Use Procedure: The purpose of a special use (SU-1) district is
to provide suitable sites for mixed uses which are special because of the
infrequency of occurrence of the mixed use or the effect on surrounding
property or other condition that the mixed use may impose. Accordingly, in
order for the planning and zoning commission and the city government to
maintain a proper level of control, the following procedure shall be followed
in making application to change a tract or an area to an SU-1 district:
      1.   An application for a change to SU-1 zoning shall state the pro-posed
use and must be accompanied by a plot plan showing the location and dimensions
of the property.
         a.   In the event development is to start within six (6) months from
the date of approval by the planning and zoning commission, the application
shall be accompanied by a site development plan and a preliminary landscaping
plan, each of which shall cover the entire SU-1 area. A final landscaping plan
shall be approved by the city planner prior to the issuance of a building
permit, license, or tax number for the location;
         b.   In the event the development of the property is not contemplated
within six (6) months from the date of approval by the planning and zoning
commission, the data specified in subsection B1 a of this section shall be
submitted for approval by the planning and zoning commission prior to the
issuance of a building permit, license, or tax number for the location.
However, the planning and zoning commission may delegate approval of some or
all of the data to the city planner. The schedule for completion may be waived.
      2.   A decision implementing a change to the zone map to SU-1 zoning
shall designate the specific use permitted, and a building permit shall be
issued only for the specific use and in accordance with an approved site
development plan. The specific use shall be recorded on the zone map.
      3.   In approving an application, the planning and zoning commission may
impose requirements as may be necessary to implement the purpose of this
section.
      4.   A certified copy of the site development plan shall be kept in the
planning department records so that it may be reviewed against an application
for a building permit for any or all of a special use area.
      5.   The planning and zoning commission shall review the application,
plan, and progress of development at least every four (4) years until it is
fully implemented to determine if it should be amended.
   The city planner may approve minor changes to an approved site development
plan or landscaping plan if it is consistent with the use and other written
requirements approved by the planning and zoning commission, if the buildings
are of the same general size, the vehicular circulation is similar in its
effect on adjacent property and streets, and the approving official finds that
neither the city nor any person will be substantially aggrieved by the altered
plan. (1996 Code § 17.16.100; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 969, 6-9-2015; Ord. O-1132,
7-9-2024)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Special Use Permit Procedure
9-5-2: Special Uses Designated
9-5-3: Fees
9-5-1: SPECIAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURE:
Uses listed in section
9-5-2 of this chapter may locate only in certain zones under certain
conditions, and structures may be built higher than otherwise allowed in
section
9-9-1 of this title by a special permit granted by Council after a report by
the commission. The commission shall have forty five (45) days to submit the
report addressing the effect of the proposed use upon neighborhood character,
traffic, public utilities, public health, public safety and general welfare. If
no report is made in forty five (45) days, it may be assumed that the
commission approved the application. After receipt of the commission report,
the Council shall hold a public hearing before granting a special permit. (1996
Code § 17.20.010; amd. 2002 Code)
9-5-2: SPECIAL USES DESIGNATED:
Uses for which special permits may be secured, conditions that must be
observed, and districts in which uses will be allowed are:
Cemetery:
   A.   At least twenty (20) acres in area; provided, however, that this area
limitation shall not apply to enlargement of existing cemeteries.
   B.   This use can be located in R, S and P Districts.
Clubs and semipublic buildings:
   A.   Regulations governing R-1B and R-2 Districts apply.
   B.   No parking is allowed in a required front yard. Parking areas in accord
with chapter 10 of this title are required.
Commercial greenhouses and nurseries:
   A.   No commercial greenhouse shall be closer than twenty five feet (25') to
a lot that is Residentially zoned.
   B.   These uses can be located in any district except the P District.
Extraction of sand, gravel and other raw materials:
   A.   Bond must be filed with the City Planner with terms and amount adequate
in the planner's opinion to ensure such restoration of property after
extraction as will protect value of adjacent property and the public safety.
   B.   These uses can be located in SA-2, M-2 and P Districts.
Hospital and educational, religious and philanthropic institutions:
   A.   Buildings may occupy not over forty percent (40%) of the lot and must
be set back an additional one foot (1') over usual yard requirements for each
one foot (1') that the building exceeds usual height limits. Adequate off
street parking must be provided.
   B.   Any hospital existing at the time of passage of the ordinance codified
in this title shall be exempted from these conditions and from any other
height, yard and off street parking requirements otherwise applicable in the
districts in which such existing hospital is located.
Nursery, prekindergarten, kindergarten, play, special and other private
schools:
   A.   At least one hundred (100) square feet of open play space must be
provided for each child enrolled.
   B.   These uses can be located in R, S and C Districts.
Outdoor theaters:
   A.   Outdoor theaters must be approved by the State Highway and
Transportation Department when on or near a State highway.
   B.   Outdoor theaters are subject to approval by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and City Council.
   C.   This use can be located in C and M Districts only.
Private recreational activities and paid amusement centers:
   A.   Such uses are subject to approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission
and City Council.
   B.   These uses can be located in C and M Districts only. (Ord. 1047, 2-12-
2019)
9-5-3: FEES:
The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees for such action by
resolution. The schedule of fees may be altered or amended from time to time by
action of the City Council with a resolution. (Ord. 975, 9-22-2015)
CHAPTER 6
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
9-6-1: Intent
9-6-2: Time Limit For Discontinuance Of Certain Nonconforming Uses
9-6-3: Nonconforming Use Of Buildings
9-6-4: Enlargement Of Industrial Uses
9-6-5: Restoration Of Damaged Use
9-6-6: Eligibility As Special Use
9-6-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this title that all nonconforming uses shall be eventually
eliminated. Passage of the ordinance codified in this title in no way legalizes
any illegal uses existing at the time of its adoption. (1996 Code §§ 17.24.020,
17.24.110)
9-6-2: TIME LIMIT FOR DISCONTINUANCE OF CERTAIN NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Land Without Buildings: Nonconforming uses of land containing no
buildings shall be discontinued within five (5) years from the adoption of the
ordinance codified in this title, and the use of land which becomes
nonconforming by reason of a subsequent change in zoning districts or by
annexation into the city shall be discontinued within five (5) years from the
date of change or annexation; except, that the raising of crops, whether field
or truck, may be continued in any district, and ranching may be continued in
SA-2 districts. (1996 Code § 17.24.030)
   B.   Open Storage And Signs In R Districts: Where a premises in an R
district was used only for open storage or only for signs and billboards, such
uses must be discontinued and the stored material or signs removed within two
(2) years after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this title.
(1996 Code § 17.24.080)
   C.   Junkyards: All junkyards shall conform with requirements of subsection
9-4-8B of this title within two (2) years after the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this title. (1996 Code § 17.24.090)
   D.   RVs: RVs shall conform with the requirements of chapters 4, 8 and 16 of
this title within two (2) years after the effective date hereof.
   E.   Manufactured/Mobile Homes: Manufactured/mobile homes containing
appropriate documentation showing the placement of the homes and that they were
legally established in the SA-2 or other residential districts before the
effective date hereof shall be recognized as legal nonconforming uses.
   F.   Boats And Utility Trailers: Boats and utility trailers shall conform
with the requirements of chapter 16 of this title within six (6) months after
the effective date hereof. (Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
9-6-3: NONCONFORMING USE OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   Continuation Of Use: Nonconforming use of a building existing at the
time of adoption of the ordinance codified in this title may be continued
throughout the life of the building, provided no structural alterations are
made, nor can the building be reconstructed or replaced.
   B.   Enlargements, Alterations: Except for the two (2) types of uses
provided for in section
9-6-4 of this chapter, nonconforming buildings cannot be enlarged, extended,
reconstructed, replaced or structurally altered unless changed to a permitted
use.
   C.   Change In Use: Uses of buildings may be changed, if no structural
alterations are made, to another nonconforming use of the same or of a more
restricted use or to a conforming use; it cannot be changed back to a less
restricted use. (1996 Code § 17.24.040)
   D.   Discontinuance Of Use:
      1.   If a nonconforming use of a building is stopped for two (2) years or
more, any future use of the building shall conform to the use regulations of
the district in which it is located.
      2.   The removal of a manufactured/mobile home or RV from a nonconforming
lot or space terminates the right of usage of such lot or space for a
manufactured/mobile home or RV. Replacement or substitution of a manufactured/
mobile home or RV shall not be permitted. (Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
9-6-4: ENLARGEMENT OF INDUSTRIAL USES:
Within the ten (10) year period after adoption of the ordinance codified in
this title, nonconforming light industrial uses in the C districts and
nonconforming industrial uses in the M-1 districts may be enlarged if the
enlargements do not total more than a fifty percent (50%) increase in cubical
content of buildings as existing at the time of passage of the ordinance
codified in this title. (1996 Code § 17.24.060)
9-6-5: RESTORATION OF DAMAGED USE:
If a nonconforming use is damaged beyond repair or destroyed by a fire, flood,
explosion, vandalism, or act of God, then any restoration shall be for a
permitted use. (Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
9-6-6: ELIGIBILITY AS SPECIAL USE:
Existing uses of types eligible for special permits in section
9-5-2 and subsections 9-4-8A and 9-13-1B1f(2) shall not be nonconforming uses
and shall receive a special permit for the existing use from the building
inspector/code enforcement officer upon request, but shall require a special
permit for any enlargement or addition. (1996 Code § 17.24.120; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 7
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Purpose
9-7-2: Application Of Provisions
9-7-3: Approval Required
9-7-4: Uses Permitted
9-7-5: Ownership Requirements
9-7-6: Lot, Sign And Fence Regulations
9-7-7: Off Street Parking And Loading
9-7-8: Preliminary Plan
9-7-9: Final Plan
9-7-10: PUD Zoning Is Binding
9-7-11: Compliance With Subdivision Regulations; Simultaneous Approvals
9-7-12: Amendments To Plan
9-7-13: Fees
9-7-1: PURPOSE:
The planned unit development (PUD) is established to provide a greater
flexibility in land development and use by allowing such development to be
based upon a comprehensive, integrated, detailed plan rather than upon specific
constraints as applicable to uniform lot by lot development. The PUD shall
promote and provide:
   A.   Flexibility in design and permit planned diversification in the
location of structures.
   B.   The efficient use of land to facilitate a more economic arrangement of
buildings, circulation systems, land use and utilities.
   C.   To the greatest extent possible, preserve the existing landscape
features and amenities and to utilize such features in a harmonious fashion.
   D.   More usable and suitably located recreation facilities and other public
and common facilities than would otherwise be provided under conventional land
development procedures.
   E.   The combination and coordination of architectural styles, building
forms and relationships within the PUD.
   F.   A quality of construction that will be commensurate with other
development within the city. (1996 Code § 17.28.010)
9-7-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The PUD district may be applied to any zone districts within the city, and to
all future land areas annexed into the city. The PUD district may be adopted at
the option of the city or the developer. (1996 Code § 17.28.020)
9-7-3: APPROVAL REQUIRED:
The land area that will be considered for a PUD district zoning shall be
approved by the planning and zoning commission. (1996 Code § 17.28.030; amd.
2002 Code)
9-7-4: USES PERMITTED:
A PUD of any nature (residential, commercial, industrial, public or quasi-
public), either as a single use or a combination of uses, may be permitted. The
planning and zoning commission and city council shall determine the uses by
right allowed in each PUD, and those approved uses shall be stated on the
approved PUD plan. The following criteria shall be observed when determining
uses: (1996 Code § 17.28.040; amd. 2002 Code)
   A.   All types of residential uses may be combined in one PUD.
   B.   Supporting commercial uses in residential PUDs shall be placed so as
not to detract from the residential areas, and shall be designed to only serve
the residents of the PUD.
   C.   Commercial and industrial PUDs shall not have a negative impact on
existing and future traffic, utilities and residential areas. (1996 Code §
17.28.040)
9-7-5: OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS:
The applicant shall supply the planning and zoning commission with sufficient
information that he is the full owner as recorded or that he has executed a
binding sales agreement before final approval of his plan. "Owner" means any
person, persons, corporation, association, partnership, condominium or owners'
association that has been legally organized. (1996 Code § 17.28.050; amd. 2002
Code)
9-7-6: LOT, SIGN AND FENCE REGULATIONS:
   A.   The requirements of minimum gross floor area, and fence and sign
regulations of chapters 9 and 11 of this title shall apply.
   B.   Minimum lot areas and lot widths shall be determined by the use and
design of the PUD, and minimum unobstructed open space shall be thirty percent
(30%) of the PUD land area. (1996 Code § 17.28.060)
9-7-7: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off street parking regulations as listed in chapter 10 of this title shall
apply to all PUDs. (2002 Code)
9-7-8: PRELIMINARY PLAN:
   A.   Submission Of Plan; Information Required: The applicant shall submit
fifteen (15) copies of the preliminary plan to the planning and zoning
commission at least two (2) weeks prior to the scheduled meeting with the
commission. Information required shall be: (1996 Code § 17.28.080; amd. 2002
Code)
      1.   Names and addresses of owners, trustees and mortgagees, if any.
      2.   Names and addresses, seal and license number of the surveyor,
architect and engineers preparing documents.
      3.   Total acreage, present zoning classification and zoning
classification of all abutting districts.
      4.   Legal description.
      5.   Adjacent and included public rights of way, private and public
easements and street lines, watercourses, drainage structures and utility lines
shown on a boundary survey with existing topography at contour intervals of
five feet (5') within the parcel and for two hundred fifty feet (250') outside
the boundaries of the parcel.
      6.   Development drawings showing the proposed division of the land,
dwelling unit densities, commercial floor area and parking- loading ratios,
street and parking layouts, siting of all structures, locating common open
spaces, location, size, type and design of each proposed and existing
structure.
      7.   The applicant shall also submit a written statement outlining the
type of development and management of the PUD and all other pertinent
information. (1996 Code § 17.28.080)
   B.   Planning And Zoning Commission Action: The planning and zoning
commission shall approve, disapprove or conditionally approve the preliminary
plan and, when approved or conditionally approved, shall forward it to the city
council for review and an approval, disapproval or conditional approval of this
stage. The following certificate shall accompany the submittal:
I,                         , owner and developer of the property set forth
above, do hereby agree that I will develop the above property as a Planned Unit
Development at a density or densities as shown on the attached Preliminary
Plan.
                                                                                              
Signature
Approved this       day of            , 20   , by the City of Artesia Planning
and Zoning Commission.
                                                                                              
Chairman
Approved this       day of            , 20   , by the City Council of the City
of Artesia.
                                                                                               
Mayor
Attest:
                               
City Clerk
(1996 Code § 17.28.080; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Annexation, Subdivision Or Rezone: PUD annexation, subdivision and/or
rezoning may take place at the same time and with a set of documents that will
satisfy all requirements.
   D.   Term Of Approval: Approval of the preliminary submittal shall be valid
for a period of one year only. Upon written application, the commission may
grant an extension of time not exceeding one year for filing of the final plan.
(1996 Code § 17.28.080)
9-7-9: FINAL PLAN:
   A.   Submission Of Plan; Review And Approval: The applicant shall submit
fifteen (15) copies of the final plan to the planning and zoning commission.
The commission shall review the plan and, when approved, forward it to the city
council for review and approval. The council shall call for all public hearings
as required for final approval of the PUD plan. (1996 Code § 17.28.090; amd.
2002 Code)
   B.   Information Required: Information contained in the final plan shall
include:
      1.   Site plan:
         a.   Names and addresses of owners, trustees and mortgagees, if any.
         b.   Name, business address, seal and license number of individual
responsible for preparation of plans.
         c.   North point, scale and date.
         d.   Legal description.
         e.   Adjacent and included public rights of way and street lines.
         f.   Specifications for the total PUD and each section of the PUD of:
            (1)   Gross area in acres and square feet.
            (2)   Zoning classification.
            (3)   Uses.
            (4)   Area of streets and street rights of way in acres, square
feet and percent of gross area.
            (5)   Total number of parking spaces and area of off street parking
and loading space in acres, square feet and percent of gross area.
            (6)   Gross floor area and floor area ratio for each use.
            (7)   Number of dwelling units.
            (8)   Site area covered by structures in acres, square feet and
percent of gross area.
            (9)   Net site area in unobstructed open space in acres, square
feet and percent of gross area.
            (10)   Site area to be maintained in common open space in acres,
square feet and percent of gross area.
      2.   The location, size and type of each existing structure to be
retained, each new structure, use or uses to be contained therein, the number
of stories, height of building, gross floor area and locations of entrances and
loading points for each.
      3.   All curb cuts, driving lanes, loading areas, public transportation
points, parking areas, pedestrian walks, malls, open areas for use by tenants,
the public or others, and facilities for illumination of same, with appropriate
dimensions to indicate size, spacing and location accurately.
      4.   Indication of all walks, fences, screening and plantings, including
location, materials, size and height.
      5.   Types of surfacing such as paving, concrete, turf or gravel to be
used at various locations.
      6.   The location of all common open spaces within the development,
together with the proposed method of development, maintenance and ownership of
the common open spaces, together with legal documentation providing for
development, maintenance and ownership of the common open spaces.
      7.   The location, size, height and orientation of all signs, including
signs flat on building facades.
      8.   The location, size and purpose of all easements to be provided.
      9.   A time schedule for the completion of the project or the phases
thereof.
      10.   Grading, drainage and utilities plan:
         a.   Original contours at an interval of not greater than two feet
(2') in dotted lines.
         b.   Final contours at an interval of not greater than two feet (2')
in solid lines.
         c.   Outline of first floor foundation of each structure with
elevation of first floor indicated, whether above or below ground level.
         d.   Location, sizes, elevation and grades of existing and proposed
storm and sanitary sewers, utility lines and water lines both within the PUD
and adjacent rights of way, including indication of the closest fire hydrant in
each principal direction if none are included within the development.
         e.   Site drainage, including indication of runoff of surface water,
drainage channels and drainage structures, and any particular treatment of
underground seepage or springs.
      11.   Illustrations of proposed architectural style of typical structures
and typical floor plans of each type of residential unit to be developed and
floor plans of each commercial structure with room dimensions and areas and
gross area of total structure. (1996 Code § 17.28.090)
      12.   Other information that the planning and zoning commission and/or
city council deems necessary to make a decision as to the compliance of the
development with applicable ordinances and regulations shall be included on the
appropriate plans. (1996 Code § 17.28.090; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Certificates: The final plans shall include space for certification of
approval in accordance with the form used for subdivision platting. The owners
and mortgagees must sign the final plat or plan. (1996 Code § 17.28.090)
   D.   Appeals: In the event that final plans are disapproved by the planning
and zoning commission, the applicant may petition the council for a hearing on
the rejection. After a public hearing on the matter, the council may reverse
the ruling of the commission by a majority vote of all members of the city
council.
   E.   Filing Final Plan: When approved, two (2) copies of the final plan
shall be filed with the city clerk. The city clerk shall cause to be executed
and recorded with the Eddy County clerk's office, at the applicant's expense,
an instrument in the following form:
Statement of Establishment of Planned Unit Development Under the Zoning
Ordinance of the City of Artesia on the       day of           , 20   , a
Planned Unit Development on the following described property by Ordinance No
      Series 20   .
The following described property shall be developed only in accordance with the
Planned Unit Development plan on file in the office of the City Clerk of the
City of Artesia, New Mexico. The legal description of the property involved is
as follows:
                                                                                                  
Mayor
Attest:
                             
   City Clerk
(1996 Code § 17.28.090; amd. 2002 Code)
9-7-10: PUD ZONING IS BINDING:
A change of zoning to PUD shall bind the development of the property so zoned
to the PUD plan regardless of any change in ownership of the subject property.
(1996 Code § 17.28.090)
9-7-11: COMPLIANCE WITH SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS; SIMULTANEOUS APPROVALS:
The PUD plan is not a subdivision plat for any purpose, and full compliance
with the subdivision regulations of the city must be met before a building
permit is issued. However, subdivision, PUD approval and annexation may take
place at the same time and with a set of documents that will satisfy each.
Subdividing the property contained within the PUD plan may be in whole by one
subdivision plat or in parts by a series of subdivision plats, and each
subdivision plat submitted under the procedures of the subdivision regulations
must be in substantial compliance with the PUD plan. The final subdivision plat
may be approved at the same time as the final PUD plan is approved. (1996 Code
§ 17.28.090)
9-7-12: AMENDMENTS TO PLAN:
   A.   Standards For Amendment: Amendments to the PUD development plan shall
be considered only when one or more of the following conditions exist:
      1.   A clear and obvious hardship would result unless an amendment to
this plan is granted.
      2.   There was an error or mistake in the plan.
      3.   There has been a change of conditions in the surrounding area which
would necessitate a change in the plan. (1996 Code § 17.28.090)
   B.   Procedure: Procedure for amendment shall be the same as that prescribed
for plan approval. Should the city council approve the amendment to the PUD, an
amended plan shall be filed and notice thereof recorded in the same manner as
the original plan. Minor changes which improve the character of the site plan
and do not increase the lot coverage, building density or building height can
be made with the written approval of the planning and zoning commission. (1996
Code § 17.28.090; amd. 2002 Code)
9-7-13: FEES:
The city council shall establish a schedule of fees for such action by
resolution. The schedule of fees may be altered or amended from time to time by
action of the city council with a resolution. (Ord. 975, 9-22-2015)
CHAPTER 8
MH MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-8-1: Manufactured/Mobile Homes
9-8-2: General Requirements
9-8-3: Manufactured/Mobile Home Subdivisions
9-8-4: Manufactured/Mobile Home And RV Parks
9-8-5: Recreational Vehicle (RV) Subdivisions
9-8-1: MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOMES:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation to place, keep
or maintain any occupied or unoccupied singlewide manufactured home or single
or double wide mobile home, upon any lot, piece or parcel of ground within the
city that is not in a legal manufactured/mobile home district, except as
otherwise provided in this title. (Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
9-8-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No manufactured/mobile home or RV community and/or subdivision shall be
located or installed in a flood prone area as designated by the national flood
insurance rate map for the city of Artesia without prior approval of the city's
acting floodplain manager. No community shall be located in any area that is
situated so that drainage from any barnyard, or other source of filth can be
deposited in its location.
   B.   Manufactured/mobile home and RV communities shall not be exposed to
objectionable smoke, noise, odor or other adverse influences.
   C.   Sites for manufactured/mobile home or RV communities shall have an
acceptable relationship to the major traffic thoroughfare plan, and the site
shall be accessible without causing disruption in residential areas.
   D.   It shall be shown that the proposed manufactured/mobile home or RV
community shall not overcapacitate utility and drainage facilities.
   E.   All manufactured/mobile homes shall be skirted with material matching
in design and color.
   F.   Requests for new manufactured/mobile home districts shall follow the
same procedure as for any other new zoning request.
   G.   Addressing and numbering for lots/spaces shall comply with chapter 14
of this title.
   H.   Structural repairs, alterations, and modifications within a
manufactured/mobile home shall not be permitted without a New Mexico
manufactured housing division's licensed contractor per NMAC 14.12.2.14 and
shall be inspected and approved by the state construction industries division
(CID).
   I.   Additions may be placed against and alongside the manufactured/mobile
home, but shall be independent and in no way attached to the manufactured/
mobile home. Permits and inspections shall be conducted by the city's building
inspection division.
   J.   Aboveground fuel storage tanks are prohibited, this includes propane
tanks in excess of twenty five (25) gallons.
   K.   Manufactured/mobile home and RV subdivisions and parks shall comply
with the minimum requirements found in appendices B, C and D of the city's
adopted fire code. (Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
9-8-3: MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Local And State Provisions: All manufactured/mobile
home subdivisions shall meet the requirements set forth for the development of
a subdivision in the regulations for the city. All manufactured and/or mobile
homes shall meet New Mexico manufactured housing specifications.
   B.   Manufactured Home Placement Permit: A city manufactured home placement
permit (herein MHPP) and a copy of the New Mexico manufactured housing permit
issued by the New Mexico regulation and licensing department/manufactured
housing division shall be required for occupancy of the home. An MHPP shall
require a fee as determined by the city per resolution.
   C.   Approval Of Structures: No accessory building permit shall be issued
and no buildings or structures shall be constructed until the building
inspector/code enforcement officer has approved the same as complying with this
title.
   D.   Regulations: The following regulations shall apply to manufactured/
mobile home subdivisions:
      1.   Location: Singlewide manufactured/mobile home subdivisions shall be
located in MH manufactured/mobile home districts only.
      2.   Lots Defined: Manufactured/mobile home lots shall be clearly defined
and shall consist of a minimum of four thousand two hundred (4,200) square feet
with a width of not less than thirty five feet (35').
      3.   Placement: A manufactured/mobile home subdivision shall consist of
not less than twenty four (24) contiguous lots for the placement of
manufactured/mobile homes for residential occupancy.
      4.   Off Street Parking: Off street parking for two (2) vehicles shall be
provided for each manufactured/mobile home in the subdivision.
      5.   Front Yard Setback: The minimum depth of the front yard for
manufactured/mobile homes and other main buildings from the front property line
shall be twenty feet (20'). Accessory buildings shall be set back at least
twenty five feet (25') from the front property line.
      6.   Side Yard Setback: The minimum width of each side yard from the
interior property line shall be five feet (5').
      7.   Rear Yard Setback: The minimum depth of the rear yard from the rear
property line shall be twenty feet (20').
      8.   Application: The front yard setback requirements shall apply to all
streets.
      9.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings shall be a minimum of ten
feet (10') from any manufactured/mobile homes and any other buildings.
   E.   Site Utilities: Water, sewer, and electrical public tie ins shall be
permitted and inspected by the city. Electrical, plumbing, and gas connections
to the manufactured and/or mobile home shall be inspected and approved by the
New Mexico manufactured housing division or CID.
   F.   Permanent Foundations: All manufactured/mobile homes shall be placed on
a permanent foundation system per New Mexico manufactured housing rules and
regulations (14 NMAC 12.5.11). (Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
9-8-4: MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME AND RV PARKS:
   A.   Required Location: All manufactured/mobile home parks shall be located
in a manufactured/mobile home district only. All RV parks shall be located in
either a manufactured/mobile home district or commercial district only.
   B.   Site Plan Requirements: A site plan of the park shall consist of the
following:
      1.   Location of each existing and proposed structure.
      2.   Location, area and dimensions of each space.
         a.   Manufactured/mobile home park spaces shall require a minimum of
four thousand (4,000) square feet per space, with a minimum width of thirty
five feet (35').
         b.   RV park spaces shall require a minimum of one thousand two
hundred fifty (1,250) square feet per space, with a minimum width of twenty
five feet (25').
      3.   Location and dimensions of all adjoining and interior roads,
driveways and utilities.
   C.   Minimum Number Of Spaces: All parks shall contain at least twenty (20)
spaces.
   D.   Conversion Of Additions To Permanent Residences Prohibited: No
manufactured/mobile homes or RVs may be remodeled by additions, lean-tos or the
like, for the purpose of converting the same into permanently located
residences. The use of fireproof temporary awnings and cabanas or other factory
built accessories shall not be considered as such remodeling.
   E.   Permitted Uses: In manufactured/mobile home or RV parks, the following
uses are permitted:
Manufactured/mobile home park offices, community gardens, recreation rooms and
areas, laundry and service rooms for park residents only.
Recreational vehicles (RVs).
Residential manufactured/mobile homes.
Single-family houses for park owner or caretaker.
   F.   Building Height: No buildings, structures or manufactured/mobile homes
shall exceed a height of thirty five feet (35') as measured from finished grade
to the highest point of the roof.
   G.   Distance From Adjacent Structures: No manufactured/mobile home, RV or
other building shall be closer than ten feet (10') to any building, RV or other
manufactured/mobile home. For this purpose, "manufactured/mobile home" includes
porches, patios, carports and other additions to the basic unit.
   H.   Yards: Yard depths shall apply to exterior boundaries of the entire
community site, not to actual or apparent lines of space, as follows:
      1.   Front Yard Setback: The minimum depth of the front yard for
manufactured/mobile homes and other main buildings from the front property line
shall be twenty feet (20'). Accessory buildings shall be set back at least
twenty five feet (25') from the front property line.
      2.   Side Yard Setback: The minimum width of each interior side yard
property line shall be ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear Yard Setback: The minimum depth of the rear yard property line
shall be twenty feet (20') for manufactured/mobile homes, RVs and other main
buildings. Accessory buildings shall be setback at least ten feet (10') from
the rear property line.
      4.   Application: The front yard setback requirement shall apply to all
streets.
   I.   Off Street Parking: Off street parking for two (2) vehicles shall be
provided for each manufactured/mobile home in the park. RV parks shall provide
one off street parking space for each RV space in the park.
   J.   Anchors: All manufactured/mobile homes shall be securely anchored to
the ground in accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions.
Where the manufacturer's installation instructions are not available, the
requirements shall be as set out in section 49.5.1 of the state of New Mexico
manufactured housing rules and regulations, 14 NMAC 12.2. (Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
9-8-5: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Requirements: RV subdivisions shall meet the requirements set forth for
the development of a subdivision in the regulations for the city.
   B.   RV Placement Permit: A city RV placement permit (RVPP) shall be
required for occupancy of an RV. An RVPP shall require a fee as determined by
the city per resolution.
   C.   Carports: Temporary metal carports may be permitted and may be placed
no closer than twenty feet (20') from the front property line and five feet
(5') from the interior side property line.
   D.   Regulations: The following regulations shall apply to RV subdivisions:
      1.   Location: RV subdivisions shall be located in an MH manufactured/
mobile home district only.
      2.   Lots Defined: RV lots shall be clearly defined and shall consist of
a minimum area of four thousand two hundred (4,200) square feet, with a width
of not less than thirty five feet (35').
      3.   Number Allowed: One RV per lot.
      4.   Placement: An RV subdivision shall consist of not less than twenty
four (24) contiguous lots for the placement of RVs for residential occupancy.
      5.   Off Street Parking: Off street parking for two (2) vehicles shall be
provided for each lot in the subdivision.
      6.   Front Yard Setback: The minimum depth of the front yard from the
front property line shall be twenty feet (20').
      7.   Side Yard Setback: The minimum width of each side yard from the
interior property line shall be five feet (5').
      8.   Rear Yard Setback: The minimum depth of the rear yard from the rear
property line shall be twenty feet (20') for RVs and other main buildings.
      9.   Application: The front yard setback requirements shall apply to all
streets.
      10.   Accessory Storage Sheds: Accessory storage sheds shall be a minimum
of ten feet (10') from any RV and any other buildings or structures.
   E.   Site Utilities: Water, sewer, and electrical public tie ins shall be
permitted and inspected by the city. (Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
CHAPTER 9
SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Building Height Limits
9-9-2: Yards
9-9-3: Lot Size
9-9-4: Accessory Uses
9-9-5: Fences
9-9-6: Roofs
9-9-1: BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITS:
   A.   Height Limits Designated: Building height limits are as follows:
      1.   Two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet (35') in the SA-
1, SA-2, R-1A and R-1B districts.
      2.   Where a building in a C or M-1 district is adjacent to a lot in an S
or R district, it must be set back from such a lot line one foot (1') for each
six feet (6') of building height.
      3.   Eight (8) stories or one hundred feet (100') in the C district;
provided, that where a lot in the C district is adjacent to a lot in an R
district, the building shall be set back from such a lot line one foot (1') for
each six feet (6') of building height; and provided further, that one off
street parking space shall be provided on the lot for each one thousand (1,000)
square feet of floor space in a building that is in excess of three (3) times
the lot area. (1996 Code § 17.36.010)
   B.    Increase In Height Limits:
      1.   If a public building, church, temple, hospital, institution or
school is set back an additional foot over the yards required in section
9-9-2 of this chapter, it may be increased in height two feet (2') over the
height limit of subsection A of this section up to a limit of seventy feet
(70').
      2.   Chimneys, church steeples, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire
towers, monuments, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers,
ornamental towers, spires, radio and television towers, grain elevators or
necessary mechanical appurtenances are exempt from height regulations, but a
permit must be obtained from the building inspector/code enforcement officer.
      3.   Storage buildings are exempt from the story limitations (but not the
"number of feet" limitation).
      4.   Buildings in the C district may be increased in height one foot (1')
for each foot that the building is set back from all required yard lines. (1996
Code § 17.36.020)
   C.    Runway Proximity:
      1.   No building or structure or any portion thereof shall be erected
within the approach zone of any runway or landing strip approved by the federal
aviation agency in excess of a height above the elevation at the end of the
runway equal to one- fortieth (1/40) of the horizontal distance from the end of
the runway, measured along the centerline of the runway extended. The approach
zone is considered to be a trapezoidal area extending from the end of, and in
the same direction as, the runway for a distance of two (2) miles. Such area is
five hundred feet (500') wide at the end of the runway and two thousand five
hundred feet (2,500') wide two (2) miles from the end of the runway.
      2.   Further, no building or structure or any portion thereof shall be
erected in the transition zones on either side of an approach zone of any such
runway or landing strip in excess of a height above the elevation at the end of
the runway, computed as follows:
         a.   One-fortieth (1/40) of the horizontal distance from the end of
the runway, measured along the centerline of the runway extended; plus
         b.   One-seventh (1/7) of the horizontal distance to the near edge of
the approach zone, measured perpendicular to the centerline of the runway
extended;
         c.   Where an airport is bounded by a public road, the effective
length of runways directed over any such public road shall be computed (using a
slope of 40 feet horizontal to 1 foot vertical) to produce a height of fourteen
feet (14') at the right of way line of such road nearest to the airport. (1996
Code § 17.36.030)
   D.    Alterations To Existing Buildings: Those parts of existing buildings
that violate height regulations may be repaired or remodeled, but may not be
reconstructed or structurally altered. (1996 Code § 17.36.040)
9-9-2: YARDS:
   A.    Required Size: Except as provided in subsections B through F of this
section and sections
9-9-4 and
9-9-5 of this chapter and chapter 11 of this title, yards shall be provided for
buildings as shown in the following tabulation:
District 1 Front Yard Having A 2 Side Yards Each Having 1 Rear Yard Having A
         Depth Of              A Width Of               Depth Of
District 1 Front Yard Having A 2 Side Yards Each Having 1 Rear Yard Having A
         Depth Of              A Width Of               Depth Of
SA-1     40 feet               5 feet                   50 feet
SA-2     30 feet               5 feet                   20 feet
R-1A     30 feet               5 feet                   20 feet
R-1B     25 feet               5 feet                   20 feet
R-2      20 feet               5 feet                   20 feet
C        None                  None                     None
M-1      None                  None                     None
M-2      None                  None                     None
H        None                  None                     None
 
(Ord. 794, 6-10-2008)
   B.    S Districts:
      1.   A building line of any structure in S districts shall be set back
eighty feet (80') from the centerline of main arterial thoroughfares, but in no
event nearer than thirty feet (30') to the right of way.
      2.   For corner lot buildings, the setback requirements shall apply to
both streets.
      3.   On streets within a developed area primarily serving the
development, the setback may be reduced to thirty feet (30').
   C.    Corner Lots:
      1.   On corner lots in the R districts, there must be a conforming front
yard on the one side and a ten foot (10') wide yard on the intersecting side.
      2.   On corner lots in the C and M districts that rear upon an S or R
district, a ten foot (10') yard must be provided along the side street. Where a
lot in a C or M district sides upon an S or R district lot, the side yard
required in that S or R district must be provided along the boundary line on
the C or M district lot.
   D.    Multiple Uses: There may be two (2) or more related multi- family,
hotel, motel or institutional buildings on a lot; provided, that:
      1.   The required yards be maintained around the group of buildings; and
      2.   Buildings that are parallel, or that are within forty five degrees
(45°) of being parallel, be separated by a horizontal distance that is at least
equal to the height of the highest building; and
      3.   They are subject to compliance with the building code.
   E.    Existing Nonconformities: Those parts of existing buildings that
violate yard regulations may be repaired and remodeled, but not reconstructed
or structurally altered. (1996 Code § 17.36.060)
   F.    Exceptions:
      1.   In the S and R districts, no side or rear yards are required behind
the front building line as to accessory buildings; accessory building setback
shall be at least sixty feet (60') from the front property line; yard
requirements remain for the main building; provided, however, that at least a
ten foot (10') wide passage shall be provided on the lot to the rear yard,
either from a street or from an alley. Such passage may be sodded or landscaped
and not necessarily used as a driveway.
      2.   On main or major public thoroughfares or arterial streets, the front
yard requirements shall remain as set forth in subsections A through E of this
section, regardless of subsection F3 of this section.
      3.   Where, on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this title
1 , forty percent (40%) or more of a frontage was occupied by two (2) or more
buildings, then the front yard is established in the following manner:
         a.   Where the building furthest from the street provides a front yard
not more than ten feet (10') deeper than the building closest to the street,
then the front yard for the frontage is and remains an average of the then
existing front yards.
         b.   Where subsection F3a of this section is not the case and a lot is
within one hundred feet (100') of a building on each side, then the front yard
is a line drawn from the closest front corners of these two (2) adjacent
buildings.
         c.   Where neither subsection F3a nor F3b of this section is the case
and the lot is within one hundred feet (100') of an existing building on one
side only, then the front yard is the same as that of the existing adjacent
building.
      4.   Sills, belt courses, cornices and ornamental features may project
only one foot (1') into a required yard. (1996 Code § 17.36.070)
      5.   Open fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and balconies opening
upon fire towers and the ordinary projections of chimneys and flues into a rear
yard for a distance of not more than three and one-half feet (31/2'), when so
placed as to not obstruct the light and ventilation, may be permitted by the
building inspector/code enforcement officer.
      6.   Terraces which do not extend above the level of the ground (first)
floor may project into a required yard, provided these projections are distant
at least two feet (2') from the adjacent lot line.
      7.   No side yards are required for dwellings that are erected above
commercial and industrial structures.
      8.   If side yards are provided where not required (i.e., in C and M
districts), they must be at least five feet (5') wide.
      9.   Open frame carports (roof only, no walls) may be erected a minimum
setback distance of fifteen feet (15') from the face of curb instead of the
setback distance being measured from the property line. However, side yard
setbacks are still required, and the carport must be entirely on the property
where it will be erected. No garage, buildings, or enclosed structure of any
nature other than an open frame carport (roof only, no walls) will be
permitted. The fifteen-foot (15') setback from the face of curb will be
measured from the closest part of the closest support column, and no overhangs
greater than two feet (2') will be permitted. Overhangs refer to the surface of
the roof projecting beyond the support columns. Overhangs shall not project
beyond the property lines of the property where the carport will be erected.
Roofing systems for open frame carports may include enclosed ceilings, eaves,
gables, and soffits. (1996 Code § 17.36.070; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. O-1109, 6-27-
2023)
 
Notes
1 1. This title derived from ordinance 419, passed in 1980.
9-9-3: LOT SIZE:
   A.    Required Lot Sizes: Except as provided in subsection B of this
section, there shall be the minimum lot width and minimum lot area per family
as shown on the following table:
                    Lot Area In Square Lot Area Per    Lot Area Per Family,
 DistrictLot Width Feet               Family, Single- Multi-Family
                                       Family
                    Lot Area In Square Lot Area Per    Lot Area Per Family,
 DistrictLot Width Feet               Family, Single- Multi-Family
                                       Family
          
SA-1      120       43,560             43,560          43,560
SA-2      50        6,000              6,000           6,000
R-1A      80        10,000             10,000          10,000
R-1B      50        6,000              6,000           6,000
R-2       50        6,000              6,000           2,000
C         None      None               None            None
M         None      None               None            None
H         None      None               None            None
 
(1996 Code § 17.36.080)
   B.    Exceptions: Separate tracts with less area or width than that required
in subsection A of this section may be used for one single-family dwelling or
for a permitted nondwelling use. (1996 Code § 17.36.090)
   C.    Existing Nonconformities: Existing buildings that are in violation of
lot area requirements may be remodeled or repaired, but may not be
reconstructed or structurally altered unless made to conform to these
requirements. (1996 Code § 17.36.100)
9-9-4: ACCESSORY USES:
   A.    Permitted Accessory Uses:
      1.   The following accessory uses are permitted in the SA, R-1A, R-1B and
R-2 districts:
Home businesses.
Keeping of such animals as are permitted in the district involved.
Private garages.
Storage of wood, lumber and other material where the land occupied by such
storage is confined to one location with a maximum area of one hundred (100)
square feet.
Tennis courts, swimming pools, garden houses, pergolas, ornamental gates,
barbecue ovens, fireplaces and similar uses customarily accessory to
residential uses.
Vegetable and flower gardens. (1996 Code § 17.36.110; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   In the R-2 district, in addition to those accessory uses set out in
subsection A1 of this section, there may also be storage garages and parking
lots for use solely by occupants of the premises.
      3.   In the C district, in addition to those accessory uses set out in
subsections A1 and A2 of this section, there may also be:
A use of not to exceed forty percent (40%) of the floor area for incidental
storage or light industrial activity.
Parking lots.
      4.   In the M districts, there may be any accessory use.
      5.   Temporary buildings for construction purposes are permitted in any
district as accessory buildings during the course of construction.
   B.    Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Use Restricted: Accessory buildings may not be used for dwelling
purposes. (1996 Code § 17.36.110)
      2.   Location:
         a.   Accessory buildings may be located in side or rear yards, subject
to subsection 9-9-2F1 of this chapter, but may not occupy more than thirty
percent (30%) of side and rear yard space.
         b.   Where a garage is entered from an alley, it must be kept twelve
feet (12') from the alley line common to the property in question. (1996 Code §
17.36.120)
9-9-5: FENCES:
   A.    Definitions:
   FENCE: A wall or other structure erected to bar passage.
   PERMANENT FENCE: A fence having or possessing a permanent foundation
consisting of anchor poles to allow for wood, chainlink, vinyl, metal, or other
fence material and/or a concrete foundation for brick, or cinder block.
   TEMPORARY FENCE: A fence having a decorative border no higher than thirty
inches (30") (2.5 feet) in height which does not require the use of any
permanent material(s) such as anchor poles, concrete foundation, or any other
solid masses; or any fence erected around construction sites which does not
exceed eight feet zero inches (8'0") in height and which is removed immediately
upon completion of the construction project.
   B.    Permits Required: It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section
for any person to erect, construct, enlarge, materially alter, increase the
height or composition of, or replace any permanent fence regulated by this
section without first obtaining a separate permit for each such fence from the
building inspector/code enforcement officer of the city of Artesia ("city")
development/planning department. A fence permit shall not be required if it is
determined by the building inspector that only minor repair or painting or
repainting of the fence is necessary.
   C.    Application For Permit: To obtain a permit required by this section,
the applicant shall first file an application for permit on a form furnished by
the building inspector/code enforcement officer of the city community
development/planning department.
Two (2) sets of plans, including a drawing of the proposed location for the
fence on the lot, and any other data reasonably deemed necessary by the
building inspector/code enforcement officer shall be submitted with each
application for a permit. Information on plans shall further include:
      1.   Building location and area to be fenced.
      2.   Legal description of land to be fenced.
      3.   Height of fence and type of materials to be used.
      4.   Intersections of nearest streets, roads, highways, alleys and
driveways in immediate proximity to the fence.
      5.   Existing zoning classification.
      6.   Corner "visibility range" for any street impacted by the proposed
fence.
      7.   All easements and rights of way which may be in existence and which
may be encroached and/or affected by the fence.
      8.   Distance measurements of all fences to be erected.
One set of approved plans shall be retained by the building inspector/code
enforcement officer and one set of the approved plans shall be returned to the
applicant.
The plans shall be endorsed by the building inspector/code enforcement officer
in writing or stamped "approved" and initialed, and shall not be changed,
modified or altered without authorization from the building inspector/code
enforcement officer, and all work shall be done in accordance with the approved
plans.
The application, plans and other data filed by an applicant for a permit under
this section shall be reviewed by the building inspector/code enforcement
officer of the community development/planning department. If the work described
in an application requesting a permit and the plans and other data filed
therewith conform to the requirements of this section, together with all other
applicable laws and ordinances, and the fees specified for the permit and
inspection have been paid, the permit shall then be issued to the applicant.
   D.    General Requirements And Restrictions: Fences deemed temporary as
defined herein shall not require a permit.
Front yard: Fences or plantings located within thirty feet (30') from the
inside curb line of the street or street intersection must be less than thirty
percent (30%) solid, or less than three feet (3') in height when the fence or
planting is more than thirty percent (30%) solid.
Back yard: Fences or plantings up to eight feet (8') in height may be erected
on any part of the lot, as long as the street side of the fence or planting
does not extend beyond the front of the main building, and it is located more
than thirty feet (30') from the inside curb of the street or street
intersection.
Corner lots: The side yard fence or planting for a corner lot may be placed
within thirty feet (30') of the side street, up to, but not including the right
of way. See figure 1 of this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8c85ba56d28ea2897d39ed92e67a92923b877ac2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1321.gif]
No fence, guywire, brace or post shall be constructed upon or extend over any
property of which the city or any private property owner, either owns or has
legal control over, or which property contains an easement which may be
impacted or otherwise encroached by the fence, guywire, brace or post, unless
the applicant first obtains the prior written consent of such owner or other
person affected. No fence, guywire, brace or post shall be constructed upon or
extend over any utility easement without the applicant first obtaining the
prior written consent of the owner or operator of the utilities.
No fence within the city limits shall be electrically charged in any manner,
with the exception of a properly installed pet fence located within the
interior and to not exceed the height of any fence.
No fence shall be constructed of barbed wire except on property zoned M-1 light
industrial or M-2 heavy industrial zoning districts. Such barbed wire shall
only be located on the top of a six foot (6') or greater fence with angle arms
at the top and such angle arms may be armed with barbed wire. Such arms shall
not extend over public or private property, city, county, or state rights of
way, easements or private property.
   E.    Materials:
      1.   Permitted Materials: The following are permitted materials: wood,
metal tubing or wrought iron, stone, masonry, stucco, chainlink, and corrugated
metal panels. Vinyl or fiberglass composite materials may be also utilized if
the material is listed, designed and constructed for fencing materials.
      2.   Prohibited Materials: The following materials are prohibited: rope,
string, all wire products, including, but not limited to, chicken wire, hog
wire, wire fabric, barbed wire (except as otherwise allowed in this code),
razor ribbon wire and similar welded or woven wire fabrics, netting, cut or
broken glass, paper, metal panels, galvanized sheet metal, plywood, fiberglass
panels or plastic panels or any other materials that are not manufactured
specifically for use as fencing materials. The building inspector/code
enforcement officer may require the applicant to provide a sample of the
manufacturer's standards to establish the intended use of a proposed fencing
material.
Cumulative to the foregoing paragraph, no person shall construct a fence of
wood, metal or plastic products that are designed specifically for uses other
than fence construction.
No person shall construct a fence consisting of any damaged or unsafe
materials. The building inspector/code enforcement officer may make a
determination that certain materials are deemed unsafe for use as a fence.
Used materials of any type shall not be reused unless it can be determined by
the building inspector/code enforcement officer that such used materials meet
the requirement of the building code for new materials.
   F.    Height Restrictions: No fence shall be constructed anywhere in the
city to a height greater than eight feet (8') above the finished lot grade at
the location of the fence.
   G.    Inspections Required: There shall be a minimum of two (2) inspections
during the progress of fence construction, which shall be: 1) when the
foundation is dug or the poles are set, and 2) upon the completion of the
fence. Additional inspections may be made at any time at the discretion of the
building inspector/code enforcement officer.
   H.    Gates Required: Any fence in which there is closure of the fence or
closure of the fence combined with any other structure located on the property
shall contain at least two (2) access gates constructed at least thirty six
inches (36") each in width, to be located at the front and rear of the fence,
except on corner lots, in which one gate may be located on the side of the
property adjacent to the closest street, in lieu of the rear of the property.
(See figure 2 of this section as example.)
   I.    Structural Requirements: Masonry walls shall require reinforcement and
a footing meeting the minimum standards established in figure 3 of this section
unless the building inspector authorizes changes based on site conditions.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8c85ba56d28ea2897d39ed92e67a92923b877ac2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1323.gif]
   J.    Fence Completion/Enforcement: All fences shall be diligently
constructed and fully completed with one hundred eighty (180) days from date of
commencement of construction.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8c85ba56d28ea2897d39ed92e67a92923b877ac2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1325.gif]
   K.    General Penalties: Any violation of this section or part thereof shall
be subject to the penalties provided by title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
   L.    Graffiti: All fences, both existing and new, and all parts thereof,
shall be maintained in a safe and aesthetically pleasing condition. Graffiti
shall be removed in accordance with provisions of the city of Artesia graffiti
ordinance. (Ord. 814, 4-14-2009)
9-9-6: ROOFS:
Residential roofing or alteration or repair of an existing roof will require a
building permit and will be regulated by the latest edition of the uniform
building code in conjunction with the latest edition of the state of New Mexico
construction industries division, New Mexico building code, which have been
adopted by the state 1 . (Ord. 630, 7-4-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-1-1 of this code.
CHAPTER 10
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
9-10-1: General Off Street Parking Requirements
9-10-2: Required Off Street Parking Spaces
9-10-3: Off Street Loading Requirements
9-10-4: Existing Nonconformities
9-10-1: GENERAL OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Parking Space And Driveway Dimensions: The minimum size of required
parking space shall be a width of nine feet (9') and a length of twenty feet
(20').
 
Angle Of Parking Stall Depth Curb Length Driveway Width
                                         One-Way Two-Way
0°              9'0"        20'0"       12'0"   23'0"
30°             17'10"      21'10"      12'0"   23'0"
45°             20'6"       20'6"       12'0"   23'0"
60°             21'10"      17'10"      18'0"   23'0"
90°             20'0"       9'0"        23'0"   23'0"
 
(1996 Code § 17.40.020)
   B.   Location Of Spaces On Separate Lots: Parking space may be provided on a
separate lot if within three hundred feet (300') of a building, and two (2) or
more owners may join together in the provision of this parking space. (1996
Code § 17.40.040)
   C.   Parking Certain Vehicles In Residential Districts Prohibited: It shall
be unlawful for any truck tractor and semitrailer, the truck tractor
individually, or the semitrailer individually, to park anywhere within any
residential district of the city. (1996 Code § 17.40.060; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Additional Parking Restrictions: It shall be unlawful to park, stand,
or permit to remain any recreational vehicle (RV), boat, bus, or any similar
type vehicle in or on any street, highway, or public alley within the city for
longer than seventy two (72) consecutive hours. Removal of any above described
vehicle for any period of less than seven (7) consecutive days, or incidental
movements of the vehicle of a distance from the original parked location within
a radius of less than one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320'), shall
not be considered in determining the length of time the vehicle has been parked
or permitted to stand and/or remain. At no time shall the recreational vehicle
(RV), boat, bus, or any similar type vehicle be used as a living quarters or
for habitation while parked on any street, highway, or public alley within the
city for any period of time greater than the initial seventy two (72) hour
period as provided in this subsection. It shall further be unlawful for any
person at any time to park, stand, or permit to remain any house trailer or
manufactured/mobile home on any street, highway, or public alley within the
city.
The terms used in this subsection shall have the meanings ascribed to them by
the motor vehicle code of the state of New Mexico. (Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
9-10-2: REQUIRED OFF STREET PARKING SPACES:
Off street parking shall be provided in amounts not less than those listed
below:
One-family and two-family dwellings and 2 spaces per dwelling unit or
manufactured/mobile homes               manufactured/mobile home
Multi-family dwellings containing 3 or  11/2 spaces per dwelling unit
more dwelling units
Multi-family dwellings for the elderly  1/2 space per dwelling unit, plus 1
only                                    space for each 2 employees and 1 space
                                        per 5 dwelling units for visitors
Residential hotel, rooming house or     4 spaces per 5 guest accommodations
boarding house
Hotel and motel                         11/4 spaces per guestroom or suite
Convalescent hospital, nursing home,    11/4 spaces per 2 beds
rest home for the aged
Hospital                                11/2 spaces per bed
Church or mortuary                      1 space per 3 seats or every 6 feet of
                                        bench length in the main auditorium
                                        2 spaces per each teacher and employee,
All schools, except senior high schools plus off street student loading and
                                        unloading facility
Senior high school                      1 space for each teacher and employee,
                                        plus 1 space for each 6 students
Bowling alley                           5 spaces per lane, plus 1 space per 2
                                        employees
Retail store, medical and dental        1 space per 400 square feet of gross
clinic, library or museum               floor area, plus 1 space per every 2
                                        employees
Service or repair shop, retail store
handling exclusively bulky merchandise, 1 space per 600 square feet of gross
such as automobiles and furniture,      floor area, plus 1 space per 2
bank, office building (except medical   employees
and dental)
Eating or drinking establishments       1 space per 250 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Manufacturing or industrial use,        1 space per 800 square feet of gross
warehousing and wholesaling             floor area
establishments
Places of public assembly, including    1 space for each 4 seats provided
auditoriums and theaters
Institutions, clubs, lodges and other   1 space for each 1,000 square feet of
public and semipublic buildings         floor area
                                        Shall be determined by the planning and
Parking requirements for uses not       zoning commission based upon the
listed                                  criteria that the parking needs of any
                                        use shall be provided off the street
 
(1996 Code § 17.40.010; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
9-10-3: OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    At least the amount of off street loading space set out in subsection
B of this section shall be provided, plus an area or means adequate for
maneuvering, ingress and egress. Off street loading space is not required for
single-family and multi-family dwellings, commercial, recreation and similar
type buildings of fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet or less when approved
by the planning and zoning commission. (1996 Code § 17.40.030; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.    Each berth shall be at least ten feet (10') wide, thirty five feet
(35') long and fourteen feet (14') high. The number of berths required shall be
as follows:
 
Square Feet Of Gross Floor Area         Required Number Of Berths
0 to 40,000                             1
40,001 to 100,000                       2
100,001 to 200,000                      3
For each additional 90,000 over 200,000 1 additional
 
(1996 Code § 17.40.030)
9-10-4: EXISTING NONCONFORMITIES:
Existing buildings as of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
title not complying with off street parking requirements may be remodeled,
repaired and structurally altered, but any enlargement must provide the
required parking spaces for the enlargement. (1996 Code § 17.40.050)
CHAPTER 11
SIGNS
SECTION:
9-11-1: Permit Requirements
9-11-2: Permitted Signs In R And S Districts
9-11-3: Sign Regulations In C And M Districts
9-11-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sketch Required: Before erection of any sign constituting an
independent structure ("structure" being defined as any construction requiring
a permanent location), a drawing of the sign shall be submitted to the building
inspector/code enforcement officer. The drawing need not be a formal
architectural drawing, but must be a sketch showing the dimensions, nature of
construction, materials to be used in erecting the sign, and location with
reference to streets and ways.
   B.   Denial Of Permit: If the building inspector/code enforcement officer
finds that the sign is or would be unsafe or insecure so as to be a menace to
the public or would create dangerous situations by the obstruction of vision,
he shall not issue a permit for the construction of such sign.
   C.   Inspection Fee: The building inspector/code enforcement officer may
require staff review of the construction drawings. If an inspection is
required, the associated inspection fee shall apply. The city council shall
establish a schedule of fees for such action by resolution. The schedule of
fees may be altered or amended from time to time by action of the city council
with a resolution. (Ord. 975, 9-22-2015)
9-11-2: PERMITTED SIGNS IN R AND S DISTRICTS:
   A.   Bulletin Boards: Churches, public and semipublic buildings, hospitals
and institutions in R and S districts may have one bulletin board not more than
fifteen (15) square feet in area. (1996 Code § 17.44.020)
   B.   Temporary Signs; Nameplates: Temporary signs not more than ten (10)
square feet in area pertaining to lease or sale of premises and a nameplate
when nonilluminated and not greater in area than one square foot are allowed in
R and S districts. (1996 Code § 17.44.030)
9-11-3: SIGN REGULATIONS IN C AND M DISTRICTS:
   A.   State Highway Right Of Way Encroachment: In the C and M districts, the
following regulations will prevail as to signs that overhang state highway
rights of way:
      1.   Signs shall not project over the right of way beyond a point one
foot (1') behind the back of the curb (or the theoretical curb line), and
supporting structures must be entirely outside of the right of way.
      2.   No portion of the sign may be lower than twelve feet (12') from the
top of the curb (or the theoretical curb) elevation. (1996 Code § 17.44.040)
   B.   Property Line Overhang: In the C and M districts, no sign or supporting
structure shall be outside the property line, except projecting signs from
buildings or independent structures may overhang property lines as follows:
signs with eight foot (8') minimum clearance may extend over public property
two feet (2'); signs with ten foot (10') minimum clearance may extend over
public property four feet (4'); and signs with twelve feet (12') of minimum
clearance may extend to a point one foot (1') behind the back of the curb (or
theoretical curb). See subsection A of this section for projection over state
highway right of way. In no event shall a supporting structure be outside the
property line. (1996 Code § 17.44.050)
   C.   Location On Lot:
      1.   In C and M districts, signs less than three feet (3') high may be
located on any part of a lot.
      2.   Ground signs greater than three feet (3') in height must be set back
from the property lines in conformance with building lines as established in
subsection B of this section. (1996 Code § 17.44.060)
CHAPTER 12
HOME BUSINESSES
SECTION:
9-12-1: Procedures Generally
9-12-2: Application For License; Approval Procedure
9-12-3: Compliance With All Laws And Regulations
9-12-4: Scope Of License
9-12-5: Additional Licensing Requirements
9-12-6: Authority To Classify Business And Impose Restrictions
9-12-7: Permitted And Prohibited Businesses
9-12-8: Site And Structure Requirements
9-12-9: Eligible Workers
9-12-10: Restricted And Prohibited Activities
9-12-11: Nonconforming Activities
9-12-12: Additional Fees
9-12-13: Inspections
9-12-14: Complaints; Suspension Of License
9-12-15: Violation; Penalty
9-12-1: PROCEDURES GENERALLY:
   A.   Application: Persons wishing to conduct a "home business" as defined in
section
9-2-2 of this title shall submit an application. Applications shall be reviewed
by the city department responsible for planning and zoning together with the
Artesia planning and zoning commission.
   B.   License Required; Fire And Safety Standards: For purposes of code
inspection, a home business occupation license is required in zones R-1A, R-1B,
R-2, SA-1, SA-2, PUD, MH and SU-1. All home based businesses, regardless of
zoning, will meet the minimum fire and safety standards found in the
international property maintenance code. In addition, where the general public
will be entering the home business, compliance with the following sections of
the international fire code will be required: section 304 - combustible waste
materials, section 308 - open flames, section 906 - fire extinguishers, chapter
10 - means of egress, and chapter 27 - hazardous materials.
   C.   Home Business License: Persons making application for a home business
license may not initiate business activity, or begin material storage or
advertisement until successfully completing the application process and after
issuance of the business license. (Ord. 887, 4-24-2012)
9-12-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Filing Application; Deposit: The application shall be made in writing
to the city department responsible for planning and zoning, in the following
manner:
      1.   The completed and signed application shall be submitted to the city
department responsible for planning and zoning.
      2.   The city council shall establish a schedule of fees for such action
by resolution. The schedule of fees may be altered or amended from time to time
by action of the city council with a resolution.
   B.   Contents Of Application:
      1.   Statement: The application shall contain a short, narrative
statement, setting out the following:
         a.   The applicant’s/operator’s name.
         b.   The business name.
         c.   The mailing address for the business.
         d.   The street address of the home property sought to be used for the
license.
         e.   The nature of the business to be conducted on the premises
(including specific details of materials used, work steps and operations, and
services supplied).
         f.   A drawing of the lot showing the orientation of the building on
the lot and the floor plan of the building. (Note on drawing any areas of the
building proposed for use for the business.)
         g.   The hours and days of week that the business will be kept open
(including any pertinent details concerning seasonal activity).
         h.   A statement describing the method used to deliver merchandise or
provide service which is the end result of the home business.
         i.   A statement indicating that applicant may be hiring workers that
perform activities away from the home property.
         j.   Any additional state, federal or professional license or
certification which may restrict or regulate the activities related to or
performed at the home business as stated in the application and is required for
the legal and proper performance of said home business.
         k.   Any other information that the city may deem necessary for proper
evaluation and recommendation of the application.
         l.   An agreement to comply with all present or future laws or
ordinances, together with an agreement to comply with all regulations
pertaining to home businesses within the city.
         m.   Proof of home ownership. If applicant is not the homeowner, then
he shall provide a letter from the homeowner consenting to the business.
      2.   Hours Of Operation: Applicant shall fix specific hours and state
times of business operation in the application.
   C.   Telephone And Computer Use: If the only business activities to be
conducted within the home consist of telephone and computer use by the
applicant, or if the business to be conducted is to prepare and sell homemade
food items in compliance with the New Mexico Homemade Food Act, then the
application may be reviewed and approved by the city planning and zoning
department staff. After issuance, the licensee shall otherwise comply with
sections
9-12-3 through
9-12-15 of this chapter. If approved, then the city department responsible for
planning and zoning shall notify the city clerk to issue a business license.
   D.   Requirements For Business Activities Other Than Telephone And Computer
Use, And Other Than A Business For The Preparation And Selling Of Homemade Food
Items In Compliance With The New Mexico Homemade Food Act: If additional or
other business activities will be conducted within a home, or for purpose of
issuance of a business license for all other type businesses, then the
following is additionally required with the application:
      1.   Opinion Of Adjacent Property Owners: If the home property lies
within an area which has been zoned for a use which prohibits the requested use
of the property sought by applicant, the application shall be accompanied by
the written statements of a majority of the record property owners, within a
three hundred thirty foot (330') radius of the property sought to be used for
the license, giving their opinions of the effect of the proposed business or
operation or use upon the neighborhood. Subdivision covenant review committees
and/or valid neighborhood associations shall be notified in addition to
adjacent property owners. Applicant shall also separately comply with
restrictive subdivision covenants and directives of these neighborhood
associations or committees and shall detail compliance and contact in the
narrative application statement. The applicant shall utilize door to door
surveys or other methods to notify adjacent property owners and secure their
comments. Survey methods, other than door to door, are required to be approved
by the city department responsible for planning and zoning.
      2.   Time For Submitting Application: The application and accompanying
documents shall be submitted to the city department responsible for planning
and zoning at least fourteen (14) days prior to the next regular meeting of the
planning and zoning commission. Otherwise, action on the application shall be
deferred to the next regular meeting of the commission; provided, however, that
the commission shall have the right to waive the requirement of this subsection
for good cause shown.
      3.   Processing Application: Upon receipt of such application:
         a.   The city department responsible for planning and zoning shall
distribute copies of the application to relevant city departments for review
and to each member of the commission.
         b.   The city department responsible for planning and zoning shall
schedule a hearing before the commission.
      4.   Deferral Of Action For Information: If, after receiving an
application as provided in this chapter and after investigation and
consideration by the commission, additional information seems desirable, then
action on the application shall be deferred until the next regular meeting and
unto successive meetings until all such information becomes available and has
been properly studied. In the absence of such desired information, then the
commission will find that granting of the application would in fact damage the
comprehensive zoning plan and will result in a “nay” vote.
      5.   Hearing Before Action: Applications shall be scheduled to be heard
at regularly scheduled meetings of the Artesia planning and zoning commission
and the Artesia city council. The commission shall act only on a completed
application properly posted on the meeting agenda and in complete accordance
with this chapter. No action shall be taken by the commission on any
application, unless the applicant shall appear before the commission for
hearing, either in person or by agent. No application shall be scheduled for
public hearing or other action by the Artesia city council prior to review and
positive recommendation by the commission. Applicant’s appearance at the public
hearing before the city council is optional. (Ord. 887, 4-24-2012; amd. Ord.
975, 9-22-2015; Ord. O-1111, 6-27-2023)
9-12-3: COMPLIANCE WITH ALL LAWS AND REGULATIONS:
As a condition to issuance of the license and to its continuation, applicant
agrees, by submitting application, to comply with all present and future state
laws and all ordinances of the city of Artesia, including, but not limited to,
the international property maintenance code. In addition, where the general
public will be entering the home business, compliance with the following
sections of the international fire code will be required: section 304 -
combustible waste materials, section 308 - open flames, section 906 - fire
extinguishers, chapter 10 - means of egress, and chapter 27 - hazardous
materials. Additionally, applicant agrees to abide by any separate pertinent
regulations pertaining to a home business license which may be in force or
hereafter enacted by the city. (Ord. 887, 4-24-2012)
9-12-4: SCOPE OF LICENSE:
The home business license shall allow only the scope of work and activity
stated on the application, recommended by the planning and zoning commission
and approved by the Artesia city council. Any addition or modification to the
scope of work or activities after issuance of a license shall be cause to find
the operator and/or the applicant in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 887, 4-
24-2012)
9-12-5: ADDITIONAL LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Additional Licenses Required: Applicant shall secure and maintain all
state, federal or other professional business licenses and/or certificates as
required by any other licensing agency for restricting or regulating the
operation of the activity taking place at the home property. Revocation of said
certificate or license by any licensing agency shall be cause for immediate
revocation of the Artesia home business license.
   B.   Transfer Of License: Home business licenses may not be transferred to
another location or to another person or entity or modified in any manner
without applicant having to repeat the application process.
   C.   Termination Of License: The Artesia city council and/or the building
inspector/code enforcement officer shall, upon evaluation and finding of
noncompliance at any time with any provision of this chapter, or other
applicable laws or regulations, have the authority to terminate the home
business license, subject to appeal by the applicant for a hearing before the
city council. (Ord. 887, 4-24-2012)
9-12-6: AUTHORITY TO CLASSIFY BUSINESS AND IMPOSE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Classification Of Business: The planning and zoning commission shall
have authority to classify and allow any business not prohibited by subsection
9-12-7B of this chapter and make recommendations to the council based on the
merits of that business.
   B.   Imposing Restrictions: The planning and zoning commission and the
Artesia city council may impose restrictions and/or stipulations upon the home
business including utilities, parking, and other aspects of business operation.
Applicant shall agree to follow said stipulations prior to recommendation by
planning and zoning commission to the council. Failure to adhere to
restrictions and/or stipulations after issuance of a license shall be cause to
find the operator in violation of this chapter and to revoke the license. (Ord.
887, 4-24-2012)
9-12-7: PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED BUSINESSES:
   A.   Permitted Businesses: Service businesses, and/or state licensed
contracting businesses that perform no fabrication work at the home property,
where all work is done away from the home property and/or only bookkeeping for
the home business is done at the home property, the preparation and selling of
homemade food items in compliance with the New Mexico Homemade Food Act, and
any other business not prohibited by subsection B of this section.
   B.   Prohibited Businesses: Activities prohibited as home businesses shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      Automotive repair, including mechanical and bodywork and painting.
      Automotive sales of more than three (3) units per year.
      Barbershops.
      Beauty parlors, including nail salons and hair dressers.
      Child daycare unless conforming to all Artesia municipal codes and
licensed by proper state authorities and approved by the planning and zoning
commission and the Artesia city council.
      Food service and preparation, except for the preparation and selling of
homemade food items in compliance with the New Mexico Homemade Food Act.
      Furniture finishing or refinishing, including upholstery.
      Furniture making.
      Massage therapist.
      Photography, negative development or printing.
      Retail sales of any kind.
      Small engine repair.
      Tattoo, piercing, branding or other type of cosmetic enhancement or
modification.
      Welding or metal fabrication. (Ord. 887, 4-24-2012; amd. Ord. O-1111, 6-
27-2023)
9-12-8: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Parking: Parking for home businesses shall be limited to existing
spaces located on the home property. Home business operators may not designate
alley frontage or on street parking areas adjacent to or across the street from
the home property.
   B.   Accessory Structures: Existing accessory structures which are separate
from the main residence and are located on the home property may be designated
for material storage or other business function of the home business.
Designation of such area for such use shall be clearly detailed in the
application. Construction of or use of additional areas and/or accessory
buildings is not permitted unless so designated in the application and approved
by the council. Any accessory building constructed for business use shall be
clearly detailed in the application and shall be designed to conform to the
surrounding building types in appearance and shall blend with the surrounding
residential aesthetics. Accessory buildings constructed for business use shall
not be larger than two hundred (200) square feet in floor plan unless otherwise
presented to and approved by the city council as part of the application. All
accessory construction shall comply with city ordinances, and the building code
and fire code specifications for occupancy and/or storage of materials. After
issuance of a business license, the operator shall not erect any additional
structures on the property to accommodate the home business operation.
   C.   Modification Of Building: Nothing shall be done to the existing
building to make it or the premises appear in any way as anything other than a
residential dwelling. Additional entry doors shall not be installed to
accommodate the home business operation.
   D.   Signs And Advertising: Applicant shall be allowed only one
nonilluminated sign no larger than one square foot in area. The sign shall be
attached to the building. The home property address shall not be listed on
business cards, business vehicles, or newspaper, radio or television
advertisements. (Ord. 887, 4-24-2012)
9-12-9: ELIGIBLE WORKERS:
Only persons that are of the immediate family, according to the name of the
operator/applicant stated on the application papers, who reside at the home
property are allowed to work at or within the home property. (Ord. 887, 4-24-
2012)
9-12-10: RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Sales Of Merchandise: Merchandise shall not be sold at the home
property, except for the selling of homemade food items in compliance with the
New Mexico Homemade Food Act.
   B.   Materials Storage: There shall be only limited storage of materials
used for the business and there shall be no display of merchandise at the home
property. The operator of the home business shall maintain a materials safety
data sheet for all materials related to the business and as directed by the
fire marshal. All materials stored at the home property shall be listed, with
detailed quantities, in the application. Storage of materials used for the
business not listed in the application is not permitted.
   C.   Generation Of Objectionable Conditions: The home business operation
shall not produce any smoke, vibration, dust, fumes, heat, humidity, glare,
electrical interference, noise, smell or other obnoxious condition
objectionable to adjacent owners. The applicant shall state adequate detail in
the description of the activity to be performed at the home property so that
the planning and zoning commission may evaluate the generation of any
objectionable condition that it thinks may result during the home business
operation. The building inspector/code enforcement officer shall have authority
to evaluate objectionable conditions and revoke any licensed home business
operation not in compliance.
   D.   Use Of Mechanical Equipment: Mechanical equipment used in the home
business operation shall be only that which is normally used in, or found
within, a single-family dwelling. (Ord. 887, 4-24-2012; amd. Ord. O-1111, 6-27-
2023)
9-12-11: NONCONFORMING ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Intent: It is the intent of this section that all nonconforming
activities shall be eventually eliminated.
   B.   Damage To Or Destruction Of Home Property: If the home property of a
nonconforming activity is damaged or destroyed by fire, explosion, act of God
or the public enemy, then any restoration of the structure may be used only for
the continuation of the original nonconforming activity.
   C.   Existing Activities:
      1.   Passage of this section in no way legalizes any illegal activities
existing at the time of its adoption.
      2.   Existing activities of types eligible for special use permits in
chapter 5 of this title shall not be termed nonconforming activities, and the
proprietor shall apply for a special use permit for the existing activity.
(Ord. 887, 4-24-2012)
9-12-12: ADDITIONAL FEES:
Home businesses may be required to pay commercial rates and fees for solid
waste, water and sewer utilities or any other fee that may be recommended by
the planning and zoning commission and/or imposed by the city council as a
condition to issue a license. Fees may be imposed upon inspection of the home
property by the city building inspector/code enforcement officer and/or the
city fire marshal as indicated by the inspection and at the discretion of the
infrastructure director. (Ord. 887, 4-24-2012)
9-12-13: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Entry Powers: The city building inspector/code enforcement officer, the
city fire marshal or their agents shall be granted access to the home property
for code enforcement inspection during the application process and during
regular business hours of the licensed home business operation.
   B.   Scope Of Inspection: Scope of inspection shall be confined to the
portion of the home property designated for use in the execution of the home
business, and such additional portions of the property which could have a
reasonable impact on the safety of persons on the premises. Inspection shall
include, but is not limited to, the building, accessory structures, materials
safety data sheet and any proof of current certification by any other licensing
entity issuing certifications or licenses for the specific type of activity
occurring at the home property. Where a home business exists that does not
invite the general public into the home and no hazardous processes or storage
is occurring, an inspection of the home may not be required. This determination
is to be made by the building inspection/code enforcement officer or the city
fire marshal.
   C.   Time For Inspection: The home property shall be inspected prior to
review by the planning and zoning commission, and results of such inspection
shall be addressed on the application.
   D.   Inspection Results: The city planning and zoning commission, city
council, building inspector/code enforcement officer and fire marshal shall be
allowed to require modifications be made to the building to meet building code
standards to accommodate the business. Modifications are not required for
application and so may be made after approval of the license by the city
council. However, modifications must be complete before issuance of the home
business license and before the start of any business activity.
   E.   Inspection A Condition Of License: Continuance of the business license
is contingent on a positive recommendation and report from the building
inspector/code enforcement officer and/or fire marshal after any inspection.
Failure to allow inspectors to examine the home property shall be cause to find
the operator in violation of this chapter and shall be grounds for immediate
revocation of the license. (Ord. 887, 4-24-2012)
9-12-14: COMPLAINTS; SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
The city building inspector/code enforcement officer shall investigate any
complaint received verbally or in writing regarding the operation or any aspect
of a licensed home business. To allow for adequate inspection, said officer
shall have the authority to suspend the license for a period of not greater
than thirty (30) days. Operation of the home business shall cease under the
suspension of the license. Nothing in this section shall impair the right of
the city to take action for immediate termination or revocation of the license.
(Ord. 887, 4-24-2012)
9-12-15: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Intentional falsification of information on the home business application or
failure by the home business applicant or operator to comply with any section
of this chapter, or with any restrictions imposed, shall be a violation of this
chapter, and the applicant, operator or other party involved with, or
conducting, or participating in the business shall be deemed to participate in
the violation hereof, and each such violator shall be subject to the penalties
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Citations shall be issued by the city building inspector/
code enforcement officer. The application shall additionally not be processed,
and all business activities shall immediately cease until court appearance is
concluded and any and/or all fines paid. Each and every day that such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 887, 4-24-2012)
CHAPTER 13
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-13-1: Zoning Board Of Appeals
9-13-2: Building Inspector/Code Enforcement Officer
9-13-3: Building Permit
9-13-4: Certificate Of Occupancy
9-13-5: Amendments
9-13-6: Rezones
9-13-7: Variances
9-13-8: Violation; Penalties
9-13-1: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
   A.   Meetings: Meetings of the zoning board of appeals shall be held at the
call of the mayor and at such other times as the board may determine. All
meetings of the board shall be open to the public. The board shall keep minutes
of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if
absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examination and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed
in the office of the board and shall be a public record.
   B.   Powers:
      1.   The zoning board of appeals has the following powers:
         a.   To interpret this title.
         b.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error
in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the building
inspector/code enforcement officer in the enforcement of this title.
         c.   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of
a district divides a lot held in a single ownership at the time of the passage
of the ordinance codified in this title.
         d.   To interpret the provisions of this title in such a way as to
carry out the intent and purpose of this plan, as shown upon the map fixing the
several districts accompanying the ordinance codified in this title and made a
part of this title, where the street layout on the ground varies from the
street layout as shown on the map.
         e.   Add more uses to the list of those permitted in the C and M-
1 districts, as provided in sections
9-4-6 and
9-4-7 of this title; provided, that such uses are comparable in general
character and not offensive due to emission of odor, dust, noise, gas, smoke or
vibration.
         f.   To permit the following two (2) exceptions:
            (1)   Use of premises for public utility and railroad purposes.
            (2)   Reconstruction of a nonconforming building that would
otherwise be prohibited by section
9-6-5 of this title, where such action would not constitute continuation of a
monopoly.
         g.   To permit the following:
            (1)   Vary the yard, height or lot area per family regulations
where there is an exceptional or unusual physical condition of a lot, which
condition is not generally prevalent in the neighborhood and which condition,
when related to the yard regulations of this title, would prevent a reasonable
or sensible arrangement of buildings on the lot.
            (2)   Vary the parking regulations where an applicant demonstrates
conclusively that the specific use of a building would make unnecessary the
parking spaces required by this title, but provided, that such a reduction not
be more than fifty percent (50%) of the usual requirement.
            (3)   Vary the yard and lot area per family regulations for multi-
family housing projects and planned unit residential developments. For purposes
of this subsection B1g(3), "multi- family housing projects" are defined as
apartment complexes or similar multi-family rental units, to be constructed on
two (2) or more lots; and "planned unit residential developments" are projects
for the construction of several individually owned single-family residences
sharing common walls, such as projects commonly called "townhouses". The board
of appeals may grant variances from the yard and lot area per family
regulations for multi-family housing projects and planned unit residential
developments in order to accommodate maximum use of property consistent with
sound planning. Requests for variations under this subsection B1g(3) will be
considered on a case by case basis. Any developer proposing construction of a
multi-family housing project or a planned unit residential development,
requiring in either case a variance from the yard or lot area per family
regulations provided elsewhere in this title, shall submit a site plan showing
all proposed buildings and other improvements, an application for the proposed
variances, such information as may be necessary to show that all building code
requirements, including fire code requirements, will be met, and all other
information, including information as to the drainage plan for the project,
which may be required by the board of appeals. Variations for planned unit
residential developments may be granted, if justified under sound planning
principles, in all zoning districts permitting residential uses. Variations for
multi-family housing projects shall only be granted for property in zoning
districts permitting multi-family residential uses.
      2.   The board has no other powers than those specified in subsection B1
of this section.
   C.    Specific Case And Public Hearing Required: The board shall make no
recommendations except in a specific case and after a public hearing conducted
by the board.
   D.    Term Of Orders:
      1.   Building Construction: No order of the board permitting the erection
or alteration of a building shall be valid for a period longer than six (6)
months, unless a building permit for such erection or alteration is obtained
within such period and such erection or alteration proceeds to completion in
accordance with the terms of such permit.
      2.   Uses: No order of the board permitting a use of a building or
premises shall be valid for a period longer than six (6) months, unless such
use is established within such period; provided, however, that where such use
permitted is dependent upon the erection or alteration of a building, such
order shall continue in force and effect if a building permit process for the
erection or alteration is started and proceeds to completion in accordance with
the terms of such permit.
   E.    Appeals:
      1.   Authority To Appeal; Filing Notice: Appeals to the board of appeals
may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department or bureau of
the city affected by any decision of the building inspector/code enforcement
officer. Such appeal shall be taken within a reasonable time, as shall be
prescribed by the board by general rule, by filing with the building inspector/
code enforcement officer and with the board a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds thereof. The building inspector/code enforcement officer shall
forthwith transmit to the board all the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from is taken.
      2.   Fee: The city council shall establish a schedule of fees for such
action by resolution. The schedule of fees may be altered or amended from time
to time by action of the city council with a resolution. (Ord. 975, 9-22-2015)
      3.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from, unless the building inspector/code enforcement
officer certifies to the board, after the notice of appeal has been filed with
him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings
shall not be stayed except by order of the district court after notice to the
building inspector/code enforcement officer from whom the appeal is taken and
on due cause shown. (1996 Code § 17.52.070; amd. 2002 Code)
      4.   Hearing; Notice; Action: The board shall fix a reasonable time for
the hearing of the appeal, give not less than five (5) days' notice thereof by
the posting of not less than one sign of at least nine (9) square feet in area
with a white background and black letters at least three inches (3") high
containing notice of the hearing in a conspicuous place on or near the property
upon which application for appeal is made and by one publication of a notice in
a newspaper of general circulation in Artesia, as well as due notice to the
parties in interest, and decide the appeal within thirty (30) days. Upon the
hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent or by attorney. (1996 Code §
17.52.080)
      5.   Voting: The concurring vote of five (5) members of the board shall
be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of
the building inspector/code enforcement officer, or to decide in favor of the
applicant upon any matter upon which it is required to pass under this title,
or to effect any variation in this title. (1996 Code § 17.52.090; amd. 2002
Code)
9-13-2: BUILDING INSPECTOR/CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The building inspector/code enforcement officer shall enforce this title;
appeals from his decisions may be taken to the board of appeals. (1996 Code §
17.60.010; amd. 2002 Code)
9-13-3: BUILDING PERMIT:
   A.    Permit Required: No building may be undertaken in the city without a
building permit as required by the building code and without an application
having been made for an occupancy permit as required by section
9-13-4 of this chapter.
   B.    Application For Permit: Each application for a building permit shall
be accompanied by a plat, in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the name of the
person making the application, the actual dimensions of the lot to be built
upon as shown by a survey, the size, shape and location of the building to be
erected, and such other information as may be necessary to provide for the
enforcement of this title. A record of applications and plats shall be kept in
the office of the building inspector/code enforcement officer.
   C.    Permit To Be Posted: Building permits shall be posted in a conspicuous
place while construction is going on. (1996 Code § 17.60.020; amd. 2002 Code)
9-13-4: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.    Certificate Required:
      1.   Subsequent to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
title, no change in the use or occupancy of land, nor any change of use or
occupancy in an existing building other than for single-family dwelling
purposes, shall be made, nor shall any new building be occupied, until a
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the building inspector/code
enforcement officer.
      2.   No permit for excavation for, or the erection or alteration of, any
building shall be issued before the application has been made and approved for
a certificate of occupancy and compliance, and no building or premises shall be
occupied until such certificate and permit is issued.
   B.    Contents Of Certificate: Every certificate of occupancy shall state
that the new occupancy complies with all provisions of this title.
   C.    Records Kept: A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept
on file in the office of the building inspector/code enforcement officer, and
copies shall be furnished on request to any person having a proprietary or
tenancy interest in land or a building affected by such certificate of
occupancy. (1996 Code § 17.60.030; amd. 2002 Code)
9-13-5: AMENDMENTS:
   A.    Authority; Procedure: The council may, from time to time, on its own
motion or on petition, amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal by ordinance
the boundaries of districts or regulations or restrictions established in this
title. The council shall, before enacting any proposed amendment, supplement,
change, modification or repeal: 1) refer the proposal to the commission, which
shall be given thirty (30) days in which to submit a report regarding whether
or not the proposal would improve or damage the comprehensive zoning plan
established in this title; and 2) hold a public hearing in relation thereto,
giving at least fifteen (15) days' notice of the time and place of such
hearing, which notice shall first be published in a newspaper having a general
circulation in the city.
   B.    Fee: The city council shall establish a schedule of fees for such
action by resolution. The schedule of fees may be altered or amended from time
to time by action of the city council with a resolution.
   C.    Application For Amendment; Duties Of Clerk: The party or parties
making application for any change in the district regulations or district
boundaries shall apply in the following manner:
      1.   Such application shall be made, in writing, under oath, to the
office of the city clerk in the following manner:
         a.   The application shall be submitted with sufficient copies for
distribution of one copy each to the city clerk, the city planner and each
member of the commission.
         b.   The city council shall establish a schedule of fees for such
action by resolution. The schedule of fees may be altered or amended from time
to time by action of the city council with a resolution.
      2.   Upon receipt of such application, the city clerk shall:
         a.   Keep the original thereof in a permanent file, maintained for
that purpose, in the office of the city clerk.
         b.   Distribute copies thereof to the office of the city planner and
to each member of the commission.
         c.   Notify each record property owner within a three hundred thirty
foot (330') radius, by ordinary mail addressed to their last known address,
advising each of them of the general nature of the application and of their
right to protest the same within a fourteen (14) day period. (Ord. 975, 9-22-
2015)
9-13-6: REZONES:
   A.    Application For Rezone: All applications for rezoning of property and
for reclassification of property for a use other than that originally zoned
shall be accompanied, and must be accompanied in order for the application to
be considered, by the following items:
      1.   A plat or drawing clearly detailing the area to be rezoned and
containing a floor plan or scaled drawing of all buildings or structures
proposed to be built under the new classification sought. All buildings shown
upon such plat shall face upon the main street involved in the application for
reclassification, and the plat must show that at least minimum requirements for
off street parking, sidewalks, setbacks, service alleys, easements and side
yards, as provided in this title for the new classification sought and as
provided in any other applicable laws and ordinances, are proposed to be met
and will be met. (1996 Code § 17.56.020; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   In the case of applications to have property classified as
commercial, all buildings must be indicated as being built to the fire
construction requirements of the building code, as those requirements are set
forth in the state code and all applicable laws, rules and regulations of the
state and the city 1 .
   B.    Restrictions On Rezone: The rezoning or reclassification of property
shall not be permitted solely for purposes of speculation.
   C.    Time Limit For Construction: The construction of the buildings or
structures indicated on the plat accompanying the application for rezoning must
actually be commenced within six (6) months after the date of approval of the
application, or the property reclassified shall revert to its former
classification. (1996 Code § 17.56.020)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 1 of this code.
9-13-7: VARIANCES:
   A.    Generally: As a general guideline, the function of the commission is
to reasonably protect the integrity of the master plan and to create a finer
overall development of the city. The commission will therefore try to determine
whether a proposed application for exception or modification to this title will
tend to operate in that direction. The application will be studied and tested
from the standpoint of its overall advantage to the area rather than from the
immediate advantage of the applicant. It will not be held sufficient to merely
prove that the application will not seriously harm neighbors, but to gain
approval, evidence should show that granting of the application will tend to be
of overall advantage to the master plan.
   B.    Schedule Of Fees: The city council shall establish a schedule of fees
for such action by resolution. The schedule of fees may be altered or amended
from time to time by action of the city council with a resolution. (Ord. 975,
9-22-2015)
9-13-8: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.    Violation A Misdemeanor; Penalties: The owner or agent of a building
or premises in or upon which a violation of any provisions of this title has
been committed or exists, or the lessee or tenant of an entire building or
entire premises in or upon which violation has been committed or exists, or the
agent, architect, building contractor or any other person who commits, takes
part in or assists in any violation, or who maintains any building or premises
in or upon which such violation exists, is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. Each and
every day that such violation continues constitutes a separate offense. (1996
Code § 17.64.010; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.    Mandamus Or Injunction: In case any building or structure is erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any
building, structure or land is used in violation of this title, the appropriate
authorities of the city, in addition to other remedies, may institute
injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion,
maintenance or use, or to correct or abate such violation, or to prevent the
occupancy of the building, structure or land. (1996 Code § 17.64.020)
CHAPTER 14
STREET ADDRESSES
SECTION:
9-14-1: Purpose And Authority
9-14-2: Numbering Required
9-14-3: Street Address System
9-14-4: Visibility, Placement And Size Of Numbers
9-14-5: Duty Of Owner; Penalties
9-14-1: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
The purpose of the city of Artesia's housing address ordinance is to provide
for the orderly assignment of street addresses to protect the safety of the
general public by facilitating the location of individual dwellings and
businesses for the delivery of public emergency services. The planning
department of the city of Artesia (the "city") is designated as the department
with the authority to assign, modify, or otherwise change any street address
within the city limits. (Ord. 744, 2-13-2007)
9-14-2: NUMBERING REQUIRED:
All houses, buildings and places of business within the city shall be numbered
in accordance with the provisions set forth in this chapter, and it is made the
duty of each owner and/or person in possession of each house, building or place
of business in the city to number or cause to be numbered any and all such
houses, buildings, or places of business. Additionally, it is the duty of each
owner and/or person in possession of all houses, buildings and places of
business which may hereafter be constructed within the city to number or cause
to be numbered such house or houses, building or buildings, or place or places
of business within ten (10) days from and after the date of completion thereof.
The houses, buildings and places of business above mentioned shall be construed
to mean all houses, buildings and places of business, which face or at any time
hereafter shall face on any street, alley, or other thoroughfare within the
city. (Ord. 744, 2-13-2007)
9-14-3: STREET ADDRESS SYSTEM:
The city limits shall, for the purpose of numbering the structures, be divided
into four (4) quadrants. All building structures abutting on or adjoining the
streets, avenues, drives, circles, courts, or roads running north and south and
which lie north of Main Street shall be designated "# North (name of street)"
or avenue, drive, circle, court, road; those lying south of Main Street shall
be designated "# South (name of street)" or avenue, drive, circle, court, road;
those building structures abutting on or adjoining the streets, avenues,
drives, circles, courts, or roads running east and west, which lie west of
First Street shall be designated "# West (name of street)" or avenue, drive,
circle, court, road; and, those building structures abutting on or adjoining
the streets, avenues, drives, circles, courts, or roads running east and west,
which lie east of First Street shall be designated "# East (name of street)" or
avenue, drive, circle, court, road. (Ord. 744, 2-13-2007)
9-14-4: VISIBILITY, PLACEMENT AND SIZE OF NUMBERS:
   A.   Visibility: "Visibility" is defined as distinction from the background
upon which the number is placed and which is clearly visible from the nearest
portion of the street, alley, or other thoroughfare upon which such building
fronts or faces.
   B.   Placement And Size: Said address number must be posted in a place where
it is clearly visible from the nearest portion of the street, alley, or
thoroughfare on which the building fronts or faces and must be posted in at
least one of the following locations:
      1.   Address numbers shall be placed on or within three feet (3') of
either side of the door facing the street, alley, or other thoroughfare of
which the building fronts or faces. If such placement is not possible or
visible due to the features of the structure, said address shall be posted in
the nearest alternate location as is clearly visible from the nearest portion
of the street, alley, or other thoroughfare.
      2.   Number size shall be no less than four inches (4") in height and
shall be sufficiently legible on contrasting background, and in an arrangement,
reflection, and spacing to afford clear visibility from the nearest portion of
such street, alley, or other thoroughfare upon which such building fronts or
faces.
      3.   Each building shall also display address numbers at the rear thereof
in as close proximity to the alley as be possible in order that the address
numbers shall be clearly visible at all times from the alley.
      4.   No number which may be in existence or which may be placed or
affixed on any curb shall be in compliance with this chapter.
   C.   Townhouses: In addition to the number on the front of any townhouse
building, each townhouse building shall also display identical numbers on the
rear thereof in a prominent place in order that the numbers may be clearly
visible from any sidewalk or thoroughfare, or from the nearest location of
public access located at the rear of the property.
   D.   Mobile Home Parks: All mobile homes shall have space numbers clearly
placed on both the front and rear of the mobile home. (Ord. 744, 2-13-2007)
9-14-5: DUTY OF OWNER; PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of each owner and/or person in possession to place
or have placed the numbers on all houses, buildings and places of business
located within the city, in the manner herein provided within one hundred
eighty (180) days from the effective date hereof.
   B.   Upon the failure or other noncompliance with any section of this
chapter, upon conviction, the offender shall be punished in the manner provided
by title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
   C.   Each day of noncompliance with any provision of this chapter shall be
treated for all purposes as a separate offense. (Ord. 744, 2-13-2007)
CHAPTER 15
EROSION CONTROL
SECTION:
9-15-1: Purpose And Authority
9-15-2: Applicability
9-15-3: New Development
9-15-4: Owner Activities; Existing Conditions
9-15-5: Enforcement
9-15-1: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect and maintain the natural environment
and to reduce the negative health effects caused by the creation of fugitive
dust, as a significant health risk in high concentrations in the air. This
chapter shall accomplish the requirements by preventing, limiting, or
mitigating the effects of activities which create fugitive dust or have a
tendency to make land more vulnerable to natural erosion forces that create
fugitive dust. The objective of this chapter is to ensure that all surface
disturbance activities use dust control measures to mitigate visible fugitive
dust on an ongoing basis for the protection of health and safety of the
residents of Artesia, New Mexico. This chapter also attempts to ensure that
when natural events do occur, such as fugitive dust creation through high
winds, the contribution of human generated dust is limited in its negative
health and safety impacts. (Ord. 797, 7-8-2008)
9-15-2: APPLICABILITY:
Under the conditions outlined herein, the provisions of this chapter shall
apply to any human activity, operation and/or practices, or any condition
caused by human activity, which generates dust, or makes the land more
vulnerable to erosion by natural erosion forces. In the development of city
land for public purposes, city policies shall be consistent with the purposes
of this chapter, and shall be conducted so as to minimize the creation or
aggravation of erosive forces. (Ord. 797, 7-8-2008)
9-15-3: NEW DEVELOPMENT:
Any development that requires a permit under any city ordinance shall require
dust control measures on site which shall be in compliance with this chapter.
The permit holder shall additionally be the responsible party for purpose of
compliance with this section. Grading for all construction shall be limited to
the building pad site and driveway plus an additional five feet (5') in all
directions from these areas. Dust suppression is required to be achieved
through watering. (Ord. 797, 7-8-2008)
9-15-4: OWNER ACTIVITIES; EXISTING CONDITIONS:
The owner of any property that is determined to be in a condition vulnerable to
dust caused by human development of the property shall be required to employ
watering dust control measures on site. The building inspector or code
enforcement officer shall make such determination.
No person shall disturb the topsoil, remove ground cover, including, but not
limited to, blading, digging or tilling gardens, lawns and/or yards of more
than fifty percent (50%) of available ground/yard space on any real property
within the city unless reasonable actions are taken for suppression of dust
caused by the disturbed condition.
Weed eradication is limited to removal of weeds and blading of the entire lot
is prohibited. Once weeds are removed or mowed, dust suppression shall be
implemented by the owner through watering. (Ord. 797, 7-8-2008)
9-15-5: ENFORCEMENT:
Upon the failure or other noncompliance with any section of this chapter, upon
conviction, the offender shall be punished in the manner provided by title 1,
chapter 4 of this code.
Each day of noncompliance with any provision of this chapter shall be treated
for all purposes as a separate offense. (Ord. 797, 7-8-2008)
CHAPTER 16
MANUFACTURED HOMES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES (RVs) OUTSIDE MH MANUFACTURED/
MOBILE HOME DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-16-1: Adoption Of Codes
9-16-2: Fee Schedule
9-16-3: On Site Utility And Development Requirements
9-16-4: Manufactured Home Standards And Restrictions
9-16-5: Recreational Vehicle (RV) Standards And Restrictions
9-16-6: Administration And Enforcement
9-16-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, terms and
all appendices of the latest editions of:
   A.   New Mexico manufactured housing division rules and regulations;
   B.   NFIP (national flood insurance program) regulations, 44 CFR, section
60.3; flood insurance study; and flood insurance rate map, effective June 4,
2010; and
   C.   National manufactured housing construction and safety standards act of
1974;
are hereby referred to, adopted and incorporated by reference as fully as if
set out verbatim herein and any amendments thereto, including the latest
editions thereof. (Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
9-16-2: FEE SCHEDULE:
Fees shall be established and revised as needed by resolution of the city
council, to defray costs of any application, administration review, and any
inspections as may be required by this chapter. No permit shall be issued nor
shall an application be considered prior to the receipt of any required fee and
a copy of the New Mexico manufactured housing division permit issued by the New
Mexico regulation and licensing department/manufactured housing division. The
fee schedule shall be available for review in the office of the community
development director. (Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
9-16-3: ON SITE UTILITY AND DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
All manufactured homes, whether titled or untitled, are subject to this chapter
and shall, prior to occupancy, be inspected by an authorized official, and
issued a certificate of occupancy. Approved on site utilities, to include
water, sewer, and electricity, are prerequisite to issuance of a manufactured
home placement permit (MHPP).
   A.   All electrical, plumbing, and gas hookups from structure to public tie
ins shall be inspected and approved by an inspector of the New Mexico
manufactured housing division (NMMHD) or construction industries division
(CID), as the case may be, prior to occupancy. All water, sewer and electrical
public tie ins shall be permitted and inspected by the city of Artesia's
building inspection division before a certificate of occupancy shall be issued
by the code enforcement officer.
   B.   Any water, sewer, electric, or natural gas utility provider that
connects services to individual parcels before the landowner holds a valid MHPP
is in violation of this chapter and the service shall be disconnected.
   C.   There shall be no multiple users connected to a domestic water well nor
to any on site liquid waste disposal system except for properly permitted
systems through New Mexico environmental protection agency (NMEPA). (Ord. 969,
6-9-2015)
9-16-4: MANUFACTURED HOME STANDARDS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Placement of a manufactured home and related development shall comply
with the minimum standards set forth within the floodplain ordinance as adopted
by the city of Artesia in accordance with the national flood insurance program.
Manufactured homes proposed to be placed within a flood zone as designated by
the national flood insurance rate map require a floodplain development permit
issued by the floodplain manager of the city of Artesia.
   B.   No person shall transport nor move into, nor install upon any site in
the city of Artesia, any manufactured home that does not have affixed to it a
U.S. department of housing and urban development label of certification, or
other sufficient proof of the date of the manufactured home, and shall be
habitable as defined in this regulation prior to occupancy and issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
   C.   Applications submitted for an MHPP shall be considered complete when
submitted with the following: a legal description of the property, a plat or
survey map clearly and accurately defining the location of the property, a site
plan of the proposed orientation and location of the manufactured home and a
copy of a valid manufactured home placement permit issued by NMMHD. A complete
application shall also include the location of available utilities, such as
water, wastewater, natural gas, electrical service and other utilities. A
complete application for an MHPP shall also include applicable approvals, such
as a permit to develop within a floodplain, approval from the NMEPA for
multiple user connections, and similar required approvals. Incomplete
applications for an MHPP shall be returned to the applicant for completion.
Only complete applications for an MHPP shall be reviewed as provided by this
chapter. The community development department shall issue an MHPP as soon as
the review of the completed application as submitted is found to be compliant
with this chapter and applicable codes, and all applicable fees have been
received.
   D.   All manufactured homes shall have affixed in front, closest to the main
entrance, and at the rear of the structure the address, clearly visible from
street/alleyway, four inches (4") in height and contrasting in color. The
address shall be placed on the manufactured home before a certificate of
occupancy is issued.
   E.   All manufactured homes shall be placed on a permanent foundation system
per New Mexico manufactured housing rules and regulations, 14 NMAC 12.5.11.
   F.   Exterior doors shall meet the following conditions, and details shall
be included with a complete application for an MHPP:
      1.   Exterior doors of a manufactured home shall open onto a landing with
a minimum dimension of thirty six inches (36") measured in the direction of
travel and thirty six inches (36") in clear width.
      2.   Landings shall be permitted to have a slope not to exceed one-
fourth (1/4) unit vertical in twelve (12) units horizontal (2 percent slope).
      3.   Guards measured thirty six inches (36") in height shall be located
along open sided walking surfaces of landings located more than thirty inches
(30") measured vertically to the floor or grade below at any point within
thirty six inches (36") horizontally to the edge of the open side.
      4.   Steps shall not be less than thirty six inches (36") in clear width
at all points and have a maximum riser height of seven and three-fourths inches
(73/4"). The greatest riser height within any flight of stairs shall not exceed
the smallest by more than three-eighths inches (3/8") when measured vertically
between leading edges of adjacent treads.
      5.   Handrails installed with a height between thirty four inches (34")
and thirty eight inches (38") measured vertically from the sloped plane
adjoining the tread nosing shall be provided on each side of all continuous
runs of treads or flights with four (4) or more risers.
   G.    No manufactured home shall be occupied until the manufactured home
placement permit has been signed and the code enforcement officer/building
inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy.
   H.    It is the sole responsibility of those persons proposing to locate
manufactured homes outside of an MH manufactured/mobile home district to ensure
that manufactured homes are allowed by zoning classifications within the
subdivision or area in which the location is intended for the manufactured
home. The city of Artesia does not enforce restrictive covenants.
   I.    The entire perimeter of all manufactured homes shall be skirted on all
sides within thirty (30) days of the date of issuance of the MHPP. Details for
skirting materials shall be included with a complete application for an MHPP
and shall be approved prior to installation. Acceptable skirting materials
include vinyl sheeting, aluminum sheeting, painted galvanized steel sheeting or
similar materials. The use of poor quality building materials, such as, but not
limited to, wood boxes, crates, pallets, used tires and similar materials are
prohibited and a violation of this chapter.
   J.    At no time shall a manufactured home be used as an unoccupied storage
building within the city of Artesia.
   K.    Structural repairs, alterations and modifications, including reroofing
and/or additions to a manufactured home, are regulated by the New Mexico
manufactured housing division. It shall be the responsibility of the seller or
purchaser to obtain the required permits from said agency. Upon inspection and
approval by the State manufactured housing inspector, and compliance with this
chapter, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the Code Enforcement
Officer/building inspector of the City of Artesia prior to occupancy. (Ord.
969, 6-9-2015)
9-16-5: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) STANDARDS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.    Exemptions: Any recreational vehicle (RV) located within an MH
Manufactured/Mobile Home District shall be exempt from this chapter.
   B.    Location Where Occupied: Recreational vehicles (RVs) shall not be
occupied anywhere in the City limits of the City of Artesia outside an MH
Manufactured/Mobile Home District or RV park in a Commercial Business District.
   C.    Storage Restrictions: Recreational vehicles (RVs), boats and utility
trailers may be stored on the premises of other zoning districts, with the
following restrictions:
      1.   The RV, boat and utility trailer shall not block the sidewalk,
driveway, or impede sight of traffic, nor block an alley.
      2.   Storage for RVs shall be in compliance with the following:
         a.   All wastewater and water connections shall be disconnected.
         b.   The RV must be physically and mechanically ready to lawfully
operate on the highway or street, and be currently registered with a Motor
Vehicle Department of any state.
      3.   RVs shall not be used for storage purposes of any item not utilized
for direct operation of the RV.
   D.    Additional Parking Restrictions: It shall be unlawful to park, stand,
or permit to remain any RV on any street, highway, or public alley within the
City limits for longer than seventy two (72) consecutive hours.
   E.    Temporarily Permitted: Recreational vehicles (RVs) may be permitted
temporarily, on site, where a building permit has been issued for a site built
structure, for the period of time which coincides with the actual period of
time utilized for the building permit. The chief building official and Fire
Marshal shall determine the maximum number of RVs allowed on a construction
site. (Ord. 1047, 2-12-2019)
9-16-6: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.    The Community Development Department/Code Enforcement Officer/Building
Inspector shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of this
chapter.
   B.    The State of New Mexico electrical inspector, State of New Mexico
plumbing inspector, and/or any manufactured housing division inspector, and any
other qualified person, may be authorized by the Code Enforcement Officer to
help enforce the provisions set out in this chapter, or may be requested by the
Code Enforcement Officer to give a written report or other advice to aid the
City in the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   C.    If, after inspection or investigation, a violation is found to exist,
the Code Enforcement Officer shall serve, or cause to be served by personal
service, or alternatively provide by certified mail to the owner of record, or
to the occupant, or both the owner and the occupant, a "notice of violation"
under this chapter. The "notice of violation" shall state the violation and
notify of a ten (10) day time limit from the date of the notice in which the
parties are required to abate the violation. In the event the violation is not
abated within the ten (10) day time limit, then the City may proceed with
enforcement as specified in subsection E of this section.
   D.    In the event a violation of this chapter is found by the Code
Enforcement Officer to constitute an immediate danger to the public health and
safety, the notice provisions of this section shall not apply, and the
provisions in section
8-1-8 of this Code, may be separately invoked.
   E.    Enforcement action for any violation of this chapter shall be in the
Municipal Court of the City of Artesia, New Mexico, and upon conviction, the
offender shall be punished as provided by subsection 1-4-4C of this Code. Each
day in which a violation is found to have occurred shall be determined to be a
separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 969, 6-9-2015)
TITLE 10
LAND SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Authority
10-1-3: Purpose
10-1-4: Jurisdiction Of Regulations
10-1-5: Application
10-1-6: Fees
10-1-7: Exemptions
10-1-8: Amendments
10-1-9: Prohibited Acts
10-1-10: Interpretation And Conflict
10-1-11: Appeals
10-1-12: Definitions
10-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall be known and may be cited as the SUBDIVISION
REGULATIONS OF THE CITY OF ARTESIA. The short form, "subdivision regulations",
used extensively hereinafter, refers in all instances to the aforesaid
subdivision regulations of the city of Artesia. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-1-2: AUTHORITY:
These regulations are adopted pursuant to and in accordance with the authority
vested in the city council of the city of Artesia, by the statutes of the state
of New Mexico, sections 3-19-1 through 3-19-12 and 3-20-1 through 3-20-9.1. All
existing subdivision regulations for the city of Artesia are hereby repealed by
the adoption of these subdivision regulations. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-1-3: PURPOSE:
   A.   To service the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of
the city of Artesia by ensuring proper planning practices.
   B.   To provide protection and preservation of natural resources, and to
provide for adequate air circulation, lighting, public open spaces, utility
services, traffic movement, drainage and public facilities.
   C.   To establish standards and procedures that protect the common interests
of the general public, landowners, developers, neighborhoods, and subdividers
of the city of Artesia and its surrounding jurisdiction.
   D.   To establish adequate and accurate records of land subdivisions.
   E.   To ensure orderly growth and development, and to supplement and
facilitate the provisions in the Artesia comprehensive plan, zoning
regulations, and capital improvements program. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-1-4: JURISDICTION OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   The city council, the planning and zoning commission and the community
development director or the director's designated representative shall be the
review and/or approval bodies for this title to regulate the subdividing of
land within the corporate limits of the city of Artesia and within the three
(3) mile planning and platting jurisdiction of the city.
   B.   The provisions set forth in this title are applicable to the
subdivision of all lands located within the corporate limits of the city of
Artesia, within the three (3) mile planning and platting jurisdiction of the
city, and the vacation and/or dedication to the city or other public entity of
any public right of way or public easements in the city.
   C.   Land unsuitable for subdivision development due to drainage, flood
hazard, topography or other conditions, creating a danger to health, life or
property, may not be approved unless the subdivider presents evidence or data
to the city establishing that the techniques proposed to meet any such
conditions are satisfactory to adequately avoid any danger to health, life or
property. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-1-5: APPLICATION:
A submission under these regulations may include, but not be limited to, any or
all of the following: an application form, sketch plan, preliminary plat, final
plat, replat, summary subdivision plat, supplemental information, construction
plans, and assurance of ownership and financial responsibility. Any person or
entity wishing to divide any property within the subdivision jurisdiction of
the city of Artesia is required to comply with any and all mandatory state laws
pertaining to the same, including, but not limited to, laws pertaining to taxes
on real property that is subdivided or combined, and laws pertaining to the
availability of water. A disclosure statement is required if the land division
is outside city limits. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-1-6: FEES:
The city council shall establish by resolution a fee schedule for all
applications. The fee schedule may be altered and amended from time to time by
action of the city council, which action may be done by resolution. (Ord. 982,
11-10-2015)
10-1-7: EXEMPTIONS:
Unless the method of the sale of land is adopted for the purpose of evading
these regulations, these regulations shall not apply to the following:
   A.   The subdivision of land for and the sale of cemetery lots.
   B.   The sale of land to the state of New Mexico or any political
subdivision thereof.
   C.   Any designated lot, parcel or tract of any previously recorded
subdivision, if the lot, parcel or tract is not being altered in any way for
the sale.
   D.   The division of land into two (2) or more parts, within the three (3)
mile planning and platting jurisdiction of the city, by platting or metes and
bounds description into tracts of five (5) or more acres. (Ord. 982, 11-10-
2015)
10-1-8: AMENDMENTS:
Any proposed amendments to this title shall first be reviewed by the planning
and zoning commission for their consideration and recommendations. Their
recommendations shall be forwarded to the city council for their consideration
and final action at a public hearing, by ordinance. Prior to city council's
final action, the ordinance shall be advertised in a newspaper of general
circulation at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing. (Ord. 982,
11-10-2015)
10-1-9: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Recording Unapproved Plats: The registration or filing of record by any
person of any map, plan, plat or replat contrary to the provisions of this
title, or the offering of or the causing to be offered of false information by
any person to cause any such map, plan, plat or replat to be recorded or
accepted to be recorded contrary to the provisions of this title, shall be
unlawful, and such map, plan, plat or replat filed without the endorsement and
approval of the city council, the planning and zoning commission, the community
development director or the director's designated representative, as the case
may be, shall be void.
   B.   Selling Unapproved Lots: Any owner or owner's agent of any land located
within the platting jurisdiction of the city of Artesia, who transfers, sells,
agrees to sell or negotiates to sell such land by reference to, exhibition of,
or by other use of a plat or subdivision of such land before such plat has been
approved, as provided in this title, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
for each lot so transferred, sold, agreed to be sold or negotiated to be sold.
The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer, or other
document used in the process of selling or transferring, shall not exempt the
transaction from such penalty. Upon violation of this subsection, the city
attorney or other person designated by the city council shall proceed with an
appropriate action in the proper court to enjoin such transfer, sale or
agreement, or proceed with an appropriate action in a proper court to recover
the penalty herein provided by civil action. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-1-10: INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT:
   A.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these
regulations are held to be the minimum requirements.
   B.   Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of these regulations are
either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed
by any other provision of these regulations or of any other applicable law,
resolution, rule or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more
restrictive and impose higher standards or requirements shall govern. (Ord.
982, 11-10-2015)
10-1-11: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person or party aggrieved with a decision or determination made by
city staff in the enforcement of this title may appeal the decision to the city
council. The appeal shall be submitted, reviewed, and heard in accordance with
the following procedures:
      1.   The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a written notice with
the City Clerk within ten (10) calendar days from the date of said decision.
      2.   The notice of appeal shall concisely and specifically set forth in
writing the reasons why the decision or determination of the City staff should
be set aside by the City Council.
      3.   The appeal may be heard by the City Council at its next regularly
scheduled meeting following the filing of the notice of appeal, unless
otherwise scheduled by the City Council.
      4.   A decision to approve the appeal shall require a majority vote of
all City Council members present.
   B.   Any person or party aggrieved by an order, decision or determination
made by the City Council may appeal the decision to District Court pursuant to
the provision in State Statute 1 . (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA, 1978 § 39-3-1.1.
10-1-12: DEFINITIONS:
Definitions not found in this section may be found in the "definitions" of
chapter 1 of the City of Artesia's Design and Construction Standards for
Infrastructure.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, waterways, or boundary lines
of municipalities.
BUILDING SETBACK: The right angle distance from a point on the right-of-way to
the closest point of any building structure.
CITY: The City of Artesia, New Mexico.
CITY COUNCIL: The Governing Body of the City.
CONTIGUOUS PROPERTY: Parcels of property that are in contact or touching.
CUL-DE-SAC: A local street with only one outlet that terminates in a vehicular
turnaround.
DETENTION AREA: A pond or drainage facility designed to temporarily hold,
store, or otherwise detain storm flows with the intent of releasing the storm
flows at a controlled rate.
DEVELOPER: The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or the owner's agent who
is responsible for any undertaking that requires review and/or approval under
these regulations.
DWELLING UNIT: A single unit providing complete independent living facilities
for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
EASEMENT: The right, liberty, advantage or privilege that one individual (or
entity) has in lands of another, either express or imputed (utility, grant or
necessity).
ENGINEER: A person engaged in the practice of civil engineering and qualified
to so practice as attested by his/her legal registration as a professional
engineer in the State of New Mexico.
ENGINEERING UTILITY RELATED ISSUES: Issues related to, but not limited to,
design specifications for roadways, grading, drainage, utilities, or other
issues determined by the Community Development Director and/or the
Infrastructure Director or the Utilities Director to be engineering-utility-
related.
IMPROVEMENTS: Includes infrastructure such as streets, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, fire hydrants, storm drainage facilities, bike paths, trails, and
water, sewer, and gas systems or parts thereof.
LOT: A parcel of land adequate in size for occupancy by a permitted use which
is part of a subdivision or described by metes and bounds with a legal
description recorded with the County Clerk's Office.
MAY: When a requirement in these regulations uses the word "may" instead of
"shall", the requirement shall be necessary only if directed by the Planning
and Zoning Commission or City Council.
MONUMENT: A permanent, physical item used as a survey control point.
OUTLOT: A parcel of land within a platted subdivision, to be used for purposes
other than residential. An example of an outlot is a tract of land designated
for open space or a retention pond.
PARCEL: A unit of land capable of being described by location and boundaries.
PERFORMANCE BOND: A surety bond made out to the City in an amount equal to no
less than one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated full cost of
the improvements, said cost being estimated by the City Infrastructure
Director, and being legally sufficient to ensure the City that the said
improvements shall be constructed in accordance with these regulations.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A development process whereby the intent and
purpose is to promote design and development standard flexibility in cases
where strict application of zoning regulations would inhibit the overall goals
and objectives of the City.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The officially appointed Planning and Zoning
Commission of the City of Artesia. The commission shall act as an advisory
board with regard to amendments to this title and approval or disapproval of
preliminary and final plats.
PLANNING-RELATED ISSUES: Issues related to but not limited to: lot
configuration, street network, right-of-way requirements, land use, density,
phasing of development, suitability of location, and other issues determined by
the Community Development Director to be planning-related.
PLAT, FINAL: A plat of a subdivision certified by a New Mexico licensed land
surveyor that contains a description of the subdivided parcel of land with ties
to permanent survey monuments and to be filed and recorded in the County
Clerk's Office, after approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission and City
Council.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A plat of a proposed subdivision showing the character and
proposed layout of the subdivision and all existing conditions in and around it
to be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council. The
plat shall be based upon an accurate and detailed survey of the land certified
by a New Mexico licensed land surveyor.
REPLAT: See definition of summary subdivision.
RETENTION AREA: A pond or drainage facility designed to permanently hold, store
or otherwise retain storm flows without the intent of releasing the storm
flows.
SHALL: The word "shall" is mandatory and not permissive.
SKETCH PLAN: A map or plan of a proposed subdivision showing the character and
proposed layout of the subdivision. The plan need not be based upon an accurate
and detailed survey of the land.
STORMWATER DRAINAGE PLAN: A plan indicating an on-site drainage proposal for
the retention or detention of stormwater or for the passage of stormwater
through the development for safe discharge into storm drainage facilities.
Also, a comprehensive analysis of:
   A.   The existing storm drainage conditions of a proposed development; and
   B.   The disposal of the increased runoff that is generated by the proposed
development.
STREET: A paved public or private highway or right-of-way that is giving
primary access to abutting properties.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street designed to carry moderate volumes of traffic
primarily from local streets to arterials. Collectors may provide limited
direct access to individual residential properties. Its primary purpose is to
provide direct access to multi-family residential developments and mid-size
commercial/industrial/office developments.
STREET, LOCAL: A street designed to carry low volumes of traffic, with its
primary purpose to provide direct access to individual residential properties,
primarily in small to mid-size residential developments, and to individual
commercial/industrial/office lots.
STREET, MAJOR ARTERIAL: A street designed to carry large volumes of traffic,
that shall not provide direct access to individual residential properties, and
is designed to provide movement for regional traffic in and around the City.
STREET, MINOR ARTERIAL: A street having the primary purpose of carrying
moderate to large volumes of traffic, and that shall not provide direct access
to individual residential properties. A minor arterial is designed to provide
traffic flow to and from large or heavily dense areas which carries high
volumes of traffic in and around the City.
SUBDIVIDER: A property owner or owner's agent who undertakes the subdivision of
land as set forth in this title.
SUBDIVISION: The division of land into two (2) or more parts by platting or
metes and bounds description into tracts and/or lots in any one calendar year
for the purpose of:
   A.   Selling for building purposes;
   B.   Laying out a municipality or any part thereof;
   C.   Adding to a municipality;
   D.   Laying out suburban lots; or
   E.   A resubdivision.
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT: An agreement or contract that sets forth the
construction plan, method of construction, and parties responsible for the
construction of any public improvements, together with adequate security or
collateral acceptable to the City.
SUBDIVISION, MAJOR: A division of any parcel of land that creates more than ten
(10) lots; a subdivision that may require dedication of rights-of-way or
easements for streets, alleys and/or utilities; or a subdivision that may
require the installation of significant improvements resulting in a subdivision
improvement agreement.
SUBDIVISION, MINOR: A division of any parcel of land that creates no more than
ten (10) lots or tracts, counting the balance of the original parcel as one of
the ten (10), with direct access to an existing dedicated street or road; does
not require the installation of significant improvements; does not landlock or
prevent development of the remainder of the parcel or abutting property; and is
not located within an area of special flood hazard.
SUBDIVISION, SUMMARY: A division of any lot, tract or parcel of land resulting
in no more than two (2) lots; or a resubdivision which consists of only the
relocation or realignment of lot lines in a previously and duly recorded
subdivision, where there is: a) a reduction or no change in the number of
original lots; b) no change in the street layout or other areas reserved for
public use, except for the increase in width only; and c) no vacation of public
right-of-way.
SURVEYOR: A person who is engaged in the practice of surveying and is qualified
to so practice as attested by his/her legal registration as a professional land
surveyor in the State of New Mexico.
TRACT: See definition of outlot.
VACATION: The act of rescinding any right-of-way, easement, public area, or any
part of a recorded subdivision in accordance with State Statutes. (Ord. 1044,
1-8-2019)
CHAPTER 2
REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES FOR SUBMITTAL OF A SKETCH PLAN
SECTION:
10-2-1: Preapplication Procedure
10-2-2: Preparation
10-2-3: Submittal Requirements
10-2-4: Action Of City Staff
10-2-1: PREAPPLICATION PROCEDURE:
Prior to the filing of a preliminary plat, the developer may submit to the
city's community development director's office a sketch plan or description of
the proposed development. This does not require a formal application or an
application fee, nor does it require planning and zoning commission or city
council review.
City staff may discuss with the developer the proposed development plans and
indicate any changes that may be required to comply with these and other
regulations and the procedure for submitting the preliminary plat.
The review of a sketch plan is to provide direction to the developer prior to
the submittal of a preliminary plat. The submittal of a sketch plan is
recommended but is strictly voluntary by the developer. Staff's recommendations
are nonbinding since the developer may make additional changes to the project
and incorporate those changes in the preliminary plat. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-2-2: PREPARATION:
A sketch plan should be in full compliance with the requirements of this
chapter. A developer may submit a sketch plan for review by the city staff
after making an appointment with the city's community development department.
If a sketch plan is not submitted for review, the developer is advised that
substantial changes in the design may be required during the preliminary plat
review by staff. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-2-3: SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
The following information should be provided in a sketch plan submittal:
   A.   Name of the sketch plan.
   B.   Name, address, e-mail and phone number of the applicant.
   C.   Name, address, e-mail and phone number of the preparer of the sketch
plan if different from developer.
   D.   Date of preparation, north arrow and indication of scale.
   E.   Boundary lines of the sketch plan with lengths of the boundary lines.
   F.   Location of existing retention or detention areas and watercourses, if
any.
   G.   Indication of the current direction of drainage or runoff if no
watercourses exist within the sketched area.
   H.   Location of existing and proposed streets on and adjacent to the plan
area.
   I.   Number of proposed lots and dwellings and indication of the size of any
other use. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-2-4: ACTION OF CITY STAFF:
City staff shall review the sketch plan to determine if it is consistent with
the standards set forth in these regulations and the city's zoning regulations;
determine if the goals, objectives and policies of the city's comprehensive
plan have been fulfilled; determine the relation of the existing and proposed
land uses; and review the physical and environmental impacts of the proposal.
Upon completion of the review, staff shall prepare a report that states all
recommended changes for preliminary plat review. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
CHAPTER 3
REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES FOR SUBMITTAL OF A PRELIMINARY PLAT
SECTION:
10-3-1: Preparation
10-3-2: Submittal Requirements
10-3-3: Submission Deadline
10-3-4: Acceptance Of Submission
10-3-5: Action Of City Staff
10-3-6: Action Of Planning And Zoning Commission And City Council
10-3-7: Effect Of Approval Of Preliminary Plat
10-3-8: Signatures
10-3-1: PREPARATION:
The applicant shall prepare a preliminary plat for all major subdivisions. The
preliminary plat shall be in full compliance with the requirements of these
regulations. Said plat shall be prepared by and have the seal of a surveyor.
(Ord. 1044, 1-8-2019)
10-3-2: SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The preliminary plat shall conform to the following format:
      1.   The font scale for the preliminary plat shall adequately represent
all information.
      2.   The maximum sheet size for a preliminary plat shall be twenty four
inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36").
      3.   Contour intervals shall be no greater than two feet (2') within the
subdivided area. Contour interval accuracy shall be no less than one-half foot
(½').
      4.   if more than one sheet is used, all sheets shall be indexed. Each
sheet shall show the scale, date of the survey, north point and name of the
preliminary plat.
   B.   Information required on the preliminary’ plat:
      1.   Name of the preliminary plat.
      2.   Legal description of the proposed area by quarter-quarter section,
section, township and range. If said description contains references to
recorded documents, said information shall be indicated on the plat.
      3.   Name, address, e-mail and phone number of the surveyor or survey
company preparing the preliminary’ plat.
      4.   Name, address, e-mail, and phone number of the owner)s) and
applicant.
      5.   Date of preparation, north arrow, and a written and graphic scale.
      6.   Vicinity map to locate the preliminary plat area.
      7.   Boundary lines of the preliminary plat area showing lengths of
lines.
      8.   Locations, rights-of-way widths, street classifications, and names
of existing and proposed streets and alleys.
      9.   Conceptual locations of streetlights, water valves, fire hydrants,
cluster mailboxes and manholes.
      10.   Locations, street classifications and dimensions of all existing
streets adjacent to the subdivision.
      11.   Certification statements, to include:
         a.   Signed statement by the surveyor stating this as a preliminary
plat. For consistency on all plats, the dedication statement shall read as
follows:
PRELIMINARY PLAT
         b.   Certification of approval by the city council with the date of
approval and signature lines for the mayor and attested by the city clerk or
assistant city clerk.
         c.   Certification of approval by the planning and zoning commission
with the date of approval and signature lines for the chairperson and attested
by a commissioner.
      12.   Locations, lengths, widths and types of any nonstreet
transportation links (e.g., walking path, bikeway, trail, etc.).
      13.   Locations, square footage or acreage, and land uses of each lot or
parcel of land located within the preliminary plat area. The information for
lots within the preliminary plat may be presented in a table.
      14.   Locations and uses of, or changes to. existing detention or
retention areas or drainage and runoff control areas. The special flood hazard
areas inundated by the 100-year flood as shown on the latest flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) shall be identified. In areas where floodplain mapping has not
been completed, the floodplain shall be identified to a detail of two feet
(2'). Where applicable, the city floodplain regulations shall apply.
      15.   Proposed streets, alleys, and utility facilities which shall
require extensions to the boundaries of the preliminary plat area. All utility
easements (existing or proposed) and rights of way shall be clearly labeled,
identified, dimensioned and tied to reference points, and shall be shown by
fine dashed lines for existing features and bolder lines for proposed features.
Existing easements shall bear notations of dedication or conveyance. If any
easement of record cannot be definitely located, a statement of the existence,
the nature and the easement’s record reference shall be placed in the note
section.
      16.   Current zoning district.
      17.   Phased development of the preliminary plat area, if proposed.
(Note: Phases must stand on their own with full access and utility services, or
tie into existing improved streets and utility lines).
      18.   Supplemental information shall include:
         a.   Preliminary drainage report and erosion control plan.
         b.   Proposed method of guaranteeing public improvements, and a
statement as to whether the development will be provided with electric and
natural gas utility services or only electric utility service.
         c.   Relative acreage of the land.
         d.   Preliminary construction drawings of any public improvement
(sidewalks, utilities, fire hydrants, cluster mailboxes, streetlights, streets,
bridges, culverts, channelization, etc.) prepared by an engineer.
         e.   Written evidence that all property owners within the plat
boundaries are participating in the plat.
      19.   Written statements concerning general planning considerations to
include, but not be limited to, the following:
         a.   A statement regarding the on site and off site effects of
stormwater runoff.
         b.   An evaluation of the consequences of traffic generated by the
proposed subdivision.
         c.   An assurance of the compatibility of the subdivision to the
city’s comprehensive plan.
         d.   A statement regarding the development and maintenance of any
private streets or medians and common areas.
         e.   A statement regarding the payment of current property taxes for
the land to be subdivided, as required by state law.
         f.   A statement certifying whether any water rights appurtenant to
the land have been severed. If appurtenant water rights have been severed and
the subdivider is not proposing to use City water, the subdivider shall provide
proof of compliance with state law for either a sendee commitment from a water
provider or an opinion of the state engineer’s office. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015;
amd. Ord. 1103, 9-13-2022)
10-3-3: SUBMISSION DEADLINE:
The application, preliminary plat, and supplemental data shall be submitted to
the community development director's office no later than twenty eight (28)
days prior to any regular meeting of the planning and zoning commission for
review by city staff. If a sketch plan has been reviewed by city staff and the
preliminary plat conforms to the reviewed sketch plan, the submittal time for
the preliminary plat and supplemental data shall be fourteen (14) days prior to
the planning and zoning commission meeting. Submissions are calculated in
calendar days. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-3-4: ACCEPTANCE OF SUBMISSION:
Upon submission, city staff shall review the submission for completeness as set
forth in these regulations. If the application, preliminary plat and
supplemental data are found to be acceptable, the community development
department staff shall issue a receipt of submission to the applicant with
notification of the next planning and zoning commission meeting date. If the
submission is not accepted, the submission shall be rejected and the applicant
notified within ten (10) days. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-3-5: ACTION OF CITY STAFF:
Staff shall review the application, preliminary plat and supplemental data to
determine if it is consistent with the standards set forth in these
regulations, and shall review the relationship of the proposed subdivision to
existing utilities, street rights of way along adjacent subdivisions, and to
the city's zoning regulations and comprehensive plan.
   A.    Report: Upon completion of the review, the community development
department staff shall assign a case number and prepare a report. The report
shall be made available to the applicant five (5) days prior to the planning
and zoning commission meeting.
   B.    Commission Agenda: If the application, preliminary plat and
supplemental data have been accepted, city staff shall submit the information
to the planning and zoning commission for its consideration and
recommendations. Notice of the planning and zoning commission meeting shall be
published in the local newspaper and posted no later than three (3) days prior
to the meeting.
   C.    City Council Agenda: If the planning and zoning commission has made
its recommendations on the preliminary plat, city staff shall provide the
recommendations to the city council for its consideration and approval,
approval with conditions or disapproval. Notice of the time and place of the
meeting shall be sent by mail to the address on the plat not less than five (5)
days before the day of the meeting. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-3-6: ACTION OF PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL:
The planning and zoning commission shall review the preliminary plat and
provide recommendations to the city council. The city council may approve,
approve with conditions or disapprove the plat based on its compliance with all
regulations and requirements set forth in this title, the planning and zoning
commission's recommendations, staff's report, and the recommendations and
comments from other agencies, the applicant, and interested citizens.
   A.    Approval: The planning and zoning commission shall provide
recommendations stating whether the preliminary plat is in conformity with the
standards set forth in this chapter, city codes and regulations, the city's
comprehensive plan, and whether it finds it to be in the best interest of the
community. If the city council approves the preliminary plat, said plat is
deemed in conformity with the standards set forth in this chapter, city codes
and regulations, the city's comprehensive plan, and that it finds the
preliminary plat to be in the best interest of the community.
   B.    Conditional Approval: The planning and zoning commission may recommend
and the city council may elect to approve a preliminary plat subject to certain
conditions or provisions.
   C.    Postponement: If the planning and zoning commission and/or city
council postpone action on a preliminary plat, pending additional information,
said plat may be reconsidered by the acting party at the next regularly
scheduled meeting, provided all provisions have been met by the applicant as
specifically outlined by the planning and zoning commission and/or the city
council.
   D.    Disapproval: If the planning and zoning commission elects to recommend
disapproval of the preliminary plat, the plat is deemed to not be in conformity
with the standards set forth in this chapter, city codes and regulations, the
city's comprehensive plan, and that it finds the plat to not be in the best
interest of the community. If the city council elects to disapprove the plat,
the plat is deemed to not be in conformity with the standards set forth in this
chapter, city codes and regulations, the city's comprehensive plan, and that it
finds the plat to not be in the best interest of the community.
   E.    Reconsideration: Whenever a plat has been disapproved by the city
council, the planning and zoning commission may not reconsider said preliminary
plat for a period of one year from the city council's action of disapproval.
However, if the community development director determines that the plat has
been modified to overcome the stated objections, then the planning and zoning
commission and the city council may reconsider said plat within the one year
limitation.
   F.    Notification: The applicant shall be notified by staff by letter of
the action taken by the city council. The letter shall include any changes or
recommendations as indicated by the city council. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-3-7: EFFECT OF APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.    Approval of the preliminary plat shall not constitute approval of the
subdivision by the planning and zoning commission or by the city council, but
shall merely signify the general acceptability of the proposed subdivision.
   B.    Such approval shall be considered permission to prepare a final plat,
a public improvement specifications plan, and construction drawings for the
proposed subdivision.
   C.    Preliminary plat approval is effective for two (2) years from the date
of approval, unless the applicant is granted an extension of time by the city
council. A letter requesting a maximum one year extension of time shall be
submitted to the community development director's office prior to plat
expiration. The letter shall state the reason why the subdivider requires
additional time to record a final plat. The city is under no obligation to
grant an extension of time. If the final plat for the subdivision or a phase of
the subdivision has not been approved and recorded as required by the
provisions of these regulations within such two (2) year period or an extension
has not been granted thereof, the preliminary plat shall expire and become null
and void. If the preliminary plat has expired, a new application, plat,
supplemental information and fee may be submitted to the city for
consideration. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-3-8: SIGNATURES:
The approved preliminary plat shall be signed and dated by the applicant, the
city mayor and the chairperson of the planning and zoning commission for city
records. An approved preliminary plat shall be filed in the office of the
community development department. A preliminary plat shall not be permitted to
be filed with Eddy County clerk's office. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
CHAPTER 4
REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES FOR SUBMITTAL OF A FINAL PLAT
SECTION:
10-4-1: Preparation
10-4-2: Submittal Requirements
10-4-3: Submission Deadline
10-4-4: Acceptance Of Submission
10-4-5: Action Of City Staff
10-4-6: Action Of Planning And Zoning Commission And City Council
10-4-7: Effect Of Approval Of Final Plat
10-4-8: Vacation Plats
10-4-9: Dedication Plats
10-4-1: PREPARATION:
Within two (2) years after approval or conditional approval of the preliminary
plat, the applicant may submit a final plat prepared in conformance with the
preliminary plat for all or a phase of the approved preliminary plat. A
development plan and construction drawings, prepared by an engineer, shall be
approved by City staff prior to submittal of the final plat application, for
all major subdivisions. Submission shall conform to all applicable City
regulations and requirements in effect at the time of submission, and shall
reflect all conditional approval items set forth by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and/or City Council. A final plat shall be required for major and
minor subdivisions, and the resubdivision of any previously recorded
subdivision when the public right-of-way of a street or alley is affected by
the resubdivision. (Ord. 1044, 1-8-2019)
10-4-2: SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A surveyor shall prepare the final plat on polyester (Mylar) film for
City records.
      1.   The size of the sheet shall be eighteen inches (18") by twenty four
inches (24").
      2.   The scale shall be an engineer’s scale and no smaller than one inch
(1") equals one hundred feet (100').
      3.   If more than one sheet is used, all sheets shall be indexed. Each
sheet shall show the scale, date of the survey, north point and name of the
subdivision.
   B.   The following information shall be shown on the plat:
      1.   Name of the subdivision, located at the top of the sheet.
      2.   Legal description of the subdivision referenced by quarter- quarter
section, section, township and range. If said description contains references
to recorded documents, said information shall be indicated on the plat.
      3.   Name(s) of owner(s) of record.
      4.   Vicinity map to locate the subdivision.
      5.   Total acreage of the subdivision and total number of lots or tracts.
      6.   Written and graphic scale and north arrow.
      7.   Dedication statements, to include:
         a.   A signed statement by the land owner(s) dedicating any public
rights-of-way, and granting all required easements for public use.
         b.   A signed statement that the subdivision of (insert a correct
description of the land being subdivided), appearing on the plat is with the
free consent and in accordance with the desire of the undersigned owner(s) and
proprietor(s) of the land, and shall be acknowledged by the owner(s) and
proprietor(s) or their authorized agent in the manner required for the
acknowledgment of deeds. If the plat is filed by a corporation, the
acknowledgment shall be made by its appointed officer.
         c.   Certification of approval by the City Council with the date of
approval and signature lines for the Mayor or Mayor Pro-Tern and attest by the
City Clerk or Assistant City Clerk. May also require a note for an ordinance
number.
         d.   Certification of approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission
with the date of approval and signature lines for the Chairperson and attested
by a Commissioner.
         e.   Index information for the County Clerk and a filing and recording
box shall be located at the bottom right hand comer.
         f.   Certification of survey by a surveyor who shall follow the New
Mexico State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land
Surveyors’ Amended Minimum Standards for Land Surveys in New Mexico.
         g.   The plat shall include at least two (2) reference point ties
within the subdivision to an accepted survey monument, such as, but not limited
to, a section comer, section quarter comer, or USGS monument. Said subdivision
ties and survey monuments shall have latitude and longitude coordinates for
City G1S mapping purposes; or the surveyor shall provide projected shape files,
using NAD 83 (2011) and New Mexico State Plan East FIPS 3001 in U.S. feet, to
the City’s GIS Technician.
      8.   An accurate and complete survey of the land to be subdivided shall
be completed in compliance with Minimum Standards for Land Surveys in New
Mexico as published by the New Mexico State Board of Registration for
Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors.
      9.   The exact locations and widths of all existing or recorded rights-
of-way and easements (streets, alleys, greenways, bikeways, paths, and trails)
within and adjacent to the boundaries of the land to be subdivided. They shall
be indicated by a dashed line with dimensions and bearings. Centerline data or
rights-of-way data for all curves shall be indicated on the plat.
      10.   Date of preparation.
      11.   Adjacent subdivisions (lot and block), property owners, recorded
books and pages, and streets identified by official names shall be shown on the
plat.
      12.   All easements (existing or proposed) shall be clearly labeled,
identified, dimensioned and tied to reference points, and shall be shown by
fine dashed lines for existing features and bolder lines for proposed features.
Existing easements shall bear notation of dedication or conveyance. If any
easement of record cannot be definitely located, a statement of its existence,
its nature and the easement’s record reference shall be placed in the note
section.
      13.   All lots and blocks shall be, to the extent possible, numbered
consecutively.
      14.   Parcels or tracts other than lots shall be designated by letters
with dispositions indicated in the note section. Locations of land intended to
be conveyed or reserved for public use or reserved in the deeds for the use of
all property owners in the proposed subdivision shall be shown. Public tracts
shall be dedicated by a statement on the plat. The responsibility of
maintenance of all other tracts shall be noted.
      15.   Excepted parcels (parcels not a part of the subdivision) shall be
dimensioned and marked with the statement, “Not a Part of this Plat”.
      16.   Lots which require special studies for development or which present
significant hazards to development shall be indicated by reference letter, with
limitations placed in the note section.
      17.   The special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood
shall be delineated on the plat. No lots shall be located in the floodplain
except to the extent that development conforms to the existing City regulations
and that the lots with these limitations are identified on the plat.
      18.   Signatures of all applicable utility companies (electric, gas,
cable, and phone).
      19.   Supplemental information to submit with the final plat:
         a.   Evidence Of Title: The applicant shall supply to the City
evidence of good title vested in the applicant. The evidence may consist of a
current deed provided by the County Clerk’s office within the past thirty (30)
days, a title insurance commitment or policy issued by a title insurance
company or an attorney’s opinion of title, certified to a date not more than
thirty (30) days prior to the submittal of the final plat to the City, showing
the name(s) of the owner(s) of the land and all other persons who have an
interest in, or encumbrance on, the property described on the final plat. The
applicant shall cause to be joined on said final plat those parties necessary
to give unencumbered fee simple title to all public lands contained therein. As
an alternative, such other parties may subordinate their interests to the
dedication of public lands contained therein by a notarized ratification
statement.
         b.   Approved Construction Plans: For major subdivisions, the location
of all public amenities, such as fire hydrants, street lights, cluster
mailboxes, sidewalks, pathways, bikeways and other transportation corridors
shall be indicated in the construction drawings.
         c.   Final Drainage Report: For major subdivisions, a final drainage
report and the final construction drawings shall be submitted a minimum of
fourteen (14) days prior to final plat submission.
         d.   Collateral Required: A collateral suitable to guarantee public
improvements is required.
         e.   Subdivision Improvement Agreement: For major subdivisions within
the city limits, a subdivision improvement agreement and estimate of guaranteed
funds are required.
         f.   Statement Required: A statement regarding the payment of current
Property Taxes for the land to be subdivided, as required by State law.
         g.   Certification Required: A certification of whether any water
rights appurtenant to the land have been severed. If appurtenant water rights
have been severed and the subdivider is not proposing to use City water, the
land owner(s) shall certify compliance with State law for either a service
commitment from a water provider or an opinion of the State Engineer. (Ord.
1044, 1-8-2019; amd. Ord. 1103, 9-13-2022)
10-4-3: SUBMISSION DEADLINE:
An application, final plat, and any required supplemental information may be
submitted to the Community Development Director's Office no later than fourteen
(14) calendar days prior to any regular meeting of the Planning and Zoning
Commission. Submissions are calculated in calendar days. (Ord. 1044, 1-8-2019)
10-4-4: ACCEPTANCE OF SUBMISSION:
Upon submission, City staff shall review the submission for completeness as set
forth in these regulations. If the application, final plat and supplemental
data are found to be acceptable, the Community Development Department staff
shall issue a receipt of submission to the applicant with notification of the
next Planning and Zoning Commission meeting date. If the submission is not
accepted, the submission shall be rejected and the applicant notified within
ten (10) days. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-4-5: ACTION OF CITY STAFF:
City staff shall review the plat to determine if it is consistent with the
standards set forth in these regulations and shall review the relationship of
the final plat to the existing preliminary plat on file.
   A.   Report: Upon completion of the review, City staff shall prepare a
report. The staff report shall be made available to the applicant five (5) days
prior to the Planning and Zoning Commission meeting. If the staff report
requests changes or clarifications, the applicant shall submit a revised plat,
other information or a response to City staff three (3) days prior to the
meeting.
   B.   Commission Agenda: If all application procedures have been properly
followed and complete information is available, City staff shall submit the
application to the Planning and Zoning Commission for their recommendations to
approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove. Notice of the Planning and
Zoning Commission meeting shall be published in the local newspaper and posted
no later than three (3) days prior to the meeting.
   C.   City Council Agenda: If the Planning and Zoning Commission has made its
recommendations on the final plat, City staff shall provide the recommendations
to the City Council for its consideration and approval, approval with
conditions or disapproval. Notice of the time and place of a public hearing
shall be sent by mail to the address on the plat not less than five (5) days
before the day of the hearing. No plat shall be acted upon without a public
hearing unless the requirement that a public hearing be held is waived by the
applicant. If the applicant does not provide a waiver, notice of a public
hearing shall be accompanied by an ordinance and shall be advertised in the
local newspaper fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-4-6: ACTION OF PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL:
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the final plat and provide
recommendations to the City Council. The City Council shall review the plat,
reports, recommendations and comments from the Planning and Zoning Commission,
City staff, other agencies, the applicant, and interested citizens.
   A.   Approval: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall provide
recommendations stating whether the final plat is in conformity with the
standards set forth in these regulations and the approved preliminary plat. If
the city council approves the final plat, said plat is deemed in conformity
with the standards set forth in these regulations and the preliminary plat.
   B.   Postponement: If the planning and zoning commission postpones action on
the final plat pending additional information, said plat may be reconsidered by
the planning and zoning commission at the next regularly scheduled meeting. If
the city council postpones action on the final plat, said plat may be
reconsidered by the city council at the next regularly scheduled meeting,
provided all provisions as specifically outlined by the city council have been
met by the applicant.
   C.   Disapproval: If the planning and zoning commission elects to recommend
disapproval of the final plat, the plat is deemed to not be in conformity with
the standards or the intent as set forth in these regulations and the
preliminary plat. The planning and zoning commission shall send its
recommendations to the city council. If the city council elects to disapprove
the plat, the plat is deemed to not be in conformity with the standards or the
intent as set forth in these regulations and the preliminary plat.
   D.   Modifications: Whenever a final plat has been disapproved by the city
council, the community development director shall determine whether the plat
has been modified to overcome the stated objections in order for it to be
submitted to the planning and zoning commission and the city council for their
reconsideration.
   E.   Notification: The applicant shall be notified by staff by letter of the
action taken by the city council. The letter shall include any changes or
recommendations as indicated by the city council. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-4-7: EFFECT OF APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Final plat approval shall be effective for no more than one year from
the date of approval, unless the applicant is granted an extension of time by
city council. A letter requesting a maximum one year extension of time shall be
submitted to the community development director's office prior to plat
expiration. The letter shall state the reason(s) why the subdivider requires
additional time to record the final plat. The city is under no obligation to
grant an extension of time. If the final plat for the subdivision has not been
recorded as required by the provisions of these regulations within such one
year period or an extension has not been granted thereof, the final plat shall
expire and become null and void. If the final plat has expired, a new
application, plat, supplemental information and fee may be resubmitted to the
city for consideration.
   B.   No changes, erasures, modifications or revisions shall be made on the
final plat after the mayor's signature is affixed.
   C.   The city shall record the final plat, and if necessary, an ordinance,
with the Eddy County clerk's office after all signatures have been obtained,
recording fees have been submitted, and an improvement guarantee has been
furnished and approved by staff or all subdivision improvements have been
completed and approved by staff. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-4-8: VACATION PLATS:
The final plat procedure shall be used for vacating an entire plat, a portion
of a plat, and any public right of way, streets and/or easements. A statement
declaring the plat a "vacation plat" shall be required. Vacation plats shall be
accompanied by an ordinance when filed with the county clerk.
   A.   The vacation plat shall declare what is to be vacated and that all
dedications described in the original plat are to be returned to the adjoining
property owner(s), per state statute. A vacation plat shall be prepared by a
surveyor, showing the locations of any new monuments. All costs associated with
the filing of the vacation plat shall be borne by the applicant.
   B.   Adjacent property owners to a public right of way or easement, wishing
to petition the city to abandon any public right of way, shall present a letter
of request indicating the owners' names, addresses and the legal description of
the area to be vacated, and the reason for the vacation. The petition shall
contain written approval from the utility companies and the city infrastructure
director. The city is under no obligation to grant approval of the vacation
plat. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-4-9: DEDICATION PLATS:
The final plat procedure shall be used for dedication of any public right of
way, streets and/or alleys. A dedication plat shall be prepared by a surveyor,
showing the locations of any new monuments. All costs associated with the
filing of the dedication plat shall be borne by the applicant. A statement
declaring the plat a "dedication plat" shall be required. Dedication plats
shall be accompanied by an ordinance when filed with the county clerk. (Ord.
982, 11-10-2015)
CHAPTER 5
REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES FOR SUBMITTAL OF A SUMMARY SUBDIVISION PLAT AND
REPLAT
SECTION:
10-5-1: Purpose Of The Summary Subdivision Plat And Replat
10-5-2: Restrictions
10-5-3: Limitations
10-5-4: Submittal Requirements
10-5-5: Submission Deadline
10-5-6: Action Of City Staff
10-5-1: PURPOSE OF THE SUMMARY SUBDIVISION PLAT AND REPLAT:
As permitted by New Mexico Statute 3-20-8, the summary subdivision plat process
is to assist in development and growth within the City and surrounding area.
(Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-5-2: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No dedications or vacations of public rights-of-way or easements shall
be permitted with a summary subdivision plat or replat, except for the increase
in width only.
   B.   A summary subdivision plat or replat, used for the division of land,
shall be limited to once every year from the date of the original division of
land or the date of the latest summary subdivision that creates an additional
lot, parcel, or tract of land, for any tracts of land created by the original
division of land in a recorded plat. If a property owner or developer would
like to further subdivide prior to the one-year time frame, the procedures and
requirements for a final plat shall be met for City Council oversight. This
restriction of once every year does not apply to boundary line adjustments,
parcels of land zoned for commercial or industrial use or the consolidation of
lots, tracts, or parcels. (Ord. 1044, 1-8-2019; amd. Ord. 1103, 9-13-2022)
10-5-3: LIMITATIONS:
Summary subdivision plats and replats shall be limited to the following:
   A.   The division of land into no more than two (2) lots, parcels, or tracts
of land.
   B.   The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted
lots, parcels, or tracts that do not increase the total number of lots,
parcels, or tracts. The reduction of lots, parcels, or tracts of land in any
previously recorded subdivision is permitted.
   C.   The division of land into two (2) or more lots, parcels, or tracts of
land in areas zoned for industrial use. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-5-4: SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A surveyor shall prepare the plat on polyester (Mylar) film for City
records.
      1.   The size of the sheet shall be eighteen inches by twenty four inches
(18" x 24").
      2.   The scale shall be an engineer's scale and no smaller than one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100').
      3.   If more than one sheet is used, all sheets shall be indexed and
contain an index map showing the relationship of the sheet to the whole. Each
sheet shall show the scale, date of the survey, north point and name of the
subdivision.
   B.   The following information shall be shown on the plat:
      1.   Name of the summary plat, located at the top of the sheet.
      2.   Location and legal description of the summary plat referenced by
quarter-quarter section, section, township and range. If said description
contains references to recorded documents, said information shall be indicated
on the map, located at the top of the sheet just below the name of the plat.
      3.   Name(s) and address(es) of owner(s) of record.
      4.   Vicinity map to locate the subdivision.
      5.   Total acreage of platted area and total number of lots.
      6.   Written and graphic scale and north arrow.
      7.   Dedication statements, to include:
         a.   A signed statement that the subdivision of (insert a correct
description of the land being subdivided), appearing on the plat is with the
free consent and in accordance with the desire of the undersigned owner(s) and
proprietor(s) of the land, and shall be acknowledged by the owner(s) and
proprietor(s) or their authorized agent in the manner required for the
acknowledgment of deeds. If the plat is filed by a corporation, the
acknowledgment shall be made by its president and secretary.
         b.   Certification of approval by the community development director
with the date of approval and signature lines for the community development
director and an attest.
         c.   Index information for the county clerk and a filing and recording
box shall be located at the bottom right hand corner of the plat.
         d.   Certification of survey by a surveyor which shall follow the New
Mexico state board of registration for professional engineers and land
surveyors' amended minimum standards for land surveys in New Mexico.
         e.   The plat shall include at least two (2) reference point ties
within the subdivision to an accepted survey monument, such as, but limited to,
a section corner, section quarter corner, or USGS monument. Said subdivision
ties and survey monuments shall have latitude and longitude coordinates for
city GIS mapping purposes; or the surveyor shall provide projected shape files
using NAD 83 (2011) and New Mexico state plan east FIPS 3001 in U.S. feet; to
the city's GIS technician.
      8.   An accurate and complete survey of the land to be subdivided shall
be completed in compliance with amended minimum standards for land surveys in
New Mexico as published by the New Mexico state board of registration for
professional engineers and land surveyors.
      9.   The exact locations and widths of all existing or recorded rights of
way and easements (streets, alleys, greenways, bikeways, paths, and trails)
within and adjacent to the boundaries of the land to be subdivided. They shall
be indicated by a dashed line with dimensions and bearings. Centerline data or
rights of way data for all curves shall be indicated on the plat.
      10.   Date of preparation.
      11.   Adjacent subdivisions (lot and block), property owners, recorded
books and pages, and streets identified by official names shall be shown on the
plat.
      12.   All easements shall be clearly labeled, identified, dimensioned and
tied to reference points, and shall be shown by fine dashed lines. Existing
easements shall bear notation of dedication or conveyance. If any easement of
record cannot be definitely located, a statement of its existence, its nature
and the easement's record reference shall be placed in the note section.
      13.   All lots shall be, to the extent possible, numbered consecutively.
Land to be resubdivided containing a legal lot of record may use a combination
of number and letter together; for example, "12A".
      14.   Parcels or tracts other than lots shall be designated by letters
with dispositions indicated in the note section. Locations of land intended to
be conveyed or reserved for future development may be shown.
      15.   Excepted parcels (parcels not a part of the land to be subdivided)
shall be dimensioned and marked with the statement, "Not a Part of this Plat".
      16.   Lots which require special studies for development or which present
significant hazards to development shall be indicated by reference letter, with
limitations placed in the note section.
      17.   The special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood
shall be delineated on the plat. No lots shall be located in the floodplain
except to the extent that development conforms to the existing city regulations
and that the lots with these limitations are identified on the plat.
      18.   Signatures of all applicable utility companies (electric, gas,
cable, and phone). (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-5-5: SUBMISSION DEADLINE:
A summary subdivision plat and/or replat may be submitted to the community
development department staff during regular business days and hours. (Ord. 982,
11-10-2015)
10-5-6: ACTION OF CITY STAFF:
The community development director or the director's designated representative
shall review the plat to determine if it is consistent with the standards set
forth in these regulations and other city codes. The director or the director's
designated representative shall review the relationship of the plat to adjacent
subdivisions and to any existing recorded plats on file, the city's zoning
regulations and standards, and to the city's comprehensive plan. The community
development director or the director's designated representative shall have
thirty (30) days to approve or disapprove the plat. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
CHAPTER 6
REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-6-1: General
10-6-2: Public Improvements Required
10-6-3: Improvement Agreement
10-6-4: Inspection And Acceptance Of Improvements
10-6-5: Twelve Month Construction Warranty
10-6-1: GENERAL:
Public improvements shall be required when an area of land is subdivided for
development. These improvements, along with a minimum twelve (12) month
warranty, shall be provided by the subdivider/developer. In most situations,
ownership of the facilities shall be turned over to the city or another agency
for maintenance, upon acceptance and approval of the city's infrastructure
director. These improvements and facilities include, but are not limited to,
those listed in section
10-6-2 of this chapter. No building permit shall be issued within any
subdivision until the installation of improvements has been accepted by the
city's infrastructure director. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-6-2: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
   A.   Streets: Streets constructed to city infrastructure specifications and
of sufficient capacity to adequately serve adjacent lots and the expected
traffic volume generated by the subdivision or development shall be provided by
the subdivider/developer. All streets shown on the city’s comprehensive plan,
or other official plans, shall be dedicated by the subdivider/developer. If
arterial streets are required, the city may participate in the construction of
the street. All other streets shall be constructed by the subdivider/developer.
   B.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be located and constructed to city
infrastructure specifications by the subdivider/developer.
   C.   Drainage Facilities: Drainage facilities shall be provided by the
subdivider/developer to accommodate the stormwater runoff generated by the
subdivision.
   D.   Utilities: All utilities, including fire hydrants and water valves,
needed to serve the uses and population within the subdivision and the planned
service area shall be provided by the subdivider/developer. The subdivider/
developer will state whether the development will be provided with electric and
natural gas utility services or only electric utility service at preliminary
plat submittal.
   E.   Streetlights: The locations and number of lights shall be determined by
the infrastructure director and provided by the subdivider/developer, based on
type of street, type of development, traffic volume, population density and
pedestrian activity.
   F.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be provided at each
intersection by the subdivider/developer. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015; amd. Ord.
1103, 9-13-2022)
10-6-3: IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT:
   A.   Improvement Agreement Required: An improvement agreement shall be
required prior to the commencement of construction of any public improvements.
In addition thereto, no final subdivision plat shall be filed until the
subdivider/developer has submitted, and the city has approved, a "subdivision
improvement agreement", as defined herein, guaranteeing construction of the
required public improvements shown on the construction plans for the
subdivision plat, together with collateral which is sufficient, in the judgment
of the city, to make reasonable provisions for the completion of the
improvements in accordance with the design and time specifications. The selling
of lots created by the subdivision plat, prior to the installation of
improvements, is prohibited. A form of financial guarantee shall be accepted
and received by the city. The types of collateral which may be used as security
under this section are as follows:
      1.   Performance or property bond.
      2.   An assurance agreement between the city and the subdivider/developer
whereby the subdivider/developer shall, within two (2) years following final
approval of the plat, complete the improvements provided for in the
subdivider's/developer's application for subdivision approval, except that the
assurance agreement set forth herein may provide that the subdivider/developer
shall be permitted by the city's infrastructure director to sell or otherwise
dispose of, or improve any lot within the subdivision, to which improvements
have been provided by the subdivider/developer at any time within the two (2)
year period. Any such assurance agreement shall be recorded with the Eddy
County clerk at the time of recording the plat.
      3.   Private or public escrow agreement.
      4.   Deposits of certified funds or other similar surety agreements
acceptable to the city, to be escrowed at a local financial institution. All
interest earned on the deposits shall accrue to the subdivider/developer.
      5.   A letter from a financial institution representing that specific
unencumbered funds have been designated for the construction of public
improvements, and that the financial institution will allow the designated
funds to be used for no other purpose. The form and content of the letter shall
be approved by the city of Artesia.
      6.   Liens on the subdivision property in favor of the city.
   B.   Amount Of Collateral Required: The city shall require security
collateral in an amount no less than one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of
the city's infrastructure director's estimated cost for public improvements.
Written bids executed by licensed New Mexico contractors or engineers shall be
accepted as evidence of cost when available.
   C.   Release Or Use Of Collateral, Security: As public improvements are
completed, the subdivider/developer may apply to the city's infrastructure
director for a release of part or all of the collateral or security deposited
with the city. Upon final inspection, approval and acceptance of the public
improvements by the city's infrastructure director, the city may release the
collateral or security. If the city determines that any of the improvements are
not constructed in substantial compliance with applicable city specifications,
the city may, pursuant to the improvement agreement, withdraw and employ from
the deposited collateral of security such funds as may be necessary to
construct or repair the improvements in accordance with such specifications.
(Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-6-4: INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The subdivider/developer shall provide the city's infrastructure
director with a certification from a registered engineer that all required
improvements have been completed in accordance with city specifications. The
city shall then inspect the improvements and, if they are acceptable, provide
the subdivider/developer with a release of the improvement agreement and a
notice of acceptance of the improvements for all lots created by the
subdivision.
   B.   The city's infrastructure director may provide the subdivider/developer
with a partial release of the improvement agreement for no less than fifty
percent (50%) of the total lots created by the subdivision plat, provided that
all of the improvements required in connection with such lots have been
satisfactorily completed and accepted for dedication, and further provided that
such improvements shall be used and maintained separately of the improvements
required for the entire subdivision plat. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-6-5: TWELVE MONTH CONSTRUCTION WARRANTY:
If, after final inspection, approval and acceptance by the infrastructure
director, any improvements are found to be defective due to construction or
material failure, the subdivider/developer and/or installation contractor shall
promptly, without cost to the city and in accordance with the infrastructure
director, remove the defective improvements from the site and replace them as
to the terms and instructions of the infrastructure director. Failure to
correct the defective improvements within three (3) months of the
infrastructure director's written instructions may result in the correction,
removal, and replacement of the defective improvements by the city. All direct
and indirect costs to correct, remove, and replace defective improvements,
including any additional professional services, shall be paid by the
subdivider/developer. The city of Artesia shall use all legal means necessary
to recover all expenses. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
CHAPTER 7
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-7-1: General
10-7-2: Standards
10-7-3: Lots And Blocks
10-7-4: Traffic Circulation
10-7-5: Pedestrian And Bicycle Systems
10-7-6: Stormwater Management Requirements
10-7-7: Utilities
10-7-8: Other Design Requirements
10-7-1: GENERAL:
The development standards contained in these regulations, and elsewhere, are
intended to implement the city's comprehensive plan. Design and construction
standards are found in the city's "Design And Construction Standards For
Infrastructure". All improvements shall meet all federal ADA regulations. (Ord.
982, 11-10-2015)
10-7-2: STANDARDS:
Development and construction standards may apply to all improvements within a
planned unit development (PUD) area. The city shall require development and
construction standards be met when reviewing subdivision plats or plans for
other public facilities. All projects within the city of Artesia's jurisdiction
shall conform to the design and construction standards contained in this
chapter and other city regulations. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-7-3: LOTS AND BLOCKS:
   A.   Lots shall be situated and designed in a way that shall not cause
difficulties or hardships, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in
securing a building permit to build on all lots in compliance with the city's
zoning regulations and in providing driveway access to principal structures on
the lots from an officially approved street or alley.
   B.   Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards set forth in the
city's zoning regulations according to the zoning district in which they are
located. Dimensions of corner lots shall be large enough to allow for
construction of buildings, observing the minimum setbacks from both streets as
established in the city's zoning regulations. Lot dimensions for business,
commercial or industrial purposes shall be adequate in size to provide for the
development standards and requirements established in the city's zoning
regulations.
   C.   The lot line common to the street right of way shall be the "front
line". The front line of corner lots shall be the lot line with the narrower
dimension. The "rear line" shall be the opposite side from the front line. A
rear line of one lot shall not abut the side line of an adjacent lot.
   D.   Double street frontage lots are strongly discouraged. Single- family
residential lots shall not derive access from an arterial street and shall have
limited access to collector streets. Multi- family residential lots may have
limited access to arterial streets. Commercial and industrial lots shall be
situated and designed so as to prohibit driveways that may require vehicles to
back into streets.
   E.   Blocks may have adequate widths to provide for two (2) tiers of lots of
appropriate depths. Block lengths in residential areas shall not exceed one
thousand five hundred feet (1,500') nor shall they be less than three hundred
feet (300'). (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-7-4: TRAFFIC CIRCULATION:
   A.   Street System: The street system shall be designed to permit the safe,
efficient, and orderly movement of traffic; to meet the needs of the present
and future populations served; to have a simple and logical pattern; to respect
natural features and topography; and to present an attractive streetscape.
      1.   The arrangements of streets shall conform to the street
classification map of the city's comprehensive plan and shall be arranged to
provide for the appropriate extensions of existing streets.
      2.   The arrangements of streets shall be designed to prevent new "half
streets", and streets with less than the required right of way width along the
perimeter of new subdivisions.
      3.   The subdivider/developer shall dedicate the required proportionate
share of additional rights of way widths for perimeter streets, improved or
unimproved, abutting the proposed subdivision, as determined by the street
classification map of the city's comprehensive plan, and subsection A6 of this
section.
      4.   The city may require the subdivider/developer to construct, at his
or her own expense, the unimproved perimeter streets for the health, safety and
wellness of the city of Artesia. The city may participate in the construction
of the unimproved perimeter streets.
      5.   The subdivider/developer shall dedicate the entire rights of way
widths and construct any streets located entirely within the proposed
subdivision, as determined by the street classification map of the city's
comprehensive plan, and subsection A6 of this section.
      6.   Minimum street rights of way:
 
Street Classification Minimum Width Of Right Of Way
Local street          50 feet
Collector street      60 feet
Minor arterial        80 feet
Major arterial        100 feet
 
   B.   Alleys: Alleys may be provided as secondary means of access to all lots
and as utility corridors for utility service companies by the subdivider/
developer. Alleys shall be constructed to city infrastructure specifications.
The following required minimum widths are based on city zoning districts:
      1.   Minimum alley rights of way:
 
Residential and special use districts 20 feet
Commercial and industrial districts   25 feet
 
   C.   Intersections:
      1.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect at right angles, except
where topography or other site conditions justify variations. No intersections
of public or private streets shall be on a curve of centerline radius less than
five hundred feet (500').
      2.   Intersections shall be designed with adequate corner site distance.
"Corner site distance" is defined as measured from a point on the centerline of
the right hand travel lane of the street at least fifteen feet (15') from the
edge of a street pavement, and measured from a height of three and three-
fourths feet (33/4') on the street to a height of four and one-half feet (41/
2') on the centerline of the travel lanes of a street.
      3.   Streets entering the opposite sides of a street shall either be
directly across from each other or offset by at least one hundred fifty feet
(150') from centerline to centerline.
      4.   Streets which enter onto the same side of a street shall have an
interval of at least three hundred feet (300') from centerline to centerline.
      5.   Curb corner radii at all intersections shall be a minimum of twenty
feet (20').
      6.   Street name signs shall be positioned at all intersections.
      7.   Intersections which include collector or arterial streets shall be
designed to allow for future traffic signage or signalization. Geometry and all
other details of these intersections shall be approved by the city's
infrastructure director. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-7-5: PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE SYSTEMS:
   A.    Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be parallel to all public streets. The
location and size shall depend on the road classification and intensity of the
development per the city's design and construction standards for infrastructure
and the street classification map of the city's comprehensive plan. All
sidewalks shall be installed prior to the occupancy of the lots for which each
sidewalk serves, and sidewalk installation shall be along the entire street
frontage(s) of each lot.
   B.    Public Walkways: Pedestrian easements or public rights of way of ten
feet (10') wide may be required by the city, located in the center of blocks
more than eight hundred feet (800') long, to provide circulation or access to
schools, playgrounds, shopping, or other community facilities.
   C.    Bikeways: Separate bicycle paths may be required if such paths are
part of the city's comprehensive plan. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-7-6: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
The subdivider's/developer's engineer shall be required to provide a stormwater
management plan prior to final plat application submittal. The planning and
zoning commission shall not recommend approval of any subdivision plat which
fails to make adequate provisions for stormwater. This section shall be
applicable to all subdivisions, excepting those lots, subdivisions and units of
subdivisions which, on the effective date of this chapter, have infrastructure
improvements installed in the subdivision or unit of a subdivision.
   A.    A stormwater management plan shall be required for all applicable
subdivisions. It shall provide all measures necessary to maintain the post
development peak discharges that are equal to or less than the respective
predevelopment peak discharge rates, through stormwater management practices
that control the volume, timing, and rates of flow.
   B.    A stormwater management plan shall accommodate for potential
stormwater from any upstream drainage or sheet flow area, whether inside or
outside the subdivision.
   C.    A stormwater management plan shall accommodate for potential
stormwater effects on any subdivision or tract of land that is located
downstream from the proposed subdivision.
   D.    Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream, a stormwater easement or drainage right of way shall be
provided that conforms to the lines of such watercourse, including adequate
width for potential meandering and access for maintenance.
   E.    Storm drainage systems shall be separate and independent of city sewer
systems.
   F.    A stormwater management plan that includes retention/detention areas
shall be permanently maintained by the subdivider/developer, homeowners'
association, or its successor in interest.
   G.    The retention/detention areas may be combined with open/recreational
spaces and serve as dual uses. In the event a dual use is approved as a part of
the development plan, the total area designated for the retention/detention of
stormwater shall be maintained by the subdivider/developer, homeowners'
association, or its successor in interest, and the city shall not assume
ownership or maintenance responsibility.
   H.    All subdivision wide stormwater management areas and retention/
detention areas shall be constructed without trees, shrubs or permanent
structures that would interfere with maintenance requirements. The subdivider/
developer shall establish the retention/detention area with native or drought
resistant grasses. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
10-7-7: UTILITIES:
The subdivider’s/developer’s engineer shall coordinate with the affected
utility companies to provide utilities with sufficient capacity to serve the
subdivision. Design and construction shall be coordinated with the affected
utility companies and the city’s infrastructure director. Utilities shall be
constructed according to standards contained in the city’s design and
construction standards for infrastructure. When city sewer and/or water are not
furnished, Eddy County and state of New Mexico environmental regulations shall
be followed.
   A.   Water: Where public or approved central water lines are available, a
system shall be designed by the subdivider’s/developer’s engineer to furnish an
adequate supply of water to each lot, with an adequate main line sized to serve
required fire hydrants. New central water lines shall be looped into existing
water lines to assure adequate water flow and pressure for public health,
safety and wellness.
   B.   Sewer: Where public sewer lines are available, a system shall be
designed by the subdivider’s/developer’s engineer to furnish an adequate sewer
line service to each lot, with an adequate main line sized to serve the area.
   C.   Utility Service Lines: All utility service lines, including, but not
limited to, gas, electric power, telephone and cable television, shall be
located underground throughout the subdivision, wherever possible. The
subdivider/developer will state whether the development will be provided with
electric and natural gas utility services or only electric utility service at
preliminary plat submittal. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015; amd. Ord. 1103, 9-13-2022)
10-7-8: OTHER DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    Access To Lots And Buildings: Access to lots and buildings shall be
provided in accordance with the latest city approved international fire code,
and the city's design and construction standards for infrastructure. Except for
cul-de-sacs, new streets shall connect to existing streets in adjoining or
adjacent subdivisions, or to where future streets shall be connected in
adjoining undeveloped tracts. Private roads or streets are required to connect
to dedicated public streets.
   B.    Public Safety Within A Development: The design for a subdivision and/
or planned unit development shall provide for public health, safety, and
wellness. The design shall be reviewed by city staff using the following
standards:
      1.   Lighting: Lighting shall be arranged so that an entry point, such as
a sidewalk, walkway, recreation area or parking area, is adequately illuminated
during the times of use.
      2.   Landscaping: Landscaping adjacent to sidewalks, entry points,
intersections, or parking areas shall be open or lighted so as not to create
places of concealment. Landscaping shall not interfere with corner sight
distance of the street intersections or lot egress/ingress points.
      3.   Easements: Subdivisions/developments with private roads, walkways or
parking areas shall provide an easement to the city of Artesia for emergency
and utility service access.
      4.   Fences: Fences adjacent to public rights of way or easements shall
have access points into any area without direct access to public areas. If
locked, the access points shall have the locks facing the rights of way or
easements which can be opened by the police and fire departments.
      5.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be provided as required by the
city's fire code. See the city's "Design And Construction Standards For
Infrastructure" and the city's fire code.
      6.   Mail Service: The method of mail delivery shall be coordinated with
the local U.S. postal service and city staff. (Ord. 982, 11-10-2015)
TITLE 11
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Statutory Authorization
11-1-2: Findings Of Fact
11-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
11-1-4: Methods Of Accomplishing Purpose
11-1-5: Definitions
11-1-6: Application And Interpretation; Compliance
11-1-7: Floodplain Administrator
11-1-8: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
11-1-9: Development Permit
11-1-10: General Standards For Flood Hazard Reduction
11-1-11: Specific Standards For Flood Hazard Reduction
11-1-12: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
11-1-13: Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
11-1-14: Floodways
11-1-15: Variances And Appeals
11-1-16: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
11-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state has, in New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-
18-7, delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the city council does
ordain as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999)
11-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999)
11-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of floodprone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999)
11-1-4: METHODS OF ACCOMPLISHING PURPOSE:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999)
11-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common
usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable, and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, or VO zone on the city flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one foot (1') to three feet (3')
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within the city
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building: a) built, in the case of a building
in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor, or in the case of a building in zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the elevated floor
elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers),
or shear walls parallel to the floor of the water; and b) adequately anchored
so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of
up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99,
AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, "elevated building" also includes a building elevated
by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient
to facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters. In the case of zones V1-
30, VE, OR V, "elevated building" also includes a building otherwise meeting
the definition of "elevated building", even though the lower area is enclosed
by means of breakaway walls, if the breakaway walls met the standards of
section 60.3(e)(5) of the national flood insurance program regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
hereof.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of the city on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the city.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within the city subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOODPRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of "flood or flooding").
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      2.   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A movable or portable housing structure over thirty two feet
(32') in length or over eight feet (8') in width constructed to be towed on its
own chassis and designed to be installed with or without a permanent foundation
for human occupancy as a residence and which may include one or more components
that can be retracted for towing purposes and subsequently expanded for
additional capacity or may be two (2) or more units separately towable but
designed to be joined into one integral unit, as well as a single unit.
"Manufactured home" does not include recreational vehicles or modular or
premanufactured homes, built to uniform building code standards, designed to be
permanently affixed to real property. "Manufactured home" includes any movable
or portable housing structure over twelve feet (12') in width and forty feet
(40') in length which is used for nonresidential purposes.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on the city flood insurance rate map are referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date hereof and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date hereof.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is: a) built on a single chassis; b) four
hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections; c) designed to be self- propelled or permanently towable by a
light duty truck; and d) designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling
but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal
use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal barrier resources act [Pub. L. 97-348]),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either: a) any project for improvement of a structure to
correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the building inspector/code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary conditions; or b) any
alteration of an "historic structure"; provided, that the alteration will not
preclude the structure's continued designation as an "historic structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this chapter
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this chapter. (For full requirements see section 60.6 of the national flood
insurance program regulations.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the city floodplain management regulations. A structure or other
development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other
evidence of compliance required in sections 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)
(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) of the national flood insurance program
regulations is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999; amd. 2002 Code)
11-1-6: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION; COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: This chapter shall apply to all areas of
special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the city.
   B.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   C.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   D.   Compliance With Provisions: No structure or land shall hereafter be
located, altered, or have its use changed without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999)
11-1-7: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Building Inspector/Code Enforcement Officer Serve As: The city building
inspector/code enforcement officer is hereby appointed the floodplain
administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and
other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance program
regulations) pertaining to floodplain management. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999; amd.
2002 Code)
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties and responsibilities of the
floodplain administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Review permit applications to determine whether proposed building
sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe
from flooding.
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter.
      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency which is the New Mexico state engineer, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the federal emergency management agency.
      7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      8.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with section
11-1-8 of this chapter, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source in order to administer the provisions of
sections
11-1-10 through
11-1-14 of this chapter. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999)
      9.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the floodplain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and
AE on the city's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the city.
      10.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12 of the
national flood insurance program regulations, the city may approve certain
development in zones A1-30, AE, AH on the city's FIRM which increases the water
surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot (1'); provided, that
the city first applies for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA. (Ord. 603,
4-13-1999; amd. 2002 Code)
11-1-8: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood
Insurance Study For The City Of Artesia, Eddy County, New Mexico, Community No.
350016 0005 C", dated June 4, 2010, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps
and flood boundary-floodway maps (FIRM and FBFM) and any revisions thereto are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. (Ord.
842, 4-13-2010, eff. 6-4-2010)
11-1-9: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: A development permit shall be required to ensure
conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a development permit shall be
presented to the floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may
include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the
location, dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing
and proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures.
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed.
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of subsection 11-1-11B of this chapter.
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection 11-1-7B1 of this chapter.
   C.   Approval Or Denial Of Permit: Approval or denial of a development
permit by the floodplain administrator shall be based on all of the provisions
of this chapter and the following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others.
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development.
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems.
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site.
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable.
      9.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding or
erosion damage for the proposed use.
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999)
11-1-10: GENERAL STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   E.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters;
   F.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding; and
   G.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999)
11-1-11: SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in subsection 11-1-7B8, section
11-1-8 or subsection 11-1-12C of this chapter, the following provisions are
required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
floodplain administrator that the standard of this subsection, as proposed in
subsection 11-1-9B1 of this chapter is satisfied.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood level or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the floodplain administrator. (Ord. 613, 4-
13-1999)
   C.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within zone A on
the city's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over
the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      2.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the city's FIRM on sites: a) outside
of a manufactured home park or subdivision; b) in a new manufactured home park
or subdivision; c) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or d) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      3.   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within zones A1-
30, AH and AE on the city's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of this
subsection be elevated so that either: (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999; amd. 2002 Code)
         a.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base
flood elevation; or
         b.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral
movement.
   D.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999)
   E.   Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within zones A1-30, AH and AE on the city's FIRM either: 1) be on the
site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days; 2) be fully
licensed and ready for highway use; or 3) meet the permit requirements of
subsection 11-1-9B1 of this chapter, and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for "manufactured homes" in subsection C of this section. A
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices and has no permanently attached additions. (Ord. 603, 4-13-
1999; amd. 2002 Code)
11-1-12: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with this section and sections
11-1-2,
11-1-3 and
11-1-4 of this chapter.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of this section and sections
11-1-9,
11-1-10,
11-1-11,
11-1-13 and
11-1-14 of this chapter.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres,
whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to section
11-1-8 or subsection 11-1-7B8 of this chapter.
   D.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals including the replacement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999)
11-1-13: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES):
Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in section
11-1-8 of this chapter are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas
have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one foot (1')
to three feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the
path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following
provisions apply:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the city's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified).
   B.   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
      1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the city's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified); or
      2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed
so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy.
   C.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the floodplain administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in subsection 11-1-9B of this chapter, are satisfied.
   D.   Require within zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around structures
on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (Ord.
603, 4-13-1999; amd. 2002 Code)
11-1-14: FLOODWAYS:
Floodways located within areas of special flood hazard established in section
11-1-8 of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway
is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
   A.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the city during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section and sections
11-1-10,
11-1-11,
11-1-12 and
11-1-13 of this chapter.
   C.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1 section 65.12 of the national
flood insurance regulations, the city may permit encroachments within the
adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base flood
elevations; provided, that the city first applies for a conditional FIRM and
floodway revision through FEMA. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999; amd. 2002 Code)
11-1-15: VARIANCES AND APPEALS:
   A.   Variances Authorized:
      1.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic places or
the state inventory of historic places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in this chapter.
      2.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, provided the relevant factors in subsection 11-1-9C of
this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the
one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the
variance increases.
      3.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999)
      4.   Variances may be issued by the city for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use; provided, that: a) the criteria outlined in this
section are met; and b) the structure or other development is protected by
methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no
additional threats to public safety. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.    Prerequisites For Granting Variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon: a) showing a good and
sufficient cause; b) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and c) a determination that
the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with
existing local laws or ordinances.
      3.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   C.    Conditions Of Variance: Upon consideration of the factors noted in
subsection A of this section and the intent of this chapter, the appeal board
may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary
to further the purpose and objectives of this chapter as set out in section
11-1-3 of this chapter.
   D.    Prohibited Variances: Variances shall not be issued within any
designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999)
   E.    Hearing And Appeals:
      1.   The appeal board as established by the city council shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
      2.   The appeal board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or
determination made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      3.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   F.    Records And Reports: The floodplain administrator shall maintain a
record of all actions involving an appeal and shall report variances to the
federal emergency management agency upon request. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999; amd.
2002 Code)
11-1-16: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city or any official or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 603, 4-13-1999; amd.
2002 Code)
TITLE 12
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
UNIFORM TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
SECTION:
12-1-1: UTO Adopted By Reference
12-1-2: Exceptions To UTO
12-1-3: Additions To UTO
12-1-1: UTO ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The City hereby adopts the New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance (UTO), by
reference, with the exceptions and additions enumerated in this chapter. One
copy of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is available for inspection during the
normal and regular business hours at the Office of the City Clerk. A copy of
the Uniform Traffic Ordinance, or any portion thereof, will be available upon
request and payment of a reasonable charge at the Office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 707, 7-26-2005)
12-1-2: EXCEPTIONS TO UTO:
The following sections of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance are not adopted by the
City:
 
12-6-13.11              Driving on mountain streets
12-6-13.13              Mandatory use of seatbelts (as originally written)
12-8-13 through 12-8-22 Bicycles (licensing, inspection, rentals, dealers)
 
(2002 Code; amd. Ord. 1004, 9-13-2016)
12-1-3: ADDITIONS TO UTO:
The following are additions to the Uniform Traffic Ordinance adopted in section
12-1-1 of this chapter:
12-6-1.2: Speed Limits:
   B.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour in any business or residence district;
or
(2002 Code)
12-6-12.2A: Driving While Intoxicated With A Minor In The Vehicle:
   A.   Driving while intoxicated with a minor in the vehicle consists of a
person committing a violation of 12-6-12.1 when a minor is in the vehicle and
when the minor does not suffer great bodily harm or death. Whoever commits
driving while intoxicated with a minor in the vehicle is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   B.   A charge for a violation of Subsection A of this section shall be in
addition to a charge for the violation of 12-6-12.1 and shall be punished as a
separate offense.
   C.   As used in this section, “minor” means an individual who is younger
than thirteen years of age. (66-8-102.5 NMSA 1978)
12-6-12.6: Unlawful Use Of License, Driving When Privilege To Do So Has Been
Suspended Or Revoked:
   (6)   drive a motor vehicle on any public street or highway at a time when
the person’s privilege to do so is suspended and who knows or should have known
that the person’s license was suspended. Upon conviction, the person may be
punished Pursuant to Subsection B of Section 66-8-7 NMSA 1978 or for no more
than ninety days of participation in a certified alternative sentencing
program. When a person pays any or all of the cost of participating in a
certified alternative sentencing program, the court may apply that payment as a
deduction to any fine imposed by the court. Any municipal ordinance prohibiting
driving with a suspended license shall provide penalties no less stringent than
provided in this section. (66-5-39 NMSA 1978)
   B.   In addition to any other penalties imposed pursuant to the provisions
of this section, when a person is convicted pursuant to the provisions of this
section, or a municipal ordinance that prohibits driving on a suspended license
the motor vehicle the person was driving may be immobilized by an
immobilization device for thirty days, unless immobilization of the motor
vehicle poses an imminent danger to the health, safety or employment of the
convicted person’s immediate family or the family of the owner of the motor
vehicle. The convicted person shall bear the cost of immobilizing the motor
vehicle. (66-5-39 NMSA 1978)
12-6-12.6A: Driving While License Administratively Suspended:
   A.   The division may issue an administrative suspension of the instruction
permit, driver’s license or provisional license of a driver without preliminary
hearing upon a showing by its records or other sufficient evidence, including
information provided to the state pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement
authorized by Section 66-5-27.1 NMSA 1978, that the licensee has failed to:
   (1)   Fulfill a signed promise to appear or notice to appear in court as
evidenced by notice from a state court or tribal court, whenever appearance is
required by law or by the court as a consequence of a charge or conviction
under the Motor Vehicle Code of pursuant to the laws of the tribe:
   (2)   Pay a penalty assessment within thirty days of the date of issuance by
the state or a tribe: or
   (3)   Comply with the terms of a citation issued in a foreign jurisdiction
that is a party to the Nonresident Violator Compact and that has notified the
department of the failure in accordance with the Nonresident Violator Compact.
   B.   If a person whose license was issued by a jurisdiction outside New
Mexico that is a party to the Nonresident Violator Compact fails to comply with
the terms of a citation issued in New Mexico, the department shall notify that
other jurisdiction of the failure and that jurisdiction shall initiate a
license suspension action in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of
the Nonresident Violator Compact.
12-6-12.19B3: Replace with the following:
   B.   (3)   “exhibition driving” consists of intentionally fish-tailing,
peeling-out, losing traction, and burning rubber while operating a motor
vehicle, motorcycle, or motor-driven cycle, includes intentionally operating
the vehicle on a single tire (commonly known as a “wheelie”); operating a
vehicle from a standing position; or operating the vehicle without at least one
hand gripping the handlebars.(*)
   (Ord. 715, 10-11-2005)
12-9-9: Parking In Designated Disabled Parking Spaces:
   Amended July, 2010
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle not carrying
registration plates or a placard indicating disability in accordance with
Section 66-3-16 NMSA 1978 in a designated accessible parking space for persons
with significant mobility limitation or in such a manner as to block access to
any part of a curb cut designed for access by persons with significant mobility
limitation or a designated accessible parking space for persons with
significant mobility limitations. Any person who violates this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250) or more
than five hundred dollars ($500). Failure to properly display a parking placard
or special registration plate issued pursuant to Section 66-316 NMSA 1978 is
not a defense against a charge of violation of Subsection A of this section.
(66-7-352.5 NMSA 1978)
12-9-10: Parking Truck Tractors Or Semitrailers Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful for any truck tractor and semitrailer, the truck tractor individually,
or the semitrailer individually, to park within any residential zone of the
city.
12-10-1.12A Sun Screening Material:
   D.   (3) Drive a motor vehicle upon the streets of the city if the driver
and passengers are not clearly visible to any observer from a distance of fifty
feet (50') from the vehicle, through the front windshield and through the
windows in the left and right front doors.
12-10-6: Mandatory Financial Responsibility:
   I.   D.   When financial responsibility is satisfied through coverage under
a motor vehicle insurance policy, the owner’s or operator’s carrying of
evidence in print or accessible through a portable electronic device is
acceptable. An owner or operator of a vehicle who provides evidence of
financial responsibility through a portable electronic device:
      1.   assumes all liability for any resulting damage to the portable
electronic evidence: and
      2.   is presumed not to consent to provide access to a law enforcement
officer to any other information stored in the portable electronic device
   H.   Penalty. Any person found guilty of violating this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of the city code; provided
however, that no person charged with violating this section shall be convicted
if he produces in court evidence of financial responsibility valid at the time
of issuance of the citation.
12-12-1.1: Maximum Penalty: Unless another penalty is expressly provided in
this chapter or as otherwise provided by state law, every person convicted of a
violation of any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty as
provided in title 1, chapter 4 of the city code.
12-12-5: Arrest Without Warrant:
   A.   (10) Whom the officer has probable cause to believe is driving while
said person’s driver’s license is suspended.
   (2002 Code; amd. Ord. 1068, 4-14-2020; Ord. 1071, 5-26-2020)
CHAPTER 2
PENALTY ASSESSMENT MISDEMEANOR PROGRAM
SECTION:
12-2-1: Declaration Of Intent And Purpose
12-2-2: Penalty Assessment Misdemeanors; Definitions And Schedule Of
Assessments
12-2-3: Penalty Assessment Misdemeanors; Option; Effect
12-2-4: Penalty Assessment Revenue; Disposition
12-2-5: Failure To Pay Penalty Assessment
12-2-1: DECLARATION OF INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of the City in enacting this chapter is to establish a
Municipal penalty assessment misdemeanor program with respect to certain motor
vehicle offenses, more particularly listed hereinafter, as authorized by laws
of the State of New Mexico; to provide for the use and disposition of the
monies derived therefrom; and to repeal all prior ordinances inconsistent with
this chapter. (Ord. 644, 11-13-2001)
12-2-2: PENALTY ASSESSMENT MISDEMEANORS; DEFINITIONS AND SCHEDULE OF
ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   As used in this chapter, “penalty assessment misdemeanor” means
violation of any of the following listed sections of the New Mexico uniform
traffic ordinance in force in the City of Artesia for which the listed penalty
assessments plus any additional fees mandated by applicable State Statute in
effect on the date of the offense, which fees, as now exist and which may be
changed from time to time, are hereby incorporated by reference into this
section:
Common Name Of Offense Section  Penalty Assessment
                       Violated
Common Name Of Offense                                                        Section  Penalty
                                                                              Violated Assessment
Unauthorized Parking in Permit Area                                           12-3-7   75.00
Obedience to Required Traffic Control Devices                                 12-5-3   75.00
Red Light Violation                                                           12-5-6C  75.00
Pedestrian Control Signals                                                    12-5-7   75.00
Flashing Signals                                                              12-5-8   75.00
Display of Unauthorized Signs, Signals, or Markings                           12-5-10  75.00
Speeding:
   Up to and including 10 mph Over Speed Limit                             12-6-    75.00
                                                                              1.2C
   11-15 mph Over Speed Limit                                              12-6-    80.00
                                                                              1.2D
   16-20 mph Over Speed Limit                                              12-6-    115.00
                                                                              1.2E
   21-25 mph Over Speed Limit                                              12-6-    150.00
                                                                              1.2F
   26-30 mph Over Speed Limit                                              12-6-L2G 175.00
   31-35 mph Over Speed Limit                                              12-6-    200.00
                                                                              1.2H
   More than 35 mph Over Speed Limit                                       12-6-    250.00
                                                                              1.21
   Minimum Speed Regulations                                               12-6-1.5 75.00
Failure to Drive on Right Half of Street                                      12-6-2.1 75.00
                                                                              A
Overtaking a Vehicle on the Left                                              12-6-2.3 75.00
Limitations on Overtaking on the Left                                         12-6-2.4 75.00
No Passing Zones and Restrictions on Passing                                  12-6-2.7 75.00
Passing in the School Zone                                                    12-6-    150.00
                                                                              2.7D
Driving Wrong Way on One-way Street                                           12-6-    75.00
                                                                              2.98
Following Too Closely                                                         12-6-    75.00
                                                                              2.13
Driving on Divided Streets                                                    12-6-    75.00
                                                                              2.14
Vehicle Approaching or Entering Intersection                                  12-6-4.1 75.00
Vehicle Turning Left at Intersection                                          12-6-4.2 75.00
Vehicle Entering Stop or Yield Intersection                                   12-6-4.3 75.00
Stop Sign Violation                                                           12-6-    75.00
                                                                              4.3B
Improper Right Turn                                                           12-6-    75.00
                                                                              5.1A
Improper Crossing of Property to Avoid Traffic Device                         12-6-    75.00
                                                                              5.IE
Obedience to No-turn Signs                                                    12-6-5.4 75.00
Limitations on Turning Around Parked Vehicle                                  12-6-5.5 75.00
Starting Parked Vehicle                                                       12-6-5.7 75.00
                                                                              12-6-
Turning and Stopping Movements and Required Signals                           5.8A, B, 75.00
                                                                              C and D
Stopping, Standing, and Parking:
   Stopping, Standing, or Parking in Prohibited Places                     12-6-6.1 75.00
   Parking in Improper Position                                            12-6-6.2 75.00
   Stopped or Parked Vehicles Not to Interfere with Other Traffic          12-6-6.3 75.00
   Improper Parking in Alleys                                              12-6-6.4 75.00
   All-night Parking Prohibited                                            12-6-6.5 75.00
   Parking for Prohibited Purposes (Display for Sale or Parking for Repair 12-6-6.6 75.00
Prohibited in Streets)
   Parking Adjacent to Schools Prohibited                                  12-6-6.7 75.00
   Parking Prohibited on Narrow Streets                                    12-6-6.8 75.00
   Standing or Parking Where Prohibited on One-way Streets                 12-6-6.9 75.00
   Standing or Parking Where Prohibited on Divided Streets                 12-6-    75.00
                                                                              6.10
   No Stopping, Standing, or Parking Near Hazardous or Congested Places    12-6-    75.00
                                                                              6.11
Overtime Parking:
   1st Offense                                                             12-6-    55.00
                                                                              6.12
   2nd Offense                                                             12-6-    60.00
                                                                              6.12
Angle Parking and Permits for Loading/Unloading at an Angle to the Curb       12-6-    75.00
                                                                              6.13
Stopping, Standing, or Parking Outside of Businesses or Residence Districts   12-6-    75.00
                                                                              6.14
Special Stops Required:
   Emerging from Alley, Building, Driveway or Private Road                 12-6-7.1 75.00
   Stopping for School Bus                                                 12-6-7.3 150.00
   Failure to Stop at Railroad - Highway Grade Crossing                    12-6-7.7 200.00
Stopping, Standing, or Parking in Freight Curb Loading Zone                   12-6-8.4 75.00
Careless Driving:
   Attention                                                               12-6-    100.00
                                                                              12.4A
   Due Regard                                                              12-6-    100.00
                                                                              12.4B
Operators and Chauffeurs Must be Licensed                                     12-6-    75.00
                                                                              12.5
Driving While Administratively Suspended                                      12-6-    75.00
                                                                              12,6A
Limitations on Backing                                                        12-6-    75.00
                                                                              12.9
Restriction on Use of Video in Motor Vehicles                                 12-6-    75.00
                                                                              12.11
Coasting Prohibited                                                           12-6-    75.00
                                                                              12.12
Prohibited Activities While Driving:
   Activity Interfering with Driving                                       12-6-    75.00
                                                                              12.18(1)
   Person or Animal on Lap                                                 12-6-    75.00
                                                                              12.18(2)
   Driving While Seated on Lap of Another Person                           12-6-    75.00
                                                                              12.18(3)
   Arm Around Another Person                                               12-6-    75.00
                                                                              12.18(4)
   Operating Vehicle to Distract or Disturb the Peace                      12-6-    75.00
                                                                              12.18(5)
                                                                              12-6-
Exhibition Driving                                                            12.19B(3 100.00
                                                                              )
Unhitched Trailer on Street                                                   12-6-    75.00
                                                                              13.3
Destructive or Injurious Material on Roadway                                  12-6-    150.00
                                                                              13.5
Animals on Streets                                                            126-     75.00
                                                                              13.10
Child Not in Restraint Device or Safety Belt                                  12-6-    100.00
                                                                              13.12
Mandatory Use of Seatbelts                                                    12-6-    75.00
                                                                              13.13
Open Container - 1 st Offense                                                 12-6-    85.00
                                                                              13.14
Littering                                                                     12-6-    350.00
                                                                              13.15
Pedestrian Violations:
   Pedestrian’s Right-of-Way in Crosswalks                               12-6-    75.00
                                                                              14.2
   Pedestrians to Use Right Half of Sidewalk                               12-6-    75.00
                                                                              14.3
   Crossing at Other Than Crosswalks                                       12-6-    75.00
                                                                              14.4
   Pedestrians on Street                                                   12-6-    75.00
                                                                              14.5
   Drivers to Exercise Due Care                                            12-6-    75.00
                                                                              14.8
Texting While Driving:
   1st Offense                                                             12-6-18  75.00
   2nd Offense                                                             12-6-18  100.00
Eye Protection Required for Motorcycle Operation                              12-7-5   75.00
Prohibited Acts                                                               12-10-   75.00
                                                                              1.1
Vehicle to be in Safe Condition                                               12-10-   100.00
                                                                              1.2A
When Lighted Lamps are Required                                               12-10-   75.00
                                                                              1.3
Headlamps of Vehicles                                                         12-10-   75.00
                                                                              1.5
Dimming of Headlights                                                         12-10-   75.00
                                                                              1.6
Tail Lamps Required                                                           12-10-   75.00
                                                                              1.7
Vehicles to be Equipped with Reflectors                                       12-10-   75.00
                                                                              1.8
Stop Lamps and Signal Lamps and Devices Required                              12-10-   75.00
                                                                              1.9
Mufflers Required - Prevention of Noise                                       12-10-   75.00
                                                                              1.10
Lamp or Flag on Projecting Load                                               12-10-   75.00
                                                                              1.11
Windshields Must be Unobstructed                                              12-10-   125.00
                                                                              1.12
Sun Screening Materials                                                       12-10-   125.00
                                                                              1.12A
Vehicle Subject to Registration                                               12-10-4  100.00
Display of Current Valid Registration Plate                                   12-10-   85.00
                                                                              4.1
Evidence of Registration to be Signed and Exhibited Upon Demand               12-10-5  85.00
 
   B.   The term “penalty assessment misdemeanor” does not include any
violation which has caused or contributed to the cause of an accident resulting
in injury or death to any person.
   C.   When an alleged violator of a penalty assessment misdemeanor elects to
accept a notice to appear in lieu of a notice of penalty assessment, no fine
imposed upon later conviction shall exceed the penalty assessment established
for the particular penalty assessment misdemeanor and no probation imposed upon
a suspended or deferred sentence shall exceed ninety (90) days.
   D.   The penalty assessment for speeding in violation of section 12-6-1.2(4)
of the uniform traffic ordinance is twice the penalty assessment established in
subsection A of this section for the equivalent miles per hour over the speed
limit. (Ord. 1038, 11-13-2018, eff. 12-1-2018; amd. Ord. 1072, 4-14-2020; Ord.
O-1134, 8-13-2024)
12-2-3: PENALTY ASSESSMENT MISDEMEANORS; OPTION; EFFECT:
   A.   Unless a warning notice is given at the time of making an arrest for
any penalty assessment misdemeanor, the arresting officer shall offer the
alleged violator the option of accepting a penalty assessment. The violator's
signature on the penalty assessment notice constitutes an acknowledgment of
guilt of the offense stated in the notice.
   B.   Payment of any penalty assessment must be made by mail to the Municipal
Court within thirty (30) days from the date of arrest. Payments of penalty
assessments are timely if postmarked within thirty (30) days from the date of
arrest. The Municipal Court may issue a receipt when a penalty assessment is
paid by currency, but checks tendered by the violator upon which payment is
received are sufficient receipts.
   C.   No record of any penalty assessment payment is admissible as evidence
in any court in any civil action. (Ord. 644, 11-13-2001)
12-2-4: PENALTY ASSESSMENT REVENUE; DISPOSITION:
All penalty assessment receipts, except corrections fees collected pursuant to
section 12-12-1.3 of the uniform traffic ordinance, shall be remitted by the
Municipal Court to the City Clerk for credit to the General Fund of the City.
(Ord. 644, 11-13-2001)
12-2-5: FAILURE TO PAY PENALTY ASSESSMENT:
   A.   If a penalty assessment is not paid within thirty (30) days from the
date of arrest, the Municipal Court shall forward a record of the violator's
failure to pay penalty assessment to the New Mexico Division of Motor Vehicles
for such action, including suspension of the violator's privilege to drive a
motor vehicle, as may be required by law.
   B.   In addition to the action provided in subsection A of this section, it
is a misdemeanor for any person who has elected to pay a penalty assessment to
fail to do so within thirty (30) days from the date of arrest. (Ord. 644, 11-
13-2001)
CHAPTER 3
PERMIT PARKING AREAS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Authority To Establish Permitted Parking Areas
12-3-2: Installation Of Permitted Parking Signs
12-3-3: Parking Time Limits
12-3-4: Display Of Parking Permits
12-3-5: Issuance Of Parking Permits
12-3-6: Presumption Of Unlawful Parking
12-3-7: Prohibited Parking
12-3-8: Tampering With Permit Parking Signs
12-3-9: Fees For Issuance Of Parking Permits
12-3-1: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH PERMITTED PARKING AREAS:
   A.   The administrator may establish permitted parking areas in which the
parking of vehicles upon streets of Artesia shall be regulated by parking
permits.
   B.   The administrator may limit the period of time for which parking is
lawfully permitted in any parking area in which permits are required.
   C.   The permitted parking areas may be diminished or enlarged. (Ord. 593,
10-28-1997)
12-3-2: INSTALLATION OF PERMITTED PARKING SIGNS:
   A.   The administrator shall install signs in established permit parking
zones.
   B.   Parking permit signs shall be placed on the curb immediately adjacent
to each designated permit parking area. During the lawful permit parking
period, a valid parking permit shall be readily and obviously displayed in any
vehicle parked in a permit parking area. (Ord. 593, 10-28-1997)
12-3-3: PARKING TIME LIMITS:
   A.   Parking a vehicle in a designated permit parking area shall be lawful
for a period of time as determined by the administrator.
   B.   Parking in a designated permit parking area shall be lawful only upon
the display of a valid parking permit. (Ord. 593, 10-28-1997)
12-3-4: DISPLAY OF PARKING PERMITS:
Valid parking permits shall be displayed to be obvious. (Ord. 593, 10-28-1997)
12-3-5: ISSUANCE OF PARKING PERMITS:
   A.   Parking permits, for designated parking permit areas, shall be issued
at City Hall, 511 West Texas Avenue, Artesia, Eddy County, New Mexico.
   B.   Parking permits may be issued to persons residing on property with
front or side lot boundaries immediately adjacent to a designated permit
parking area.
   C.   Persons requesting a parking permit shall provide proof of residence at
the address of property adjacent to a designated permit parking area. Proof
shall be provided at such time that application is made and is subject to
verification by the administrator or his designated representative.
   D.   The number of parking permits issued shall be based on frontage or side
distance immediately adjacent to a designated permit parking area. A maximum of
one permit per each nine feet (9') of boundary distance where angled parking is
designated and one permit per each twenty feet (20') of boundary distance where
parallel parking is designated shall be issued to resident of each property
immediately adjacent to a designated permit parking area.
   E.   Permits shall not be sold or transferred for use other than by the
resident of the property.
   F.   Permits may be assigned to residents for use by individuals visiting
the property on a temporary basis. Property owner shall agree to accept
responsibility for proper use and display of permits when such are used by a
visiting individual.
   G.   Compensation shall not be requested or received for the use of permit
by a visiting individual.
   H.   Permits shall only be valid for permit parking on frontage directly
adjacent to the property owned by the individual to which the permit was
issued.
   I.   Permit shall be valid only as long as the individual who was issued the
permit resides on the property directly adjacent to a designated permit parking
area. After such time, the permits shall be void.
   J.   The administrator, or his designated representative, shall have the
right to refuse issuance of permits.
   K.   Lost, stolen or illegible permits shall be reported and returned, if
possible, to city hall. Replacement permits or new number permits may be issued
at the discretion of the administrator or the designated representative.
   L.   Permits may not be printed or duplicated. (Ord. 593, 10-28-1997)
12-3-6: PRESUMPTION OF UNLAWFUL PARKING:
   A.   When a vehicle is parked in a designated permit parking area in a
manner not consistent with this chapter and does not display a valid parking
permit, it shall be presumed that such vehicle is in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 593, 10-28-1997)
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to display a parking permit or to cause
or allow a permit to be displayed in any vehicle when such person is not a
resident or a visitor of such resident. (Ord. 593, 10-28-1997; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Violation and fines shall be assessed to and against the owner of the
vehicle presumed to be parked unlawfully. (Ord. 593, 10-28-1997)
12-3-7: PROHIBITED PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to be parked in any designated permit
parking area which is not parked in complete conformance with this chapter.
(Ord. 593, 10-28-1997)
12-3-8: TAMPERING WITH PERMIT PARKING SIGNS:
No person shall deface, injure, tamper with, remove, relocate, or wilfully
destroy or impair the usefulness of a parking permit area designation sign.
(Ord. 593, 10-28-1997)
12-3-9: FEES FOR ISSUANCE OF PARKING PERMITS:
The administrator shall charge a fee for issuance of parking permits in the
amount equal to that required for printing and recording permits for
administration. (Ord. 593, 10-28-1997)
