CLAYTON, NEW MEXICO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 722, passed 5-10-2023
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
Ernest Sanchez     Mayor
Coby Beckner       Mayor Pro-Tem
Deano Arellano     Trustee
Judy Steen         Trustee
Russell Lees       Trustee
Ferron Lucero      Manager
Stephanie Arellano Deputy Clerk
Robert Beck        Attorney
Katherine Barnes   Treasurer
                   
 
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
   Mandatory corrections fees, see §
34.01
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This 2010 codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Clayton, New
Mexico, shall be designated as the “Town of Clayton Code of Ordinances” and may
be cited herein as “this code” or “this code of ordinances”.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, compatible with future legislation, shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted, amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings, captions and statutory references used in this code other than the
title, chapter, subchapter and section number are employed for reference
purposes only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and
usual sense.
      (2)   However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical
import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPOINTED OFFICIAL. Any person appointed to a board, committee,
commission or advisory body, in accordance with this code of ordinances.
APPOINTED OFFICIALS are not subject to the provisions of the town personnel
ordinance and shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
      BOARD or BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The governing body of the Town of Clayton,
New Mexico.
      CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the town who is entitled to
grievance in accordance with the personnel policies and work rules and who is
not exempt under the Fair Labor Standards Act being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq.
      CODE or CODE OF ORDINANCES. The town’s code of ordinances, as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new chapters, subchapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Union County, New Mexico.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL. Those town officials elected under the laws of the
state, specifically, the Municipal Judge and members of the governing body.
      EX OFFICIO. A person assigned to a standing board or committee by virtue
of his or her office. The person shall not be permitted to make or second
motions, to vote on any matter or to be counted for the purpose of a quorum.
      GOVERNING BODY. The members of the Board of Trustees. The corporate
authority of the municipality is vested in this body.
      INTERPRETATION. For the purpose of this code and ensuing chapters and
appendices and when not inconsistent with the context:
         (a)   Words used in the present tense include the future;
         (b)   Words in the future tense include the present;
         (c)   Words in the plural include the singular;
         (d)   Words in the singular include the plural;
         (e)   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory;
the word “may” is permissive; and
         (f)   The impersonal pronouns “he”, “him”, “his” and “himself” shall
denote either the feminine or the masculine gender.
      MAYOR.
         (a)   Elected officer of the town who exercises administrative control
and supervision over the town and hires or appoints directors of all town
departments.
         (b)   Where applicable, the term MAYOR means those persons whose
authority has been granted by the MAYOR.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      MUNICIPAL OFFICER. Any appointed employee. A MUNICIPAL OFFICER is limited
to a DEPARTMENT DIRECTOR.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the town unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver; and
         (b)   Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty,
the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to any unincorporated entity, shall
mean the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the
officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of New Mexico.
      TOWN. The Town of Clayton, New Mexico.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
governing body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requirement shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this code of ordinances are severable, and if any
provision, subchapter, section, division, clause, sentence or part thereof is
held to be illegal, invalid, unconstitutional or inapplicable, to any person,
persons, circumstances, situation or otherwise, the illegality, invalidity,
unconstitutionality or inapplicability shall not affect or impair any of the
remaining sentences, clauses, divisions, sections, subchapter or parts of this
code of ordinances, or their applicability to other persons, circumstances or
situations.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever, in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within the town for the transaction of all town business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done shall be computed by
excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day be a Saturday, Sunday or town holiday, it shall be
excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   An ordinance shall not become effective until 5 days after it has been
published unless passed and approved as an emergency measure, in which event it
shall become effective immediately following publication or at a subsequent
date determined by the governing body.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceeding, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the governing body shall desire to amend any existing chapter,
subchapter or section of this code, the chapter, subchapter or section shall be
specifically repealed and a new chapter, subchapter or section, containing the
desired amendment, substituted in its place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter, subchapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the
arrangement of this code, the proper number of the chapter, subchapter or
section.
      (2)   In addition to the indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the original ordinance and
amending ordinances, if any, are listed. Example:
(Ord. 93, passed 1-20-1980; Am. Ord. 98, passed 1-20-1990; Am. Ord. 99, passed
1-20-2000)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
         § 33.025 JURISDICTION.
         The Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction over all offenses and
complaints under the ordinances of the town and may issue subpoenas and
warrants and punish for contempt, and the Municipal Court shall have
jurisdiction over other matters as may be authorized pursuant to state law.
(NMSA § 35-14-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 30.05 LEGISLATION GENERALLY.
         The passage of ordinances and other legislation by the Board of
Trustees shall be in conformity with state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Ordinances, see NMSA § 14-16
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless a lesser maximum penalty or a specific penalty is established
by ordinance or statute for a particular offense, the maximum penalty for
violation of an ordinance or code provision, except for violations set forth in
divisions (B) and (C) of this section, shall be a fine of not more than $500 or
imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both.
   (B)   For violations of an ordinance or code provision prohibiting driving a
motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs, a fine
of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 364 days, or both.
   (C)   For violations of an industrial user wastewater pretreatment ordinance
or code provision as required by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency, a fine of not more than $1,000 a day for each violation.
(NMSA § 3-7-1)
   (D)   (1)   In alleged violations of any ordinance of the town not involving
a breach of the peace, the first process issued by the Municipal Court of the
town shall be a citation or summons requiring the party charged to appear
before the Municipal Court at a time and date fixed in the citation or summons.
      (2)   Upon failure of the party charged to appear, a warrant for his or
her arrest shall forthwith be issued by the Municipal Judge for the offense
specified in the citation or summons, commanding that the party charged be
arrested, and proceedings had as in the case as when arrest is made upon a
warrant issued upon affidavit.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-8-1974)
Cross-reference:
   Mandatory fees upon conviction, see §
34.01
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Town seal
§ 11.01 TOWN SEAL.
   (A)   A seal shall be adopted, the impression of which shall be as follows:
In the center the word “seal” and surrounding the word in a circle, the words
“Town of Clayton, New Mexico”.
   (B)   The seal of the town shall be affixed to all transcripts, orders,
certificates and other documents which it may be necessary and proper to
authenticate under the provisions of the town ordinances.
(Ord. 2, passed 6-3-1908)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
32.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   MUNICIPAL PROCEDURES
      
34.   FINANCES AND FUNDS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Prohibited smoking in public places
   
30.02   Unlawful to refuse to leave a public educational facility when asked by
an employee to leave
 
   
30.99   Penalty
§ 30.01 PROHIBITED SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   Smoking is prohibited in the Town of Clayton’s buildings as follows:
      (1)   Administrative offices in the Town Hall building;
      (2)   Albert W. Thompson Memorial Library building; and
      (3)   Senior Citizens Center building.
   (B)   Smoking is prohibited in all other buildings owned by the Town of
Clayton in areas in which a “No Smoking” sign is posted.
(Ord. 602, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 30.02 UNLAWFUL TO REFUSE TO LEAVE A PUBLIC EDUCATIONAL FACILITY WHEN ASKED BY
AN EMPLOYEE TO LEAVE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person having no legitimate educational
purpose at a public educational institution within the municipality of Clayton,
New Mexico, or for any person having acted in a manner disruptive, disturbing
or distractive to the educational atmosphere of the institution to fail or
refuse to leave the premises, buildings, grounds of the institution or the
vicinity within 300 feet of the institution after having been requested to so
leave by an employee of the institution.
   (B)   This section shall take effect and be in full force 30 days from and
after the publication, passage and approval of this section.
(Ord. 566, passed 1-23-1989) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Prohibited smoking in public places. Any person who smokes on the Town
of Clayton’s property where smoking is prohibited, as set forth in §
30.01, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined from
$100 up to $300 or imprisoned for up to 6 months, or receive both the fine and
imprisonment.
(Ord. 602, passed 3-11-1996)
   (C)   Unlawful to refuse to leave a public educational facility when asked
by an employee to leave. Any person found to have violated §
30.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $50 for each violation. Any person convicted of a violation
of this section 3 or more times shall be subject to imprisonment for not more
than 2 days for the third and each subsequent violation in addition to being
fined.
(Ord. 566, passed 1-23-1989)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Officials
   
31.01   Code Enforcement Officer
   
31.02   Substitute Municipal Judge
   
31.03   Office of Town Clerk-Treasurer combined
   
31.04   Street Commissioner
   
31.05   Town Engineer
   
31.06   Justice of the Peace
   
31.07   Officers for electric light systems
Officers; Duties and Powers
   
31.25   Officers other than the Board of Trustees shall be created by the Board
   
31.26   Officers to take an oath
   
31.27   Treasurer and Marshal; bonds
   
31.28   Town Clerk
   
31.29   Town Treasurer
   
31.30   Warrants and monies
   
31.31   Town Attorney
   
31.32   Police Chief
Cross-reference:
   Electrical Inspection Department, see §
32.05
   Electrical wiring, see
Chapter 54
OFFICIALS
§ 31.01 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The position of Code Enforcement Officer is hereby established.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall be designated by the Chief of
Police with the approval of the Mayor and shall be subordinate to the Chief of
Police.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall have authority to investigate,
issue citations and prosecute violations in Municipal Court on the following
matters:
      (1)   Junk on vacant lots;
      (2)   Weeds;
      (3)   Addressing;
      (4)   Signage;
      (5)   Setbacks, fences and nonconforming uses;
      (6)   Junk and abandoned vehicles; and
      (7)   Sidewalks, curbs and gutters; including without limitation in §§
94.22,
95.35,
96.01,
96.06,
150.01 and
154.01 and to investigate dangerous buildings and debris and refer matters to
the Board of Trustees for action under NMSA § 3-18-5.
   (D)   The duty and authority given hereby to the Code Enforcement Officer is
in addition to the authority of town police officers to investigate, issue
citations and prosecute in Municipal Court any of the matters identified in
this section, and nothing in this section limits the ability of any town
employee or official to perform any duty or exercise any authority provided by
statute, other ordinance or other law.
(Ord. 646, passed 11-15-2005)
§ 31.02 SUBSTITUTE MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   Pursuant to authority granted by NMSA § 35-14-5, the following procedures
shall apply for appointment of the substitute municipal judge:
   (A)   A substitute judge may be nominated at a regular meeting or special
meeting of the governing body of the town by the Mayor or Mayor Pro-Tem;
   (B)   The appointee shall be confirmed by majority vote of the governing
body just as appointed officials normally are confirmed;
   (C)   In an emergency, a temporary appointment may be made in accordance
with established law regarding appointment of temporary officials; and
   (D)   Any substitute judge appointed hereunder shall be compensated at the
same hourly rate as the permanent judge based upon the average time spent at
the occupation by the permanent judge. But the compensation shall not exceed
the compensation which would have been received by the permanent judge for any
period of service. For example, if a substitute judge handles the Municipal
Court business for a period of 2 weeks, he or she shall receive a maximum of ½
the monthly salary of the elected Municipal Judge.
(Ord. 556, passed 5-27-1986)
§ 31.03 OFFICE OF TOWN CLERK-TREASURER COMBINED.
   (A)   Hereafter, the Offices of Town Clerk and Town Treasurer shall be
combined and held by 1 person, that is, the duly elected or appointed,
qualified and acting Town Clerk shall likewise be ex officio Treasurer. The
Clerk, as ex officio Treasurer, shall hereafter exercise all the authority and
powers heretofore vested in the Treasurer, and shall likewise perform all the
duties heretofore performed by the Treasurer; provided, however, that no
additional compensation shall be paid to the Clerk by reason of the performance
of the duties of the office of Treasurer.
   (B)   In addition to the bond required of the Clerk in his or her capacity
as Clerk, the statutory bond for Municipal Treasurers shall be separately given
by the Clerk in his or her capacity as Treasurer of the town.
(Ord. 270, passed 2-28-1938)
§ 31.04 STREET COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to appoint some suitable person, who shall be
confirmed by the Board of Trustees as Street Commissioner. The Street
Commissioner shall be ex officio Road Supervisor and shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board of Trustees or until his or her successor is appointed
and qualified. He or she may be compelled to give bond to the town in a sum as
the Board of Trustees may designate, with sureties to be approved by the Mayor.
He or she shall receive compensation as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to have charge and
exercise a general supervision under and by direction of the proper Board
Committees of all streets, alleys, bridges and crossings and to supervise and
have charge of all grading, repair work or any improvement whatever upon the
streets, alleys, crossings and bridges of the town.
   (C)   The Street Commissioner shall, on or before April 1 of each year, make
a complete list of all residents of the town subject to road labor under the
laws of the State of New Mexico, in a book kept for that purpose. He or she
shall submit the list to the Board of Trustees at the first regular meeting in
April of each year. The Board of Trustees at the meeting shall fix the number
of days that each person shall be required to work for the current year, which
shall be not less than 2 nor more than 5 days, provided any person may pay in
lieu thereof $1 for each day’s work required or furnish a substitute to perform
the labor.
   (D)   The Street Commissioner shall, between May 1 and December 1 of each
year, summon all persons subject to the labor. The summons shall be by personal
notice, giving 3 days’ time and the time and place where the labor is required.
Any person subject to road labor as required by this section and under the laws
of the state, after being duly notified, who shall refuse to perform the labor,
pay or furnish a substitute as required by this section, shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof before the Justice of the Peace of
his or her precinct shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $5 and costs.
   (E)   The Street Commissioner shall give receipts for all money collected by
him or her under this section and deposit the same with the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, to the credit of the Street Fund, and the money shall not be used
for any other purpose except street improvements. He or she shall render
complete and itemized accounts when demanded by the Board of Trustees of all
collections and expenditures together with the number of days worked on the
streets during the year and shall report likewise upon all work and conditions
of the streets, alleys, crossings and bridges at the time as required by the
Board of Trustees.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner once a month, and more
often if necessary, to inspect all streets, alleys, crossings and bridges in
the town limits, and to at once report all needed repairs and improvements. He
or she may be the Town Marshal or a Deputy Marshal and may work the prisoners
upon the streets. He or she shall have charge of all town teams, hauling and
street sprinkling and shall employ men and women and designate forepersons for
any work required, under wages and regulations as may be fixed by the Board of
Trustees.
   (G)   If the owner of property abutting on or adjoining any sidewalk shall
allow the same to become out of repair or shall allow the same to become
obstructed or dangerous by having snow or ice accumulated thereon, the Street
Commissioner shall notify him or her or his or her agent in charge of the
property or sidewalk, and if the owner fails or refuses to repair the sidewalk
or remove the obstruction, snow or ice, within a reasonable length of time, he
or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $10 and shall further be liable for any
damages caused by the defective condition on the sidewalk as well as the
payment to the Street Commissioner, a reasonable charge in case the
Commissioner removes the same.
(Ord. 59, passed 1-19-1912) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.05 TOWN ENGINEER.
   (A)   The Office of Town Engineer is hereby created; the Engineer shall be
appointed by the Board of Trustees to serve for the time as may be designated
by the appointment, and the Engineer shall receive no salary, but be paid the
compensation for his or her services as may be agreed upon by contract between
the Engineer and the Board of Trustees of the town.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Engineer to do all the necessary
civil engineering and surveying work of the town, and he or she shall supervise
and superintend at the direction of the Board of Trustees of the town, the
grading, paving and repairing of streets, alleys, sidewalks and any other
improvements that may be necessary to be done within the corporate limits of
the town.
(Ord. 31, passed 11-30-1908)
§ 31.06 JUSTICE OF THE PEACE.
   (A)   The duly elected and qualified or qualified and acting Justice of the
Peace of Precinct No. 1 of Union County, New Mexico, is hereby designated as
the Justice of the Peace who shall have jurisdiction of all violations of the
ordinances of the Board of Trustees of the town, except in cases in which he or
she may be interested or otherwise disqualified.
(Am. Ord. 39, passed 3-3-1909)
   (B)   The Justice of the Peace shall, before proceeding to try any person
for the violation of any ordinance of the town, cause complaint to be made and
warrant issued to arrest the person, and return to be made on the warrant.
   (C)   All cases tried before the Justice of the Peace shall be docketed in
the name of the Town of Clayton against the defendant, and the Justice of the
Peace shall enter on the docket in a plain intelligible manner a minute of each
step in the case, and of all particular costs assessed in same.
   (D)   Judgment shall be entered in each and every case of guilty or not
guilty of the offenses charged, and by that judgment the defendant shall be
discharged, fined or imprisoned, or fined and imprisoned, as the case may be,
and where defendant is found guilty, the costs of the case shall be assessed
against him or her and no cost shall be assessed otherwise; and all judgments
imposing a fine, except where fine and imprisonment are both imposed, shall be
in the alternative of imprisonment for a specified number of days or until the
fine and costs are paid, in default of immediate payment of the fine and costs.
   (E)   Where the judgment of “guilty” shall be entered in any case before him
or her, the Justice of the Peace shall issue a commitment against the person or
defendant, commanding the Police Chief of the town, in default of immediate
payment of the fine and costs as may have been assessed, to commit the
defendant to the town jail or the county jail to labor in accordance with the
terms of the judgment and the ordinances of the town.
   (F)   Whenever, in accordance with the laws of the State of New Mexico, the
defendant in any case may be entitled to an appeal, the same shall be allowed
in accordance therewith by filing a bond with 2 sufficient securities in double
the amount of the highest penalty that could or might be assessed in that case;
provided, that the appeal shall not operate as a supersedeas in the case until
the bond shall have been given and approved, and no cost shall be demanded as a
condition of the appeal or the approval of the appeal bond.
   (H)   In all cases where the fee is not herein provided, the Justice of the
Peace shall be entitled to demand and receive the fees as now allowed Justices
of the Peace under the laws of New Mexico.
   (I)   The Justice of the Peace, before proceeding with the trial of any
case, shall notify the Attorney of the town and shall not try any case wherein
the Town of Clayton is interested without the presence of the Attorney.
(Ord. 4, passed 6-3-1908)
§ 31.07 OFFICERS FOR ELECTRIC LIGHT SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall employ 1 or 2 assistants, subject to the
approval of the Mayor and Board, who shall, under the direction of the
Superintendent, have charge of the engines, pumps and machinery connected with
the Electric Light and Water Systems, keep the same in order and ready at all
times for service and manage the same while in operation. They shall, in
addition, have authority to tap all mains and distributing pipes and insert the
ferrules and corporation cocks and be subject to the orders of, and under the
supervision of, the Superintendent in all matters.
   (B)   (1)   The Superintendent shall, under the direction and supervision of
the Mayor or the Managing Trustee, have general management and control of the
Water and Electric Light Systems of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico and shall
have authority to fix the rates, within the limits as may be prescribed by
ordinance to be paid by the inhabitants of the town for the use of water, water
meters, electric lights, motors, light meters and hydrants. He or she shall
make a detailed report to the Board of Trustees at least once every 6 months of
the condition of the systems and of all mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs,
machinery, poles and light lines and recommend any improvements, repairs and
extensions as he or she may think proper.
      (2)   He or she shall furnish the Managing Trustee with additional
reports at any time as they may be called for.
      (3)   He or she shall also perform any other duties as may be required of
him or her by ordinance, and he or she is authorized, whenever the public good
demands, to employ additional laborers to assist him or her. All requisitions
for material and supplies for the systems shall be made by the Superintendent
in duplicate, the duplicate copy to be retained in his or her office, the
original copy to be approved by the Managing Trustee, then turned over to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Clayton as his or her authority for making
the order. The Superintendent shall keep a book at the plant in which all work
shall be recorded as it is done. All material and supplies received, all
trouble and repair work attended to shall be recorded thereon. The
Superintendent shall keep in duplicate, a record of each installation of water
or electric lights and each repair job showing quantity and amount of material
taken out on the job and the time spent by each person. One copy of the above
is to be retained in his or her office, the original copy to be given the
Secretary and Collector for making the proper charges and collections. The
Superintendent shall make all estimates in duplicate, 1 copy to be given the
customer and the other to be retained in his or her office. All the records of
the Superintendent shall be open for the inspection of the Managing Trustee or
Mayor at any and all times. The Superintendent shall check and approve all time
sheets, bills for material, labor and supplies received for the Water and
Electric Light Systems, turning the same back to the Town Clerk-Treasurer after
they are checked and approved.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall elect or appoint a Secretary and Collector
for the Water and Electric Light Systems, who shall hold his or her office
during the pleasure of the Board of Trustees, provided that he or she shall not
be removed except for cause.
   (D)   The Secretary and Collector shall execute a surety bond to the Town of
Clayton to be approved by the Mayor and Board of Trustees, in the sum of
$1,000, conditioned that he or she will faithfully discharge the duties of his
or her office and account for and turn over to the proper authorities all
monies, books and papers which may come into his or her hands by virtue of his
or her office.
   (E)   The Collector and Secretary shall open an account in a book or ledger
provided for that purpose with each water or electric light consumer in the
town, and keep a just and accurate account with each. He or she shall collect
all monies receivable by the town on account of the systems and faithfully
account for same, and pay the same over to the Town Clerk-Treasurer of the Town
of Clayton each and every month taking his or her receipt in duplicate and
filing 1 of the same with the Town Clerk-Treasurer. He or she shall report to
the Board of Trustees by day 15 of each month the total amount due to the town
at the close of the preceding month, the amount paid on that month’s bills and
the amounts paid on the bills of the preceding months. All supplies for his or
her office shall be ordered by the Town Clerk-Treasurer on the requisition of
the Collector and Secretary when approved by the Managing Trustee. He or she
shall report at the close of each month the names and amounts of each customer
30 days or over in arrears with his or her bills. All bills or charges against
consumers for water, electric lights, supplies or charges of whatever nature
shall be made in duplicate and numbered. The original to be given the customer
when paid, the duplicate to remain permanently in the book. All books, papers
and records of the town shall be opened for the inspection of the Managing
Trustee or Mayor at any and all times. The Secretary and Collector shall
perform the other duties as may be required of him or her by ordinance.
(Ord. 57, passed 6-13-1911)
OFFICERS; DUTIES AND POWERS
§ 31.25 OFFICERS OTHER THAN THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES SHALL BE CREATED BY THE
BOARD.
   The officers of the town, other than the Board of Trustees, shall be a Town
Clerk-Treasurer, a Town Attorney, a Town Marshal, and others as the Board of
Trustees shall hereafter create, not inconsistent with the laws and statutes of
the State of New Mexico in such cases made and provided.
(Ord. 3, passed 6-3-1908)
§ 31.26 OFFICERS TO TAKE AN OATH.
   Each and every officer of the Town of Clayton, whether elected or appointed,
shall, before entering upon the duties of his or her office, take and subscribe
an oath that he or she will well and truly perform all the duties of his or her
office to the best of his or her skill and ability, and that he or she will
support the Constitution of the United States and the laws of the State of New
Mexico. The oath is to be in the form prescribed by law.
(Ord. 3, passed 6-3-1908)
§ 31.27 TREASURER AND MARSHAL; BONDS.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer and Marshal of the town, before entering upon the
duties of their respective offices, shall execute bonds to the Town of Clayton,
with securities to be approved by the Board of Trustees of the town,
conditioned that they will faithfully perform the duties of their respective
offices, and they will, when they vacate their respective offices, surrender
and turn over to their successors all monies, books, papers, property and other
things in their custody or control belonging to the town. The penalties of the
bond required by this section shall be as follows: the Clerk-Treasurer, $1,000;
the Marshal, $1,000; and the Board of Trustees of the town may increase the
bonds and may require bonds from any and other officials, and fix the amounts
therefor, when in its judgment the same is necessary. The bond shall be filed
with the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, and by him or her kept and preserved in
some secure place, subject, however, at all times to the inspection of the Town
Board of Trustees, and the bonds shall be recorded in a book kept for that
purpose.
(Ord. 3, passed 6-3-1908)
§ 31.28 TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk of the Board of Trustees to attend
all meetings of the Board, regular or special; to record all proceedings of the
Board in a book or books provided for that purpose; to countersign all warrants
drawn on the Treasurer under seal of the town; to make out all licences
authorized by the ordinances of the town and countersign the same under the
seal of the town, and before issuing any license or warrant shall present the
same to the Chairperson of the Board for signature and approval. He or she
shall keep a full and complete record of all warrants and licenses issued in
the name of the parties in whose favor they are drawn, including the dates,
amounts, numbers and purpose for which drawn, and shall, on the first day of
each month, or as soon thereafter as the same can be completed, and at such
other times as the Board of Trustees may require, prepare a full and complete
report of all warrants and licenses issued; also, of all monies collected
belonging to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and shall submit the same to the Board
of Trustees at its first regular meeting in each and every month.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall be the keeper of the Town Seal, and shall affix
it to all papers which are required to be attested by the Town Seal. He or she
shall have custody of and safely keep all records and documents of the town
except as otherwise provided by law.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall be appointed in the manner provided for by law
and shall receive a salary of $300 per year, payable monthly at the rate of $25
per month.
(Ord. 3, passed 6-3-1908; Am. Ord. 41, passed 11-1-1909; Am. Ord. 313, passed
3-8-1948)
§ 31.29 TOWN TREASURER.
   (A)   The Town Treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to the town, and
shall keep his or her books and accounts in such a manner as may be prescribed
by ordinance, and the books and accounts shall always be subject to inspection
by any member of the Town Board of Trustees. He or she shall keep a separate
account of each fund or appropriation, and the debts and credits belonging
thereto. He or she shall give every person paying money into the Treasury a
receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment and upon what account paid,
and he or she shall file statements of these receipts with the Clerk at the
date of each monthly report. He or she shall, at the end of each and every
month, and more often, if required, render an account to the Town Board of
Trustees, or an officer as may be designated by ordinance, showing the state or
condition of the Treasury. He or she shall also accompany the account with a
statement of all monies received into the Treasury, and upon what account,
during the preceding month, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him
or her, which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her shall be
delivered to the Town Clerk-Treasurer and filed with his or her account in the
Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office upon every day of the statement. He or she shall
return all warrants paid by him or her stamped or marked “paid”. He or she
shall keep a register of all warrants redeemed and paid, which shall describe
the warrants and show the date, amount, number and fund from which paid, the
name of the person to whom paid and when paid. He or she may be required to
keep all monies in his or her hands belonging to the town in the place of
deposit as may be designated by ordinance; provided, however, that no such
ordinance shall be passed by which the custody of the money shall be taken from
the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep all monies
belonging to the town in his or her hands separate and distinct from his or her
own monies, and he or she is hereby expressly prohibited from using, either
directly or indirectly, the town monies or warrants in his or her hands for his
or her own use or benefit or that of any other person or persons whomsoever.
Any violation of this provision shall subject him or her to immediate removal
from office by the Board of Trustees, who are hereby authorized to declare the
office vacant, and in which case his or her successor shall be appointed by the
Chairperson of the Board and confirmed by the Trustees, and shall hold his or
her office for the remainder of the unexpired term. He or she shall report to
the Board of Trustees as often as required, a full and detailed account of all
receipts and expenditures of the town as shown by his or her books up to the
time of his or her report, and shall annually, between April 1 and 10, make out
and file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a full and detailed account of all the
receipts and expenditures and all his or her transactions as the Town Clerk-
Treasurer during the preceding fiscal year, which account the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall immediately cause to be published by a newspaper printed in the
town, if there be one, and if not, then by posting 1 in a public place in the
Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall have and keep in his or her office a
book to be called Registry of Town Warrants, where shall be entered and set
down every town warrant at the time of presentation thereof without any
interval or blank line between any entry and the one preceding it. The Registry
of Town Warrants shall be open at all reasonable hours to the inspection of any
person or persons desiring to inspect the same.
(Ord. 3, passed 6-3-1908)
§ 31.30 WARRANTS AND MONIES.
   All warrants drawn on the Town Clerk-Treasurer must be signed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, and countersigned by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, stating the particular fund or appropriation to which the same is
chargeable and the person to whom payable, and no money shall be drawn except
as hereinafter provided. All monies received on any special assessment shall be
held by the Town Clerk-Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment
of the improvement for which the assessment was made, and the money shall be
used for no other purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the town for monies
spent for the improvements.
(Ord. 3, passed 6-3-1908)
§ 31.31 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Town Attorney shall, at the time of his or her appointment, be a
resident and qualified elector of the Town of Clayton, and member of the bar in
good standing and admitted to the practice of law in the courts of the State of
New Mexico.
   (B)   The Town Attorney shall attend the regular and special sessions of the
Board of Trustees of the Town of Clayton; that at the request of the Board of
Trustees he or she shall render his or her opinion upon legal questions
pertinent to the affairs of the town; that upon application he or she shall
advise any officer of the town with reference to the conduct of his or her
office. For his or her services so rendered, he or she shall be paid the sum of
$150 per month; for all additional services performed by the Town Attorney for
the town, he or she shall be paid the reasonable value of the services so
rendered.
   (C)   The Town Attorney shall represent the town as its Attorney in all
suits and proceedings to which it is a party in the District Courts and the
Supreme Court of New Mexico, and for services so rendered he or she shall be
paid just and reasonable fees and compensation to be fixed by the Board of
Trustees in each instance of service; provided, that whenever the Town
Attorney, by reason of interest or other reason, is disqualified, or because of
any disability should not be able to attend to the suit or proceeding, other
counsel may be employed to represent the town.
   (D)   In addition to the salary provided for herein, the Town Attorney for
each conviction of a breach of ordinance secured in the Justice Court on a plea
of “not guilty” shall receive a fee of $5; when a plea of “guilty” is entered
after the Attorney has entered his or her appearance in the case, a fee of $2,
which fee shall in either case be assessed and collected as other costs are
assessed and collected. The Town Attorney is hereby authorized and empowered to
make or execute any bond or affidavit in the name of the Town of Clayton,
signing the same as the Attorney for the town, that may be necessary in any
suit or proceeding in which the town may be a party.
   (E)   The Town Attorney shall have the right to be heard upon all questions
or motions before the Board of Trustees, amending, repealing or in any way
affecting any ordinance in force or to be enacted by the Board of Trustees when
the legality of the action or proposed action shall be called in question.
(Ord. 3, passed 6-3-1908; Am. Ord. 41, passed 11-1-1909; Am. Ord. 221, passed
11-9-1931; Am. Ord. 243, passed 6-18-1934; Am. Ord. 261, passed 8-24-1936; Am.
Ord. 300, passed 6-10-1946; Am. Ord. 376, passed 5-14-1956)
§ 31.32 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall no longer be an official appointed by the
Mayor and approved by the Board of Trustees; the Chief of Police, rather, shall
be a regular town employee, selected by and subordinate to the Town Manager.
   (B)   The Police Department shall no longer be supervised by the Mayor; that
department, rather, shall be supervised by the Town Manager through its chain
of command with the Chief of Police being head of the department and
subordinate to the Town Manager.
   (C)    It shall be the duty of the Police Chief to see that all ordinances
and resolutions passed by the Board of Trustees are promptly and effectually
enforced.
   (D)   It shall be his or her duty, with or without process, to apprehend any
person found disturbing the peace or offending against any ordinance of the
town, and forthwith to take the person before the Justice of the Peace to be
dealt with as provided by ordinance.
   (E)   The Police Chief shall be the principal ministerial officer of the
town and shall have the same power that sheriffs and constables of the state
have by law, co-extensive with the county in cases of violation of the town
ordinances and for offenses committed within the limits of the town.
   (F)   He or she shall execute all process of the Mayor and Chairperson of
the Board of Trustees and all process issued in the name of the town.
   (G)   He or she shall receive compensation for his or her services as the
Board of Trustees shall from time to time prescribe, and no more, and the same
fees as are allowed constables by law of the state shall be collected by the
Police Chief for the service and execution of process of the town and paid into
the general fund of the town.
(Ord. 3, passed 6-3-1908; Am. Ord. 41, passed 11-1-1909; Am. Ord. 186, passed
6-24-1929; Am. Ord. 713, passed 5-19-2021)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Miscellaneous Organizations
   
32.01   Cemetery Board
   
32.02   Civil Defense Organization
   
32.03   Advisory Board of Public Library
   
32.04   Police Magistrate Court
   
32.05   Electrical Inspection Department
Fire Department
   
32.20   Number of members
   
32.21   Election of Chief and Assistant
   
32.22   Apparatus under charge of Chief
   
32.23   Chief; powers and duties
   
32.24   Regulations at fire
   
32.25   Private use of apparatus prohibited
   
32.26   Firefighters and police officers
   
32.27   Driving over hose
   
32.28   Right-of-way must not be obstructed
   
32.29   Collection of fines and penalties
 
   
32.99   Penalty
MISCELLANEOUS ORGANIZATIONS
§ 32.01 CEMETERY BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   The Cemetery Board of the Town of Clayton shall be comprised of
4 residents of the town, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval
of the Board of Trustees. Members shall serve for a term of 4 years or until
the next municipal election for Mayor, whichever comes first. The Mayor and
Board of Trustees shall, at its organizational meeting next succeeding the
election, or as soon thereafter as is reasonably possible, designate the lay
members of the Cemetery Board of the town. Those members of the Cemetery Board
serving at the time of the election shall continue in office until the time as
their successors are designated and qualified. The Board members shall qualify
by taking an oath to faithfully and impartially discharge the duties of their
office.
      (2)   The Mayor shall be an ex officio Board member and shall be the
Superintendent of the cemetery.
      (3)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall act and serve as Clerk and Treasurer
of the Cemetery Board.
   (B)   The Cemetery Board, when organized, shall act in an advisory role for
the Town of Clayton and advise the Mayor and the Board of Trustees regarding
the management of the cemeteries of the town. The Cemetery Board shall have the
authority to hold hearings and draft rules and regulations governing cemeteries
of the town. The rules and regulations shall be binding only to the extent that
they are expressly approved by the Board of Trustees at a regular meeting.
Among other things, the Cemetery Board shall draft policy with regard to the
maintenance and beautification of the cemetery, with regard to price or prices
to be charged for the sale or lease of lots or burial places and prescribe the
manner and place of burials and providing for the expenses incurred in
maintaining the cemetery.
   (C)   The Cemetery Board of the town shall meet at least once annually and
may meet more often as circumstances require. The Board shall organize along
such lines as it shall determine to be advantageous, provided that the Mayor
shall appoint the Chairperson of the Board, which appointment shall be approved
by the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   (1)   There is hereby created a Cemetery Fund which is comprised of
money contributed by individuals, corporations and entities to the town for the
purpose of maintaining the town’s cemetery.
      (2)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep the Cemetery Fund specifically
designated and accounted for as such on the town’s books.
      (3)   The money in the Cemetery Fund shall be invested and the income
shall be used for maintenance of the cemetery. In the event the income
generated is greater than the amount needed to maintain the cemetery, the
excess income shall be added to principal. The principal shall not be expended.
(Ord. 636, passed 6-14-2004)
§ 32.02 CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to create a Civil Defense Organization
for the town to be prepared for, and to function in the event of, emergencies
endangering the lives and property of the people of the town. The duty of the
Civil Defense Organization shall be to plan for protection of the lives and
health of the citizens of Clayton and of property and property rights, both
private and public, and all functions necessary and incident thereto.
   (B)   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the
government of the Town of Clayton, a Department of Civil Defense, which shall
consist of a Director of Civil Defense who shall be appointed by the Mayor of
the town with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees and subject to approval
of the Director, New Mexico Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization in
accordance with § 6, Chapter 190, New Mexico Laws of 1959, as amended.
   (C)   The Director of Civil Defense shall be the executive head of the
Department of Civil Defense and shall be responsible for carrying out the Civil
Defense Program of the town. He or she may be reimbursed for expenses incurred
in the performance of his or her duties. It shall be the duty of the Director
of Civil Defense as soon as practicable after his or her appointment to
establish an organization to carry out the purpose set forth in this section,
and he or she shall have all necessary power and authority to form committees
or other bodies and to appoint and designate the Chairperson or Chief Officer
of the bodies as may be necessary to establish an organization. He or she shall
have the further duty and responsibility to cooperate with all Civil Defense
agencies or other governmental units including the State of New Mexico and the
federal government.
   (D)   The Director of Civil Defense is further authorized to formulate
written plans and gather information and keep written record thereof to govern
the functions of the Civil Defense Organization.
   (E)   In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the Mayor of the Town of Clayton shall cause to be activated an
Emergency Operation Center complete with the necessary communications
capability for the continued performance of local government. This Emergency
Operation Center shall operate under the direction of the Mayor in carrying out
his or her duties as elected Chief Executive and as specified in his or her
oath of office. The Director of Civil Defense shall act as the Chief Executive
Assistant to the Mayor in the execution of these duties or as the Mayor shall
direct.
(Ord. 464, passed 9-11-1972)
§ 32.03 ADVISORY BOARD OF PUBLIC LIBRARY.
   (A)   The Mayor of the Town of Clayton shall appoint, subject to approval of
the Board of Trustees of the Town of Clayton, five members of the Advisory
Board of the Public Library of the Town of Clayton and, in addition, the Board
of County Commissioners of Union County may designate a member of the Library
Board subject to approval of the Mayor and Trustees and, in addition the Mayor
and the Town clerk shall be members of the Library Board for a total of eight
members.
   (B)   The Library Board so appointed shall organize itself and select a
president, vice- president, secretary, and such other officers as it sees fit;
and adopt rules governing the procedure of such library board consistent with
New Mexico law.
   (C)   The Treasurer of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, is hereby designated
the person authorized to receive and disburse all funds previously received
from the A.W. Thompson Estate for the benefit of the Public Library of the Town
of Clayton, New Mexico. The Clerk shall create a separate fund to be known as
the "A.W. Thompson Memorial Library Fund", which money shall be disbursed in
the same manner as other public moneys are disbursed by the said Treasurer, and
which fund shall, as other public moneys, be subject to public audit.
   (D)   The Library Board appointed by the Mayor and Trustees of the Town of
Clayton, New Mexico, as aforesaid, shall render advice to the Board of Trustees
of the Town of Clayton regarding said Public Library, including without
limitation, the selection of books and materials be purchased, selection of
staff members, maintenance of the building, and otherwise govern said library
and the expenditure of the above mentioned funds within lawful limits and
including if or the purposes as set out in the last will and testament of A.W.
Thompson, deceased.
(Ord. 703, passed 6-14-2018)
§ 32.04 POLICE MAGISTRATE COURT.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Police Magistrate Court
within, and for the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, which court shall be presided
over by a police magistrate to be known as the police judge.
   (B)   The police court shall have original jurisdiction over all offenses
and complaints arising under the ordinances and laws of the town.
   (C)    The qualifications of the judge shall be the same as are now, or as
may hereafter be prescribed by law for Justices of the Peace; he or she shall
likewise be a resident of the Town of Clayton. Before the judge shall enter
upon his or her duties as the police judge, he or she shall give a good and
sufficient bond in the sum of $500 to the town, which bond shall be approved by
the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and likewise shall take, subscribe and file with the
Town Clerk-Treasurer his or her oath of office as the police judge in a form
substantially like that required of Justices of the Peace.
   (D)   For his or her services as judge of the Police Magistrate Court of the
town, the police judge shall receive a monthly salary of $150 to be paid from
the General Fund of the town. The judge shall receive no other compensation or
emolument whatsoever by reason of his or her position as the judge or by reason
of his or her presiding over any cause filed in the Police Magistrate Court of
the Town of Clayton, and, not only shall all fines imposed in the court be paid
over monthly to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, as provided by law, but likewise all
costs imposed and collected in causes arising in the court shall also be paid
over to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, which fines and costs thus received by the
Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be conveyed into the General Fund of the town. The
same fees and costs authorized by law to be collected by the police judge of
the town as costs upon causes tried in the Police Magistrate Court of Clayton.
The police judge shall issue a receipt for all fines and costs collected,
retaining a duplicate copy of the receipt as a part of the official records of
his or her office.
   (E)   The police judge of the town shall be elected for a term of 2 years at
each regular municipal election, and vacancies shall be filled by the Mayor,
subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 280, passed 3-20-1940; Am. Ord. 409, passed 3-12-1962; Am. Ord. 449,
passed 3-23-1970)
§ 32.05 ELECTRICAL INSPECTION DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   An Electrical Inspection Department is hereby created to regulate the
installation of all electrical wiring and apparatus within the town. This
Department shall be in charge of the Commissioner of Properties, whose duty it
shall be to inspect or have inspected all electrical wiring and apparatus. He
or she may employ one or more assistants as deputy inspectors.
   (B)   All companies, firms, corporations, or individuals who desire to do
electrical wiring in or on any building within the town shall make application
to the town for license to do such electrical work, which application shall be
accompanied by a fee of $25 and by proper showing that applicant holds a
corresponding license from the state.
   (C)   The $25 fee tendered at the time of the application for an electric
license shall cover the fee for the remainder of the current year. An annual
license fee of $25 shall be payable each year thereafter that it is desired to
continue such license in force, provided that cancellation of the holder’s
state license shall work an automatic forfeiture of the applicant’s license
from the town.
   (D)   (1)   All companies, firms, corporations or individuals shall, before
beginning any electrical work or any addition to be made to old wiring, make
written application to the Village Clerk and shall pay the Village Clerk the
inspection fee required by the following schedule:
         (a)   For roughing in of concealed wiring or for open wiring, first 5
outlets or fraction thereof, $1; each additional outlet, $.10.
         (b)   For installing conduit, first 5 outlets or fraction thereof, $1;
each additional outlet $.10.
         (c)   For installing fixtures, fans, arc lamps, drop lights or
switches on concealed or conduit wiring for 5 or fraction thereof, $1; each
additional fixture, fan, arc lamp, drop lights or switch, $.10.
         (d)   No charge to be made for switches when located in approved
cabinets.
         (e)   For signs, $1 each.
         (f)   For motors and generators, 1/4 to 3 H.P., $1 each; over 3 H.P.,
$2 each.
         (g)   For addition to old work, for 1 outlet, $.25; for more than 1
and not more than 5, $1. For each outlet in excess of 5, $.10. The term
“outlet” in this clause is intended to mean either the outlet, fixture or both,
when installed at the same time and only requiring one inspection.
      (2)   Application shall be filed with the Village Clerk upon blanks
furnished by him or her and upon approval of the same by the Commissioner of
Properties, shall be issued to the applicant when this section has been
complied with.
   (E)   Where from good and sufficient cause it is necessary to have
electricity on any installation before final certificate can be issued, the
Village Clerk may issue a temporary permit upon the approval of the
Commissioner of Properties, provided that all parts to which current is applied
are in safe and satisfactory condition. Provided further, that before the
temporary permit is issued, the party receiving same shall pay to the village
$1. The permit shall run for 30 days.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for all owners, contractors or workmen not
qualified for doing all electric wiring, to in any manner interfere with any
electric wiring in or on any building in any manner whatsoever. If in any case
the wiring is in such a position to interfere with the completion of the
building as called for by the plans, the wiring contractor must be notified to
have it changed. No wood or metal work is to be placed within 1-inch of any
exposed electrical conductor. On inspecting the electric wiring of any
building, the inspector shall leave a notice in the form of a tag or label
attached to the service. This notice shall clearly state whether the wiring is
approved or is to be kept open for corrections and no workman shall lathe, ceil
or in any manner conceal any electrical wiring, until they know positively that
it ha s been approved. The inspector must in all cases inspect any electric
wiring within the corporate limits of the village from the electric wiring
contractor, that the work is completed. All steam fitting, furnace work, gas
fitting and telephone wiring, which is to be concealed must be placed in before
the electric wiring is completed and no wiring shall be considered complete
until the above work referred to is in place.
   (G)   Architects and buildings or owners are required to furnish such plans
and specifications for proposed electrical work as may be deemed necessary by
the Commissioner of Property before any permit for the same shall be issued.
   (H)   The Commissioner of Property is hereby authorized, empowered and
directed to have general supervision over the placing, stringing or attaching
telegraph, telephone, electric light or other wires, and the placing of all
poles and appliances so as to prevent fire, accident or injury to persons or
property and to cause all such wires and electric lights to be so placed,
constructed and guarded as not to cause fire, accident or endanger the life or
property of any and all of such lights and such wires or electrical apparatus
now existing, as well as those, hereafter constructed and placed, shall be
subject to such supervision. Whenever any electrical wiring or other electrical
apparatus becomes unsafe or in a defective or insecure condition, the
Commissioner of Property shall notify the owner in writing to repair or remove
same, and upon the owners failure so to do within 24 hours or within such time
as the Commissioner of Property may deem necessary, the Commissioner shall
cause service to be discontinued.
   (I)   All electric service hereafter installed for buildings located within
the fire limits of the village shall be in approved steel conduit, equipped at
outer end with approved service head or conduit fitting and extending without
outlet or junction box, into service cabinet of approved steel construction
with underwriters label of approval attached thereto. The cabinet shall be
located inside the walls of buildings in the nearest accessible place to the
point where the wires enter the building but in no case over 15 feet from the
point of entrance. Cabinet shall be so arranged that handle of service switch
located therein shall not be over seven feet above a permanent floor. Conduit
and cabinet to be securely and permanently bonded and grounded. All electric
wiring hereafter installed, including additions, extensions, or changes in
existing wiring, used for the transmission of current for light, heat or power,
in or an all buildings located within the fire limits shall be installed in
approved steel conduit or metal moulding.
   (J)   Any person, firm or corporation violating or disregarding any of the
provisions of this section, or any of the rules or regulations herein
contained, shall, upon conviction, if no other penalty is provided herein, be
fined in the sum of not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each and every
offense.
   (K)   All electrical construction, all material and all appliances used in
connection with electrical work and the operation and arrangement of all
electrical apparatus, shall be in conformity with the rules and regulations set
down in what is known as the National Electrical Code as issued by the National
Board of Fire Underwriters as the same is now established and said rules and
regulations are hereby approved.
(Ord. 87, passed 12-5-1916; Am. Ord. 202, passed 6-23-1930; Am. Ord. 349,
passed 12-8-1952) Penalty, see §
32.99
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.20 NUMBER OF MEMBERS.
   The Volunteer Fire Department of the Town of Clayton shall consist of 25
members commanded by the Chief and Assistant Chief.
(Ord. 123, passed 6-26-1922)
§ 32.21 ELECTION OF CHIEF AND ASSISTANT.
   The election of the Chief and Assistant shall be as prescribed by the by-
laws of the Clayton Volunteer Fire Department.
(Ord. 123, passed 6-26-1922)
§ 32.22 APPARATUS UNDER CHARGE OF CHIEF.
   All hose carts, or carriages, hooks, ladders and all other fire machinery,
apparatus, tools, buckets and property of any description whatsoever, in any
way relating to, or connected with the Fire Department of the town heretofore,
shall be delivered over to the Chief of the Department created by this section,
and from thenceforth shall be under the exclusive control and charge of the
Chief and Town Manager.
(Ord. 123, passed 6-26-1922)
§ 32.23 CHIEF; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Chief shall have the command at fires over all the members of the Fire
Department, and over all other persons assisting thereat, and shall take all
proper measures for the extinguishment of fires and for the protection of
property and preservation of order, and observance of the laws, ordinances and
regulations respecting fires, and shall examine into the condition of all fire
apparatus and hoses and fire hydrants, and have the general superintendence of
the Fire Department and all things connected therewith.
(Ord. 123, passed 6-26-1922)
§ 32.24 REGULATIONS AT FIRE.
   The Mayor, Town Marshal or other officer as may be in command of the police
at any fire, may prescribe limits within which no person shall be admitted
unless by order of the Mayor, Marshal or some other officer of the police, to
aid in the carrying out the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 123, passed 6-26-1922)
§ 32.25 PRIVATE USE OF APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   No person having charge of any hose, hose carriage or other fire apparatus
shall suffer the same to be applied to private use without the consent of the
Town Manager and Chief of the Department.
(Ord. 123, passed 6-26-1922) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.26 FIREFIGHTERS AND POLICE OFFICERS.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter may be
immediately taken in charge by any officer of the town and brought before the
police judge. The Chief of the Department, when on duty, shall be vested with
all the powers of a police officer of the town, and have full power to summon a
posse for his or her assistance.
(Ord. 123, passed 6-26-1922)
§ 32.27 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   Any person knowingly or willfully driving any vehicle across or upon any
hose, while in use for the extinguishment of any fire, or for inspection, or
exercise of the Fire Department (the hose not having first been protected from
injury), shall be subject to the provisions of §
32.99.
(Ord. 123, passed 6-26-1922)
§ 32.28 RIGHT-OF-WAY MUST NOT BE OBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   All fire and police apparatus shall have the right-of-way upon any
street, avenue or highway when responding to any fire alarm. Upon the approach
of any Police or Fire Department vehicle giving audible signal by bell or
siren, the driver of every other vehicle shall immediately drive the same to a
position as near as possible to the right-hand edge or curb of the highway or
street, clear of any intersection of highway or streets, and shall stop and
remain in that position unless otherwise directed by a police or traffic
officer or until the Police or Fire Department vehicle shall have passed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle other than one on
official business to follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire
alarm closer than 2 city blocks or to drive into or park the vehicle within 2
city blocks of the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm.
   (C)   Any person who shall negligently or willfully obstruct, interfere with
or intercept the right-of-way of fire apparatus of any Fire Department vehicle
responding to a fire alarm, or any person violating any of the provisions of
divisions (A) and (B) above, shall be subject to the provisions of §
32.99.
(Ord. 123, passed 6-26-1922; Am. Ord. 369, passed 11-14-1955) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.29 COLLECTION OF FINES AND PENALTIES.
   All fines and penalties collected by virtue of §§
32.20 through
32.28 shall be turned over to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and shall be deposited
in the Fire Department Fund for maintenance of the Fire Department and
equipment.
(Ord. 123, passed 6-26-1922)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
32.27 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $10 nor more than
$75, or be imprisoned in the town jail for a period of not more than 3 months
or both the fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 123, passed 6-26-1922)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
32.28 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof be
fined in any sum not exceeding $100, or shall be imprisoned for any period not
exceeding 30 days in the town jail, in the discretion of the court.
(Am. Ord. 369, passed 11-14-1955)
CHAPTER 33: MUNICIPAL PROCEDURES
Section
   
33.01   Municipal Court; entry of plea of guilty or judgment of conviction
   
33.02   Mandatory fees; disposition and use
   
33.03   Rules and regulations for hearings of proposed public improvements
§ 33.01 MUNICIPAL COURT; ENTRY OF PLEA OF GUILTY OR JUDGMENT OF CONVICTION.
   The Municipal Court may upon entry of a plea of guilty or judgment of
conviction:
   (A)   Suspend in whole or part the execution of sentence; or
   (B)   Place the defendant on probation for a period not exceeding 1 year on
terms and conditions the court deems best, or both. The court may, as a
condition of probation, require the defendant to serve a period of time in
volunteer labor to be known as community service. The type of labor and period
of service shall be at the sole discretion of the court; provided that any
person receiving community service shall be immune from any civil liability
other than gross negligence arising out of the community service, and any
person who performs community service pursuant to court order or any criminal
diversion program shall not be entitled to any wages, shall not be considered
an employee for any purpose and shall not be entitled to workers’ compensation,
unemployment benefits or any other benefits otherwise provided by law. As used
in this division, COMMUNITY SERVICE means any labor that benefits the public at
large or any public, charitable or educational entity or institution.
Suspension of execution of the sentence, probation or both, shall be granted
only when the Municipal Judge is satisfied it will serve the ends of justice
and of the public, and that the defendant’s liability for any fine or other
punishment imposed is fully discharged upon successful completion of the terms
and conditions of probation.
(Ord. 561, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 33.02 MANDATORY FEES; DISPOSITION AND USE.
   (A)   Mandatory fees collected upon conviction.
      (1)   In addition to any fine or imprisonment imposed for conviction for
violation of any ordinance, there is imposed upon any person convicted of
violating any municipal ordinance the penalty for which carries a potential
jail term or any ordinance relating to the operation of a motor vehicle the
following mandatory fees.
         (a)   A corrections fee of $20.
         (b)   A judicial education fee of $3.
         (c)   A court automation fee of $6.
      (2)   As used in this section, “convicted” means the defendant has been
found guilty of a criminal charge by the municipal judge, either after trial, a
plea of guilty or a plea of nolo contendere, or has elected to pay a penalty
assessment in lieu of trial.
   (B)   Disposition and use of fees collected.
      (1)   All corrections fees collected shall be deposited in a special
corrections fund in the municipal treasury and shall be used only for:
         (a)   Municipal jailer training;
         (b)   Construction planning, construction, operation and maintenance
of the municipal jail;
         (c)   Providing in-patient treatment or other substance abuse programs
in conjunction with or as an alternative to jail sentencing;
         (d)   Providing electronic monitoring systems.
      (2)   A municipality may credit the interest collected from fees
deposited in the special corrections fund to the municipality’s general fund.
      (3)   All judicial education fees collected shall be remitted monthly to
the State Treasurer for credit to the judicial education fund and shall be used
for the education and training, including production of bench books and other
written materials, of municipal judges and other municipal court personnel.
      (4)   All court automation fees collected shall be remitted monthly to
the State Treasurer for credit to the municipal court automation fund and shall
be used for the purchase and maintenance of court automation systems in the
municipal courts. The court automation system shall have the capability of
providing, on a timely basis, electronic records in a format specified by the
judicial information system council.
(Ord. 680, passed 7-13-2011)
§ 33.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR HEARINGS OF PROPOSED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Any and all property owners or other persons interested in real estate
proposed to be improved in the Town of Clayton desiring to contest any proposed
assessment or public improvement in the town, as provided for by the statutes,
ordinances and resolutions in the cases, may appear before the Town Board of
Trustees at the time and place fixed for that purpose in person or by Attorney
or agent and may present any legal or competent evidence in opposition to the
proposed assessment or public improvement.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall require any and all witnesses offered on
behalf of property owners to be sworn by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and shall
accept any and all legal and competent evidence offered by property owners in
opposition to any proposed assessment or public improvement.
   (C)   The Town of Clayton may rebut or qualify any facts established by any
evidence offered.
   (D)   Any property owner of the town or any other person interested, may
introduce in evidence the depositions of witnesses who cannot be obtained to
personally testify and who reside beyond the Town of Clayton upon complying
with the state laws regulating the taking of depositions.
   (E)   In the event of the parties desiring to take depositions, notice shall
be given in conformity with the laws of the state, and the Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall be authorized to issue any and all commissions under the seal of the
town, or the taking of the depositions and the same shall be returned to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 69, passed 1- -1914)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCES AND FUNDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Mandatory corrections fees
   
34.02   Municipal Permanent Revenue Fund
   
34.03   Lien for ambulance services
   
34.04   Procedure for review and authorization of issuance of industrial
revenue bonds
Employee Retirement Fund
   
34.15   Retirement plan created
   
34.16   Retirement qualifications
   
34.17   Payment from Retirement Fund
   
34.18   Employee may not be discharged from qualifications
   
34.19   Other benefits
   
34.20   Workers’ compensation and group and accident insurance
   
34.21   Salaries or expenses paid from general funds
   
34.22   Retirement plan provided
   
34.23   Exemptions from state income tax
   
34.24   Monies credited to the Retirement Fund
   
34.25   Payments into the Retirement Fund
   
34.26   Accumulated deductions
   
34.27   Monies subjected to legal process
   
34.28   Exemptions from retirement plan
   
34.29   Ceasing employment
   
34.30   Re-entering employment
   
34.31   Contributor and military service
   
34.32   Medical examination of applicants
   
34.33   Death
Economic Development Planning
   
34.50   Short title
   
34.51   Authority
   
34.52   Purpose
   
34.53   Definitions
   
34.54   Economic development plan
   
34.55   Union County Community Development Corporation
   
34.56   Application requirements
   
34.57   Applicable review criteria
   
34.58   Public safeguards
   
34.59   Project participation agreement
   
34.60   Project monies
   
34.61   Termination
   
34.62   Joint regional projects
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 MANDATORY CORRECTIONS FEES.
   (A)   Mandatory fees collected upon conviction. 
      (1)   Fees. In addition to any fine or imprisonment imposed for
conviction for violation of any ordinance, there is imposed upon any person
convicted of violating any municipal ordinance, the penalty for which carries a
potential jail term or any ordinance relating to the operation of a motor
vehicle, the following mandatory fees:
         (a)   A corrections fee of $20;
         (b)   A judicial education fee of $2; and
         (c)   A court automation fee of $6.
      (2)   Definition. As used in this section, CONVICTED means the defendant
has been found guilty of a criminal charge by the Municipal Judge, either after
trial, a plea of guilty or a plea of nolo contendere, or has elected to pay a
penalty assessment in lieu of trial.
   (B)   Disposition and use of fees collected.
      (1)   All corrections fees collected shall be deposited in a special
corrections fund in the Municipal Treasury and shall be used only for:
         (a)   Municipal jailer training;
         (b)   Construction planning, construction, operation and maintenance
of the municipal jail;
         (c)   Providing in-patient treatment or other substance abuse programs
in conjunction with or as an alternative to jail sentencing; and
         (d)   Providing electronic monitoring systems.
      (2)   A municipality may credit the interest collected from fees
deposited in the special corrections fund to the municipality’s General Fund.
      (3)   All judicial education fees collected shall be remitted monthly to
the State Treasurer for credit to the Judicial Education Fund and shall be used
for the education and training, including production of bench books and other
written materials, of municipal judges and other municipal court personnel.
      (4)   All court automation fees collected shall be remitted monthly to
the State Treasurer for credit to the Municipal Court Automation Fund and shall
be used for the purchase and maintenance of court automation systems in the
municipal courts. The court automation system shall have the capability of
providing, on a timely basis, electronic records in a format specified by the
Judicial Information System Council.
(Ord. 585, passed 8-9-1993; Am. Ord. 631, passed 7-17-2003)
§ 34.02 MUNICIPAL PERMANENT REVENUE FUND.
   (A)   Municipal Revenue Permanent Fund created. There is created the
Municipal Revenue Permanent Fund, hereinafter called the “Permanent Fund”, into
which may be deposited all receipts for sale, lease, rental or licensing of any
real or personal property owned or claimed by the municipality, and not
immediately necessary for the public uses of the municipality.
      (1)   Income in the Permanent Fund shall be invested by the finance
officer of the municipality in accordance with the investment standards as
provided by NMSA § 6-10-10.
      (2)   Any amount of the principal in the Permanent Fund shall not be
appropriated except by majority vote of all members of the governing body.
   (B)   Municipal Revenue Permanent Fund; exclusions. Notwithstanding division
(A) above, receipts from sale, lease, rental or licensing of any real or
personal property owned or claimed by the municipality, for uses of airport,
parking, convention centers and daycare centers, shall not be deposited into
the Permanent Fund.
   (C)   Municipal Revenue Interest Income Fund created. There is created the
“Municipal Revenue Interest Income Fund”, hereinafter called the “Interest
Fund”. Interest earned on the investment of money from the Municipal Revenue
Permanent Fund shall be deposited into the Interest Fund.
   (D)   Disposition of Municipal Revenue Interest Income Fund. Any amount in
the Interest Fund may be appropriated for general purposes of the municipality
by a majority vote of all members of the governing body.
(Ord. 548, passed - -1984)
§ 34.03 LIEN FOR AMBULANCE SERVICES.
   (A)   The Town of Clayton shall hereafter have a lien against both the real
and personal property of any person to whom ambulance services are rendered by
the town, whether or not the services are rendered at the specific request of
the person. The lien shall immediately attach to the property of such person
and shall specifically attach to the automobile or other motor vehicle of such
person which may be in the custody of a garage within the town. The lien shall
be subject to the garage operator’s lien and any perfected security interest in
the motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the rendering of ambulance services to an individual involved in
a motor vehicle accident the Town Manager shall cause to be securely attached
to such motor vehicle in a prominent location while such motor vehicle is
within the town a notice of lien. The notice of lien shall specify that the
Town of Clayton claims a lien on such motor vehicle for ambulance services
rendered. The notice shall specify the amount of the lien and shall further
specify that, unless the town’s charges for the ambulance services shall be
promptly paid, the lien shall be subject to foreclosure in the manner provided
by law for foreclosure of municipal liens.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any garage operator or other person having an
automobile within his or her custody and control, wherein the automobile has
attached to it a notice of lien as provided in this section, for the garage
operator to release the motor vehicle to any individual without the prior,
express consent of the Town Manager.
   (D)   The lien provided in this section shall be subject to foreclosure in
the manner provided for by law for foreclosure of municipal liens.
(Ord. 494, passed 12-22-1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.04 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW AND AUTHORIZATION OF ISSUANCE OF INDUSTRIAL
REVENUE BONDS.
   (A)   Prior to consideration by the Board of Trustees of the Town of Clayton
of any ordinance relating to the issuance of revenue bonds, as authorized by
NMSA § 14-30-1, there shall have been submitted to the Board of Trustees of the
town, at a regularly scheduled meeting at least 30 days before the date of the
meeting at which the adoption of the ordinance is to be considered, the
following information.
      (1)   A 5-year audited statement of revenues as well as assets of the
prospective lessee. In the event that the lessee is a closely held subsidiary
of a foreign or other corporation or has no assets, such information shall be
furnished with regard to the parent corporation, or the principal stockholders.
      (2)   The capability and experience level of the management and
principals involved in the lessee’s management shall be investigated and due
report of the investigation made to the Board.
      (3)   An underwriting proposal from a responsible investment banker shall
be presented to the Board in order that the Board be able to determine what
portion of the proceeds will be available for the construction of the proposed
facility. Best efforts proposals will not be acceptable.
      (4)   The proposed lessee shall report to the Board in writing whether or
not it desires to use any portion of the revenue bond proceeds for operating
capital. The Board establishes by this section, a policy against allowing bond
proceeds to be used as operating capital; however, each case shall be evaluated
on its merits.
      (5)   A statement shall be furnished by the prospective lessee indicating
the amounts of operating capital and other assets to be committed to the
project by the lessee company.
      (6)   The prospective lessee will present evidence that arrangements have
been made to retain reputable recognized municipal bond attorneys to handle the
preparation of the necessary documents pertaining to the issuance of an
industrial revenue bond series, and the prospective lessee shall also indicate
to the Board in writing its agreement to pay the fees of the reputable,
recognized municipal attorneys.
   (B)   No ordinance will be considered by the Board of Trustees for the Town
of Clayton which authorizes the issuance of industrial revenue bonds unless the
foregoing procedure established by this Board has been substantially compiled
with in all respects.
(Ord. 493, passed 11-10-1975)
EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT FUND
§ 34.15 RETIREMENT PLAN CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a retirement plan for all of the regular full-
time employees of the Town of Clayton, excepting members of the Clayton Police
Department and Fire Department, members of the Town Board of Trustees, the Town
Attorney, and his or her assistants, persons (if any), whose services are or
may hereafter be compensated in whole or in part on a fee basis, or who receive
no salary or wages at regular intervals.
   (B)   The intent of this subchapter is to bar, withdraw and terminate from
the operation of the retirement plan and to exclude from any and all
participation and/or coverage therein or thereunder, all police officers and
firefighters of the town who have not been retired for superannuation and who
are not entitled to receive any annuity by virtue of the retirement under the
provisions of the retirement plan; provided, however, that this subchapter
shall in no way affect, divest, vitiate or prejudice in any respect the vested
right or interest of any police officer and/or firefighter who has been retired
and who is entitled by virtue of the retirement to receive an annuity under the
provisions of the retirement plan prior to the effective date of this
subchapter. It is provided further that the participation and/or coverage of
all classes of employees so covered and so entitled together with their
respective rights and interests under the retirement plan, shall be and remain
in full force and effect. It is further provided that the town shall refund the
amount of the monies placed in the Retirement Fund for his or her benefit by
the police officer and/or firefighter so excluded by this subchapter, and that
the town by its proper officers be, and it hereby is authorized and empowered
to refund and repay the amount of the monies so placed in the Retirement Fund
for his or her benefit by the police officer and/or firefighter so terminated
and/or excluded hereunder.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951; Am. Ord. 375, passed 4-4-1956)
§ 34.16 RETIREMENT QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Board of Trustees shall, upon the request of any employee entitled to
the benefits of this subchapter, or when it may determine at its discretion to
retire any employee entitled to the benefits hereof, may retire from active
service and establish an emeritus employment status for the employee under the
following conditions:
   (A)   When the employee is over the age of 60 years and has been
continuously employed as an employee of the Town of Clayton for at least 10
years, the last 5 consecutive years of which are served immediately prior to
the date of being placed in such status, the employee may, at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees, be placed on emeritus employment status; when the
employee attains age 65 he or she will be placed on emeritus employment status;
provided that an employee whose employment is interrupted for reasons other
than disability, when the interruption is longer than 1 year, shall be
permitted to credit the number of years he or she was employed prior to the
interruption in qualifying him or her under the plan but the number of years of
interruption shall be deducted from the total number of years of employment,
and provided further that if there is more than 1 such period of interruption,
the employee shall be given credit for the longest period of employment prior
to any such periods of interruption and the longest period of interruption
shall be deducted from the total number of years of employment so computed;
separations from employment by reason of military service in the Armed Forces
of the United States shall not be construed as an interruption, provided that
the employee returns to service within 90 days of the date of his or her
discharge from the military service.
   (B)   Anyone in emeritus employment shall be subject to the direction of the
Board of Trustees of the Town of Clayton, and may, by the Board, be required to
perform services for the municipality as he or she may be physically qualified
to perform.
   (C)   (1)   When any person, who has continuously served as a regular full-
time employee of the town for 20 years or more, is placed on an emeritus
employment status as herein provided, he or she shall be entitled to receive
annually for the remainder of his or her natural life, and beginning at the
date of the emeritus employment status, 60% of the average annual salary paid
to him or her on account of his or her employment during the 5 years of full-
time employment at full-time salary next preceding the date of retirement;
provided, that the minimum amount to which the emeritus employee shall be
entitled shall be the sum of $20 and the maximum amount shall be the sum of
$1,500 per annum; provided that in no case shall an emeritus employee receive
more as such than he or she received as a full-time employee.
      (2)   An emeritus employee who has served 10 years or more but less than
20 years as a regular full-time employee shall be entitled to receive annually
for the remainder of his or her natural life such proportion of 60% of his or
her average salary for the past 5 years as his or her years of service bears to
20 years. In such cases, this same proportion shall apply in computing the
minimum or maximum amount as hereinbefore set forth to which he or she shall be
entitled. The sum shall be paid to the emeritus employee in monthly
installments as may be determined by the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees of the town may retire from the service any
regular full-time employee when the person is totally disabled from continuing
his or her profession as shall be determined by a certificate of medical
examiners appointed by the Board of Trustees, provided the person has been
employed as a regular full-time employee for not less than 5 years. When any
person is so placed on emeritus employment status, he or she shall be entitled
to receive during the period of his or her total disability, an allowance as
provided herein but determined upon the ratio which his or her years of service
on regular full-time employment bears to 20 years.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
§ 34.17 PAYMENT FROM RETIREMENT FUND.
   The payment of emeritus employees’ salaries shall be made from a special
fund to be known as a “Retirement Fund”. This fund shall be kept on deposit in
The Farmers & Stockmens Bank of Clayton, Clayton, New Mexico, as a separate
fund segregated from the other funds of the town. The Town Clerk- Treasurer
shall transfer monthly to the fund in the bank a sum equal to 3.5% of the total
of salaries paid during the month to regular full-time employees of the town;
the sums shall be paid from the particular fund or funds from which the
salaries are paid, except that the General Fund of the town shall pay an amount
equal to the percentage of the amounts paid in salaries from any bond funds of
the town. Any surplus in the fund at the end of any fiscal year shall be held
as a reserve in the fund and shall, upon order of the Board administering the
funds, be invested by the Board as provided by law for the investment of public
monies and all interest earned thereon shall be placed to the credit of the
Retirement Fund.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
§ 34.18 EMPLOYEE MAY NOT BE DISCHARGED FROM QUALIFICATIONS.
   When any regular full-time employee has the qualifications as to age and
time of service, as set forth in §
34.16 of this subchapter which would entitle him or her to the status of
emeritus employment, the person may not be discharged by his or her employing
authority unless he or she shall have been convicted of a crime or he or she
shall have been found guilty of conduct involving moral turpitude by the
employing authority.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
§ 34.19 OTHER BENEFITS.
   If any person who attains the status of emeritus employment under the
provisions of §
34.16 of this subchapter is also entitled to benefits under any city, state or
national retirement or old age benefit law, or benefits received pursuant to
the Workers’ Compensation Acts, then the amount to be paid to any such emeritus
employee under this subchapter, shall be only the difference between the amount
received under the other retirement old age benefit law or Workers’
Compensation Acts and the amount provided under §
34.16 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
§ 34.20 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION AND GROUP AND ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prohibit the Town of Clayton from
carrying Workers’ Compensation, group life or accident insurance upon their
employees, either acting or emeritus.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
§ 34.21 SALARIES OR EXPENSES PAID FROM GENERAL FUNDS.
   Any salaries or expenses incurred by the town in the administration of the
Retirement Fund shall be paid from the General Funds of the town.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
§ 34.22 RETIREMENT PLAN PROVIDED.
   The retirement plan provided for by this subchapter having been in effect
prior to formal adoption hereof, the time of the individual employee’s
employment period for retirement purposes shall be retroactive to the time when
the individual employee began making contributions to the Retirement Fund of
the town.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
§ 34.23 EXEMPTIONS FROM STATE INCOME TAX.
   None of the monies paid as benefits under authority of this subchapter shall
be assignable and the same shall be exempt from any state income tax.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
§ 34.24 MONIES CREDITED TO THE RETIREMENT FUND.
   The Board of Trustees is hereby authorized and empowered to credit the
Retirement Fund any monies received in the form of donations, gifts,
appropriations or bequests.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
§ 34.25 PAYMENTS INTO THE RETIREMENT FUND.
   Every town employee, except those electing to be exempted from the operation
of this subchapter as hereinafter provided, shall pay into the Retirement Fund
3.5% of his or her regular salary. The payments shall be made by deduction from
the salary. The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized, empowered and
directed to cause the deductions to be made on each abstract from the salary of
each employee not exempted from the operation thereof. The Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall deposit all the deductions in the Retirement Fund maintained in the
Farmers & Stockmens Bank of Clayton. The Retirement Fund shall be disbursed
subject to approval of the Board of Trustees and only for the purposes of
investment, refunded to employees, annuities for retirement and the expense of
maintaining the Retirement Fund.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
§ 34.26 ACCUMULATED DEDUCTIONS.
   Accumulated deductions from the salaries of any town employee shall not be
returned to him or her at any time or for any reason except as provided in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
§ 34.27 MONIES SUBJECTED TO LEGAL PROCESS.
   None of the monies accumulated or other benefits mentioned in this
subchapter shall be subject to execution, levy, attachment, garnishment or any
other legal process.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
§ 34.28 EXEMPTIONS FROM RETIREMENT PLAN.
   Any person who is a town employee at the time this subchapter becomes
effective may be exempted from the retirement plan by filing a written
application for exemption in duplicate with the Town Clerk- Treasurer, and a
copy thereof shall be transmitted to the Board of Trustees by the officer, the
written application for exemption to be filed before September 1, 1949. Any
town employee which has exempted himself or herself from membership in the
retirement plan may, at his or her option, at any later date, apply for
membership therein, and upon approval of the application by the Board of
Trustees and payments to cover the membership by the employee and the town, the
employee shall be entitled to all rights and privileges and shall be charged
with all the duties and liabilities herein provided; provided, however, that
only the service of the town employee rendered after the time of the membership
shall be allowed by the Board of Trustees in computing retirement benefits.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
§ 34.29 CEASING EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Whenever any town employee shall cease to be an employee for any
reason other than death or retirement, he or she shall be paid on demand the
full amount of the accumulated credit of his or her individual account,
together with interest at 2.5%, compounded semi-annually, accruing on the
accumulated deductions. However, any employee shall, upon application in
writing to the Board of Trustees within 60 days from the termination of his or
her employment, be permitted to retain membership in the Retirement Fund upon
the payment of regular deposits in lieu of salary deductions; provided, that
the annuity payments to the members shall be in proportion to the annuities
otherwise payable, as the employee’s period of actual public service is to the
number of years of service that would have been required had the employee
continued service until eligible for a retirement annuity, and the employees
shall not be eligible to apply for or receive an annuity until the date that he
or she would have otherwise been eligible had the employee continued in the
public service.
   (B)   Direct payments in lieu of salary deductions required of an employee
retaining membership after leaving the service of the town, as provided in
division (A) above, shall become due without notice or demand by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer on the first day of each calendar month for the preceding
month, anything to the contrary contained in other provisions of this
subchapter notwithstanding. If the payment is not made within 60 days from the
due date, membership in the Retirement Fund shall lapse at the end of the 60-
day period and all rights shall be forfeited except the right to receive back
upon demand within 2 years from date of last payment the accumulated deductions
and direct payments standing to the credit of his or her individual account. A
period of 60 days from the date the employee leaves the service is allowed for
notice to the Town Clerk-Treasurer of continuance of membership and the first
payment in lieu of salary deductions must be made within the period, otherwise
all rights are forfeited.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
§ 34.30 RE-ENTERING EMPLOYMENT.
   Whenever a town employee who has so withdrawn his or her accumulated
deductions and interest, shall re-enter the town employment within 5 years, the
annuity rights forfeited by the employee at the time of the separation shall be
restored upon repayment by the employee to the Retirement Fund of the full
amount so withdrawn, together with an amount equal to the monthly salary
deductions as he or she would have paid during the period of non-employment,
plus interest at the rate of 4% compounded semi-annually, on the full amount of
the payment as made to the Retirement Fund at the time of the reinstatement,
and thereupon the employee shall resume his or her obligation as an employee
with full rights and benefits as of the date he or she first became a
contributor to the Retirement Fund.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
§ 34.31 CONTRIBUTOR AND MILITARY SERVICE.
   Whenever any contributor to the Retirement Fund shall be inducted into
active military service with the National Guard, United States Army, Navy or
other branch of service engaged in the national defense, as may be determined
by the Board of Trustees, while on departmental or civil service, leave of
absence from the town service, the payments of any contributor into the
Retirement Fund in lieu of salary deductions shall be waived for the periods
while the contributor is so engaged in the service, providing his or her
compensation is less than his or her compensation when last engaged in town
service, and if later retired for superannuation the periods of town non-
service, while engaged in the service shall be considered as town service for
the purpose of computing service credit for retirement; provided nothing in
this subchapter shall be construed to cover any disability incurred by reason
of the military service.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
§ 34.32 MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS.
   The Board of Trustees shall require medical examination of all applicants
for retirement for disability under the general rules and regulations as it may
prescribe, and may provide therein for the discontinuance of any disability
annuity, either full or partial, and the forfeiture of all rights under this
subchapter in case of a persistent refusal to submit to the examination.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
§ 34.33 DEATH.
   Whenever a town employee shall die without having received an annuity, an
amount equal to the total of his or her accumulated deductions shall be paid in
1 lump sum to the beneficiaries designated for the employee in his or her will,
or if none, to the legal representatives of the employee upon the establishment
of a valid claim therefor. Upon the death of any emeritus employee receiving a
pension from the town, no further payments of the pension shall be made to the
heirs of the emeritus employee except that if the emeritus employee has not
received in pensions a sum equal to the total principal sum contributed by him
or her to the Retirement Fund, then the balance thereof remaining shall be paid
by the Town Clerk-Treasurer to the widow of the emeritus employee, or if none,
then to the person duly qualified under the laws of this state to administer
upon the estate of the deceased emeritus employee. Payment to the widow or to
the duly qualified person as aforesaid shall be conclusive upon all persons
claiming any interest whatsoever in the deceased emeritus employee’s estate.
(Ord. 341, passed 3-28-1951)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
§ 34.50 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be cited as the “Economic Development Plan Ordinance.”
(Ord. 690, passed 3-13-2013)
§ 34.51 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the statutory authority conferred
upon municipalities to allow public support of economic development, the Local
Economic Development Act, NMSA 1978, §§ 5-10-1 through 5-10-13. This subchapter
is adopted as part of the town's economic development plan.
(Ord. 690, passed 3-13-2013)
§ 34.52 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to allow public support of economic
projects to foster, promote, and enhance local economic development efforts
while continuing to protect against the unauthorized use of public money and
other public resources. Further, the purpose of the ordinance is to allow the
town to enter into one or more joint powers agreement with other local
governments to plan and support regional economic development projects.
   (B)   Local Economic Development Act. Local governments are allowed to
provide direct or indirect assistance to qualifying businesses and entities to
further or implement their economic development plan and projects. Furthermore,
local and regional governments have the authority to contribute assets to
development projects. The imposition of a tax must be approved by the voters in
referendum, however.
   (C)   Eligible uses. Municipalities may impose municipal infrastructure
gross receipts tax and dedicate the revenue for economic development projects.
A total of 0.25% tax (in four increment of 0.0625%) may be imposed.
(Ord. 690, passed 3-13-2013)
§ 34.53 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. The provision of direct or indirect land,
buildings, or other infrastructure, or public works improvements essential to
the location, and include the purchase, lease, grant, or construction,
reconstruction, improvement, or other acquisition or conveyance of expansion of
a qualifying business, and payments for professional services contracts
necessary for local or regional governments to implement a plan or project.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Town Council of Clayton.
   PROJECT PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT. An agreement between a qualifying entity
and the town whereby the town provides assistance to an economic development
project in exchange for the benefits received as set forth in this section.
   QUALIFYING ENTITY. An existing or proposed corporation, limited liability
company, partnership, joint venture, syndicate, association, or other person or
entity that is one or combination of one or more of the following:
      (1)   An industry for manufacturing, processing, or assembling of any
agricultural or manufactured products;
      (2)   A commercial enterprise for storing, warehousing, distributing, or
selling products of agriculture, mining or industry, but other than provided in
division (4) of this definition, not including any enterprise for sale of goods
or commodities at retail or for the distribution to the public of electricity,
gas, water, or telephone or other services commonly classified as public
utilities;
      (3)   A business in which all or part of the activities of the business
involves the supplying of services to the general public or to government
agencies or to a specific industry or customer, but, other than provided in
division (4) of this definition, not including business primarily engaged in
the sale of goods or commodities at retail;
      (4)   A telecommunications sales enterprise that makes the majority of
its sales to persons outside of New Mexico; and
      (5)   A cultural facility means a facility that is owned by the state, a
county, a municipality or a qualifying entity that serves the public through
preserving, educating, and promoting the arts and culture of a particular
locale, including theaters, museums, libraries, galleries, cultural compounds,
educational organizations, performing arts venues and organizations, studios
and media laboratories, and livework housing facilities.
(Ord. 690, passed 3-13-2013)
§ 34.54 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The Town Manager after approval of the governing body may assist
economic development projects in any legally permissible manner including but
not limited to the provision of land, buildings, and infrastructure provided
that all the requirements of this ordinance are met. The town may provide land,
buildings, or infrastructure it already owns, or it may build, purchase, or
lease the facilities needed for an economic development project. The town, at
its discretion, may bear the full cost or contribute a portion of the costs
including waiver of applicable fees. The town, at its discretion, may also
contribute to the payment of costs for professional service contracts such as
industry feasibility studies and planning and design services needed to
implement a project.
   (B)   The governing body may consider offering all forms of assistance
allowed under this subchapter and any other legally permissible forms of
assistance. This does not establish any obligation on the town's part to offer
any specific type of assistance, however.
(Ord. 690, passed 3-13-2013)
§ 34.55 UNION COUNTY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION.
   (A)   The governing body assigns the UCCDC Board of Directors the following
responsibilities with regard to the economic development plan for the Town of
Clayton:
      (1)   Reviewing and making recommendations to the governing body on
applications for assistance for development projects; and
      (2)   Reviewing and making recommendations to the governing body on
applications for industrial revenue bonds (IRBs).
   (B)   The UCCDC shall at all times provide for a Board of Directors position
for the Town of Clayton. The Town Mayor shall appoint a member of the Board of
Directors with the advice and consent of the Town Council.
(Ord. 690, passed 3-13-2013)
§ 34.56 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any qualifying entity meeting the definition set forth in §
34.53 may propose an economic development project to the town. Meeting the
definition of a qualifying entity does not create any obligation on the part of
the Town of Clayton.
   (B)   Applications from qualifying entities shall be submitted to the Town
of Clayton on forms provided by the town.
   (C)   Applications shall contain the following information for business
applicants.
      (1)   Identification information:
         (a)   Complete name and address of entity;
         (b)   Incorporation papers with by-laws; and
         (c)   List of board of directors and executive director, addresses,
and resumes of all directors and officers.
      (2)   Evidence of financial solvency (personal statement of principles):
         (a)   Financial statement (income statement and balance sheets) for
the past three years;
         (b)   Federal tax number, New Mexico State Taxation and Revenue number
and county business license; and
         (c)   Projected income statement for at least three years.
      (3)   Evidence of organizational capacity:
         (a)   Brief history of the entity;
         (b)   Organizational chart of the entity; and
         (c)   Business plans for the entity and proposed project (shall
include pro-forma cash flow analysis).
      (4)   The project participation agreement and any other pertinent
information will be forwarded to the governing body for final consideration at
a public meeting.
(Ord. 690, passed 3-13-2013)
§ 34.57 APPLICABLE REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   Applications for economic development projects requesting economic
assistance from the town, which meet the policies and objectives of the town's
economic development plan, shall receive priority. Examples include, but are
not limited to:
      (1)   Manufacturing firms (including intellectual property such as
computer software);
      (2)   Projects, which enhance the exporting capacity of companies and/or
provide goods and services, which currently have to be imported into Clayton;
      (3)   Private companies seeking to build, expand, or relocate facilities;
      (4)   Private companies which provide facilities or services which
enhance the ability of Clayton businesses to operate;
      (5)   Organizations, which assist business start-ups or bring small
companies together to increase their competitive abilities. This must involve a
tangible project, which will create jobs and promote an industry;
      (6)   Cultural facilities, which means a facility that is owned by the
state, a county, a municipality or a qualifying entity that serves the public
through preserving, educating, and promoting the arts and culture of a
particular locale, including theaters, museums, libraries, galleries, cultural
compounds, educational organizations, performing arts venues and organizations,
studios and media laboratories, and live-work housing facilities Examples
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Business incubators;
         (b)   Art incubators or coalition (e.g. a performing arts coalition
seeking construction rehearsal or performance facilities);
         (c)   Public markets for farmers, gardeners, crafts, etc.; and
         (d)   Organizations which foster economic development by promoting
work force development efforts such as apprenticeships or other job training
programs.
      (7)   Projects in industry clusters listed above are particularly
encouraged, but others are eligible to apply as well. The intention is to
retain flexibility in the use of incentives; and
      (8)   Qualifying entities with existing contract or projects with the
town when this plan is adopted may propose a restructuring of their projects as
an economic development project.
   (B)   All applications for economic development projects requesting economic
assistance from the town shall submit a cost benefit analysis. Preparing a cost
benefit analysis shall be the responsibility of the applicant. The town retains
the right to specify a format and methodology for the cost-benefit analysis.
The UCCDC shall review and approve the methodology used. The source and
rationale fur any multiplier effects shall be identified. The cost-benefit
analysis shall show that the town will recoup the value of its donation within
a period of ten years. The analysis shall address the following:
      (1)   The number and type of jobs to be created, both temporary
construction jobs and permanent jobs (by New Mexico Department of Workforce
Solutions job category);
      (2)   Pay scale of jobs;
      (3)   Determination of which jobs are expected to be filled locally and
which will be filled by transfers from other facilities or recruited from
outside the Clayton area;
      (4)   Total payroll expected at start-up and after one year;
      (5)   Anticipated impact on local tax base; and
      (6)   Anticipated impact on local school systems.
   (C)   All applicants for economic development projects requesting economic
assistance from the town shall require the same review required of industrial
revenue bond applications. This review shall focus on environmental and
community impacts of proposed projects. Special attention shall be given to job
training and career advancement programs and policies. Projects shall
demonstrate a strong commitment to providing career opportunities for Clayton
area residents. Cultural impacts of projects shall also be considered.
   (D)   Any qualifying entity seeking assistance shall prepare and make
available a job training and career development plan for their employees.
   (E)   All applicants for economic development projects requesting economic
assistance from the town shall clearly demonstrate the benefits that will
accrue to the community as a result of the donation of public resources. The
town has considerable flexibility in determining what is considered as adequate
benefits. Benefits such as but are not limited to providing components or
production capabilities, which enhance a targeted industry cluster, or
addressing critical deficiencies in regional economy, may be recognized. The
benefits claimed of any proposal will receive careful scrutiny; however it is
the intent of this ordinance to be flexible in the evaluation of these
benefits, and to recognize the qualitative as well as quantitative impact of a
proposal.
   (F)   All applicants for economic development projects requesting assistance
from the town shall clearly demonstrate how the qualifying entity is making a
substantive contribution. The contribution shall be of value and may be paid in
money, in-kind services, jobs, expanded tax base, property or other thing or
service of value for the expansion or improvement of the economy. The town
retains flexibility in defining the "substantive contributions". The benefits
identified in the previous paragraphs may be accepted as adequate contributions
on their own, or as cash donations may be required. Assistance in providing
affordable housing to its employees or the community at large may also qualify.
Determination of what constitutes an acceptable contribution for a given
project shall be at the discretion of the governing body.
(Ord. 690, passed 3-13-2013)
§ 34.58 PUBLIC SAFEGUARDS.
   (A)   All economic development projects receiving assistance from the town
shall be subject to an annual performance review conducted by the UCCDC and/or
the town. This review shall evaluate whether the project is attaining the goals
and objectives set forth in the project participation agreement. This review
shall be presented to the governing body for their consideration. The governing
body at a public hearing may terminate assistance to the economic development
project by provisions set forth in the agreement, which terminates the
agreement and specifies the disposition of all assets and obligations of the
project.
   (B)   The town shall retain a security interest, which shall be specific in
the project participation agreement. The type security given shall depend upon
the nature of economic development project and assistance provided by the town.
Types of security may include; but are not limited to:
      (1)   Letter of credit in the town's name;
      (2)   Performance bond equal to the town's contribution;
      (3)   A mortgage or lien on the property or equipment;
      (4)   Pro-rated reimbursement of donation if company reduces work force
or leaves the community before the term agreed to; and
      (5)   Other security agreeable to both parties.
   (C)   Should a qualifying entity move, sell, lease or transfer a majority
interest in the economic development project before the expiration of the
project participation agreement, the town retains the right to deny any and all
assignments, sales, leases or transfers of any interests in the economic
development project until adequate assurances are made that the transferee,
assignee or lessee is a qualifying entity and that the terms of the agreement
will be satisfied by the transferee, assignee or lessee. At its discretion, the
town may choose to deny said assignment, lease or transfer or may negotiate a
new agreement with the new operator, or the town may reclaim the facility and
enter into an agreement with the new qualifying entity.
   (D)   Any qualifying entity seeking assistance from public resources shall
commit to operate in accordance with its project participation agreement for a
minimum of ten years from the date the ordinance is adopted and the governing
body passes the project participation agreement.
(Ord. 690, passed 3-13-2013)
§ 34.59 PROJECT PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The qualifying entity shall prepare with the town a project
participation agreement. This agreement is the formal document, which states
the contribution and obligation of all parties in the economic development
project. The agreement must state the following items:
      (1)   The economic development goals of the project;
      (2)   The contribution of the town and the qualifying entity;
      (3)   The specific measurable objectives upon which the performance
review will be read;
      (4)   A schedule for project development and goal attainment;
      (5)   The security being offered for the town's investment;
      (6)   The procedures by which a project may be terminated and the town's
investment recovered; and
      (7)   The time period for which the county shall retain an interest in
the project. Each project agreement shall have a "sunset" clause after which
the county shall relinquish interest in and oversight of the project.
   (B)   Each project participation agreement shall be subject to review and
approval by the governing body at a public hearing.
(Ord. 690, passed 3-13-2013)
§ 34.60 PROJECT MONIES.
   All project monies shall be kept in a separate account by the entity and the
town, with such account clearly identified. These accounts shall be subject to
an annual independent audit.
(Ord. 690, passed 3-13-2013)
§ 34.61 TERMINATION.
   The governing body may terminate this subchapter or the town's economic
development plan or any or all project participation agreements undertaken
under its authority. Termination of this subchapter shall be by ordinance at a
public hearing. Termination of a project participation agreement shall be at a
public meeting. If an ordinance or a project participation agreement is
terminated, all contract provisions of the project participation agreement
obligating the qualifying entity including those regarding termination shall be
satisfied. Upon termination of the ordinance any town monies remaining in the
town project accounts shall be transferred to the town's general fund.
(Ord. 690, passed 3-13-2013)
§ 34.62 JOINT REGIONAL PROJECTS.
   The town may engage in economic development projects involving one or more
other government entities for projects, which encompass more than one
municipality or county. In such instances, the relevant governing bodies shall
adopt a joint powers agreement. This agreement will establish the application
criteria and the terms of all project participation agreements. Criteria
established under a joint powers agreement shall be consistent with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 690, passed 3-13-2013)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
Miscellaneous Taxes
   
35.001   Municipal gross receipts tax
   
35.002   Special municipal gross receipts tax
   
35.003   Municipal capital outlay gross receipts tax
   
35.004   Municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax
   
35.005   Municipal environmental services gross receipts tax
   
35.006   Municipal quality of life gross receipts tax
Lodger’s Tax
   
35.020   Title
   
35.021   Purpose
   
35.022   Definitions
   
35.023   Imposition of tax
   
35.024   Licensing
   
35.025   Exemptions
   
35.026   Collection of the tax and reporting procedures
   
35.027   Duties of the vendor
   
35.028   Refunds and credits
   
35.029   Confidentiality of return
   
35.030   Administration of lodger’s tax monies collected
   
35.031   Use of lodger’s tax monies
   
35.032   Vendor audit requirements
Supplemental Municipal Gross Receipts Tax
   
35.050   Title
   
35.051   Declaration of intent and purpose
   
35.052   Definitions
   
35.053   Imposition of tax rate; presumption of taxability
   
35.054   Deposit of proceeds
   
35.055   Separately stating the municipal gross receipts tax
   
35.056   Date payment due
   
35.057   Exemptions
   
35.058   Evidence required to entitle persons to deductions
   
35.059   Suspension of the right to use nontaxable transaction certificate
   
35.060   Deductions
   
35.061   Bureau as agent for collection; municipality liable on refunds
   
35.062   Dedication
   
35.063   Effective date
 
Gasoline and Oils Tax
   
35.075   Definitions
   
35.076   Levy; rate
   
35.077   Taxable sales
   
35.078   Collector
   
35.079   Monthly remittances and reports of sales
   
35.080   Gasoline in lieu of licenses
   
35.081   Use of tax money
 
   
35.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Business and occupation taxes/registration requirements, see
Chapter 111
MISCELLANEOUS TAXES
§ 35.001 MUNICIPAL GROSS RECEIPTS TAX.
   (A)   Imposition of tax. There is imposed on any person engaging in business
in this municipality, for the privilege of engaging in business in this
municipality, an excise tax equal to 0.25% of the gross receipts reported or
required to be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico Gross Receipts
and Compensating Tax Act being NMSA §§ 7-9-1 et seq., as it now exists or as
amended. The tax imposed under this section is pursuant to the Municipal Gross
Receipts Tax Act as it now exists or as amended and shall be known as the
“municipal gross receipts tax”.
   (B)   General provisions. This section hereby adopts by reference all
definitions, exemptions and deductions contained in the Gross Receipts and
Compensating Tax Act as it now exists or as amended.
   (C)   Specific exemptions. No special municipal gross receipts tax shall be
imposed on the gross receipts arising from:
      (1)   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor
vehicle, air transportation or any other means from 1 point within the
municipality to another point outside the municipality;
      (2)   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a gross receipts tax distribution is made
pursuant to subsection (C) of NMSA § 7-1-6.4; or
      (3)   Direct broadcast satellite services.
   (D)   Effective date. The effective date of this section is July 1, 2019.
(Ord. 527, passed 7-3-1981; Am. Ord. 550, passed 7-24-1984; Am. Ord. 707,
passed 1-9-2019)
§ 35.002 SPECIAL MUNICIPAL GROSS RECEIPTS TAX.
   (A)   Imposition of tax. There is imposed on any person engaging in business
in the municipality for the privilege of engaging in business in the
municipality, an excise tax equal to 0.5% of the gross receipts reported or
required to be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico Gross Receipts
and Compensating Tax Act being NMSA §§ 7-9-1 et seq., as it now exists or as
amended. The tax imposed under this section is pursuant to the Special
Municipal Gross Receipts Tax Act being NMSA §§ 7-9-1 to 7-9-113, as it now
exists or as amended and shall be known as the “special municipal gross
receipts tax”.
   (B)   General provisions. This section hereby adopts by reference all
definitions, exemptions and deductions contained in the Gross Receipts and
Compensating Tax Act as it now exists or as amended.
   (C)   Specific exemptions. No special municipal gross receipts tax shall be
imposed on the gross receipts arising from:
      (1)   The transmission of messages by wire or other means from 1 point
within the municipality to another point outside the municipality;
      (2)   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor
vehicle, air transportation or any other means from 1 point within the
municipality to another point outside the municipality; or
      (3)   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a gross receipts tax distribution is made
pursuant to subsection (C) of NMSA § 7-1-6.4.
   (D)   Dedication. All the proceeds derived from the imposition of the
special municipal gross receipts tax will be used for the repair and
replacement of infrastructure improvements, specifically streets and alleys and
acquisition of rights-of-way, and related facilities within the municipality or
within the extraterritorial zone of the municipality.
   (E)   Effective date. The effective date of this section is January 1, 1985.
(Ord. 551, passed 1-1-1985)
§ 35.003 MUNICIPAL CAPITAL OUTLAY GROSS RECEIPTS TAX.
   (A)   Imposition of tax. There is imposed on any person engaging in business
in the municipality for the privilege of engaging in business in the
municipality, an excise tax equal to 0.25% of the gross receipts reported or
required to be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico Gross Receipts
and Compensation Tax Act being NMSA §§ 7-9-1 et seq., as it now exists or as it
may be amended. The tax imposed under this section is pursuant to the Municipal
Local Option Gross Receipts Taxes Act being NMSA §§ 7-19D-1 to 7-19D-16, as it
now exists or as it may be amended and shall be known as the “municipal capital
outlay gross receipts tax”.
   (B)   General provisions. This section hereby adopts by reference all
definitions, exemptions and deductions contained in the Gross Receipts and
Compensating Tax Act as it now exists or as it may be amended.
   (C)   Specific exemptions. No municipal capital outlay gross receipts tax
shall be imposed on the gross receipts arising from:
      (1)   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor
vehicle, air transportation or any other means from 1 point within the
municipality to another point outside the municipality;
      (2)   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by the municipality for which a state gross receipts tax distribution is
made pursuant to subsection (C) of NMSA § 7-1-6.4; or
      (3)   Direct broadcast satellite services.
   (D)   Dedication. Revenue from the municipal capital outlay gross receipts
tax will be used for the purposes listed below:
      (1)   Water system improvements;
      (2)   Sewer system improvement;
      (3)   Street improvements; and
      (4)   General building improvements.
   (E)   Effective date. The effective date of this section shall be either
January 1 or July 1, whichever date occurs first after the expiration of 3
months from the date when the results of the election are certified to be in
favor of the ordinance’s adoption and the adopted ordinance is delivered or
mailed to the Taxation and Revenue Department.
(Ord. 634, passed 12-9-2003)
§ 35.004 MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE GROSS RECEIPTS TAX.
   (A)   Imposition of tax. There is imposed on any person engaging in business
in the municipality for the privilege of engaging in business in the
municipality, an excise tax equal to 1/8% of the gross receipts reported or
required to be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico Gross Receipts
and Compensating Tax Act being NMSA §§ 7-9-1 et seq., as it now exists or as it
may be amended. The tax imposed under this section is pursuant to the Municipal
Local Option Gross Receipts Taxes Act being NMSA §§ 7-9-1 to 7-9-113, as it now
exists or as it may be amended and shall be known as the “municipal
infrastructure gross receipts tax”.
   (B)   General provisions. This section hereby adopts by reference all
definitions, exemption and deductions contained in the Gross Receipts and
Compensating Tax Act, as it now exists or as it may be amended.
   (C)   Specific exemptions. No municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax
shall be imposed on the gross receipts arising from:
      (1)   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor
vehicle, air transportation or any other means from 1 point within the
municipality to another point outside the municipality;
      (2)   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a state gross receipts tax distribution is
made pursuant to subsection (C) of NMSA § 7-1-6.4; or
      (3)   Direct broadcast satellite services.
   (D)   Dedication. Revenue from the municipal infrastructure gross receipts
used for the purpose(s) listed below:
      (1)   Various types of infrastructure improvements; and
      (2)   Municipal general purposes.
   (E)   Effective date. The effective date of this section shall be either
January 1 or July 1, whichever date occurs first after the expiration of at
least 3 months from the date this section is adopted, unless an election is
held on the question of approving this section , in which case the effective
date shall be either July 1 or January 1, whichever date occurs first after the
expiration of 3 months from the date when the results of the election are
certified to be in favor of the ordinance’s adoption.
(Ord. 574, passed 9-26-1991; Am. Ord. 576, passed 1-16-1992; Am. Ord. 621,
passed 12-11-2001)
§ 35.005 MUNICIPAL ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES GROSS RECEIPTS TAX.
   (A)   Imposition of tax. There is imposed on any person engaging in business
in the municipality for the privilege of engaging in business in the
municipality, an excise tax equal to 1/16% of the gross receipts reported or
required to be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico Gross Receipts
and Compensating Tax Act being NMSA §§ 7-9-1 et seq., as it now exists or as it
may be amended. The tax imposed under this section is pursuant to the Municipal
Environmental Services Gross Receipts Tax Act as it now exists or as it may be
amended and shall be known as the “municipal environmental services gross
receipts tax”.
   (B)   General provisions. This section hereby adopts by reference all
definitions, exemptions and deductions contained in the Gross Receipts and
Compensating Tax Act as it now exists or as it may be amended.
   (C)   Specific exemptions. No municipal environmental services gross
receipts tax shall be imposed on the gross receipts arising from:
      (1)   The transmission of messages by wire or other means from 1 point
within the municipality to another point outside the municipality;
      (2)   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor
vehicle, air transportation or any other means from 1 point within the
municipality to another point outside the municipality; or   
      (3)   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a gross receipts tax distribution is made
pursuant to subsection (C) of NMSA § 7-1-6.4.
   (D)   Dedication. Revenue from the municipal environmental services gross
receipts tax will be used for the purpose(s) of the acquisition, construction,
operation and maintenance of solid waste facilities, water facilities,
wastewater facilities, sewer systems and related facilities.
   (E)   Effective date. The effective date of this section shall be either
January 1, 1991, unless an election is held pursuant to NMSA § 7-19B-3(A) on
the question of disapproving this section, in which case the effective date
shall be either July 1 or January 1, whichever date occurs first after the
expiration of 3 months from the date when the results of the election are
certified to be in favor of the ordinance’s adoption.
(Ord. 571, passed 9-24-1990)
§ 35.006 MUNICIPAL QUALITY OF LIFE GROSS RECEIPTS TAX.
   (A)   Imposition of tax. There is imposed on any person engaging in business
in this municipality for the privilege of engaging in business in the
municipality an excise tax equal to 0.25% of the gross receipts reported or
required to be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico Gross Receipts
and Compensating Tax Act being NMSA §§ 7-9-1 et seq., as it now exists or as it
may be amended. The tax imposed under this ordinance is pursuant to the
Municipal Local Option Gross Receipts Taxes Act being NMSA §§ 7-9-1 to 7-9-113,
as it now exists or as it may be amended and shall be known as the “municipal
quality of life gross receipts tax”.
   (B)   General provisions. This section hereby adopts by reference all
definitions, exemptions and deductions contained in the Gross Receipts and
Compensating Tax Act as it now exists or as it may be amended.
   (C)   Specific exemptions. No municipal quality of life gross receipts tax
shall be imposed on the gross receipts arising from:
      (1)   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor
vehicle, air transportation or any other means from 1 point within the
municipality to another point outside the municipality;
      (2)   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a state gross receipts tax distribution is
made pursuant to Subsection C of NMSA § 7-1-6.4; or
      (3)   Direct broadcast satellite services.
   (D)   Dedication. Revenue from the municipal quality of life gross receipts
tax must be dedicated io cultural programs and activities provided by a local
government and to cultural programs, events, and activities provided by
contract or operating agreement with nonprofit or publicly owned cultural
organizations and institutions.
   (E)   Effective date. The effective date of the municipal quality of life
gross receipts tax shall be either January 1 or July 1, whichever date occurs
first after the expiration of three months from the date when the results of
the election are certified to be in favor of the ordinance’s adoption and the
adopted ordinance is delivered or mailed to the Taxation and Revenue
Department.
(Ord. 655, passed 12-13-2006)
LODGER’S TAX
§ 35.020 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as the “Lodger’s Tax
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 622, passed 1-15-2002)
§ 35.021 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to impose a tax which will be borne by
persons using commercial lodging accommodations, which tax will provide
revenues for the purpose of advertising, publicizing and promoting facilities
authorized in §
35.031, tourist attractions and acquisition, construction and maintenance of
tourist attractions and recreational facilities.
(Ord. 622, passed 1-15-2002)
§ 35.022 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Advisory Board established herein to make recommendations to the
governing body, keep complete minutes of its proceedings and submit its
recommendations, correspondence and other pertinent documents to the governing
body.
   GROSS, TAXABLE RENT. The total amount of rent paid for lodging, not
including the state gross receipts tax or local sales tax.
   LODGING. The transaction of furnishing room or other accommodations by a
vendor to a vendee who for a rent uses, possesses or has the right to use or
possess any room or rooms or other units of accommodation in or at a taxable
premises.
   LODGINGS. The rooms or other accommodations furnished by a vendor to a
vendee by a taxable service of lodgings.
   OCCUPANCY TAX. The tax on lodging authorized by the Lodger’s Tax Act being
NMSA §§ 3-38-13 through 3-38-24.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, other body corporate, partnership, association
or individual, includes an executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or other
representative appointed according to law and acting in a representative
capacity, but does not include the United States of America, the State of New
Mexico, any corporation, department, instrumentality or agency of the federal
government or the state government or any political subdivision of the state.
   RENT. The consideration received by a vendor in money, credits, property or
other consideration valued in money for lodgings subject to an occupancy tax
authorized in the Lodger’s Tax Act being NMSA §§ 3-38-13 through 3-38-24.
   TAXABLE PREMISES. A hotel, apartment, apartment hotel, apartment house,
lodge, lodging housing, rooming house, motor hotel, guest house, guest ranch,
ranch resort, guest resort, mobile home, motor court, auto court, auto camp,
trailer court, trailer camp, trailer part, tourist camp, cabin or other
premises used for lodging.
   TOWN CLERK-TREASURER. The Town Clerk-Treasurer of Clayton, New Mexico.
   VENDEE. A natural person to whom lodgings are furnished in the exercise of
the taxable service of lodging.
   VENDOR. A person furnishing lodgings in the exercise of the taxable service
of lodging.
(Ord. 622, passed 1-15-2002)
§ 35.023 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed an occupancy tax of revenues of 5% of gross taxable
rent for lodging within the town paid to vendors.
(Ord. 622, passed 1-15-2002)
§ 35.024 LICENSING.
   (A)   No vendor shall engage in the business of providing lodging in the
Town of Clayton, New Mexico, who has not first obtained a license as provided
in this section.
   (B)   Applicants for a vendor’s license shall submit an application to the
Town Clerk- Treasurer stating:
      (1)   The name of the vendor including identification of any person, as
defined in this subchapter, who owns or operates or both owns and operates a
place of lodgings, and the name or trade names under which the vendor proposes
to do business and the post office address thereof;
      (2)   A description of the facilities, including the number of rooms and
the usual schedule of rates thereof;
      (3)   A description of other facilities provided by vendor or others to
users of the lodgings, such as restaurant, bar, cleaning laundry, courtesy car,
stenographic tailor or others, and a statement identifying the license issued,
to whom issued, the authority issuing and the period for which issued. If
applicable, also the identification number provided by the Bureau of Revenue of
the State of New Mexico;
      (4)   The nature of the business practices of the vendor and to what
extent, if any, this business is exempt from the Lodger’s Tax Act being NMSA §§
3-38-13 through 3-38-24; and
      (5)   Other information reasonably necessary to effect a determination of
eligibility for the license.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall review applications for license within
10 days of receipt thereof, and grant the license in due course if the
applicant is doing business subject to the Lodger’s Tax Act being NMSA §§ 3-38-
13 through 3-38-24.
   (D)   If the Town Clerk-Treasurer finds the applicant not exempt under the
terms of the Lodger’s Tax Ordinance, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall, not more
than 10 days after receipt of the application, advise the applicant of the
decision and give the reasons therefor.
   (E)   An applicant who is dissatisfied with the decision of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer may appeal the decision to the town governing body by written notice
to the Town Clerk-Treasurer of the appeal to be made within 15 days of the date
of the decision of the Town Clerk-Treasurer on the application. The matter
shall be referred to the governing body for hearing at a regular or special
meeting in the usual course of business. The decision of the governing body
made thereof shall be expressed in writing and be communicated in the same
manner as the decision of the Town Clerk- Treasurer is transmitted. The action
of the governing body shall be deemed final.
   (F)   If the governing body finds for the applicant, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue the appropriate license or other notice conforming to the
decision made by the governing body.
(Ord. 622, passed 1-15-2002) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.025 EXEMPTIONS.
   The occupancy tax shall not apply:
   (A)   If the vendee:
      (1)   Has been a permanent resident of the taxable premises for a period
of at least 30 consecutive days; or
      (2)   Enters into, or has entered into, a written agreement for lodgings
at the taxable premises for a period of at least 30 consecutive days.
   (B)   If the rent paid by a vendee is less than $2 a day;
   (C)   To lodging accommodations at institutions of the federal government,
the state or any political subdivision hereof;
   (D)   To lodging accommodations at religious, charitable, educational or
philanthropic institutions, including without limitation, the accommodations at
summer camps operated by those institutions;
   (E)   To clinics, hospitals or other medical facilities;
   (F)   To privately-owned and operated convalescent homes, or homes for the
aged, infirm, indigent or chronically ill; or
   (G)   If the taxable premises does not have at least 3 rooms or 3 other
units of accommodation for lodging.
(Ord. 622, passed 1-15-2002)
§ 35.026 COLLECTION OF THE TAX AND REPORTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Every vendor providing lodgings shall collect the tax thereon on
behalf of the town and shall act as a trustee therefor.
   (B)   The tax shall be collected from vendees and shall be charged
separately from the rent fixed by the vendor for the lodgings.
   (C)   Each vendor licensed under this subchapter shall be liable to the Town
of Clayton, New Mexico for the tax provided therein on the rent paid for
lodging at his or her respective place of business.
   (D)   Each vendor shall make a report by day 25 of each month, on forms
provided by the Town Clerk-Treasurer of the receipts for lodging in the
preceding calendar month, and shall remit the proceeds of the lodger’s tax to
the town and include sufficient information to enable the town to audit the
report and shall be verified on oath by the vendor.
(Ord. 622, passed 1-15-2002)
§ 35.027 DUTIES OF THE VENDOR.
   The vendor shall maintain adequate records of facilities subject to the tax
and of proceeds received for the use thereof. The records shall be maintained
in the local office of the vendor’s business in Clayton, New Mexico and shall
be open to the inspection of the town during reasonable hours and shall be
retained for 3 years.
(Ord. 622, passed 1-15-2002)
§ 35.028 REFUNDS AND CREDITS.
   If any person believes he or she has made payment of any lodger’s tax in
excess of that for which he or she was liable, he or she may claim a refund
thereof by directing to the Town Clerk- Treasurer, not later than 90 days from
the date payment was made, a written claim for refund. Every claim for refund
shall state the nature of the person’s complaint and the affirmative relief
requested. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall allow the claim in whole or in part
or may deny it. Refunds of tax, and interest erroneously paid and amounting to
$100 or more, may be made only with the approval of the governing body.
(Ord. 622, passed 1-15-2002)
§ 35.029 CONFIDENTIALITY OF RETURN.
   It is unlawful for any employee of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico to reveal
to any individual other than another employee of the town any information
contained in the return of any taxpayer, except to a court of competent
jurisdiction in response to an order thereof in an action relating to taxes to
which the town is a party, and in which the information sought is material to
the inquiry; to the taxpayer himself or herself or to his or her authorized
representative; and in such manner, for statistical purposes, that the
information revealed is not identified as applicable to any individual
taxpayer.
(Ord. 622, passed 1-15-2002) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.030 ADMINISTRATION OF LODGER’S TAX MONIES COLLECTED.
   The governing body shall administer the lodger’s tax monies collected. The
Mayor shall appoint an advisory board of 5 residents of the town; 2 of whom are
directly involved in tourist-related industries and 1 member at large who shall
represent the general public. This board shall advise the governing body on
expenditure of funds authorized under §
35.031 of this subchapter for advertising, publicizing and promoting tourist
attractions and facilities in the town or the surrounding area.
(Ord. 622, passed 1-15-2002)
§ 35.031 USE OF LODGER’S TAX MONIES.
   The town may use the proceeds of the tax to defray the cost of:
   (A)   Collecting and otherwise administering the tax, including the
performance of audits required by the Lodger’s Tax Act being NMSA §§ 3-38-13
through 3-38-24, pursuant to guidelines issued by the Department of Finance and
Administration;
   (B)   Establishing, operating, purchasing, constructing, otherwise
acquiring, reconstructing, extending, improving, equipping, furnishing or
acquiring real property or any interest in real property for site or grounds
for tourist-related facilities, attractions or transportation systems of the
town or county;
   (C)   The principal of and interest on any prior redemption premiums due in
connection with and any other charges pertaining to revenue bonds authorized by
NMSA § 3-38-23 or § 3-38-24;
   (D)   Advertising, publicizing and promoting tourist-related attractions,
facilities and events of the town and tourist facilities within the area;
   (E)   Providing police and fire protection and sanitation service for
tourist-related events, facilities and attractions located in the town; or
   (F)   Any combination of the foregoing purposes or transactions stated in
this section, but for no other municipal purpose.
(Ord. 622, passed 1-15-2002; Am. Ord. 666, passed 2-11-2009)
§ 35.032 VENDOR AUDIT REQUIREMENTS.
   In the event that the town collects over $50,000 in occupancy tax proceeds,
the town shall select for annual random audits 1 or more vendors to verify the
amount of gross rent subject to the occupancy tax and to ensure that the full
amount of occupancy tax is collected; in the event that the town collects less
than $50,000 in receipts per annum of the occupancy tax proceeds, the town
shall conduct random audits to verify full payment of occupancy tax receipts;
the town may use its own staff or may use outside auditors to perform the
audits of vendors; the cost of performing the audits shall be considered a cost
of administering the tax; the town’s governing body shall determine each year
the number of vendors within the town to audit.
(Ord. 622, passed 1-15-2002)
SUPPLEMENTAL MUNICIPAL GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
§ 35.050 TITLE.
   This subchapter may be cited as the Town of Clayton’s “Municipal
Supplemental Gross Receipts Tax Ordinance”.
(Ord. 499, passed 5-3-1976; Am. Ord. 502, passed 8-9-1976; Am. Ord. 512, passed
8-28-1978)
§ 35.051 DECLARATION OF INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the Municipal Gross Receipts Tax Act (NMSA §§ 7-19-10 to 7-19-
18) which authorized municipalities to enact a municipal gross receipts tax, it
is hereby declared the purpose and intent of the governing body of the Town of
Clayton to enact an ordinance imposing a gross receipts tax of 0.25% in
compliance with the Municipal Gross Receipts Tax Act. It is further declared
the purpose and intent of this subchapter to conform to the definitions and
applicable gross receipts tax provisions of the New Mexico Gross Receipts and
Compensating Tax Act being NMSA §§ 7-9-1 et seq., and any interpretation of
this subchapter should be in conformity with the applicable sections of the
Gross Receipts and Compensating Tax Act.
(Ord. 499, passed 5-3-1976; Am. Ord. 502, passed 8-9-1976; Am. Ord. 512, passed
8-28-1978)
§ 35.052 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUREAU. The Revenue Division of the Taxation and Revenue Department, the
Director of that division or any employee of the division exercising authority
lawfully delegated to him or her by the director.
   BUYING or SELLING. Any transfer of property for consideration or any
performance of service for consideration.
   CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   Building, altering, repairing or demolishing in the ordinary course
of business any:
         (a)   Road, highway, bridge, parking area or related project;
         (b)   Building, stadium or other structure;
         (c)   Airport, subway or similar facility;
         (d)   Park, trail, athletic field, golf course or similar facility;
         (e)   Dam, reservoir, canal, ditch or similar facility;
         (f)   Sewerage or water treatment facility, power generating plant,
pump station, natural gas compressing station or similar facility;
         (g)   Sewerage, water, gas or other pipeline;
         (h)   Transmission line;
         (I)   Radio or other tower;
         (j)   Water, oil or other storage tank;
         (k)   Shaft, tunnel or other mining appurtenance; or
         (l)   Similar work.
      (2)   CONSTRUCTION also means:
         (a)   Leveling or clearing land;
         (b)   Excavating earth;
         (c)   Drilling wells of any type, including seismograph shot holes or
core drilling; or
         (d)   Similar work.
   ENGAGING IN BUSINESS. Carrying on, or causing to be carried on, any activity
with the purpose of direct or indirect benefit.
   FINANCIAL CORPORATION. Any savings and loan association, or any incorporated
savings and loan company, trust company, mortgage banking company, consumer
finance company or other financial corporation.
   GROSS RECEIPTS.
      (1)   The total amount of money or the value of other consideration,
received from selling property, from leasing property or from performing
services, and includes any receipts from sales of tangible personal property
handled on consignment, but excludes cash discounts allowed and taken, New
Mexico gross receipts tax payable on transactions for the reporting period and
taxes imposed pursuant to the provisions of the Municipal Gross Receipts Tax
Act which are payable on transactions for the reporting period and any type of
time-price differential.
      (2)   In an exchange in which the money or other consideration received
does not represent the value of the property or service exchanged, GROSS
RECEIPTS means the reasonable value of the property or service exchanged.
      (3)   When the sale of property or service is made under any type of
charge, conditional or time sales contract or the leasing of property is made
under a leasing contract, the seller or lessor may elect to treat all receipts,
excluding any type of time-price differential, under the contracts as gross
receipts and when the payments are actually received. If the seller or lessor
transfers his or her interest in any contract to a third person, he or she
shall pay the gross receipts tax upon the full sale or leasing contract amount,
excluding any type of time-price differential.
      (4)   GROSS RECEIPTS, for the purposes of the business of buying, selling
or promoting the purchase, sale or leasing, as factor, agent or broker, on a
commission or fee basis of any property, service, stock, bond or security,
includes only the total commissions or fees derived from the business.
      (5)   GROSS RECEIPTS also includes amounts paid by members of any
cooperative association or similar organization for sales or leases of personal
property or performance of services by the organization.
   LEASING. Any arrangement whereby, for a consideration, property is employed
for or by any person other than the owner of the property.
   MANUFACTURING. Combining or processing components or materials to increase
their value for sale in the ordinary course of business but does not include
construction.
   MUNICIPAL GROSS RECEIPTS TAX. The municipal gross receipts tax imposed by
the Town of Clayton Municipal Gross Receipts Tax Ordinance.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Clayton.
   PERSON.
      (1)   Any individual, estate, trust, receiver, cooperative association,
club, corporation, company, firm, partnership, joint venture, syndicate or
other entity, including any gas, water or electric utility owned or operated by
a county, municipality or other political subdivision of the state; or
      (2)   The United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof, the
State of New Mexico or any political subdivision thereof.
   PROPERTY. Real property, tangible personal property franchises, patents,
trademarks and copyrights. Tangible personal property includes electricity.
   SERVICE.
      (1)   All activities engaged in for other persons for a consideration,
which activities involve predominantly the performance of a service as
distinguished from selling property. In determining what is a SERVICE, the
intended use, principal objective or ultimate objective of the contracting
parties shall not be controlling.
      (2)   SERVICE includes construction activities and all tangible personal
property that will become an ingredient or component part of a construction
project; however, sales of tangible personal property that will become an
ingredient or component part of a construction project to persons engaged in
the construction business are sales of tangible personal property.
   USE or USING. Use, consumption or storage other than storage for subsequent
sale in the ordinary course of business or for use solely outside this state.
(Ord. 499, passed 5-3-1976; Am. Ord. 502, passed 8-9-1976; Am. Ord. 512, passed
8-28-1978)
§ 35.053 IMPOSITION OF TAX RATE; PRESUMPTION OF TAXABILITY.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on any person engaging in business in the
municipality for the privilege of engaging in business in the municipality, an
excise tax to be referred to as the “municipal gross receipts tax”. The rate of
the tax shall be equal to 0.25% of the gross receipts of the person engaging in
business.
   (B)   To prevent evasion of the municipal gross receipts tax and to aid in
its administration, it is presumed that all receipts of a person engaging in
business within the municipality are subject to the municipal gross receipts
tax.
(Ord. 499, passed 5-3-1976; Am. Ord. 502, passed 8-9-1976; Am. Ord. 512, passed
8-28-1978)
§ 35.054 DEPOSIT OF PROCEEDS.
   All revenues distributed to the municipality by the Bureau pursuant to the
provisions of the Municipal Gross Receipts Tax Act shall be deposited into the
General Fund of the municipality, unless otherwise specified in §
35.062 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 499, passed 5-3-1976; Am. Ord. 502, passed 8-9-1976; Am. Ord. 512, passed
8-28-1978)
§ 35.055 SEPARATELY STATING THE MUNICIPAL GROSS RECEIPTS TAX.
   When the municipal gross receipts tax is stated separately on the books of
the seller or lessor, and if the total amount of tax that is stated separately
on transactions reportable within 1 reporting period is in excess of the amount
of municipal gross receipts tax otherwise payable on the transactions on which
the tax was stated separately, the excess amount of tax stated on the
transactions within that reporting period shall be included in gross receipts.
(Ord. 499, passed 5-3-1976; Am. Ord. 502, passed 8-9-1976; Am. Ord. 512, passed
8-28-1978)
§ 35.056 DATE PAYMENT DUE.
   The taxes imposed by this subchapter are to be paid on or before day 25 of
the month following the month in which the taxable event occurs, or as
otherwise authorized by the Bureau.
(Ord. 499, passed 5-3-1976; Am. Ord. 502, passed 8-9-1976; Am. Ord. 512, passed
8-28-1978)
§ 35.057 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No municipal gross receipts tax shall be imposed on the gross receipts
arising from:
      (1)   The transmission of messages by wire or other means from 1 point
within the municipality to another point outside of the municipality;
      (2)   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor
vehicle, air transportation or any other means from 1 point within the
municipality to another point outside the municipality; or
      (3)   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a gross receipts tax distribution is made
pursuant to paragraph (3) of subsection (D) of NMSA § 7-1-6.4.
   (B)   Exempted from the municipal gross receipts tax are those receipts
exempted in divisions (B)(1) through (23) below.
      (1)   Governmental agencies. Exempted from the municipal gross receipts
tax are the receipts of the United States or any agency or instrumentality
thereof or the State of New Mexico or any political subdivision thereof.
Receipts from the sale of gas, water or electricity by a utility owned or
operated by a county, municipality or other political subdivision of the state
are not exempted from the municipal gross receipts tax.
      (2)   Certain nonprofit facilities. Exempted from the municipal gross
receipts tax are the receipts of nonprofit entities from the operation of
facilities designed and used for providing accommodations for retired elderly
persons.
      (3)   Wages. Exempted from the municipal gross receipts tax are the
receipts of employees from wages, salaries, commissions or from any other form
of remuneration for personal services.
      (4)   Agricultural products. Exempted from the municipal gross receipts
tax are the receipts of growers, producers, trappers or nonprofit marketing
associations from selling livestock, live poultry, unprocessed agricultural
products, hides or pelts. Persons engaged in the business of buying and selling
wool or mohair, or of buying and selling livestock on their own account, are
producers for the purposes of this section. Receipts from selling dairy
products at retail are not exempted from the municipal gross receipts tax.
      (5)   Livestock feeding. Exempted from the municipal gross receipts tax
are the receipts of any person derived from feeding or pasturing livestock.
Receipts derived from penning or handling livestock prior to sale are receipts
derived from feeding livestock for the purposes of this section. Receipts
derived from training livestock are receipts derived from feeding livestock for
the purposes of this section.
      (6)   Banks and financial corporations. Exempted from the municipal gross
receipts tax are the receipts of banks and financial corporations from selling
or leasing property or services in the course of their regular banking and
financial corporation functions.
      (7)   Vehicles. Exempted from the municipal gross receipts tax are the
receipts from selling vehicles on which a tax is imposed by NMSA § 7-14-1 and
on vehicles subject to registration under NMSA § 66-3-16.
      (8)   Insurance companies. Exempted from the municipal gross receipts tax
are the receipts of insurance companies or any agent thereof from premiums.
      (9)   Dividends and interest. Exempted from the municipal gross receipts
tax are the receipts received as interest on money loaned or deposited,
receipts received as dividends or interest from stocks, bonds or securities or
receipts from the sale of stocks, bonds or securities.
      (10)   Fuel. Exempted from the gross receipts and compensating tax are
the receipts from selling and the use of gasoline, special fuel or alternative
fuel on which the tax imposed by NMSA § 7-13-3, 7-16-3 or 7-16A-3 or the
Alternative Fuel Tax Act, being NMSA §§ 7-16B-1 to 7-16B-10 has been paid and
not refunded.
      (11)   Occasional sale of property or services. Exempted from the
municipal gross receipts tax are the receipts from the isolated or occasional
sale of or leasing of property or a service by a person who is neither
regularly engaged nor holding himself or herself out as engaged in the business
of selling or leasing the same or similar property or service.
      (12)   Certain organizations. Exempted from the municipal gross receipts
tax are the receipts of organizations that demonstrate to the Bureau that they
have been granted exemption from the federal income tax by the United States
Commissioner of Internal Revenue as organizations described in § 501(c)(3) of
the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1954, being 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq.,
as amended or renumbered. This section does not apply to receipts derived from
an unrelated trade or business as defined in § 513 of the United States
Internal Revenue Code of 1954, being 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as amended or
renumbered.
      (13)   Resale activities of an Armed Forces instrumentality. Exempted
from the municipal gross receipts tax are the receipts from selling tangible
personal property and the use of property by any instrumentality of the Armed
Forces of the United States engaged in resale activities.
      (14)   Oil and gas or mineral interests. Exempted from the municipal
gross receipts tax are the receipts from the sale of or leasing of oil, natural
gas or mineral interests.
      (15)   Persons subject to Oil and Gas Emergency School Tax Act being NMSA
§§ 7-31- 1 et seq. When a privilege tax is imposed by the Oil and Gas Emergency
School Tax Act being NMSA §§ 7-31-1 et seq., the provisions of the Act shall
apply and determine the full measure of tax liability for the privilege of
engaging in the business stated in the Act, and no provision of the Municipal
Gross Receipts Tax Ordinance shall apply to or create a tax liability for the
privilege; except that any person engaging in business of severing oil, natural
gas or liquid hydrocarbons from the soil of this state, who sells oil, natural
gas or liquid hydrocarbons other than for subsequent resale in the ordinary
course of business or for use as an ingredient or component part of a
manufactured product is subject to the Municipal Gross Receipts Tax Ordinance
as to those sales, as well as to the Oil and Gas Emergency School Tax Act being
NMSA §§ 7-31-1 et seq. No provision of the Municipal Gross Receipts Tax
Ordinance shall apply to the storage of oil, natural gas or liquid
hydrocarbons, individually or any combination thereof, or to the use of the
products for fuel in the operation of a PRODUCTION UNIT as defined by the Oil
and Gas Emergency School Tax Act being NMSA §§ 7-31-1 et seq.
      (16)   Refiners and persons subject to Natural Gas Processors Tax
Act being NMSA §§ 7-33-1 through 7-33-22. When a privilege tax is imposed by
the Natural Gas Processors Tax Act being NMSA §§ 7-33-1 through 7-33-22, the
provisions of the act shall apply and determine the full measure of tax
liability for the privilege of engaging in the business stated in the act and
no provision of the Municipal Gross Receipts Tax Ordinance shall apply to or
create a tax liability for the privilege, except that any producer or processor
of natural gas or liquid hydrocarbons who sells natural gas or liquid
hydrocarbons other than for subsequent resale in the ordinary course of
business or for use as an ingredient or for use as an ingredient or component
part of a manufactured product is subject to the Municipal Gross Receipts
Tax Ordinance as to those states, as well as to the Natural Gas Processors Tax
Act being NMSA §§ 7-33-1 through 7-33-22. No provision of the Municipal Gross
Receipts Tax Ordinance shall apply to the storage or use of oil, natural gas or
liquid hydrocarbons, individually or any combination thereof, when stored or
used by a PROCESSOR, as defined by the Natural Gas Processors Tax Act being
NMSA §§ 7-33-1 through 7-33-22, or by a person engaged in the business of
refining oil, natural gas or liquid hydrocarbons, who stores or uses the oil,
natural gas or liquid hydrocarbons in the regular course of his or her refining
business.
      (17)   Persons subject to Resources Excise Tax Act being NMSA §§ 7-25-
1 through 7- 25-9. When a privilege tax is imposed by the Resources Excise Tax
Act being NMSA §§ 7-25-1 through 7-25-9, the provisions of the act shall apply
and determine the full measure of tax liability for the privilege of engaging
in the business stated in the act, and no provision of the Municipal Gross
Receipts Tax Ordinance shall apply to or create a tax liability for the
privilege except in the same manner as is provided in NMSA §§ 7-25-1 et seq. in
regard to the New Mexico Gross Receipts and Compensating Tax Act being NMSA §§
7-9-1 et seq.
      (18)   Oil and gas consumed in the pipeline transportation of oil and gas
products. Exempted from the municipal gross receipts tax are receipts from the
sale of oil, natural gas, liquid hydrocarbons or any combinations thereof
consumed as fuel in the pipeline transportation of the products.
      (19)   Fees from social organizations.
         (a)   Exempted from the gross receipts tax are the receipts from dues
and registration fees of nonprofit social, fraternal, political, trade, labor
or professional organizations and business leagues.
         (b)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
            1.   DUES. Amounts that a member of an organization pays at
recurring intervals to retain membership in an organization where the amounts
are used for the general maintenance and upkeep of the organization; and
            2.   REGISTRATION FEES. Amounts paid by persons to attend a
specific event sponsored by an organization to defray the cost of the event.
      (20)   Purses and jockey remuneration at New Mexico race tracks. Exempted
from the municipal gross receipts tax are the receipts of horse persons,
jockeys and trainers from purses at New Mexico horse race tracks subject to
taxes levied under NMSA §§ 60-1-8 and 60-1-15.
      (21)   Religious activities. Exempted from the municipal gross receipts
tax are the receipts of a minister of a religious organization, which
organization has been granted an exemption from federal income tax by the
United States Commissioner of Internal Revenue as an organization described in
§ 501(c)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1954, being 26 U.S.C.
§§ 1 et seq., as amended or renumbered, from religious service provided by the
minister to an individual recipient of the service.
      (22)   Theatrical and television films and tapes. Exempted from the
municipal gross receipts tax are the receipts from the leasing or licensing of
theatrical and television films and tapes of any kind.
      (23)   Temporary provisions. Exempted from the municipal gross receipts
tax are receipts from contracts entered into prior to the April 10, 1975 which
do not permit an increase in price to cover the municipal gross receipts tax
and which are registered with the Bureau of Revenue as provided by the
Commissioner. The receipts shall be taxed according to the laws existing prior
to April 10, 1975.   
(Ord. 499, passed 5-3-1976; Am. Ord. 502, passed 8-9-1976; Am. Ord. 512, passed
8-28-1978)
§ 35.058 EVIDENCE REQUIRED TO ENTITLE PERSONS TO DEDUCTIONS.
   (A)   All nontaxable transaction certificates executed by buyers or lessees
should be in the possession of the seller or lessor for nontaxable transactions
at the time the nontaxable transactions occur. If the seller or lessor is not
in possession of these nontaxable transaction certificates within 60 days from
the date notice requiring the possession of these nontaxable transaction
certificates is given the seller or lessor by the Commissioner of Revenue or
his or her delegate, deductions claimed by the seller or lessor which required
delivery of these nontaxable transaction certificates shall be disallowed. The
nontaxable transaction certificates shall contain the information and be in a
form prescribed by the Bureau. Only buyers or lessees who have a registration
number, or have applied for a registration number and have not been refused 1
under subsection (C) of NMSA § 72-13-29 shall execute nontaxable transaction
certificates. When the seller or lessor accepts a nontaxable transaction
certificate within the required time and in good faith that the buyer or lessee
will employ the property or service transferred in a nontaxable manner, the
proper executed nontaxable transaction certificate shall be conclusive evidence
and the only material evidence that the proceeds from the transaction are
deductible from the seller’s or lessor’s gross receipts.
   (B)   Properly executed documents required to support the deductions
provided in divisions (B)(9), (13) and (29) of §
35.060 should be in the possession of the seller at the time the nontaxable
transactions occur. If the seller is not in possession of these documents
within 60 days from the date notice requiring the possession of these documents
is given to the seller by the Commissioner of Revenue, or his or her delegate,
deductions claimed by the seller or lessor which require delivery of these
documents shall be disallowed. These documents shall contain the information
and be in a form prescribed by the Bureau. When the seller accepts these
documents within the required time and in good faith that the buyer will employ
the property or service transferred in a nontaxable manner, the properly
executed documents shall be conclusive evidence and the only material evidence
that the proceeds from the transaction are deductible from the seller’s gross
receipts.
   (C)   Notification, as that term is used in this section, is sufficient if
the notice is mailed or served as provided in subsection (A) of NMSA § 47-8-13
(C)(2). Notice by the Commissioner under this section shall not be given prior
to the commencement of an audit of the seller from whom the documents are
required.
(Ord. 499, passed 5-3-1976; Am. Ord. 502, passed 8-9-1976; Am. Ord. 512, passed
8-28-1978)
§ 35.059 SUSPENSION OF THE RIGHT TO USE NONTAXABLE TRANSACTION CERTIFICATE.
   If the Commissioner suspends the right of any person to use nontaxable
transaction certificates pursuant to NMSA § 7-9-43, the suspension applies to
the use of the certificates under the Municipal Gross Receipts Tax Ordinance.
(Ord. 499, passed 5-3-1976; Am. Ord. 502, passed 8-9-1976; Am. Ord. 512, passed
8-28-1978)
§ 35.060 DEDUCTIONS.
   (A)   In computing the municipal gross receipts tax due, only the receipts
specified in divisions (B)(2) through (31) below of the Municipal Gross
Receipts Tax Ordinance may be deducted.
   (B)   Receipts, whether specified once or several times in divisions (B)(1)
through (31) below, may be deducted only once from gross receipts.
      (1)   Sales to manufacturers. Receipts from selling tangible personal
property may be deducted from gross receipts if the sale is made to a person
engaged in the business of manufacturing who delivers a nontaxable transaction
certificate to the seller. The buyer delivering the nontaxable transaction
certificate must incorporate the tangible personal property as an ingredient or
component part of the product which he or she is in the business of
manufacturing.
      (2)   Sale of tangible personal property for resale. Receipts from
selling tangible personal property may be deducted from gross receipts if the
sale is made to a person who delivers a nontaxable transaction certificate to
the seller. The buyer delivering the nontaxable transaction certificate must
resell the tangible personal property either by itself or in combination with
other tangible personal property in the ordinary course of business.
      (3)   Sale of a service for resale. Receipts from selling a service for
resale may be deducted from gross receipts if the sale is made to a person who
delivers a nontaxable transaction certificate. The buyer delivering the
nontaxable transaction certificate must separately state the value of the
service purchased in his or her charge for the service on its subsequent sale,
and the subsequent sale must be in the ordinary course of business and subject
to the municipal gross receipts tax.
      (4)   Sale of tangible personal property for leasing. Receipts from
selling tangible personal property, other than furniture or appliances, the
receipts from the rental or lease of which are deductible under division (B)(8)
(c) below and other than MOBILE HOMES as defined in NMSA § 64-1-8, may be
deducted from gross receipts if the sale is made to a person who delivers a
nontaxable transaction certificate to the seller. The buyer delivering the
nontaxable transaction certificate must be engaged in a business which derives
a substantial portion of its receipts from leasing or selling tangible personal
property of the type leased. The buyer may not utilize the tangible personal
property in any manner other than holding it for lease or sale, or leasing or
selling it either by itself or in combination with other tangible personal
property in the ordinary course of business.
      (5)   Lease for subsequent lease.  Receipts from leasing tangible
personal property, other than furniture or appliances the receipts from the
rental or lease of which are deductible under division (B)(8)(c) below and
other than MOBILE HOMES, as defined in NMSA § 64-1-8, may be deducted from
gross receipts if the lease is made to a lessee who delivers a nontaxable
transaction certificate to the lessor. The lessee delivering the nontaxable
transaction certificate may not use the tangible personal property in any
manner other than for subsequent lease in the ordinary course of business.
      (6)   Sale of tangible personal property to persons engaged in the
construction business. Receipts from selling tangible personal property may be
deducted from gross receipts if the sale is made to a person engaged in the
construction business who delivers a nontaxable transaction certificate to the
seller. The buyer delivering the nontaxable transaction certificate must
incorporate the tangible personal property as:
         (a)   An ingredient or component part of a construction project which
is subject to the municipal gross receipts tax upon its completion or upon the
completion of the overall construction project of which it is a part; or
         (b)   An ingredient or component part of a construction project which
is subject to the municipal gross receipts tax upon the sale in the ordinary
course of business of the real property upon which it was constructed.
      (7)   Sale of construction services to persons engaged in the
construction business. Receipts from selling a construction service may be
deducted from gross receipts if the sale is made to a person engaged in the
construction business who delivers a nontaxable transaction certificate to the
person performing the construction service. The buyer delivering the nontaxable
transaction certificate must have the construction services performed upon:
         (a)   A construction project which is subject to the municipal gross
receipts tax upon its completion of the overall construction project of which
it is a part; or
         (b)   A construction project which is subject to the municipal gross
receipts tax upon the sale in the ordinary course of business of the real
property upon which it was constructed.
      (8)   State of lease of real property and lease of mobile homes.  
         (a)   Receipts from the sale or lease of real property, and from the
lease of a MOBILE HOME as defined in NMSA § 64-1-8, and as provided in division
(B)(8)(b) below, other than receipts from the sale or lease of oil, natural gas
or mineral interests exempted by §
35.057(B)(14), may be deducted from gross receipts. However, that portion of
the receipts from the sale of real property which is attributable to
improvements constructed on the real property by the seller in the ordinary
course of his or her construction business may not be deducted from gross
receipts.
         (b)   Receipts received by hotels, motels, rooming houses,
campgrounds, guest ranches, trailer parks or similar facilities, except
receipts received by trailer parks from the rental of a space or a mobile home
for a period of at least 1 month, from lodgers, guests, roomers or occupants
are not receipts from leasing real property for the purposes of this section.
         (c)   Receipts attributable to the inclusion of furniture or
appliances furnished as part of a leased or rented dwelling house, MOBILE HOMES
defined in NMSA § 64-1-8, or apartment by the landlord or lessor may be
deducted from gross receipts.
      (9)   Sales to governmental agencies. Receipts from selling tangible
personal property, other than nonfissionable metalliferous mineral ore, to the
United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof, the state of New Mexico
or any political subdivision thereof may be deducted from gross receipts.
Receipts from selling tangible personal property, other than nonfissionable
metalliferous mineral ore, to the governing body of an Indian tribe or Indian
Pueblo for use on Indian reservations or Pueblo grants, may be deducted from
gross receipts. That portion of the receipts from performing a SERVICE as
defined in §
35.052 which reflects the value of tangible personal property utilized or
produced in performance of the service is not deductible.
      (10)   Transactions in interstate commerce. Receipts from transactions in
interstate commerce may be deducted from gross receipts to the extent that the
imposition of the municipal gross receipts tax would be unlawful under the
United States Constitution.
      (11)   Intrastate transportation and services in interstate commerce.
Receipts from transporting persons or property from 1 point to another in this
state may be deducted from gross receipts when the persons or property,
including any special or extra service reasonably necessary in connection
therewith, are being transported in interstate or foreign commerce under a
single contract. Receipts from handling, storage, drayage or packing of
property or any other accessorial services on property, which property has
moved or will move in interstate or foreign commerce, when the services are
performed by a local agent for a carrier or a carrier, and when the services
are performed under a single contract in relation to transportation services,
may be deducted from gross receipts.
      (12)   Sale of certain services to out-of-state buyers.  
         (a)   Receipts from performing a service, other than a legal,
accounting or architectural service, may be deducted from gross receipts if the
sale of the service is made to a buyer who delivers to the seller either a
nontaxable transaction certificate or other evidence acceptable to the
Commissioner that the transaction does not contravene the conditions set out in
division (B)(3) above.
         (b)   The buyer delivering the nontaxable transaction certificate or
other evidence acceptable to the Commissioner must not contravene the
conditions set out in division (B)(3) above:
         (c)   Receipts from performance of a service shall not be subject to
the deduction provided in this section if the buyer of the service, any of his
or her employees or any person in privity with him or her:
            1.   Makes initial use of the product of the service in New Mexico;
            2.   Takes delivery of the product of the service in New Mexico; or
            3.   Concurrent with the performance of the service, has a regular
place of work in New Mexico or spends more than brief and occasional periods of
time in New Mexico and:
               a.   Has any communication in New Mexico related in any way to
the subject matter, performance or administration of the service, with the
person performing the service; or
               b.   Himself or herself performs work in New Mexico related to
the subject matter of the service.
      (13)   Feed and fertilizers. Receipts from selling feed for livestock,
fish raised for human consumption, poultry or for animals raised for their
hides or pelts, seeds, roots, bulbs, plants, soil conditioners, fertilizers,
insecticides, fungicides or herbicides or water for irrigation purposes may be
deducted from gross receipts if the sale is made to a person who states in
writing that he or she is regularly engaged in the business of farming,
ranching or the raising of animals for their hides or pelts. Receipts of
auctioneers from selling livestock or other agricultural products at auction
may also be deducted from gross receipts.
      (14)   Warehousing, threshing, harvesting, growing, cultivating and
processing agricultural products.
         (a)   Receipts from warehousing grain or other agricultural products
may be deducted from gross receipts.
         (b)   Receipts from threshing, cleaning, growing, cultivating or
harvesting agricultural products, including the ginning of cotton or processing
for growing producers or nonprofit marketing associations of other agricultural
products raised for food and fiber, including livestock, may be deducted from
gross receipts.
      (15)   Sales to certain organizations. Receipts from selling tangible
personal property, other than metalliferous mineral ore, to organizations that
have been granted exemption from the federal income tax by the United States
Commissioner of Internal Revenue as organizations described in § 501(c)(3) of
the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1954, being 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq.,
as amended or renumbered, may be deducted from gross receipts if the sale is
made to an organization that delivers a nontaxable transaction certificate to
the seller. The buyer delivering the nontaxable transaction certificate must
employ the tangible personal property in the conduct of an unrelated trade or
business as defined in § 513 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of
1954, being 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as amended or renumbered. Receipts from
selling tangible personal property that will become an ingredient or component
part of a construction project are not receipts from selling tangible personal
property for purposes of this section.
      (16)   Sales to banks and financial corporations. Receipts from selling
tangible personal property, other than metalliferous mineral ore, to banks and
financial corporations who employ the tangible personal property in their
regular banking and financial corporation functions may be deducted from gross
receipts.
      (17)   Agricultural implements, aircraft vehicles that are not required
to be registered. Fifty percent of the receipts from selling agricultural
implements, farm tractors, aircraft or vehicles that are not required to be
registered under the Motor Vehicle Code, NMSA §§ 64-1-1 to 64-5-4, may be
deducted from gross receipts. Any deduction allowed under division (B)(26)
below must be taken before the deduction allowed by this section is computed.
      (18)   Publication sales. Receipts from publishing newspapers or
magazines, except from selling advertising space, may be deducted from gross
receipts. Receipts from selling magazines at retail may not be deducted from
gross receipts.
      (19)   Newspaper sales. Receipts from selling newspapers, except from
selling advertising space, may be deducted from gross receipts.
      (20)   Chemicals and reagents. Receipts from selling chemicals or
reagents to any mining, milling or oil company for use in processing ores or
oil in a mill, smelter or refinery or in acidizing oil wells and receipts from
selling chemicals or reagents in lots in excess of 18 tons may be deducted from
gross receipts. Receipts from selling explosives, blasting powder or dynamite
may not be deducted from gross receipts.
      (21)   Commissions. Receipts derived from commissions on sales of
tangible personal property which are not subject to the municipal gross
receipts tax may be deducted from gross receipts.
      (22)   Refunds and uncollectible debts. Refunds and allowances made to
buyers or amounts written off the books as an uncollectible debt by a person
reporting municipal gross receipts tax on an accrual basis may be deducted from
gross receipts. If debts reported uncollectible are subsequently collected, the
receipts shall be included in gross receipts in the month of collection.
      (23)   Warranty obligations. Receipts of a dealer from furnishing goods
or services to the purchaser of tangible personal property to fulfill a
warranty obligation of the manufacturer of the property may be deducted from
gross receipts.
      (24)   Administrative and accounting services. Receipts of a corporation
for administrative and accounting services performed by it for a wholly-owned
subsidiary corporation upon a nonprofit or cost basis, and receipts from a
wholly-owned subsidiary for the joint use or sharing of office machines and
facilities upon a nonprofit or cost basis, may be deducted from gross receipts.
      (25)   Rental or lease of vehicles used in interstate commerce. Receipts
from the rental or leasing of vehicles used in the transportation of passengers
or property for hire in interstate commerce under the regulations or
authorization of any agency of the United States may be deducted.
      (26)   Trade-in allowance. That portion of the receipts of a seller that
is represented by a trade-in of tangible personal property of the same type
being sold may be deducted from gross receipts.
      (27)   Special fuel. Receipts from the sale of special fuel, as defined
in NMSA § 7-16A(O), may be deducted from gross receipts if the purchaser is a
bonded special fuel user under NMSA § 7-16A-1 et seq. who delivers a nontaxable
transaction certificate to the seller.
      (28)   Sale of prosthetic devices. Receipts from selling prosthetic
devices may be deducted from gross receipts if the sale is made to a person who
is licensed to practice medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, podiatry, optometry,
chiropractic or professional nursing and who delivers a nontaxable transaction
certificate to the seller. The buyer delivering the nontaxable transaction
certificate must deliver the prosthetic device incidental to the performance of
a service and must include the value of the prosthetic device in his or her
charge for the service.
      (29)   Sale of property used in the manufacture of jewelry. Receipts from
selling tangible personal property may be deducted from gross receipts if the
sale is made to a person who states in writing that he or she will use the
property so purchased in manufacturing jewelry. The buyer must incorporate the
tangible personal property as an ingredient or component part of the jewelry
that he or she is in the business of manufacturing. The deduction allowed a
seller under this section shall not exceed the sum of $1,000 during any 12-
month period attributable to purchases by a single purchaser.
      (30)   State of certain services performed directly on product
manufactured. Receipts from selling the service of combining or processing
components or materials may be deducted from gross receipts if the sale is made
to a person engaged in the business of manufacturing who delivers a nontaxable
transaction certificate to the seller. The buyer delivering the nontaxable
transaction certificate must have the service performed directly upon tangible
personal property which he or she is in the business of manufacturing or upon
ingredients or component parts thereof.
      (31)   Travel agent’s commissions paid by certain entities. Receipts of
travel agents derived from commissions paid by maritime transportation
companies and interstate airlines, railroads and passenger buses for booking,
referral, reservation or ticket services, may be deducted from gross receipts.
(Ord. 499, passed 5-3-1976; Am. Ord. 502, passed 8-9-1976; Am. Ord. 512, passed
8-28-1978)
§ 35.061 BUREAU AS AGENT FOR COLLECTION; MUNICIPALITY LIABLE ON REFUNDS.
   The municipality hereby appoints the New Mexico Bureau of Revenue as its
agent to administer and enforce the collection of the municipal gross receipts
tax. The Tax Administration Act (NMSA §§ 7-1-1 et seq.) applies to the
administration and enforcement of the Municipal Gross Receipts Tax Ordinance.
Any refund or other reimbursement which is due a taxpayer under the Municipal
Gross Receipts Tax Ordinance is a debt owing to the taxpayer from the
municipality. The Bureau may remit the refund or reimbursement to the taxpayer
and deduct an equivalent amount from current collections attributable to the
municipality. Should current collections not be sufficient to satisfy all
refunds and reimbursements that are due and owing, the Bureau is authorized and
directed to make the refunds and reimbursements from the amounts of state gross
receipts tax otherwise distributable to the municipality. If the Bureau is
unable to otherwise satisfy all refunds and reimbursements that are due and
owing, the Bureau shall so advise the municipality, and the municipality shall
treat the refunds and reimbursements as extraordinary, nonrecurring debts for
which the municipality shall be liable as if it had been a party to the claim
for refund or reimbursement, and which shall be satisfied by additional
assessments of the citizens of the municipality or by another legal means.
Should the Bureau require it, the municipality will enter into a contract with
the Bureau, whose terms are the same as those set out in this section.
(Ord. 499, passed 5-3-1976; Am. Ord. 502, passed 8-9-1976; Am. Ord. 512, passed
8-28-1978)
§ 35.062 DEDICATION.
   A portion of the municipal gross receipts tax is to be dedicated toward a
specific purpose or area of municipal government services listed below as to
purposes and amount of dedication. The funds will be placed in the municipal
General Fund.
(Ord. 499, passed 5-3-1976; Am. Ord. 502, passed 8-9-1976; Am. Ord. 512, passed
8-28-1978)
§ 35.063 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this subchapter shall be July 1, 1979.
(Am. Ord. 512, passed 8-28-1978)
GASOLINE AND OILS TAX
§ 35.075 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTRIBUTOR OF GASOLINE. A person engaged in the business of selling
gasoline or motor fuel in the town from refineries, tank farms, tank cars,
receiving tanks or stations, or in or from tanks, barrels, drums or other
containers in quantities exceeding 56 gallons in any 1 sale and delivery,
except persons engaged in selling exclusively in interstate commerce.
   GASOLINE.
      (1)   The volatile substance produced from petroleum, natural gas, oil
shales or coal, heretofore sold under the name of gasoline;
      (2)   Any volatile substance of not less than 46 degrees Tagliaubes
(tagliabue) Baume Test, derived wholly or in part from petroleum, natural gas,
oil shales or coal; and
      (3)   Any volatile substance of not less than 46 degrees Tagliaubes
(Tagliabue) Baume Test, sold or used for generating power in internal
combustion engines; provided, however, that the term GASOLINE shall not be
construed to include any petroleum, natural gas, oil shales or coal derivative
which must be further refined or processed before it can be used in internal
combustion engines.
   MOTOR FUEL. Any volatile substance, derived or compounded wholly or in part
from gasoline, petroleum, natural gas, oil shales, coal, alcohol or other
elements or substances, which is practically or commercially usable in internal
combustion engines for generating power; provided, however, that the term MOTOR
FUEL shall not be construed to include kerosene oil or distillates, except if
and when so refined or mixed with other volatile liquid or substances that the
refined product or resultant mixture or compound is practically and
commercially usable for generating power for propelling motor vehicles.
   RETAIL DEALER. A person ether than a distributor of gasoline who sells
gasoline or motor fuel in the town in quantities less than 56 gallons.
(Ord. 386, passed 11-10-1958)
§ 35.076 LEVY; RATE.
   There shall be payable to the town from every distributor of gasoline and
retail dealer in gasoline, a tax of $0.01 per gallon on each gallon of gasoline
sold within the town.
(Ord. 386, passed 11-10-1958)
§ 35.077 TAXABLE SALES.
   Where gasoline or motor fuel is sold within the town by a distributor of
gasoline to a retail dealer in gasoline and subsequently sold within the town
by the retail dealer in gasoline to the consumer, the sale by the distributor
of gasoline shall be construed as the taxable sale for the purposes of this
subchapter, and the subsequent sale by the retail dealer in gasoline shall not
be taxed; provided, that where the sale from the distributer in gasoline takes
place outside the limits of the town and the sale from the retail dealer in
gasoline to the consumer takes place within the limits of the town, the sale by
the retail dealer within the town shall be construed as the taxable sale for
the purpose of this subchapter.
(Ord. 386, passed 11-10-1958)
§ 35.078 COLLECTOR.
   The Mayor, by and with the advice of the Board of Trustees, may appoint some
person to be designated as Gasoline Tax Collector or may designate some
official of the town to act in the capacity. The Gasoline Tax Collector shall
perform the duties as may be designated by the Board of Trustees. He or she
shall receive a salary as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees and he or she
shall file a good and sufficient bond conditioned upon the faithful discharge
of his or her duties in the sum as may be fixed by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 386, passed 11-10-1958)
§ 35.079 MONTHLY REMITTANCES AND REPORTS OF SALES.
   Every distributor of gasoline and every retail dealer of gasoline within the
town shall, on or before day 15 of each month, make a complete report upon
forms to be furnished by the town of all gasoline sold during the preceding
month either to consumers or retail dealers within the town and shall remit
with the report payment to cover the tax due upon the basis as specified in
this subchapter.
(Ord. 386, passed 11-10-1958)
§ 35.080 GASOLINE IN LIEU OF LICENSES.
   The tax imposed by the provisions of this subchapter shall be in lieu of any
other license or occupation tax against distributors of gasoline and retail
dealers in gasoline, insofar as the other or additional license may apply
exclusively to the gasoline business.
(Ord. 386, passed 11-10-1958)
§ 35.081 USE OF TAX MONEY.
   The proceeds of the tax collected by the town under the terms of this
subchapter shall be credited to the Gasoline Tax Fund by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, and the monies shall be withdrawn from the fund for expenditure for
the purposes of street maintenance, improvement, opening and widening only.
(Ord. 386, passed 11-10-1958)
§ 35.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   If any vendor makes a return as required by §§
35.020 through
35.032, without paying the tax then due, he or she shall be liable for the tax
and a penalty equal to 10% thereof, but not less than $100 penalty in addition
to the tax, without notice from the town with regard thereto. Any penalty so
assessed shall be added to the principal amount of tax due; interest at the
rate of 1.5% per month. This represents an annual percentage rate of 18%.
Interest shall be assessed 15 days after receipt of the return, and shall be
computed from the date of receipt. The Town Clerk-Treasurer will give the
delinquent vendor written notice at the vendor’s local address.
      (2)   If any vendor neglects or refuses to make a return and pay the tax
as required by §§
35.020 through
35.032, the Town Clerk-Treasurer or designee shall make an estimate based upon
any information in its possession, or that may come into its possession of the
amount of the rent of the delinquent vendor, for the period, with respect to
which the vendor has failed to make return, and upon the basis of the estimate
amount shall compute and assess the tax payable by the delinquent vendor,
adding to the sum thus arrived at a penalty equal to 10% thereof, but not less
than $100. Any penalty so assessed shall be added to the principal amount of
tax due; the entire balance of tax-plus-penalty shall then accrue interest at
the rate of 1.5% per month. This represents an annual percentage rate of 18%.
Interest shall be assessed 15 days after the due date of the tax, and shall be
computed from the due date. The Town Clerk-Treasurer will give the delinquent
vendor written notice of the estimated tax penalty and interest, which notice
will be mailed to the vendor’s local address.
      (3)   If payments are not received within 15 days of the mailing of the
notice, the Town Clerk- Treasurer may bring an action in law or equity in a
court of law for the collection of any amounts due, including without
limitation penalties thereon, interest on the unpaid principal balance plus
penalties at the rate of 1.5% per month. This represents an annual percentage
rate of 18%. If the town attempts collection through an Attorney or the Town
Attorney for any purpose with regard to §§
35.020 through
35.032, the vendor shall be liable to the town for all costs, fees paid to the
Attorney or Town Attorney, and all other expenses incurred in connection
therewith. Any sums so paid to an attorney or the Town Attorney by the town,
and all costs and other expenses shall accrue interest at the same rate, and in
the same manner, as interest assessed on the tax-plus-penalty, and the vendor
shall be liable to the town therefor. Interest shall be computed from the date
of payment to the attorney or Town Attorney.
      (4)   The amount of any unpaid balance, plus penalties and interest as
stated above, shall constitute a lien on the subject property which, at the
town’s option, may be foreclosed pursuant to NMSA § 3-36-6.
      (5)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
§§
35.020 through
35.032 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment not to exceed
90 days or by both the fine and imprisonment. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. 622, passed 1-15-2002)
   (C)   Any person failing to make reports and remittances as provided in §§
35.075 through
35.081 or knowingly selling or distributing gasoline without paying the tax
thereon as specified in §§
35.075 through 35.081 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by
a fine not to exceed $300 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days. Each sale
made without the tax being paid thereon, or failure to make the report, shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 386, passed 11-10-1958)
CHAPTER 36: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   Excluded from coverage under the Retiree Health Care Act
   
36.02   Personnel policy; adopted by reference
Cross-reference:
   Employee Retirement Fund, see §§
34.15 through
34.33
§ 36.01 EXCLUDED FROM COVERAGE UNDER THE RETIREE HEALTH CARE ACT.
   (A)   Thirty days prior to public hearing on this section, as required by
NMSA § 10-7C-9D(2), the Retiree Health Care Authority was notified by certified
mail of the public hearing on this section.
   (B)   Pursuant to NMSA § 10-7C-9D(2), the Town of Clayton determines to be
excluded from coverage under the Retiree Health Care Act.
(Ord. 570, passed 5-28-1990)
§ 36.02 PERSONNEL POLICY; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s personnel policy is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
as if set out in full.
(Ord. 487, passed 2-24-1975)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   WATER
      
54.   ELECTRICITY
      
55.   GAS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
50.01   Water and light rents
Cross-reference:
   Cesspools; additional regulations, see §§
52.005,
96.02
   Slaughterhouses; nuisance conditions, see §§
52.051,
96.05
   Slaughterhouses prohibited within town limits, see §
99.01
§ 50.01 WATER AND LIGHT RENTS.
   (A)   The town shall have a lien upon any lot or subdivision of the town for
all legal charges for water or electricity furnished by the town and used upon
the lot or subdivision, or in or upon any building or buildings, thereon
situate; provided, that whenever any building, lot or subdivision in or upon
which water or electricity or either or both are being used shall become
vacant, it shall be the duty of the owner of the former tenant to give notice
in writing to the town that the property is vacant, and when the notice is
given, no lien for water or for electricity furnished after 3 days from receipt
of the notice shall be had against the property.
   (B)   The lien may be enforced by appropriate suit in the District Court of
Union County, New Mexico, in which county the town is located.
(Ord. 131, passed 2-11-1924)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Charging certain landfill charges
   
51.02   Effective date
Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
   
51.15   Definitions
   
51.16   Regulation of refuse
   
51.17   Special disposal services
   
51.18   Failure to place in proper container or use refuse collection services;
failure to pay charge, assessment
   
51.19   Refuse assessment roll; publication of notice of hearing
   
51.20   Protest hearing
   
51.21   Refuse; delinquent assessments; penalty; lien; foreclosure
Collection Center Rules and Regulations
   
51.35   Hours of operation
   
51.36   Permitted waste types
   
51.37   Prohibited waste types
   
51.38   Exception
   
51.39   Monitoring
   
51.40   Prohibited activities
Rates and Charges
   
51.50   Billing
   
51.51   Solid waste rates/residential
   
51.52   Commercial rates
   
51.53   Collection center rates and fee schedule
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 CHARGING CERTAIN LANDFILL CHARGES.
   (A)   Rates; charges at landfill area. There shall be no additional landfill
charge to area residents who are already assessed in the landfill collection
fee by the town, except for construction or demolition debris, tires or any
hazardous material which has questionable acceptance into the landfill. The
following rates shall apply for persons living outside the town fee collection
area:
      (1)   Pickup load of trash or limbs: $10.00 per load;
      (2)   Old stripped car bodies: $20.00 each;
      (3)   Load brush (truck): $18.00 per load;
      (4)   Refrigerators: $12.00 each (must certify that no PCB or freon is
present);
      (5)   Washing machines and other appliances: $10.00 each (must certify
that no PBC or freon is present);
      (6)   Dead animals, dogs, small calves and the like: $5.00 each;
      (7)   Large dead animals: $12.00 each; and
      (8)   Construction or demolition debris (truck 5 cubic yards): $15.00 per
load.
   (B)   Other solid waste. All other solid waste will be based upon $3.75 per
cubic yard.
(Ord. 595, passed 9-12-1994)
§ 51.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter, except for §
51.01, shall become effective on October 1, 2006.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006)
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
§ 51.15 DEFINITIONS.
   Throughout this chapter the words REFUSE, SOLID WASTE and WASTE MATTER shall
be used interchangeably and said words mean any garbage, rejected or waste
food, offal, swill, carrion, ashes, dirt, slop, wastepaper, trash, rubbish,
waste, grass, weeds and tree limbs or other vegetable matter, car bodies or
parts thereof, or any other kind of discarded matter or unwholesome material of
any kind.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 722,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 51.16 REGULATION OF REFUSE.
   (A)   The Town of Clayton, having made the capital investment of equipment,
real estate and improvements necessary and convenient to operate a dumpster/
landfill sanitary service for the Town of Clayton shall operate a general
system of refuse collection and disposal as set out herein, but by no means
does this give the town an exclusive right to remove unsanitary material.
   (B)   Every person holding or controlling any occupied real property within
the municipal limits of the Town of Clayton shall pay a fee to the Town of
Clayton for the collection and disposal of refuse in accordance with the
schedule contained herein.
   (C)   The dumpsters provided by the Town of Clayton and used by said entity
in its refuse disposal operation shall be used by persons within the
municipality for disposal of waste material suitable for deposit in such
containers. No material which is larger than four feet in length, two feet in
width and one foot in thickness shall be deposited in containers provided by
the town in connection with this garbage disposal system and any refuse
generated by the inhabitants of the Town of Clayton not amenable to disposal by
the Town of Clayton's system shall be disposed of at the Town of Clayton
landfill or by other suitable means. Trash resulting from demolition,
construction or remodeling or tree removal or tree trimming projects shall not
be deposited in the dumpsters provided by the town.
   (D)   No person shall deposit any refuse on public or private property for a
period exceeding 24 hours other than by deposit in the dumpsters provided by
the Town of Clayton.
   (E)   No person shall allow the lids to the dumpsters provided by the Town
of Clayton to remain open and said lids shall be closed at all times other than
when refuse is being deposited in the dumpster.
   (F)   No person shall disturb the contents of a dumpster and rummaging
around in dumpsters is in violation of this chapter.
   (G)   Each and every person provided with the use of a dumpster shall keep
said dumpster in a clean condition and not allow grease or oil to accumulate on
the exterior of said dumpster.
   (H)   Each person owning or controlling real property within the
municipality shall be responsible for keeping the weeds, grass and other
vegetable matter in the alley adjacent to such real estate trimmed to a maximum
of one foot in height.
   (I)   Each person owning or controlling real estate within the municipality
shall be responsible for keeping the weeds, grass and other vegetable matter on
such realty trimmed to a maximum of one foot in height.
   (J)   Cardboard boxes deposited in dumpsters shall be folded flat so as not
to exceed one inch in thickness and other materials amenable to relatively easy
compression shall be compressed before being placed in the dumpster.
   (K)   No person shall burn or cause to be burned within the corporate limits
of the Town of Clayton any solid waste, refuse or waste material without the
prior written consent of the Town Manager.
   (L)   No person shall deposit in a dumpster hot ash or other material likely
to ignite the contents of the dumpster.
   (M)   No person shall deposit animals in any dumpster provided by the town.
   (N)   No person shall deposit hazardous wastes as defined in NMSA § 74-4-
3 and successor provisions in a receptacle provided by the town for disposal of
waste, or cause, or allow hazardous wastes to be transported to and deposited
at the collection center or receiver of waste without the prior consent of the
Solid Waste Supervisor.
   (O)   No person shall deposit any trash, waste, refuse or any other material
whatsoever into a dumpster owned by the Town of Clayton unless such person is
either:
      (1)   A resident of the Town of Clayton;
      (2)   A nonresident who has entered into an agreement with the Town of
Clayton for dumpster service and is current in payment for the same; or
      (3)   A person who is an employee or agent of a person authorized to use
a Town of Clayton dumpster as described in division (O)(1) or (2) above who is
acting at the direction of such authorized person.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 722,
passed 5-10-2023) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 SPECIAL DISPOSAL SERVICES.
   Collection of trash not amenable to disposal in dumpsters. The Town of
Clayton shall collect and dispose of trash not amenable to disposal in the
dumpsters provided by the Town of a prior arrangement basis. Any resident
requiring this service shall make arrangements with the City Office for special
disposal prior to depositing the trash to be picked up in the alley. The City
Office shall maintain a special disposal book logging therein all requests for
disposal noting the name and address of persons requesting the disposal, date
and time of the request, location and approximate time the pickup is to be
made, and after the trash is disposed of the amount billed or to be billed for
such special disposal.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 722,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 51.18 FAILURE TO PLACE IN PROPER CONTAINER OR USE REFUSE COLLECTION SERVICES;
FAILURE TO PAY CHARGE, ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   In the event any of the following violations occur the municipality
may correct the violation and make a charge against the real property
specifically benefitted by the correction:
      (1)   Removal of refuse not deposited in dumpster;
      (2)   Cleaning exterior of dumpster;
      (3)   Cutting and removing weeds, grass and the like from alley right-of-
way;
      (4)   Cutting and removing weeds, grass and trash from real property; and
      (5)   Failure to remit payment billed pursuant to §
51.35.
   (B)   If any person owning or controlling the real property fails or refuses
to pay either of the following (B)(1) or (B)(2), the municipality may make an
assessment against the real property:
      (1)   The charge imposed for the correction of the disposal of refuse; or
      (2)   The charge made against the real property specifically benefitted
by the removal of refuse.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 51.19 REFUSE ASSESSMENT ROLL; PUBLICATION OF NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   To collect the assessment authorized in §
51.17, the governing body of the town shall cause the Town Clerk to prepare an
assessment role. The assessment role shall list in columns:
      (1)   The name of the owner, if known, of the real estate being assessed;
      (2)   A description of the parcel of real estate being assessed;
      (3)   The amount assessed against each parcel of real estate; and
      (4)   Describe in general terms the activity done by the town generating
the charge.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall publish a notice stating that the assessment roll
for delinquent refuse collection charges due the municipality is on file in the
office of the Town Clerk and the time and place when the governing body will
hear appeals or protests by any persons aggrieved by the assessment. The notice
shall be published once not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the date
of the protest hearing. If the address of the owner of the real property is
known, a copy of the notice shall be mailed by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the known address of the owner of the real property being
assessed.
   (C)   The method of enforcing payment of charges assessed by the
municipality set out by this section shall be an additional method for
collection and not be deemed an exclusive method for enforcing payment of
charges for services furnished by the municipality.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 51.20 PROTEST HEARING.
   (A)   At the protest hearing authorized in the foregoing section, any
interested person may protest to the governing body the following:
      (1)   The regularity of the proceeding;
      (2)   The amount assessed against the real estate; or
      (3)   The correctness of the amount of the assessment.
   (B)   The governing body shall:
      (1)   Determine the regularity of the proceeding;
      (2)   Correct any errors found in the assessment; and
      (3)   By resolution, confirm the proceedings and the assessments.
   (C)   The proceedings and assessments so confirmed shall be deemed to be the
final determination as to the regularity, validity and correctness of the
assessment.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 51.21 REFUSE; DELINQUENT ASSESSMENTS; PENALTY; LIEN; FORECLOSURE.
   On or about October 1 of each year the Town Clerk shall certify to the
governing body a list containing any delinquent assessment with penalty added
for nonpayment of the assessment at the rate of 1% per month for any assessment
confirmed by resolution provided in §
51.19, and describe the parcel of real estate to which the assessment is
applicable. After the certified list is accepted by the governing body, the
assessment shall be a lien, when processed, against the parcel of real estate
and shall be processed as provided in NMSA §§ 3-36-2 and 3-36-5, or any
successor provisions. Any such lien shall be a lien superior to all other liens
except general property taxes upon the property so charged and a personal
liability of the owner of the property so charged.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-11)
COLLECTION CENTER RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 51.35 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The Town of Clayton Collection Center will be open 25 hours per week, which
hours will be posted. The landfill will be closed on all observed holidays.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 722,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 51.36 PERMITTED WASTE TYPES.
   The Town of Clayton Collection Center will accept municipal solid waste
generated by residential, commercial, industrial and agricultural activity in
Clayton under the following guidelines and restrictions: However, all
classifications as to the acceptability of waste shall be subject to change at
the discretion of the Town of Clayton in light of new or revised information
and further additional restrictions that may apply.
   (A)   Residential solid waste. Discarded materials resulting from the
handling, processing, storage and consumption of food.
   (B)   Refuse. Combustible and noncombustible rubbish, grass clippings, tree
limbs, furniture and cold ashes.
   (C)   Rubber tires that are separated from all other types of waste.
   (D)   White goods. Washers, dryers, dishwashers, ranges and refrigerators
and air conditioner units with a certificate of Freon removal affixed.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 722,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 51.37 PROHIBITED WASTE TYPES.
   The Town of Clayton Collection Center will not accept the following types of
solid waste:
   (A)   Hazardous waste.
   (B)   Liquid waste. Any liquid greater than one gallon including paints and
frying fats.
   (C)   Foundry wastes such as cupola slag, bag house dust, molding sand,
molding sludge, spent refectories and core waste.
   (D)   Sludge. Any solid, semisolid or liquid waste generated from a
municipal, commercial or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply
treatment plant, air pollution control facility or any sludge generated by
industrial or manufacturing processes.
   (E)   Domestic waste from private sewage disposal systems.
   (F)   Infectious waste. Regulated medical waste and those wastes which
contain pathogens with sufficient virulence and quantity so that exposure to
the waste by a susceptible host could result in an infectious disease.
   (G)   Free liquid waste. Those wastes which contain liquids which readily
separate from the solid portion of a waste under ambient temperature and
pressure. Free liquids shall be determined using the paint filter test as
defined in the EPA document entitled: Update II to SW-846.
   (H)   Out-of-county waste. Any and all solid waste which has been generated
outside of Union County is prohibited.
   (I)   Asbestos.
   (J)   Lead-acid batteries.
   (K)   Non-certified Freon appliances: Air conditioners, freezers, and
refrigerators that possess Freon canisters.
   (L)   Waste oil.
   (M)   Selected yard waste. Large stumps, roots or shrubs with intact root
balls.
   (N)   Hot ashes. Remnants from a wood burning stove or device that appear to
be smoldering or remain burning.
   (O)   Radioactive waste.
   (P)   Contaminated soils.
   (Q)   Animal waste and manures. Including bedding material mixed with manure
from large animals.
   (R)   Scrap metal. Scrap metal in excess of one cubic yard will not be
accepted.
   (S)   Dead animals.
   (T)   Explosives and ammunitions.
   (U)   Flammable materials. Fuel, gasoline, and other flammable materials to
include anti-freeze.
   (V)   Construction waste.
   (W)   Abandon autos.
   (X)   Any other item as specified by federal, state or local regulation, or
as posted on signs.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 722,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 51.38 EXCEPTION.
   Exceptions to prohibitions of other waste types specified in this section
may be granted by the Town of Clayton upon consideration of waste
characteristics and quantities and provided that such wastes are accepted in
compliance with all pertinent rules, regulations and regulatory approvals
governing the operation of the Town of Clayton and private companies under
contract with the Town of Clayton. Any exception granted under this section
shall be in the form of a written instrument between the waste generator and
Town of Clayton.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 722,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 51.39 MONITORING.
   All incoming solid waste arriving at the Town of Clayton Collection Center
will be checked by the town solid waste employee at the facility and approved
for disposal. Loads of permitted waste will be directed to the appropriate
disposal area. Prohibited waste types will not be accepted. If a question
arises as to whether or not a particular waste is permitted, the Solid Waste
Manager will make a final determination as to its acceptability.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 722,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 51.40 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter to do or cause to be
done any of the following:
   (A)   Violate any rule, regulation or order promulgated by the Town of
Clayton Board of Trustees in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Deposit or cause to be deposited any solid or hazardous waste, refuse,
garbage or other waste material on or along any highway, public grounds not
specifically designated for such purpose or water course. All persons entering
the Town of Clayton Collection Center must have all open or exposed refuse
covered and secured in such a manner as to prevent the loss or scattering of
solid waste during transport.
   (C)   Enter any area under the jurisdiction of the Town of Clayton or
introduce or attempt to introduce any solid waste, refuse, garbage or other
matter into any facility or receptacle served by or operated within the Clayton
Solid Waste Department, except as authorized by the T own of Clayton.
   (D)   Dispose at any site or facility of the Clayton Solid Waste Department
any solid waste, refuse, garbage or other material which has been generated
outside Union County.
   (E)   Salvage or remove or tamper with any matter from the Clayton Solid
Waste Department unless authorized by the Town of Clayton.
   (F)   Deposit any solid waste at any Town of Clayton owned solid waste
facility other than during those hours of operation when the facility is open
to the public.
   (G)   Deposit any solid waste on any portion of any Town of Clayton owned
facility other than at locations designated by the Clayton Solid Waste
Department.
   (H)   For any Town of Clayton facility user to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any Town of Clayton owned facility any materials prohibited from
disposal in accordance with this subchapter.
   (I)   Enter any area under the jurisdiction of the Clayton Solid Waste
Department and operate within that area any all-terrain vehicle or dirt bike.
   (J)   Deposit or cause to be deposited any hot or burning materials at any
Clayton Solid Waste Department facility or trash receptacle.
   (K)   Deposit or cause to be deposited any hazardous waste at the any
Clayton Solid Waste Department facility.
   (L)   Deposit or cause to be deposited any solid waste into receptacles or
dumpsters not authorized to utilize as indicated on the container's located
billing address.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 722,
passed 5-10-2023)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.50 BILLING.
   The Town of Clayton hereby establishes user fees to fund the public
collection of solid waste. Monthly billing fees for solid waste services shall
be established herein. There shall be fees for all persons, residents,
commercial establishments, or any entity for which the town collects solid
waste. Except as provided herein, each user shall pay a fee for each
residential and commercial unit, or any entity for which the city collects
solid waste.
(Ord. 722, passed 5-10-2023)
§ 51.51 SOLID WASTE RATES/RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Generally. Each residential structure, including each single home,
each apartment unit, each duplex unit, each dwelling unit and each mobile home
shall be considered an individual residential unit and the owner, occupant or
tenant of each such residential unit shall pay a fee for the collection and
disposal of solid waste for each such residential unit.
   (B)   Solid waste service rates are hereby set at a rate of $25.56 as of
July 1, 2023; $26.33 as of July 1, 2024; and shall increase at the rate of 3%
per year on July 1, of each year thereafter through the year 2027.
   (C)   Rates for each structure as described in division (A) outside the town
limits are set as follows; $33.96 as of July 1, 2023; $34.98 as of July 1, 2024
and shall increase at the rate of 3% per year on July 1, of each year
thereafter through the year 2027.
(Ord. 722, passed 5-10-2023)
§ 51.52 COMMERCIAL RATES.
   (A)   Generally. Each commercial unit includes all retail businesses,
offices, beauty parlors, restaurants, churches, schools, government entities,
grocery stores, bars, lounges, motels, hotels, hospitals, and nursing homes.
Rates are given on a per container/per number of pickups each week.
   (B)   Commercial rates; generally. Rates are given on a per container/per
number of pickups each week, to be charged as follows: Commercial three cubic
yard dumpster - monthly charge per dumpster commencing on July 1, 2023 will be
$74 per month and includes collection on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Each
additional day of collection will be charged at a rate of $37 per day per
dumpster. Rates will increase 3% annually each July 1 through July 1, 2027.
(Ord. 722, passed 5-10-2023)
§ 51.53 COLLECTION CENTER RATES AND FEE SCHEDULE.
   Unless noted, fees will be based upon the total number of punches on the
collection center permit card.
   (A)   Town of Clayton Collection Center Permit Cards may be purchased at the
Clayton City Office. Each permit card contains ten punches and may be purchased
for $38 as of July 1, 2023, $39.15 as of July 1, 2024, $40.32 as of July 1,
2025, $41.52 as of July 1, 2026, and $42.76 as of July 1, 2027.
   (B)   Loads shall be categorized by the following description and charged
the listed number of punches on the collection center permit card:
      (1)   One trip - one punch on permit:
         (a)   Passenger vehicles with waste inside.
         (b)   One-ton pick-up trucks loaded no higher than the cab of the
vehicle.
         (c)   Passenger vehicle, or a one-ton pick-up truck without a load
inside pulling up to an eight-foot, one axle trailer filled no higher than four
feet from the trailer floor.
         (d)   Any combination of vehicles with a load that is equal to the
pick-up truck filled to the cab.
      (2)   Two trip - two punches on permit:
         (a)   One ton pick-up with load even with cab pulling a one axle six-
foot trailer filled no higher than four feet from the trailer floor.
         (b)   One-ton pick-up trucks loaded higher than the cab of the
vehicle.
         (c)   One-ton pick-up trucks loaded to the sides of the bed, pulling a
two-axle trailer loaded two feet from the floor.
      (3)   Three trips - three punches on permit:
         (a)   One ton pick-up with load higher than the cab pulling a two-axle
trailer filled no higher than four feet above the trailer floor.
         (b)   Any other combination of vehicles with a load that is equal to
the combination listed above.
         (c)   Loads larger than those listed above (trucks rated higher than a
one ton, double-axle trucks, rental trucks, panel vans, tipping floor trucks)
must contract with an independent waste hauler.
      (4)   Discretionary punches:
         (a)   Collection center operator at his or her discretion will
determine the number of punches for bulky items to include furniture,
mattresses and tv consoles.
   (C)   Other charges for solid waste.
 July 1, 2023 July 1, 2024 July 1, 2025 July 1, 2026 July 1, 2027
               July 1, 2023 July 1, 2024 July 1, 2025 July 1, 2026 July 1, 2027
Refrigerators  $17.28       $17.79       $18.32       $18.86       $19.42
(no PBC/Freon)
Washing
machines and
other          $14.40       $14.83       $15.27       $15.72       $16.19
appliances (no
PCB/Freon)
Tire dumping:
up to 16"      $7.22        $7.43        $7.65        $7.87        $8.10
tires
              July 1, 2023 July 1, 2024 July 1, 2025 July 1, 2026 July 1, 2027
16" to 20"     $9.60        $9.88        $10.17       $10.47       $10.78
tires
Truck tires    $25.20       $25.95       $26.72       $27.52       $28.34
Tractor and
equipment      $30.00       $30.90       $31.82       $32.77       $33.75
tires
 
   (D)   Roll off rental.
      (1)   Town of Clayton Collection Center will rent to the general public a
13, 17 or 21- cubic yard roll off. Fee will be $100 for delivery plus tonnage.
Tonnage will be charged at the prevailing rate charged to the Town of Clayton
by the receiver of the waste. The current prevailing rate is $90 per ton.
Rental agreement will be required.
(Ord. 722, passed 5-10-2023)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter except §
51.01 by doing an act which is prohibited or by failing to do an act which is
required shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person convicted of being in violation shall be fined not less
than $20 nor more than $500 or imprisoned for a term of not less than one day
in the town/county jail nor more than a term of 90 days. The use of uniform
traffic citations is authorized for any enforcement of this section.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 722,
passed 5-10-2023)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Unlawful to fail to connect to sanitary sewer
   
52.002   Prohibiting the construction, repair or digging of sewage disposal
tanks
   
52.003   Connections onto sanitary sewer system; permit required
   
52.004   Regulate the elimination of wastewater
   
52.005   Regulating the cleaning of cesspools
Municipal Sewer Service Use
   
52.020   Definitions
   
52.021   Permit to connect to sanitary sewer
   
52.022   Prohibited connections
   
52.023   Refuse interfering with normal use of sewers
   
52.024   Inspection
   
52.025   Notice to user; sealing connection
   
52.026   Construction and maintenance
   
52.027   Reconstruction
   
52.028   Inspection; approval
   
52.029   Compartment to be sealed and the like
   
52.030   Removal of sealed cover and the like
   
52.031   Permit required prior to making taps and the like
   
52.032   Sewer tap angle; line requirement
Rates and Charges
   
52.040   Sanitary sewer rates
   
52.041   Billing and payment
   
52.042   Town to have lien
Industrial Waste
   
52.050   Title
   
52.051   Definitions
   
52.052   Discharging certain waters prohibited
   
52.053   Unpolluted drainage
   
52.054   Prohibited water discharges
   
52.055   Prohibited material discharges
   
52.056   Rights of the town when pertaining to wastewaters
   
52.057   Testing of industrial waste
   
52.058   Traps
   
52.059   Flow-equalizing facilities
   
52.060   Control manholes
   
52.061   Tests and sampling
   
52.062   Rate schedules of sewer service
   
52.063   Cost recovery system
   
52.064   Charges
 
    
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 UNLAWFUL TO FAIL TO CONNECT TO SANITARY SEWER.
   (A)   Unlawful to fail to connect to Municipal Sanitary Sewer System. It
shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation which owns or occupies a
premises, to which municipal water service is connected, to fail to connect to
the Municipal Sanitary Sewer System where it is available.
   (B)   Available Sanitary Sewer Service System; definition. The Municipal
Sanitary Sewer System is deemed to be available to any premises within a
municipal sanitary sewer district and to any premises situated on a lot which
is adjacent to any street, alley or easement through which the Municipal
Sanitary Sewer System runs.
   (C)   Cost of connecting to Municipal Sewer System; no defense. It shall be
no defense to a charge of violation of this section that a party charged with a
violation must bear the cost of connection to the Municipal Sanitary Sewer
System.
   (D)   Sanitary sewer service fees. Any person, firm or corporation which
owns or occupies any premises to which municipal water service is connected and
to which municipal sanitary sewer service is available, shall be liable to the
town for sanitary sewer service fees regardless of whether the premises are
connected to the available Municipal Sanitary Sewer System. Unpaid sanitary
sewer service fees shall constitute a lien against the real estate upon which
the premises is situated.
   (E)   Effective date. The effective date of this section is 30 days from and
after publication, passage and approval.
(Ord. 565, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.002 PROHIBITING THE CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR OR DIGGING OF SEWAGE DISPOSAL
TANKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dig, construct
or repair, or cause to be dug, constructed or repaired, at any point within the
limits of Sanitary Sewer District No. 1 of the town, any cesspool, septic tank
or other sewage disposal tank or device, or any toilet not serviced by the
Municipal Sewer System.
(Ord. 229, passed 7-25-1932) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.003 CONNECTIONS ONTO SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to allow his, hers,
its or any property to be connected onto the sanitary sewer system within the
town, except the person, firm or corporation shall first have secured from the
Town Clerk-Treasurer a written permit authorizing the making of the connection.
(Ord. 228, passed 7-25-1932) Penalty, see §
52.999
Cross-reference:
   Assessment for new connections, see §
52.021
§ 52.004 REGULATE THE ELIMINATION OF WASTEWATER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any premises in the Town
of Clayton, New Mexico, to permit wastewater from or through any apparatus to
regularly flow upon any street or alley within the town.
(Ord. 205, passed 9-8-1930) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.005 REGULATING THE CLEANING OF CESSPOOLS.
   (A)   When any cesspool or like receptacle is pumped or cleaned by the Town
of Clayton or any employee thereof, the fee or charge therefor shall be $0.90
for each tankful or load taken therefrom; provided; however, that a minimum of
$5.00 shall be charged for each cesspool or like receptacle so cleaned or
pumped. The cleaning or pumping may be done at any time of the day.
   (B)   The owner of any property upon which or in connection with which any
cesspool or like receptacle is situated shall be primarily liable for the
charges above specified, but the owner of the property and the occupant, if the
property be occupied by some person other than the owner, shall be jointly and
severally liable for the charges.
   (C)   The town shall have a lien upon any lot or lots or subdivision within
the town for all charges for cleaning or pumping a cesspool or like receptacle
situated thereon or in connection therewith, when the same is done by the town
or any of its employees, and if the charges are not paid within 30 days from
the time the service is rendered, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall file a notice
and claim of the lien in the office of the County Clerk of Union County, New
Mexico, as provided by the laws of the State of New Mexico, the lien to be
thereafter foreclosed in the manner and form prescribed by the laws of the
State of New Mexico.
(Ord. 194, passed 1-13-1930)
Cross-reference:
   Additional provisions, see
Chapter 50
MUNICIPAL SEWER SERVICE USE
§ 52.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INSPECTOR. The Town Manager of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, or any
employee working under the direction of the Town Manager in operating and
maintaining the sewers.
   NORMAL USE OF THE SEWERS. Includes the functions and purposes of the sewers
for conveying sewage, as above defined, to its point of final disposition.
   PERSON. Includes the owner of any premises, corporations, partnerships, or
other forms of business associations, either as owners or tenants of any
premises, and their individual members, their agents, and employees.
   REFUSE. Includes sand, mud, grease, oil, rags, bottles, cans, sticks,
cinders, ashes, rocks, coarse paper, or any other substance that will not
quickly disintegrate when in contact with water.
   SEWAGE. Includes wastes commonly conveyed by water from lavatories, water
closets, kitchen sinks, bath tubs, and other commonly used plumbing fixtures
through which wastes are disposed of that quickly disintegrate in contact with
water; and in the case of storm sewers only, run-off water from mains, melting
snow, hail, or sleet, and waste water from washing and flushing of streets.
   SEWER. Includes:
      (1)   The sanitary sewer system; and
      (2)   The storm sewer of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, as the same now
exist or may hereafter be altered or extended.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 52.021 PERMIT TO CONNECT TO SANITARY SEWER.
   Should any person, firm, or corporation apply for a permit to connect
property whether located in or out of the sanitary-sewer improvement district
to the sewer system of the Town of Clayton, such permit shall not be issued
until the applicant pays the town its cost for extending the sewer line to the
property. Such costs are to be determined by the market prices prevailing at
the time of the extension plus 10%.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 52.022 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   Any connection for conveying of refuse from any building floor, automobile
wash rack, or any other place from any premises to the sewers, from which
connection refuse is permitted to enter the sewers in quantities that interfere
with the normal use of the sewers, is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 52.023 REFUSE INTERFERING WITH NORMAL USE OF SEWERS.
   Whenever refuse from any sewer connection is found to be entering the sewer
in quantities that are not carried through the sewers by the normal flow of
sewage in the sewers, and whenever such refuse accumulates in the sewer to an
extent requiring flushing or cleaning of the sewer more often than at six-
month intervals in order to keep them operative, such refuse shall be deemed to
interfere with the normal use of the sewers.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 52.024 INSPECTION.
   The Inspector is hereby directed and empowered to investigate and determine
the source of any refuse entering the sewers in quantities that interfere with
the normal use of the sewers. In the course of such investigations, the
Inspector shall have access to any premises connected to the sewers at any
reasonable hour of the day or night for the purpose of inspecting sewer
connections, plumbing facilities, and drains for the purpose of determining
whether refuse is being permitted to enter the sewers in quantities that
interfere with the normal use of the sewers.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 52.025 NOTICE TO USER; SEALING CONNECTION.
   (A)   Upon determination of the source of entrance of refuse in quantities
that interfere with the normal use of the sewer, the Inspector shall forthwith
notify in writing the owner or tenant of such premises to discontinue the use
of such sewer connection. It shall be unlawful for the owner or tenant to
continue the use of any sewer connection after being notified in writing by the
Inspector that such sewer connection is permitting refuse to enter the sewers
in quantities that interfere with the normal use of the sewers. Each and every
day's failure or refusal to discontinue the use of such sewer connections shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Whenever any owner or tenant shall fail, neglect or refuse to
discontinue the use of any connection to the sewers within 48 hours after
written notice to do so by the Inspector, as above provided, the Inspector is
hereby authorized and empowered to enter upon the premises and permanently seal
and render inoperative, in whatever manner may in his opinion be most expedient
and effective, such sewer connection. Such sealing and rendering inoperative of
the connection shall be accomplished so that it will not interfere with the
normal use of other portions of the drainage system on the premises for
conveying sewage.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 5-10-2023) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.026 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   Every connection hereafter made to the sewers for the purpose of draining
any automobile wash rack, building floor, or any other place from which refuse
may enter the sewers in quantities that may interfere with the normal use of
the sewers, shall be constructed and maintained in full accordance with the
plans and specifications on file and available for public inspection in the
office of the Inspector, which plans and specifications are designated Town of
Clayton, New Mexico, Wash Rack and Floor Drain Plans and Specifications No. SS-
1, which plans and specifications are hereby declared to be, and are made an
integral part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 52.027 RECONSTRUCTION.
   Any existing sewer connections to the sewers, the use of which has by
written order of the Inspector, as elsewhere herein provided, been ordered
discontinued may, at the option of the owner or tenant of the premises, be
reconstructed in full conformity with the plans and specifications provided
herein, and thereafter continued in use.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 52.028 INSPECTION; APPROVAL.
   The Inspector is hereby delegated the duty to inspect any connection to the
sewer that might permit refuse to enter the sewers in quantities that might
interfere with the normal use of the sewers, both new connections and
reconstructed connections as §§
52.026 and
52.027. No such new or reconstructed connections shall be used until written
approval of the facilities has been given by the Inspector certifying that the
construction of the facilities is in full conformity with the requirements of
Wash Rack and Floor Drain Plans and Specifications No. SS-l designated herein.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 52.029 COMPARTMENT TO BE SEALED AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   After approval by the inspector of any new or reconstructed connection
to the sewers from which refuse might enter in quantities that would interfere
with the normal use of the sewers, and before such connections shall be used,
the compartment nearest the sewer shall be sealed by the Inspector.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than the Inspector to break
this seal, or molest, break, or remove the sealed cover of this compartment for
any purpose whatever. The owner or tenant of any premises with such a sealed
sewer connection is hereby charged with the responsibility of maintaining
intact the seal and cover of this sealed compartment after it is sealed by the
Inspector.
   (C)   Any such seal found broken, or the cover removed from such sealed
compartment, or the cover broken or molested in any way, shall be considered
prima facie evidence of violation of the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 52.030 REMOVAL OF SEALED COVER AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Whenever, for any person, it may become necessary to remove the sealed
cover from any such sewer connections, the seal shall be broken and the cover
removed only by the Inspector, and after completion of cleaning or any other
work that may be necessary in the presence of the Inspector, the cover of the
compartment shall again be placed in position and sealed by the Inspector.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Inspector to break the seal and remove the
sealed cover of the compartment of any sewer connection within 24 hours after
receipt in the office of the Town Clerk of any application for such service
accompanied by a fee of $1 for such service.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to clean the sealed compartment or
any such sewer connection in such manner that refuse accumulated therein may be
conveyed to the sewers.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 5-10-2023) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.031 PERMIT REQUIRED PRIOR TO MAKING TAPS AND THE LIKE.
   Prior to any excavation in the alleys, streets, or other rights-of-way of
the Town of Clayton by any person desiring to make a sewer tap, a permit shall
be obtained from the city office and the required inspection and sanitary sewer
tap fee of $150 paid to the town.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 52.032 SEWER TAP ANGLE; LINE REQUIREMENT.
   Sewer taps shall be made into existing sewer mains at an angle between 45
and 90 degrees and properly secured and sealed. A minimum 4-inch diameter sewer
pipe shall be installed from the sewer main to a point 10 feet toward the
service.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 5-10-2023)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.040 SANITARY SEWER RATES.
   The sanitary sewer rates shall be as follows beginning on February 1 of each
year:
Type July 1, 2023 July 1, 2024
Type                                                  July 1, 2023 July 1, 2024
Residential monthly charge to include apartments
units (each unit), and manufactured housing (each     $28.78       $29.94
unit)
Class A users: hospitals, convalescent homes, self    $84.71       $88.10
service laundries
Class B users: hotels, motels, grocery stores with
market and vegetables, cafes, restaurants, drugstores $69.93       $72.73
with fountain, schools with cafeterias
Class C users: car washes per stall, garages and
repair shops, gas stations with wash racks or floor   $56.06       $58.31
drains
Class D users: variety stores, hardware stores, small
grocery stores, banks, office buildings, pool halls,  $43.41       $45.15
bars, and clubs (dispensers)
Class E users: small business and offices, filling
stations without wash rack or floor drains, dairy
freezes, bakeries, theaters, dry cleaning             $35.54       $36.96
establishments, barber shops, package liquor stores,
printing establishments and other commercial users
including a home from which a business is operated
Class F users: prisons, correctional facilities,      $15.15       $15.75
jails, per bed, per month, whether or not occupied
Rates shall increase by 4% on July 1 of each year after 2024 for each class of
user through 2027.
 
(Ord. 654, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 660, passed 7-17-2008; Am. Ord. 686,
passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 721, passed 5-10-2023)
§ 52.041 BILLING AND PAYMENT.
   Bill rendered pursuant to this subchapter shall be a part of the bill
rendered monthly to customers by the municipal water/sewer system of the Town
of Clayton; and if such charges are not paid by the due date, 10% shall be
added for late payment as a penalty. If delinquent, they shall become
enforceable, and collectable as in the case of delinquent water accounts,
including discontinuance of water service to any such delinquent customer.
(Ord. 654, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 660, passed 7-17-2008; Am. Ord. 686,
passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 721, passed 5-10-2023)
§ 52.042 TOWN TO HAVE LIEN.
   (A)   The Town of Clayton shall have a lien upon any lot, subdivision,
tract, or parcel of land within the town and or county where sewer service is
provided for all legal charges for sewer services furnished by the municipal
sewer system and used upon such lot, subdivision, tract, or parcel of land, or
in or upon which any building, buildings, or structures thereon situated. When
any lot, subdivision, tract, or parcel of land, or any building, buildings or
structures thereon situate, in or upon which sewer service is being used shall
become vacant, it shall be the duty of the owner, agent, or former tenant or
tenants to give notice in writing to the Town Clerk of the Town of Clayton, New
Mexico, that the premises are vacant; and when such notice is so given, no lien
for sewer service provided after 3 days from receipt of the written notice
shall be had against the said property.
   (B)   Such lien may be enforced by appropriate suit in the District Court of
Union County, New Mexico, in which county the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, is
located.
   (C)   The town shall be entitled to recover its costs and attorneys fees in
such proceedings which are also secured by the lien on the land.
(Ord. 721, passed 5-10-2023)
INDUSTRIAL WASTE
§ 52.050 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Industrial Waste Ordinance of the
Town of Clayton, New Mexico”.
(Ord. 462, passed 2-28-1972; Am. Ord. 466, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 52.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter by Standard Methods procedure in 5
days at 20ºC expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   COD (DENOTING CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). A measure of the oxygen-consuming
capacity of organic and inorganic matter present in wastewater as milligrams
per liter (mg/l).
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storing and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL LIQUID WASTES. All waterborne solids, liquids or gaseous wastes
resulting from any industrial, manufacturing or food processing operation or
process, or from the development of any natural resource, or any mixture of
these with water or domestic sewage as distinct from normal domestic sewage.
Industrial manufacturing processes shall include but are not limited to:
ordnance and accessories; food and allied products; tobacco manufacturers,
textile mill products; apparel and other finished products made from fabrics
and similar materials; lumber and wood products, except furniture; furniture
and fixtures; printing, slaughterhouse wastes, publishing and allied
industries; chemicals and allied products; petroleum refining and related
industries; rubber and miscellaneous plastics products; leather and leather
products; stone, clay, glass and concrete products; primary metal industries;
fabricated metal products, except ordnance, machinery and transportation
equipment; machinery, except electrical; electrical machinery, equipment and
supplies; transportation equipment; professional, scientific and controlling
instruments; photographic and optical goods; watches and clocks; miscellaneous
manufacturing industries.
   INTERFERENCE WITH ANY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PROCESS. Any condition or
combination of conditions which causes degradation of the operational
efficiency of a wastewater facility.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Waterborne wastes normally discharging from the
sanitary conveniences of buildings (including apartment houses and hotels),
office buildings, factories and institutions, free from storm water, surface
water and industrial wastes. NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER shall mean NORMAL for
Clayton, New Mexico.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration of a solution.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties shall have
equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. The public sewer portion of a wastewater facility which
transports wastewater and to which storm, surface and ground water are not
intentionally admitted.
   SETTLEABLE SOLIDS. Those solids which settle during a preselected period of
time as expressed in milliliters per liter of sample.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, as prepared, approved and published jointly by the American Public
Health Association, American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes wastewater and polluted industrial wastes.
   TRAP. A device for retaining sand, silt, grit mineral material, petroleum
solvent, grease or oil by gravity-differential separation from wastewater and
of a design and capacity approved by the town.
   UNPOLLUTED PROCESS WATER. Any water or waste containing none of the
following:
      (1)   Free or emulsified grease or oil;
      (2)   Acids or alkalis, phenols or other substances imparting taste and
order to receiving water; toxic substances in suspension, colloidal state or
solution; and
      (3)   Noxious or odorous gases.
   WASTEWATER. The used water of a community. The used water may be a
combination of the liquid and waterborne wastes from residences, commercial
buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, transport and treat domestic industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with waste treatment plant or wastewater treatment plant.
(Ord. 462, passed 2-28-1972; Am. Ord. 466, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 52.052 DISCHARGING CERTAIN WATERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 462, passed 2-28-1972; Am. Ord. 466, passed 6-11-1973) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.053 UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to the
sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet
approved by the governing body of the town. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the governing body
of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. 462, passed 2-28-1972; Am. Ord. 466, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 52.054 PROHIBITED WATER DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described liquids or wastes into any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any wastewater facility, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works, including but not
limited to cyanides in excess of 2 mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to
the public sewer;
   (C)   Any herbicides and pesticides;
   (D)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the wastewater facility;
   (E)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facility, such as but not limited to: ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
   (F)   Any amount of the following heavy metals:
      (1)   Antimony;
      (2)   Arsenic;
      (3)   Barium;
      (4)   Beryllium;
      (5)   Bismuth;
      (6)   Boron;
      (7)   Cadmium;
      (8)   Chromium (Hexa);
      (9)   Chromium (Tri);
      (10)   Cobalt;
      (11)   Copper;
      (12)   Iron;
      (13)   Lead;
      (14)   Manganese;
      (15)   Mercury;
      (16)   Molybdenum;
      (17)   Nickel;
      (18)   Rhenium;
      (19)   Selenium;
      (20)   Silver;
      (21)   Strontium;
      (22)   Tellurium;
      (23)   Tin;
      (24)   Uranyl ion; and
      (25)   Zinc.
   (G)   Dilution of toxic materials and heavy metals in lieu of removal is not
acceptable.
(Ord. 462, passed 2-28-1972; Am. Ord. 466, passed 6-11-1973) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.055 PROHIBITED MATERIAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the governing body of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, that the
wastes can harm the wastewater facility or equipment, have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limbs, public property or
constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
governing body of the town will give consideration to such factors as the
materials of construction of the sewers, nature and capacity of the wastewater
facility, degree of treatability of wastes which must be considered, including
but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150ºF (65ºC);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, grease, wax or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32ºF and 150ºF or 0ºC and
65ºC;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder larger than those normally manufactured
and sold for residential and noncommercial use will not be installed without
specific review and approval by the governing body of the town;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions cannot be discharged to the wastewater
facility unless completely neutralized and approved by the governing body of
the town for discharge;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing reducing substances of an organic
or inorganic nature, toxic or nontoxic, which exert an immediate chlorine
demand shall not be discharged into the wastewater facility if discharge of the
agents will prevent the achievement of an adequate chlorine residual in the
effluent of the wastewater treatment works;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits established by the
governing body of the town after treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the
requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of jurisdiction for
the discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentrations
as may exceed limits established by the governing body of the town, in
compliance with applicable state and federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as but
not limited to Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as but not limited to dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual chemical oxygen demand, biochemical oxygen demand or
chlorine requirements in quantities as to constitute a significant load on the
wastewater treatment works; and
         (d)   Slugs or shocks constituting an unusual volume of flow or
concentration of wastes which will disturb the normal functioning of the
wastewater facility.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment works employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the effluent cannot meet the
requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving
waters.
(Ord. 462, passed 2-28-1972; Am. Ord. 466, passed 6-11-1973) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.056 RIGHTS OF THE TOWN WHEN PERTAINING TO WASTEWATERS.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
52.055, and which in the judgment of the governing body of the Town of Clayton,
New Mexico, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater facilities,
receiving waters or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the governing body of the town may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers; or
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge.
   (B)   If the governing body of the town permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the governing body of
the town and state and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances and laws.
(Ord. 462, passed 2-28-1972; Am. Ord. 466, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 52.057 TESTING OF INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   Testing of an industrial waste will be performed at least twice a year or
whenever found necessary by the governing body of the Town of Clayton, New
Mexico. The person discharging the waste shall be liable for payment of all
costs arising from the testing of the industrial waste.
(Ord. 462, passed 2-28-1972; Am. Ord. 466, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 52.058 TRAPS.
   Grease, oil and sand traps shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
governing body of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that the traps
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All traps
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the governing body of the town and
shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. Grease and oil traps shall be installed in all new filling
stations, garages, restaurants and other new facilities wherein heavy discharge
of grease and oil is to be expected.
(Ord. 462, passed 2-28-1972; Am. Ord. 466, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 52.059 FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any industrial liquid wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Ord. 462, passed 2-28-1972; Am. Ord. 466, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 52.060 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   When required by the governing body of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, the
owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial liquid
wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together with the necessary
meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of the wastes.
(Ord. 462, passed 2-28-1972; Am. Ord. 466, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 52.061 TESTS AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published jointly
by the American Public Health Association, American Water Works Association and
the Water Pollution Control Federation, and shall be determined at the control
manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. The
control manhole shall be located so that sampling of the industrial waste will
be performed before discharge into the public sewer system.
   (B)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the wastewater treatment works and to
determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular
analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of
a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, COD, BOD and settlement solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined from
periodic grab samples.
(Ord. 462, passed 2-28-1972; Am. Ord. 466, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 52.062 RATE SCHEDULES OF SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   The governing body of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, shall take
necessary steps to establish a rate schedule sewer service that assures an
equitable system of cost recovery.
   (B)   The purpose hereof is that the industrial users shall pay for the
costs incurred by the governing body of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, in the
construction, operation and maintenance of that portion of the wastewater
facilities related to industrial wastes.
(Ord. 462, passed 2-28-1972; Am. Ord. 466, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 52.063 COST RECOVERY SYSTEM.
   The cost recovery system shall satisfy the following conditions:
   (A)   The apportionment of costs must take into consideration the individual
industrial user’s contribution as related to the total waste load, taking into
account the volume and strength of all discharges;
   (B)   The costs to be considered should include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Amortization of the applicant’s indebtedness for the cost of
treatment facilities (plant and interceptors);
      (2)   Operation and maintenance of the treatment facilities; and
      (3)   Any additional costs which are necessary to assure adequate
treatment on a continuous basis.
   (C)   Substantial prepayment of the capital investment or other financial
commitments will be required from each industry that contributes 30% or more of
the total volume or strength of the waste load to be treated by the project.
(Ord. 462, passed 2-28-1972; Am. Ord. 466, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 52.064 CHARGES.
   A charge will be assessed against persons discharging industrial liquid
wastes which are of a greater strength and volume than normal. UNTREATED
DOMESTIC WASTEWATER is defined as having a maximum yearly average biochemical
oxygen demand and chemical oxygen demand not in excess of 200 milligrams per
liter and 400 milligrams per liter, respectively. The same sewage is considered
to contain settleable solids not in excess of 5.0 milliliters per liter.
Industrial charge will be calculated with a formula acceptable to the town, as
attached to Ordinance 466, which is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in full herein.
(Ord. 462, passed 2-28-1972; Am. Ord. 466, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation found to be in violation of §
52.001 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, upon conviction thereof; shall be
fined not more than $300 or imprisoned for not more than 90 days or both. Each
day on which a premises fails to be connected to available Municipal Sanitary
Sewer Service shall be considered a separate violation of §
52.001 and the person, firm or corporation which owns or occupies the premises
shall be liable for each violation.
(Ord. 565, passed 11-14-1988)
   (C)   Any violation of the provisions of §
52.002 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $100, or by imprisonment not
to exceed 90 days, or by both fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 229, passed 7-25-1932)
   (D)   Any violation of the provisions of §
52.003 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $200, or by imprisonment not
to exceed 90 days, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 228, passed 7-25-1932)
   (E)   Any person violating the provisions of §
52.004 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine in any amount not
exceeding $200, and each day’s violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 205, passed 9-8-1930)
   (F)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.020 through
52.032 and §§
52.040 through
52.042 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof in
the Municipal Court of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, shall be fined not less
than $250 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 5-10-2023)
   (G)   Every person convicted of a violation of §§
52.050 through
52.064 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $300 or by imprisonment for
not more than 90 days and each day this subchapter is violated shall constitute
a separate offense. The conviction and punishment of any person for a violation
shall not excuse or exempt the person from the payment of any fee due or unpaid
at the time of the conviction and nothing herein shall prevent a criminal
prosecution of any violation of the provisions of §§
52.050 through
52.064. All remedies prescribed or liens created hereunder or under the
provisions of the law for collection and enforcement of the fees shall be
cumulative, and the use of 1 or more remedies by the town shall not bar the use
of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of §§
52.050 through
52.064 or any liens created by the law. The fees fixed by §§
52.050 through
52.064 shall be a lien in favor of the town, upon the personal property of the
person used in connection with the sewer use which gave rise to the fee, and
the lien shall be imposed, collected, enforced and paid as provided by the law.
No property of any person shall be exempt from levy and sale of execution
issued for the collection of a judgement for any fee imposed by §§
52.050 through
52.064.
(Ord. 466, passed 6-11-1973)
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Registration required before drilling wells
Municipal Water Service
   
53.15   Water service defined
   
53.16   Use and approval
   
53.17   Rules and regulations
   
53.18   Town to have lien
   
53.19   Application for water service
   
53.20   Deposits
   
53.21   Contracts for water service
   
53.22   Temporary water service
   
53.23   Piping and plumbing
   
53.24   Billing and collecting
   
53.25   Protection of property of the Clayton Municipal Water System
   
53.26   Prevention of theft of water
   
53.27   Discontinuance of service for non-payment of accounts, theft of, or
prohibited use of water
   
53.28   Additional rules and regulations
Rates and Charges
   
53.40   Rates and hookup charges
   
53.41   Accounts, billing, and payment
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 REGISTRATION REQUIRED BEFORE DRILLING WELLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drill or
construct a well within the municipal limits of the Town of Clayton without
first registering with the Mayor of the town. The registration shall include
disclosure of the location and purpose of the well, its intended term of use
and plan for capping the well.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney in and for the Town of
Clayton, to restrain and enjoin, in any court having jurisdiction, any person,
firm or corporation commencing or threatening to commence any well within the
town in violation of this section or which threatens to endanger the health,
safety or welfare of the inhabitants of the town.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not affect or be binding upon the
town, its successors and assigns, or any other person, firm or corporation
having a lawful franchise of the town, for the purposes of maintaining a water
system.
   (D)   Compliance with the registration requirement of this section shall not
be construed as license or authority to drill, construct or maintain any well
in violation of any other ordinance of the Town of Clayton or in violation of
any statute or regulation of the State of New Mexico or in violation of any
statute or regulation of the United States of America.
(Ord. 598, passed 7-10-1995) Penalty, see §
53.99
MUNICIPAL WATER SERVICE
§ 53.15 WATER SERVICE DEFINED.
   WATER SERVICE is defined as all and any water furnished to any person,
whether metered or not, through any size pipe.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 720,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 53.16 USE AND APPROVAL.
   Water service may be used by the customer for any and all purposes desired;
provided, however, that, in the interests of public health and safety, any and
all services shall be approved by the Water Department Superintendent or the
Town Manager of the Town of Clayton. Such approval shall be given within a
reasonable length of time, provided that the Town of Clayton is furnished with
a complete drawing or print which shows all piping pertaining to the water
system, sewage, and drainage systems that are to be supplied by the service in
question. The approval for the connection will be given if the installation of
the piping and plumbing meets the requirements of the Town of Clayton and the
requirements of the Uniform Plumbing Code of the State of New Mexico, current
edition and as amended from time.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 720,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 53.17 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Clerk of the Town of Clayton and the Town Manager of the Town
of Clayton are hereby directed to prepare from time to time and as conditions
warrant such general rules and regulations as may be necessary, proper, and
reasonable pertaining to:
      (1)   Applications for water service;
      (2)   Contracts for water service;
      (3)   Deposits required;
      (4)   Extension of line for water service;
      (5)   Temporary water service;
      (6)   Requirements relating to customers', water piping and plumbing
related thereto;
      (7)   Billing and collection for water service;
      (8)   Protection of property of the Municipal Water System;
      (9)   Prevention of theft of water;
      (10)   Discontinuance of service for non-payment of accounts, theft of or
prohibited uses of water; and
      (11)   Such other rules and regulations as may be necessary, proper,
reasonable, and expedient for the conduct of the business of the municipal
water system, and not in conflict with this subchapter.
   (B)   Such rules and regulations so prepared shall be effective only after
approval by the Board of Trustees of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, by
resolution or ordinance, and when so approved, same shall have the full force
and effect of this subchapter, same as if herein incorporated.
   (C)   The Town Clerk of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico shall keep on file
at all times and open to public inspection during all office hours, a full and
complete revised copy of all such approved rules and regulations pertaining to
the municipal water system.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 720,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 53.18 TOWN TO HAVE LIEN.
   (A)   The Town of Clayton shall have a lien upon any lot, subdivision,
tract, or parcel of land within the town and or county where water service is
provided for all legal charges for water furnished by the Municipal Water
System and used upon such lot, subdivision, tract, or parcel of land, or in or
upon which any building, buildings, or structures thereon situated. When any
lot, sub-division, tract, or parcel of land, or any building, buildings or
structures thereon situate, in or upon which water is being used shall become
vacant, it shall be the duty of the owner, agent, or former tenant or tenants
to give notice in writing to the Town Clerk of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico,
that the premises are vacant; and when such notice is so given, no lien for
water furnished after 3 days from receipt of the written notice shall be had
against the said property.
   (B)   Such lien may be enforced by appropriate suit in the District Court of
Union County, New Mexico, in which county the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, is
located.
   (C)   The town shall be entitled to recover its costs and attorney's fees in
such proceedings which are also secured by the lien on the land.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 720,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 53.19 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   The water service application form must be completed in its entirety.
   (B)   All property owners shall show evidence of ownership.
   (C)   Renters shall provide a copy of written lease or rental agreement.
   (D)   Applicants for new water service must pay the cost of the water
service, which would include labor, use of machinery and all materials up to
the meter.
   (E)   After application and the proper deposit is made, water service will
be made within a reasonable time, the same day, if no line extension or new
service is required; and if such line extension and new service is required,
service will be given as soon as possible.
   (F)   No excavation or tie-in shall be made by a water customer or his
contractor until approval is given by the town.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 720,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 53.20 DEPOSITS.
   All applicants for water service will pay a flat fee deposit of $75.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 720,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 53.21 CONTRACTS FOR WATER SERVICE.
   Contracts for water service are necessary if such service requires line
extension and/or a new service line. Such contracts are to be made and approved
by the Board of Trustees if such an extension requires more than 100 feet of
main extension, or up to 100 feet of main line and for any service larger than
1-1/2 inches.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 720,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 53.22 TEMPORARY WATER SERVICE.
   The total cost of temporary service, including line extension, valves,
fittings, and pipe; taking out of that part of the temporary service, including
the use of machinery, labor, and loss due to that part of the fitting that
would necessarily need be left in the main line; water used per month according
to the applicable rate; all to be paid for as a temporary service.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 720,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 53.23 PIPING AND PLUMBING.
   All customer piping and related plumbing shall conform with the requirements
of the Uniform Plumbing Code current edition.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 720,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 53.24 BILLING AND COLLECTING.
   Billing and collecting for water service shall be as provided in this
subchapter. No adjustments will be made to the amount of water used. Due to
leaks or freezing and bursting.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 720,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 53.25 PROTECTION OF PROPERTY OF THE CLAYTON MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   If any trouble should exist on any of the municipal water mains,
service lines, wells, reservoir, and meters, the Municipal Water Department is
to be notified. No person other than Municipal Water Department employees are
to work on, repair, make taps, or any other necessary repairs and additions.
   (B)   Pipes, service, main lines, meters, or any other part of the municipal
water system, torn, mutilated by contractor or any person, must be reported
immediately; and upon full repair, such person, firm, or contractor shall pay
full cost of repair.
   (C)   Fire plugs damaged by vehicles or persons shall be reported
immediately; and upon repair, such person responsible shall pay cost of repair.
   (D)   Any property owner, renter, or user of water from the municipal water
system that attempts to thaw out a frozen meter or a meter that he thinks is
frozen, by fire of any source, and damages the water meter, shall pay the full
cost of the meter repairs. These persons should call the Clayton Municipal
Water Department Office and report such stoppage of water before attempting to
thaw out a meter.
   (E)   Any person, firm, or contractor that drives any vehicle over any meter
water box breaking same, shall report such damage, and after repairs, pay for
the cost of such damage.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 720,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 53.26 PREVENTION OF THEFT OF WATER.
   (A)   Each water service of any size has a stop in the service line, either
a curb stop, or a valve. If such stop or valve is closed off by representatives
of the municipal water system, such valves are not to be opened by anyone until
the proper application and deposits are made.
   (B)   Damaging a water meter or water meter dial or breaking the glass on a
water meter dial shall be paid for by person damaging same.
   (C)   Breaking or damaging water meter box locks shall be paid for by the
person responsible.
   (D)   No person, other than Municipal Water Department employees and
licensed plumbers, should attempt to open a water meter box or turn off a
service valve that is in the water system of any service. Anyone breaking such
valve or meter must pay cost of new valve.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 720,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 53.27 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR NON-PAYMENT OF ACCOUNTS, THEFT OF, OR
PROHIBITED USE OF WATER.
   (A)   Thirty days after the water bill is submitted, and the bill is not
paid, then on the 31st day said service shall be disconnected for non-payment
of bill.
   (B)   If any person or customer has been proven of the theft of water, then
the manager of the municipal water system shall order discontinuance of service
until the town is aid for the water used.
   (C)   When water service shall be reconnected only upon payment of all
arrearages, penalties, and accrued charges and in addition thereto payment of a
$75 reconnect fee and a deposit in double the amount specified for new service.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 720,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 53.28 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Any person loitering around wells or reservoirs, or permitting animals to be
around any reservoir, will be notified to stop same and if the procedure is not
stopped immediately, then he or she will be apprehended to protect the safety
of the water supply to the town.
(Ord. 653, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 685, passed 12-14-2011)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.40 RATES AND HOOKUP CHARGES.
   (A)   Except otherwise specified in this section, water service rates are
hereby set at a minimum and for the first 2,000 gallons use at $29.04 as of
July 1, 2023; $31.94 as of July 1, 2024; and shall increase at the rate of 10%
per year on July 1, of each year thereafter through the year 2027. All water
used above 2,000 gallons per month shall be billed per 1,000 gallons used.
$2.66 as of July 1, 2023; $2.93 as of July 1, 2024; and shall increase at the
rate of 10% per year on July 1, of each year thereafter through the year 2027.
   (B)   The rate for water pumped directly from the tanks and the rate for
water used by a prison, correctional facility or jail are a minimum and for
each 1,000 gallons used $6.65 as of July 1, 2023; $7.31 as of July 1, 2024; and
shall increase at the rate of 10% per year on July 1, of each year thereafter
through the year 2027.
   (C)   The rates for water used at a golf course are a minimum and for the
first 2,000 gallons used $1.27 as of July 1, 2023; $1.40 as of July 1, 2024;
and shall increase at the rate of 10% per year on July l, of each year
thereafter. All water used above 2,000 gallons per month shall be per 1,000
gallons, $0.90 as of July 1, 2023; $0.99 per 1,000 gallons as of July 1, 2024;
and shall increase at the rate of 10% per year on July 1, of each year
thereafter through the year 2027.
(Ord. 654, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 660, passed 7-17-2008; Am. Ord. 686,
passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 720, passed 5-10-2023)
§ 53.41 ACCOUNTS, BILLING, AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   All accounts for water service furnished by the Town of Clayton
Municipal Water System under the schedule designated in this ordinance are due
and payable at the office of the Town Clerk of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico,
upon date of billing.
   (B)   On any bill unpaid by the due date, following billing date, or 10 days
from date of billing, 10% will be added as a late penalty.
(Ord. 654, passed 9-14-2006; Am. Ord. 660, passed 7-17-2008; Am. Ord. 686,
passed 12-14-2011; Am. Ord. 720, passed 5-10-2023)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of division
(A) of §
53.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined a sum not to exceed $300 or shall be imprisoned for not more
than 90 days, or shall receive both the fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of §§
53.15 through
53.27, 53.40 and 53.41 to do or cause to be done any of the following:
         (a)   Remove locking lid from meter can;
         (b)   Tamper with radio receiver on lid; or
         (c)   Tamper with water meter.
      (2)   Any person in violation of § 53.040 and has caused damage to
property owned by the Town of Clayton Water Department shall be fined not less
than $250 and no more than $500 or imprisoned for a term of not less than 1 day
in the City County Jail nor more than a term of 90 days. The use of Uniform
traffic citations are authorized for any enforcement of this section.
(Ord. 598, passed 7-10-1995; Am. Ord. 720, passed 5-10-2023)
CHAPTER 54: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
54.01   Hearing to protest elimination of electrical services
Cross-reference:
   Radio aerials and the like attached to electric utility poles, see §
90.03
§ 54.01 HEARING TO PROTEST ELIMINATION OF ELECTRICAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Utility service; seriously ill individuals. Utility service shall not
be discontinued to any residence where a seriously ill person is residing, if
the person responsible for the utility service charges does not have the
financial resources to pay the charges, and if a practitioner of the healing of
arts, as defined in paragraph 2 of subsection (B) of NMSA § 59A-22-32(B),
certifies that the discontinuance of service might endanger that person’s life
and the certificate is delivered to a manager or officer of the utility
providing the service at least 2 days prior to the due date of a billing for
utility services. The Public Service Commission shall provide, by rules and
regulations, the procedure necessary to carry out this section.
   (B)   Statement required.
      (1)   Customers of the town electric utility service may appeal the
discontinuance of electric service for nonpayment of the electric service bill.
      (2)   The customer must present or mail a written statement, signed by
the customer, stating why the electric utility service should not be
discontinued.
      (3)   In the event no signed, written statement is received by the Town
Office within 5 days of the date of the final notice, the town may discontinue
services.
   (C)   Hearing, proof and result.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a signed written statement of reasons why a town
electric utility customer’s service should not be discontinued, the Municipal
Court shall set a hearing time and date.
      (2)   The hearing time and date set shall be as soon as practicable after
receipt of the signed written statement and in no event more than 5 working
days after receipt of the signed written statement.
      (3)   The town shall prove by a preponderance of the evidence that the
electric bill is due and payable.
      (4)   The customer of the town electric services shall have the burden of
proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the electric bill protested is
incorrect, paid in full or not due and payable.
      (5)   The Municipal Court Judge shall have no authority to compromise,
set off, abate or forgive any electric service charges owed to the town.
      (6)   In the event the town prevails in the Municipal Court hearing on
the termination of electric utility service, the Mayor shall order the
discontinuance of electric services for nonpayment immediately.
(Ord. 522, passed 2-11-1980)
CHAPTER 55: GAS
Section
Installation, Use and Maintenance of Equipment
Using Gas for Heat, Light and Power
   
55.01   Curb valves
   
55.02   Location of burners
   
55.03   Connections
   
55.04   Protection from stoves
   
55.05   Gasoline hazard
   
55.06   Tests
   
55.07   Stove pipe chimneys
   
55.08   Certificate of inspection; setting of meters
   
55.09   Warning after shut-off
   
55.10   Proximity to electrical wiring
   
55.11   Quality of materials
   
55.12   Cutting timbers
   
55.13   Use of matches, candles and flames
   
55.14   Additional inspections
   
55.15   Size of pipes
 
   
55.99   Penalty
INSTALLATION, USE AND MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT
USING GAS FOR HEAT, LIGHT AND POWER
§ 55.01 CURB VALVES.
   Every building in which gas is used shall have each supply pipe leading from
the street mains provided with a heavy brass straightway stopcock or valve,
placed at or near the curb or property line and arranged to permit shutting off
at that point.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-27-1928)
§ 55.02 LOCATION OF BURNERS.
   All gas burners shall be placed at least 3 feet below any woodwork or
ceiling attached to wooden beams, unless the same is properly protected by a
shield, in which case the distance shall be not less than 18 inches. No gas
bracket on any lath and plaster partition of woodwork shall be less than 6
inches in length, measured from the burner to the platter surface or woodwork.
Gas lights placed near window curtains or other combustible material shall be
guarded by globes or wire cages.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-27-1928)
§ 55.03 CONNECTIONS.
   Gas connections to stoves and similar heating devices shall be made by rigid
metal pipes. For small portable heating devices, if a rigid connection is
necessarily impractical, flexible metal or rubber tubing may be used when there
is a valve or other shut-off on the intake end of the tubing and the tubing is
securely clamped in place at both ends.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-27-1928)
§ 55.04 PROTECTION FROM STOVES.
   All gas, gasoline, oil or charcoal burning stoves or heating devices shall
be placed on iron stands at least 6 inches above combustible supports unless
the burners are at least 5 inches above the base with metal guard plates 4
inches below the burners.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-27-1928)
§ 55.05 GASOLINE HAZARD.
   No open flame or heating device shall be used in any room where gasoline or
other volatile inflammable fluids are stored or handled.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-27-1928) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.06 TESTS.
   After all piping is installed and all outlets capped, there shall be applied
by the workers installing the equipment, in the presence of the Inspector of
plumbing or a deputy, a test with air under pressure sufficient to support a
column of mercury 12 inches in height, which shall stand for 10 minutes. Only a
mercury gauge shall be used. No piping shall be covered, nor shall any fixture,
gas heater or range be connected thereto, until a card showing the approval of
this test has been issued by the Inspector.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-27-1928)
§ 55.07 STOVE PIPE CHIMNEYS.
   The use of metal stove pipes or stacks passing through combustible floors,
partitions, ceilings, walls or roofs is prohibited. When any gas appliance is
directly connected into a flue, the flue must be constructed of brick, concrete
or tile.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-27-1928)
§ 55.08 CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION; SETTING OF METERS.
   No meter shall be set by any gas company until a certificate is filed with
them from the Inspector certifying that the gas pipes and fixtures comply with
the provisions of this and other ordinances pertaining thereto.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-27-1928)
§ 55.09 WARNING AFTER SHUT-OFF.
   No person, firm or individual shall resume service or turn gas into mains
which have been shut- off temporarily or for any length of time until all
consumers using gas from the mains have been notified of the resumption of
service and have been warned to close all outlets left open when the service
was interrupted.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-27-1928) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.10 PROXIMITY TO ELECTRICAL WIRING.
   No gas piping will be permitted closer than 6 inches to any electric wiring
exposed.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-27-1928)
§ 55.11 QUALITY OF MATERIALS.
   (A)   Pipe used shall be standard, full weight, of the best quality of
wrought iron or steel and free from defects. All fittings (except stopcocks and
valves) shall be of best quality malleable iron; no cast iron fittings shall be
used.
   (B)   Nipples and reducing couplings must be used; in no case shall bushings
be used.
   (C)   All pipe shall be reamed after cutting.
   (D)   All piping shall be so installed that it is not subjected to
unnecessary strain and shall be supported by metal straps or hangers where
necessary.
   (E)   No cement of any kind shall be used to repair faulty fittings.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-27-1928)
§ 55.12 CUTTING TIMBERS.
   (A)   When, in running pipe, it is necessary to cross wood joists or beams,
they shall not be notched to a depth of more than 1/5 of the depth of the
timber, and the notching shall in no case be further from a support than 1/6 of
the total unsupported span of the timber.
   (B)   Where feasible, the piping shall be run so that only timbers having
the shortest spans shall be cut.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-27-1928)
§ 55.13 USE OF MATCHES, CANDLES AND FLAMES.
   No matches, candles or flames or other sources of ignition shall be used by
a gas fitter, plumber or helper when working on meters, piping or appliances
filled with gas, except for the work as necessarily involves the use of the
flames. A flame shall never be used in searching for leaks.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-27-1928) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.14 ADDITIONAL INSPECTIONS.
   The Inspector of Plumbing, or his or her duly authorized deputy, shall from
time to time, as he or she deems proper, inspect the gas fixtures and
appliances in any building and shall make the requirements relating thereto as
he or she may deem the public health and safety require, and the owner, agent
or occupant of the buildings shall comply with the requirements. Any additional
piping installed after an inspection certificate is issued must be reported for
inspection when completed.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-27-1928)
§ 55.15 SIZE OF PIPES.
   No pipe to supply gas to any consumer shall be smaller than hereinafter
specified:
   (A)   From street or alley opening to meter, l-1/4 inch;
   (B)   For 1 opening, l-1/4 inch pipe to the point of opening;
   (C)   For 2 openings, 1-1/4 inch pipe to first opening and 1-inch pipe to
the second opening;
   (D)   For 3 openings, 1-1/4 inch pipe to the first opening, 1-inch pipe to
the second opening and 3/4-inch pipe to the third opening;
   (E)   For 4 openings, 1-1/4 inch pipe to the first opening, 1-inch pipe to
the second opening, and 3/4-inch pipe to the third and fourth openings;
   (F)   For 5 openings, 1-1/4 inch pipe to the first opening, 1-inch pipe to
the second and third openings and 3/4-inch pipe to the fourth and fifth
openings;
   (G)   For 6 openings, 1-1/4 inch pipe to the point of second opening, 1-inch
pipe to the third and fourth openings and 3/4-inch pipe to the fifth and sixth
openings;
   (H)   For 7 openings, 1-1/4 inch pipe to the point of the second opening, 1-
inch pipe to the point to the fifth opening and 3/4-inch pipe to the sixth and
seventh openings;
   (I)   For 8 openings, 1-inch pipe to the point of the third opening, 1-inch
pipe to the point of the sixth opening and 3/4-inch pipe to the seventh and
eighth openings; and
   (J)   When more than 8 openings are to be installed the installation, shall
be as prescribed by the Inspector of Plumbing in each case.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-27-1928)
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall fail to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter or who shall violate any of its provisions, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than $5 nor more
than $50. Each 10 days or major fraction thereof during which any unlawful
condition is permitted to continue by the responsible person shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-27-1928)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC CODES AND ORDINANCES
      
71.   LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   BICYCLES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC CODES AND ORDINANCES
Section
   
70.01   New Mexico Motor Vehicle Code; adopted by reference
   
70.02   New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance; adopted by reference
   
70.03   State transportation regulations; adopted by reference
§ 70.01 NEW MEXICO MOTOR VEHICLE CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The New Mexico Motor Vehicle Code, including the 2001 amendments
thereto as codified at NMSA §§ 66-1-1 through 66-1-5 and 66-7-1 through 66-8-
137, is hereby adopted by reference, subject to the provisions of division (B)
below, and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
   (B)   No offense which would constitute a felony or a high court misdemeanor
or Driving While Intoxicated or Driving Under the Influence of Alcohol or
Intoxicating Drugs is hereby adopted, and all such offenses are excepted from
this section.
   (C)   Effective date of this section is October 1, 2001.
(Ord. 562, passed 6-27-1988; Am. Ord. 620, passed 9-11-2001)
§ 70.02 NEW MEXICO UNIFORM TRAFFIC ORDINANCE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The 2011 Compilation of the New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance, comprising
NMSA §§ 12-1-1 through 12-13-6 inclusive, and all changes through July 1, 2017,
are herewith adopted by reference, pursuant to NMSA § 3-17-6.
(Ord. 656, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 672, passed 2-22-2010; Am. Ord. 675,
passed 9-15-2010; Am. Ord. 682, passed 9-14-2011; Am. Ord. 699, passed 8-22-
2017)
§ 70.03 STATE TRANSPORTATION REGULATIONS; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Adoption. The following state legislation from the 1978 compilation
regarding transportation and motor carriers is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in full herein:
      (1)   The New Mexico Motor Transportation Act, being NMSA Article 65-1 et
seq.;
      (2)   The New Mexico Motor Carriers Act, being NMSA Article 65-2 et seq.;
      (3)   The New Mexico Motor Carriers Safety Act, being NMSA Article 65-
3 et seq.;
      (4)   The New Mexico Motor Carriers Transportation Agents Act, being NMSA
Article 65-4 et seq.; and
      (5)   Procedures for vehicles entering or leaving the state, being NMSA
Article 65-5 et seq.
   (B)   Whenever any of the above mentioned laws direct the payment of any
fine, penalty or assessment, the same shall be payable to the Town of Clayton,
New Mexico.
   (C)   Whenever any of the above laws direct that a magistrate having
jurisdiction of any offense shall act, the Municipal Court of the town shall
also be authorized to so act.
   (D)   Copies of the above listed laws shall be available for inspection
during the normal and regular business hours of the town at the town offices,
from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Copies of the above
mentioned laws shall be available upon request and payment of a charge of $100.
(Ord. 562, passed 6-27-1988)
CHAPTER 71: LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Reserved
   
71.02   Prohibiting engine braking devices or retarders
   
71.03   Adequate brakes; honking restricted
   
71.04   Designated authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.05   Speed restrictions in Fire Zone and other places of town during certain
hours
   
71.06   U turns
   
71.07   Stop intersections
   
71.08   Quiet zones
   
71.09   Railroads
   
71.10   Prohibiting texting while driving
Motor Vehicles and Airport Runways
   
71.20   Prohibiting motor vehicles, motorcycles and the like on airport runways
   
71.21   Prohibiting litter on municipal airport
Street Use of Trucks and Trailers; License/Permits Required
   
71.35   Unlawful to convey in truck without permit
   
71.36   License fees
   
71.37   Required information for license or permit
   
71.38   Displaying of license or permit
   
71.39   Expiration of licenses
   
71.40   Inspection of trucks and trailers
   
71.41   Applications
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Motor vehicles and consuming alcohol, see §
112.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 RESERVED.
§ 71.02 PROHIBITING ENGINE BRAKING DEVICES OR RETARDERS.
   No device commonly known as a Jacobs engine brake or engine retarder or
engine brake shall be operated within the municipal limits of the Town of
Clayton.
(Ord. 597, passed 7-10-1995) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 ADEQUATE BRAKES; HONKING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Proper equipment. Every motor vehicle when operated within the Town of
Clayton shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the vehicle and shall be equipped with a horn or other warning
device, and shall have a valid inspection certificate on the vehicle, and shall
be properly equipped with muffler or other equipment that will do away with
unnecessary noises.
   (B)   Excessive honking. No person shall engage in excessive or unnecessary
honking of the horn on any motor vehicle within the town.
(Ord. 304, passed 12-9-1946; Am. Ord. 434, passed 8-8-1966) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 DESIGNATED AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The following vehicles are designated as authorized emergency vehicles
pursuant to the provision of NMSA § 66-1-4.1(E):
   (A)   The 2 police cars regularly operated by the Police Department of the
Town of Clayton and any substitute vehicles used for the purposes;
   (B)   The 4 Fire Department pumper trucks used by the Fire Department of the
Town of Clayton; and
   (C)   The emergency panel truck used by the Fire Department of the Town of
Clayton.
(Ord. 444, passed 7-8-1968)
§ 71.05 SPEED RESTRICTIONS IN FIRE ZONE AND OTHER PLACES OF TOWN DURING CERTAIN
HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle within the
Fire Zone of the Town of Clayton at a speed greater than 20 mph, or to operate
a motor vehicle upon any alley of the town at a speed greater than 10 mph, or
to operate a motor vehicle within a school or hospital zone, that is, within ½
block of either a public school or a hospital, at a speed greater than 15 mph
(provided, however, the restriction as to schools shall apply only to the
school period, which period is designated as between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
4:00 p.m., and only on those days when school is actually in session), or to
operate a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 25 mph upon other streets of
the town and through school zones at times when the above special restriction
shall not be applicable.
(Ord. 304, passed 12-9-1946) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Hospital quiet zone, see §
71.08
§ 71.06 U TURNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle to make a “U
turn”, that is, to reverse the direction of travel of the vehicle, except at a
street intersection. U turns shall not be made at the intersections of Main and
Front Street, Main and First Streets, Main and Second Streets, Main and Third
Streets, First and Chestnut Streets and First and Walnut Streets.
   (B)   U turns shall not be made at the intersection of Main Street and
Railroad Avenue or at any point between the intersections of Main and Front
Street and Main and Railroad Avenue.
(Ord. 304, passed 12-9-1946; Am. Ord. 330, passed 5-9-1949; Am. Ord. 373,
passed 1-11-1956) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Stop intersections shall be as set forth in
Chapter 74, Schedule III.
(Ord. 304, passed 12-9-1946; Am. Ord. 306, passed 8-25-1947; Am. Ord. 330,
passed 5-9-1949)
§ 71.08 QUIET ZONES.
   (A)   There is hereby established a quiet zone on Jefferson, Harding and
Wilson Streets, and Third and Fourth Avenues, within 1 block of the Union
County Hospital, which is located in Block No. 656 of the Herzstein and Hill
Addition to the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, at the intersection of Harding
Street and Third Avenue. The Town Engineer is hereby authorized, empowered and
directed to erect suitable signs on all of the streets and avenues at a point 1
complete block removed from the hospital site giving appropriate warning of the
quiet zone and of the speed limit therein as hereinafter established at 15 mph.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any operator of any motor vehicle, except
emergency, fire, police or ambulance vehicles, to sound any horn, klaxon,
siren, cut out or other noise producing mechanism within the quiet zone so
established by the signs.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle within
the quiet zone as defined herein and as established by the signs, except
emergency, police, ambulance or fire vehicles at a speed greater than 15 mph.
(Ord. 411, passed 8-13-1962) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 RAILROADS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any engineer or conductor or any person
having charge, either permanently or temporarily, of any railroad engine, train
or car or cars, to run any engine or train or permit the same to run within the
Town of Clayton without ringing the engine bell and sounding the whistle, or at
a greater rate of speed while crossing street crossings than 25 mph, and both
engineer and conductor shall be liable for the same offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any railroad engineer, conductor, yard
master, agent or any other railroad employee having charge, either permanently
or temporarily, of any railway engine, train, car or cars, to allow, suffer or
permit any railway engine, train, car or cars to come to a stop and stand or
remain standing across Twentieth Street in the town, or upon any part of the
street for more than 2 minutes, or across or upon Twenty-First Street for a
longer period than 5 minutes, or upon any other street or open road within the
town limits, for a longer period than 10 minutes at any 1 time, except it be in
case of unavoidable accident or casualty, and except it be a passenger train.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any minor not in the regular employment of
any railroad company to get upon freight or other cars in the town for the
purpose of braking or riding on the same, or for any other purpose except as a
passenger coming or going from the station in the town.
(Ord. 13, passed 6-10-1908; Am. Ord. 44, passed 1-10-1910; Am. Ord. 212, passed
2-9-1931) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 PROHIBITING TEXTING WHILE DRIVING.
   (A)   A person shall not read or view a text message or manually type on a
handheld mobile communication device for any purpose while driving a motor
vehicle, except to summon medical or other emergency help or unless that device
is an amateur radio and the driver holds a valid amateur radio operator license
issued by the federal communications commission.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed as authorizing
the seizure or forfeiture of a handheld mobile communication device. Unless
otherwise provided by law, the handheld mobile communication device used in the
violation of the provisions of this section is not subject to search by a law
enforcement officer during a traffic stop made pursuant to the provisions of
this section.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      DRIVING. Being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle on a highway
or street and includes being temporarily stopped because of traffic, a traffic
light or stop sign or otherwise, but DRIVING excludes operating a motor vehicle
when the vehicle has pulled over to the side of or off of an active roadway and
has stopped at a location in which it can safely remain stationary.
      HANDHELD MOBILE COMMUNICATION DEVICE. A wireless communication device
that is designed to receive and transmit text or image messages, but HANDHELD
MOBILE COMMUNICATION DEVICE excludes global positioning or navigation systems,
devices that are physically or electronically integrated into a motor vehicle
and voice-operated or hands-free devices that allow the user to compose, send
or read a text message without the use of a hand except to activate or
deactivate or initiate a feature or function.
      TEXT MESSAGE. A digital communication transmitted or intended to be
transmitted between communication devices and includes electronic mail, an
instant message, a text or image communication and a command or request to an
internet site; but "text message" excludes communications through the use of a
computer-aided dispatch service by law enforcement or rescue personnel.
   (D)   The penalty for violation of this section shall be a fine of up to
$500.
(Ord. 693, passed 10-14-2014)
MOTOR VEHICLES AND AIRPORT RUNWAYS
§ 71.20 PROHIBITING MOTOR VEHICLES, MOTORCYCLES AND THE LIKE ON AIRPORT
RUNWAYS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for any person to
operate a motor vehicle, motorcycle or other vehicle other than airport
personnel of the Town of Clayton upon the established and defined runways of
the Municipal Airport, both paved and grass, airport taxiways and apron areas
except in those areas designated for the operation of motor vehicles. It shall
also be a violation of this section to operate motor vehicles, motorcycles and
other vehicles in areas adjacent to or near airport runways, taxiways and apron
areas except on those clearly established presently existing roadways serving
those areas.
(Ord. 503, passed 2-28-1977) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Airport hazard zoning, see §
154.02
§ 71.21 PROHIBITING LITTER ON MUNICIPAL AIRPORT.
   No person shall throw any trash or litter upon any portion of Clayton
Municipal Airport, including but not limited to its streets, roadways or duly
designated parking lot or lots.
(Ord. 418, passed 12-9-1963) Penalty, see §
71.99
STREET USE OF TRUCKS AND TRAILERS; LICENSE/PERMITS REQUIRED
§ 71.35 UNLAWFUL TO CONVEY IN TRUCK WITHOUT PERMIT.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to use the streets of the town
or any vacant lot or public place therein, for the purpose of conveying thereon
by truck, or by truck with trailer, any goods, wares and merchandise whatsoever
for sale to the inhabitants of the town in any public place within the town
other than within a building therein, unless a license or temporary permit
therefor shall have been issued by the town as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 309, passed 2-2-1948) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 LICENSE FEES.
   License fees for each truck as a separate unit, or for each truck and
trailer therewith, considered as a unit, shall be as follows:
   (A)   For each truck as a separate unit, or a truck and the trailer
therewith considered as a unit, annually, $50; and
   (B)   For a temporary 3-month permit, $12.50.
(Ord. 309, passed 2-2-1948)
§ 71.37 REQUIRED INFORMATION FOR LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   Each license or temporary permit shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name and address of the licensee or permittee;
   (B)   The license number of the truck, or license numbers of the truck and
trailer (if issued for 2 vehicles as a unit); and
   (C)   The engine number of the truck, or if issued for 2 vehicles, the
engine number of the truck and serial number of the trailer for which issued,
together with the make and model number of each vehicle covered by the license
or permit.
(Ord. 309, passed 2-2-1948)
§ 71.38 DISPLAYING OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   The license or permit shall be prominently displayed upon the inside of the
windshield of each truck so licensed at all times during which the goods, wares
and merchandise shall be offered or displayed for sale at any public place
within the Town of Clayton.
(Ord. 309, passed 2-2-1948)
§ 71.39 EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   All the annual licenses shall expire on December 31 next following their
issuance, and all temporary permits shall expire respectively on March 31, June
30, September 30 and December 31 next following their issuance: the temporary
permits being issued for 3 calendar months only in each year.
(Ord. 309, passed 2-2-1948)
§ 71.40 INSPECTION OF TRUCKS AND TRAILERS.
   The Town Marshal, or any police officer of the town, is hereby designated as
Inspector to examine trucks and trailers for the above specified purposes. It
shall be his or her duty to see that each license or temporary permit is
prominently displayed inside the cab of each truck upon the windshield thereof.
Should the Inspector observe that any truck, or truck and trailer, so licensed
is being used to display any of the goods, wares and merchandise for sale under
the circumstances as shall constitute in his or her judgment a fraud upon the
citizens of the town, it shall be his or her duty to report the same to the
Mayor, who shall in his or her discretion report the same to the Board of
Trustees, which shall, after 5 days’ notice in writing of the hearing sent
through the United States mail to the address of the licensee or permittee
shown in his or her application for the license, in its discretion revoke any
license or temporary permit.
(Ord. 309, passed 2-2-1948)
§ 71.41 APPLICATIONS.
   All applications for any license or temporary permit hereafter issued under
this subchapter shall be made by the applicant under oath, stating all facts to
be included in the license or temporary permit.
(Ord. 309, passed 2-2-1948)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any ordinance relating to the operation of
a motor vehicle for which a penalty assessment schedule has been established,
and who chooses to pay the penalty assessment, shall pay in addition to the
penalty assessment a penalty assessment fee of $5.
      (2)   All penalty assessment fees, collected above and beyond the penalty
assessment, shall be deposited in a special fund in the Municipal Treasury and
shall be used solely for the purpose of constructing, operating or maintaining
the municipal jail or for paying the cost of housing municipal prisoners in the
county jail.
(Ord. 543, passed 6-27-1983)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §
71.02 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined not more than $300 or shall be imprisoned not more than 90 days, or
shall receive both the fine and the imprisonment.
(Ord. 597, passed 7-10-1995)
   (D)   Any person convicted of violation of any provision of §
71.08 shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and punished by a fine of not more
than $200 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(Ord. 411, passed 8-13-1962)
   (E)   Anyone found to be in violation of §
71.20 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned for not more than 10
days, or both.
(Ord. 503, passed 2-28-1977)
   (F)   Any person convicted of violation of any provision of §
71.21 shall be deemed guilty of an ordinance violation, and punished by a fine
of not more than $200 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, in the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. 418, passed 12-9-1963)
   (G)   The violation of §§
71.35 through
71.41, or any part or parts thereof, is declared a misdemeanor, and punishable
by a fine not exceeding $100 or imprisonment not exceeding 60 days, or both the
fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 309, passed 2-2-1948)
CHAPTER 72: BICYCLES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Bicycle routes in town
Regulations of Motorcycles, Scooters and the like
   
72.15   Definitions
   
72.16   Scope of ordinance
   
72.17   Equipment required
   
72.18   Operators of vehicles
   
72.19   Operation of vehicles
   
72.20   When lights are required
Recreational Off-Highway Vehicles and All-Terrain Vehicles
   
72.30   Operation
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 BICYCLE ROUTES IN TOWN.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BICYCLE. Any mechanical device propelled solely by the power produced
from the exertion of muscles by the person riding and operating the device,
irrespective of the number of wheels thereon.
      BIKE ROUTE. That portion of a shared roadway approximately 4 feet in
width, located approximately 8 feet from the curb of the roadway, which is duly
designated by the Chief of Police, the Mayor and the ad hoc Bicycle Committee,
as a bicycle route, after publication of the proposed route, at least 7 days
prior to the designation thereof. The BIKE ROUTE is to be marked and striped in
accord with the regulations of the New Mexico State Highway Department, as such
are in effect at the time of the establishment of the BIKE ROUTE.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any mechanical device operated upon the streets or
highways of the Town of Clayton, which is propelled by any other means than the
muscle power of the person operating it, including wind driven machines and
electrically motivated machines as well as all devices propelled by means of
any type of internal combustion engine.
   (B)   Bike routes. There shall be established from time to time within the
Town of Clayton, along streets duly designated as provided in the definition
above, bike routes. The bike routes shall be at least 4 feet in width and shall
be located not less than 8 feet from the curb of the town street on streets
within residential areas; on thoroughfares within the Town of Clayton on which
parking of motor vehicles is not permitted or does not occur, the bicycle lane
of the bike route shall occupy the 4 feet adjacent to the outside or curb edge
of the pavement on the street.
   (C)   Motor vehicles on bike routes. It shall be a violation of this section
for any person to operate a motor vehicle within a bike route as such is duly
established and marked within the Town of Clayton when the bike route is being
used by a bicycle. Operation of a motor vehicle within the bike route area
during such times as the motor vehicle is not closer than 50 feet to any
bicycle being operated within the bike route shall not constitute a violation
of this section. Operating a motor vehicle to cross a bike route for the
purpose of parking or entering the roadway, shall not constitute a violation of
this section as long as it is done in the manner as to not pose any hazard to
the operators of bicycles when using the bike route. Motor vehicles shall at
all times yield the use of the bike route area, as established and marked, to
bicycles.
   (D)   Use of bicycle lane. Persons operating bicycles on roadways which
include shared roadway and a bicycle lane thereon are encouraged to use the
bicycle lane, but are not required to do so. It shall be a violation of this
section for a bicyclist to use the bike route to travel in opposition to the
prevailing traffic flow for that side of the street. The bike route shall be at
all times used to move in the same direction as the flow of motor vehicular
traffic for that side of the street. This division (D) shall not apply to bike
paths adjacent to a roadway.
(Ord. 504, passed 7-11-1977) Penalty, see §
72.99
REGULATIONS OF MOTORCYCLES, SCOOTERS AND THE LIKE
§ 72.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than 3 wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES. Every motorcycle, including every motor scooter with a
motor which produces not to exceed 5 horsepower, and every bicycle with motor
attached.
(Ord. 431, passed 9-13-1965)
§ 72.16 SCOPE OF ORDINANCE.
   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, motor scooter and every bicycle with
motor attached shall be deemed included in this subchapter and are hereinafter
referred to as VEHICLE.
(Ord. 431, passed 9-13-1965)
§ 72.17 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   Every vehicle shall be equipped with suitable electrical lights, including
not more than 2 head lamps, a tail light, a tail light reflector and a stop
lamp on every new vehicle sold in New Mexico from and after January 1, 1954,
meeting the requirements of NMSA §§ 66-3-801 through 66-3-887, as amended, a
brake or brakes, a horn, a muffler and a rear-vision mirror, all in good
working order, the requirements of the statutes being included in this
subchapter by this express reference insofar as they relate to vehicles covered
by this subchapter; in particular, every muffler of the vehicle shall be in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise, and no person shall use a muffler, cut-out, bypass or similar device
upon any vehicle on the highway, and the muffler, engine and power mechanism of
every vehicle shall be so equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of
excessive fumes or smoke.
(Ord. 431, passed 9-13-1965) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 OPERATORS OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall operate any vehicle upon the public streets or highways of
the Town of Clayton who is not 13 years of age or older and duly licensed by
the State of New Mexico as required by NMSA §§ 66-5-2 and 66-5-18, as amended,
the provisions of the sections of the statute being herein incorporated by this
express reference.
(Ord. 431, passed 9-13-1965) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated with any person in front of the driver or
operator thereof, nor shall there be more than 2 persons on any vehicle.
   (B)   Not more than 2 vehicles shall be operated side by side in the same
lane of traffic on any multi-lane highway, nor upon any town street, highway or
alley, nor shall more than 1 lane at a time be occupied by 2 or more vehicles
abreast.
   (C)   Every vehicle shall observe all motor vehicle traffic regulations
provided by the laws of the State of New Mexico and ordinances of the Town of
Clayton, including but not limited to this subchapter.
   (D)   No vehicle shall occupy the left-hand or high speed lane of traffic in
any multi-lane highway so as to block use of same by overtaking motor vehicles,
but every vehicle shall when possible, move into the right-hand lane of any
multi-lane highway so as to yield the right-of-way to overtaking traffic; 2 or
more vehicles shall not travel abreast on any street or highway so as to
prevent other motor vehicles going in the same direction from overtaking or
passing them, but the vehicles shall move into a single- file position on any
street or highway, when reasonably required so to do by either an overtaking
vehicle going in the same direction attempting to pass or by an approaching
motor vehicle going in the opposite direction attempting to pass the vehicle or
vehicles.
(Ord. 431, passed 9-13-1965) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.20 WHEN LIGHTS ARE REQUIRED.
   Any vehicle which shall be operated on any street or highway within the town
at any time within a ½ hour after sunset to a ½ hour before sunrise, or at any
other time when there is not sufficient light to render clearly discernible
persons and vehicles on the highway at a distance of 500 feet ahead, shall
display lighted lamps and illuminating devices as hereinbefore required,
subject to exceptions with respect to vehicles lawfully parked upon any street
or highway within the town.
(Ord. 431, passed 9-13-1965)
RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 72.30 OPERATION.
   (A)   NMSA § 66-3-1011 provides for operation of recreational off-highway
vehicles and all-terrain vehicles on paved streets within the Town of Clayton
if authorized by resolution or ordinance of the Town of Clayton; subject to the
following terms, conditions, and structures of this section such vehicles are
authorized to operate on certain paved streets within the Town of Clayton.
   (B)   All such vehicles and their operators must comply with each and every
provision of NMSA § 66-3-1011 and any violation of that statute is a violation
of this section.
   (C)   All such vehicles may be operated within the Town of Clayton only
during daylight hours which are defined as one-half hour prior to sunrise
through one-half hour after sunset.
   (D)   Such vehicles shall not be operated on:
      (1)   That portion of First Street (US64/87) from the intersection of
First Street and North First Avenue on the north to the intersection of First
Street and West Avenue on the south.
      (2)   That portion of Main Street and Monroe Street (US56) from the
intersection of Main Street and West Avenue on the east to the intersection of
Monroe Street and North Fifth Avenue on the west.
      (3)   Those streets immediately adjacent to any hospital, nursing home,
or public school within the Town of Clayton.
   (E)   Such vehicles may cross the portions of First Street, Main Street, and
Monroe Street on which such vehicles are prohibited by this section only in the
manner permitted by NMSA § 66-3-1011.
(Ord. 701, passed 4-11-2018)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to $
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
72.01 shall be fined not more than $25 for any violation.
(Ord. 504, passed 7-11-1977)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
72.15 through
72.20 shall be deemed guilty of an ordinance violation and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $200, or shall be imprisoned
in the town jail for a period not exceeding 90 days.
(Ord. 431, passed 9-13-1965)
   (D)   Any violation of §
72.30 shall be cited into the Municipal Court of the Town of Clayton and upon
conviction a violator may be shall fined in an amount not to exceed $500 and/or
imprisoned for not more than 90 days.
Ord. 701, passed 4-11-2018
CHAPTER 73: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Unauthorized vehicles within designated handicapped parking spaces
   
73.02   Method of parking vehicles within town
   
73.03   Exceptions to parking in Fire District of town
   
73.04   Parking zones in areas not zoned commercial; procedure
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   State legislation on parking, see
Ch. 70
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLES WITHIN DESIGNATED HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   Parking in handicapped space. It shall be unlawful for any person to
park an unauthorized vehicle in a designated handicapped parking space.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      AUTHORIZED VEHICLE. A passenger motor vehicle owned by a disabled person
and carrying special registration license plates issued pursuant to NMSA § 66-
3-16, or similar legislation, or any passenger motor vehicle operated by, or
for the benefit of, a disabled person.
      DESIGNATED HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACE. Any parking space for passenger
motor vehicles clearly marked as a handicap parking space.
      DISABLED PERSON. Any person who has suffered loss or the loss of use by 1
or both legs, from any cause. Any person deemed to be legally blind shall also
fit within the class of DISABLED PERSONS for the purpose of this section.
HANDICAPPED PERSONS is synonymous with DISABLED PERSONS for the purpose of this
section.
(Ord. 539, passed 5-23-1983) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 METHOD OF PARKING VEHICLES WITHIN TOWN.
   The method of parking vehicles within the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, shall
be as follows:
   (A)   On Front Street and on Main Street between Third Street and Eighth
Street, vehicles left standing or parked shall be parked in the direction in
which traffic is facing, parallel to the curb and with the right wheels within
1 foot of the curb.
   (B)   On the following named streets: Main Street, between Front and Third
Streets; Second Street, between Chestnut and Walnut Streets; Chestnut Street,
between Front and Second Streets; Walnut Street, between Front and Second
Streets; Maple Street, between Front and Second Streets, and between Eighth and
Ninth Streets in the town, vehicles shall be turned to the right and parked at
the curb at an angle of 30 degrees to the curb with the right front wheel
against the curb, or as marked.
   (C)   On all public streets in areas of the town zoned commercial where
parking is permitted, such parking may be either parallel or at an angle in
conformance with the way such street is striped from time to time by the
governmental entity that has jurisdiction over such street; in the event that a
street in a commercial zone is not striped for parking either angle or parallel
parking is permissible.
   (D)   On all other streets, not specified herein, vehicles shall be parked
at the curb, within 1 foot thereof, and shall be parked in the direction in
which traffic is facing, that is, parallel parking shall be employed. If there
shall be no curb, then parking shall be within approximately 1 foot of the
established curb line.
   (E)   No vehicle may remain parked in the same place within the Business
District longer than 24 hours consecutively.
   (F)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
whatsoever to leave any trailer or any other vehicle which is not capable of
being self-propelled, parked and detached from its means of propulsion on any
of the following streets:
         (a)   On Main Street and Monroe Street at any place within the town
limits;
         (b)   On First Street at any point between Peach Street and Spruce
Street;
         (c)   On Maple Street between Front Street and First Street; and
         (d)   On Chestnut and Walnut Streets between Front Street and Second
Street.
      (2)   Any person engaged in the business of selling second-hand cars or
trucks or farm equipment, both new and used, including but not limited to self-
propelled farm vehicles, shall keep all the second-hand cars or trucks, farm
equipment and self-propelled farm vehicles offered for sale on private property
and shall not permit any of the same to remain upon any public highway of the
Town of Clayton.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to leave any wrecked or disabled self-propelled
vehicle for more than 5 hours on any of the aforementioned streets within the
territorial limits hereinbefore set forth.
   (H)   In the event any trailer or other vehicle which is not capable of
being self-propelled is so parked while detached from means of propulsion for
any time whatsoever, or any wrecked or disabled self- propelled vehicle is left
upon any of the streets within the territorial limits herein before set forth
for more than 5 hours, the Chief of Police or any other police officer may
order the trailer or vehicle impounded and stored at any public garage at the
expense of the owner of any trailer or vehicle, in addition to any fine or
imprisonment which may be imposed under §
73.99(C) hereof for violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 304, passed 12-9-1946; Am. Ord. 312, passed 3-8-1948; Am. Ord. 318,
passed 7-26-1948; Am. Ord. 419, passed 12-9-1963; Am. Ord. 426, passed 8-10-
1964; Am. Ord. 437, passed 6-26-1967; Am. Ord. 681, passed 8-10-2011) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.03 EXCEPTIONS TO PARKING IN FIRE DISTRICT OF TOWN.
   It shall be unlawful to double park any motor vehicle within that portion of
the Business District of the Town of Clayton known as the Fire Zone, except as
follows:
   (A)   Passenger vehicles may not be double parked for any period;
   (B)   Light delivery trucks, so long as actually necessary, double park on
the side being delivered to, provided there is no regular parking space within
100 feet of the door to which delivery is being made;
   (C)   On Saturdays and holidays between 10:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., no
deliveries shall be made from any truck or car, unless parked at the curb in a
regular parking space;
   (D)   All trucks parking within the Fire Zone limits of the town shall be
under the direction of the Police Department at all times and hours, and that
at any time an owner or driver is ordered or asked to move a truck by a police
officer of the town, the owner or driver shall comply at once. No truck shall
park in front of any premises occupied in whole or in part by a church
building; and
   (E)   No vehicle may park in any alley at any time except while actually
engaged in loading or unloading.
(Ord. 304, passed 12-9-1946; Am. Ord. 311, passed 2-23-1948) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 PARKING ZONES IN AREAS NOT ZONED COMMERCIAL; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Establishment of parking zones in area not zoned commercial upon
petition of residents. Whenever the residents of portions of the Town of
Clayton not zoned commercial and constituting at least 75% of the total number
of residents of a neighborhood petition the Town Manager to establish a special
neighborhood parking zone having boundaries which are coextensive with the
neighborhood as defined in the petition, the Town Manager shall, after the
review set forth herein, establish such zone, modify the zone or deny the
petition and the Chief of Police shall implement the decision of the Town
Manager. A resident for purposes of this section is defined as a person over
the age of 18 years who has actually lived within the neighborhood for 90 days
or more. If the Town Manager's approval to establish the neighborhood parking
zone as requested by the petitioners includes additional conditions,
restrictions, or constitute a change to the zone proposed by the petitioners,
the petitioners may, by written consent of 75% of the residents affected, agree
to the additional conditions, restrictions or changes, in which case the zone
shall be established in accordance with the recommendations of the Town
Manager. Should 75% of the petitioners fail to accept the decision of the Town
Manager, or should the town Manager deny the petition, the petitioners may,
within 15 days of the decision, appeal the decision to the Town Council by
delivering written notice of the appeal to the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Contents of petition.  In order to request the establishment of a
neighborhood parking zone, the residents of a neighborhood shall present a
written petition to the Town Manager. The petition shall include a description
of the affected area constituting the neighborhood which must be a contiguous
area large enough to efficiently comprise a parking zone, a statement of the
need for a restricted neighborhood parking zone, a description of the proposed
terms and conditions of the zone, and shall designate a representative of the
petitioners to whom all future communications should be addressed. The petition
shall, as of the date of its submission to the Town Manager, have appended to
it a verified list of alt residents of the affected area. The petition shall be
signed by at least 75% of the residents within the affected area and shall
identify, by address, the property of each signatory. The signatures need not
be acknowledged. For the purposes of determining if the requisite number of
signatures have been obtained, each occupied dwelling, and each occupied
residential unit such as an apartment shall be considered as being entitled to
at a minimum of one signature and the petitioners shall certify that best
efforts have been made to contact all residents.
   (C)   Terms of neighborhood zones.  In seeking to establish a neighborhood
parking zone, the residents shall propose the periods when parking is to be
restricted, the means of identifying vehicles owned by residents who may park
on the street during restricted hours, the number of nonresident parking
permits, if any, which may. be issued to each resident, and the desired means
of identifying nonresident vehicles as having permits allowing them to park
within the zone.
   (D)   Review of petition.  In reviewing a petition for the establishment of
a neighborhood parking zone, the Town Manager shall make inquiry of the police
department to determine if sufficient evidence of the need to establish such a
zone exists, the impact of such zone on surrounding neighborhoods, and whether
the zone could reasonably be enforced. The road department shall determine
whether the area can be reasonably marked as having restricted parking and
whether the hours of the restrictions are reasonable. The Town Manager may
contact such other departments as may be deemed appropriate in order to seek
their opinions as to whether or not the zone should be created and if any
additional terms or conditions are advisable.
   (E)   Expenses of establishing zones. The Town Manager shall have the
discretion to determine whether or not the petitioners shall be required to
bear, the costs of establishing such a neighborhood parking zone. In the event
that such reimbursement is to be required, the Town Manager may consider the
cost of installation of all signage, and the cost of the means of identifying
vehicles as being permitted to park within the zone. The Town Manager may
require the petitioners to make satisfactory arrangements for such
reimbursement prior to the establishment of the zone and may require the
residents to pay a reasonable fee, not to exceed $3 per permit, to reimburse
the town for the actual costs of processing and issuing each vehicular permit.
Lost permits may be replaced only by payment of a fee not to exceed $10.
   (F)   Illegal parking within zones. It shall be a violation of this division
to park on the street in a neighborhood parking zone without displaying the
appropriate temporary or permanent permit to park therein. It shall be an
affirmative defense to the violation of this division that the vehicle is owned
by a resident of the neighborhood and that a permit has been obtained for that
vehicle within 5 days of that date of violation.
   (G)   Establishment of zone upon petition by town.  In the event that any
department or division of the town deems it advisable to establish a
neighborhood parking zone without the initiation of a petition by (he residents
of the affected area, a petition may be filed with Town Manager. The petition
shall contain all of the information required by division (A) with the
exception of the requirement of the residents' signature.
   (H)   Administration. The administration of all neighborhood parking zones
shall be the responsibility of the Town Manager or the Manager's designee. As
used herein, the term ADMINISTRATION includes the issuance and revocation of
permits, the establishment and dissolution of neighborhood parking zones, and
the installation of appropriate signs. The Chief of Police or the Chief’s
designee is responsible for the enforcement of the regulations within each
zone.
   (I)   Modification or dissolution of zone. A neighborhood parking zone may
be modified or dissolved upon petition of the residents or upon petition of the
town. In either event, the procedures set forth in this division shall apply.
   (J)   Power Retained by Board of Trustees.  Nothing in this chapter shall
restrict the power of the Board of Trustees to regulate parking within the Town
of Clayton on or by any other lawful means.
(Ord. 684, passed 9-14-2011) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of §
73.01 shall be punished by a fine of $10.
   (C)   The penalties established for violations of §
73.04 are as follows:
      (1)   For a first offense, a fine of $50.
      (2)   For a second offense within a 12-month period, a fine of $250.
      (3)   For a third and subsequent offense within a 12-month period, a fine
of $500.
      (4)   The Municipal Court shall have the authority to suspend the fine on
the first offense but may not defer the conviction.
      (5)   In the event of a third or subsequent offense within a 12 month
period, the vehicle shall be towed or immobilized. The vehicle shall not be
released until the Municipal Court has provided clearance stating that all
outstanding fines and fees, including the cost of immobilizing or towing the
vehicle, have been paid. An immobilized vehicle may be subsequently be removed
from the neighborhood.
      (6)   For the purposes of this section, violations of the neighborhood
parking zone shall be charged lo the vehicle owner and not to the driver.
      (7)   The fines established herein are exclusive of any mandatory fees
which are required to be collected by the Municipal Court.
(Ord. 539, passed 5-23-1983; Am. Ord. 684, passed 9-14-2011)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Reserved
      
II.   Street crossings
      
III.   Stop intersections
      
IV.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I: RESERVED.
SCHEDULE II: STREET CROSSINGS.
   A street crossing shall be created across the right-of-way of the railway by
extending certain streets as hereinafter set forth.
   (A)   Monroe Street shall be extended for the purpose by extending the
northerly line of the Monroe Street across the right-of-way of the railway to
the westerly boundary of Front Street; thence, following the line of Front
Street along the line of the right-of-way of the railway in a southerly
direction for a distance of 54 feet to a point on the line; thence westerly
parallel with the northerly line of Monroe Street, as extended to a point on
the easterly line of Railway Avenue.
   (B)   Main Street shall be extended for the purpose of creating a crossing
of the right-of-way of the railway by extending the northerly and southerly
boundaries across the right-of-way to the easterly line of Railway Avenue.
   (C)   Pine Street shall be extended for the purpose of creating a crossing
of the right-of-way of the railway by extending the northerly and southerly
boundaries across the right-of-way to the easterly line of Railway Avenue.
   (D)   Broadway Street shall be extended for the purpose of creating a
crossing of the right-of-way of the railway by extending the northerly and
southerly boundaries across the right-of-way to the easterly line of Railway
Avenue.
   (E)   Magnolia Street shall be extended for the purpose of creating a
crossing of the right-of-way of the railway by extending the northerly and
southerly boundaries across the right-of-way to the easterly boundary or line
of Railway Avenue.
(Ord. 141, passed 6-8-1925)
SCHEDULE III: STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle intending to cross or enter upon Pine Street
from either Second, Third, Fourth or Fifth Streets shall bring the vehicle to a
complete stop before crossing or entering upon Pine Street. Any of the stops
above required shall be made not more than 25 feet back of the street
intersection about to be entered.
(Am. Ord. 306, passed 8-25-1947)
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle, driving from the north or west intending to
cross or enter upon the intersection of Court Street and First Avenue, shall
bring the vehicle to a complete stop.
(Am. Ord. 330, passed 5-9-1949)
   (C)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle intending to cross or enter upon Main
Street from either Front Street, Second Street, Third Street, Fourth Street,
Fifth Street, Sixth Street or Seventh Street shall bring the vehicle to a
complete stop before crossing or entering upon Main Street.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle intending to cross or enter upon First
Street shall bring the vehicle to a complete stop before crossing or entering
upon First Street.
      (3)   The driver of any vehicle intending to cross or enter upon Monroe
Street or into the curves of the cutoff of Monroe Street, shall bring the
vehicle to a complete stop before crossing or entering upon Monroe Street.
(Ord. 304, passed 12-9-1946)
SCHEDULE IV: SPEED LIMITS.
   The speed limit on Dr. Michael Jenkins Road is hereby set and established
and shall be posted at 45 miles per hour provided that for purposes of safety
and traffic flow certain sections of Dr. Michael Jenkins Road may have speed
limit of less than 45 miles per hour which lesser speed shall be posted.
(Ord. 673, passed 2-10-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
      
92.   FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   ABANDONED VEHICLES; JUNK
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
96.   NUISANCES
      
97.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
98.   WEEDS
      
99.   ANIMALS
      
100.   OUTDOOR LIGHTING
      
101.   CLAYTON MEMORIAL CEMETERY
CHAPTER 90: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
90.01   Public streets and alleys used for sales of vehicles by businesses;
prohibited
   
90.02   Swimming in Clayton pool at certain hours prohibited
   
90.03   Attachments to utility poles prohibited
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Littering declared a nuisance, see §
135.02
§ 90.01 PUBLIC STREETS AND ALLEYS USED FOR SALES OF VEHICLES BY BUSINESSES;
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who or which
is engaged in the business of selling, trading, bartering or exchanging new or
used motor vehicles to park or permit the parking of the vehicles, new, used or
held for sale upon the public streets of the Town of Clayton.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park or
leave any motor vehicle which is not in operating condition upon the public
streets of the town for a period of time of more than 24 hours.
   (C)   Any police officer of the town who finds any motor vehicle on the
public streets of the town in violation of this section shall obtain wrecker
service and have the vehicle removed from the street, and the owner of the
motor vehicle shall be liable for the reasonable cost of removing and storing
the vehicle or vehicles.
   (D)   As used in this section, the term MOTOR VEHICLE shall mean every
vehicle which is self-propelled or was originally manufactured to be self-
propelled.
(Ord. 381, passed 1-14-1958; Am. Ord. 382, passed 2-10-1958) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Inoperable vehicles on streets, see §
135.02
§ 90.02 SWIMMING IN CLAYTON POOL AT CERTAIN HOURS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees from time to time, and without the adoption of a
new ordinance on the subject, may determine the hours of swimming at the
Clayton Municipal Swimming Pool, and when the hours of swimming are posted in a
prominent place at the pool, it shall be unlawful to go swimming at the pool
other than during the hours so posted.
   (B)   It shall likewise be unlawful, except during the hours when the pool
is officially open, to in any manner enter the enclosure surrounding the pool
whether for the purpose of swimming or any other purpose without having been
duly authorized so to do.
(Ord. 365, passed 7-12-1954) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 ATTACHMENTS TO UTILITY POLES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful hereafter to attach any radio aerial or wire to any
electric light, telephone or telegraph pole located on any street or alley
within the town, or to run any radio aerial or wire over or under any power,
electric light, telephone or telegraph line located in any street or alley
within the town, or to nail, screw, bolt or in any manner attach to any light,
power, telephone or telegraph pole within the town any bill, poster, sign or
any foreign attachment whatsoever.
(Ord. 187, passed 6-24-1929)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
90.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
guilty and fined not less than $5 nor more than $15 for each motor vehicle so
found upon the public streets in violation of §
90.01.
(Ord. 381, passed 1-14-1958)
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of §
90.02 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $5, or more than $100 or by
imprisonment for a period not exceeding 30 days.
(Ord. 365, passed 7-12-1954)
   (D)   Any person or persons or firm or corporation violating the provisions
of §
90.03 shall, upon conviction thereof, by punished by a fine in any amount not
exceeding $50.
(Ord. 187, passed 6-24-1929)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
Section
Fireworks
   
91.01   Prohibiting the sale of certain fireworks
Fire Limits
   
91.20   Fire limits of the town
 
   
91.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 91.01 PROHIBITING THE SALE OF CERTAIN FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Prohibition. The sale or use of those fireworks defined in the New
Mexico Fireworks Licensing and Safety Act being NMSA §§ 60-2C-1 et seq., as
“aerial devices” and “ground audible devices” within the town is prohibited
subject only to those exceptions in division (B) below; provided, however, that
the prohibition on use of the devices shall not apply to public displays by the
Town of Clayton’s Fire Department.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Sale. Aerial devices and ground audible devices may be sold within
the town only:
         (a)   During the period between June 20 and July 6 of each year and
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.;
         (b)   By a vendor who has a valid license or permit issued under the
New Mexico Fireworks Licensing and Safety Act by the State Fire Marshal’s
office;
         (c)   By a vendor who has a valid business license appropriate for the
vendor’s type of business issued by the town;
         (d)   By a vendor who has a valid fireworks sales permit which allows
for the sale of aerial devices and ground audible devices issued by the town;
         (e)   At a location consistent with the State Fire Marshal’s permit,
approved in writing by the Fire Chief of the town in exercise of Fire Chief’s
discretion considering fire prevention and safety factors, including without
limitation, current conditions of weather, precipitation and dryness; and
         (f)   To persons of the age of 18 years and older.
      (2)   Aerial devices. Use of aerial devices and ground audible devices
may be used within the town only:
         (a)   During the period between June 20 and July 6 of each year and
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.;
         (b)   On private property; for purposes of this section PRIVATE
PROPERTY does not include any property owned by the Town of Clayton, the County
of Union, the Clayton Public Schools or the State of New Mexico, nor does it
include any public street, highway, alley, park, fair grounds or recreational
facility;
         (c)   With the consent of the owners, occupiers and proprietors of the
property on which the devices are being ignited and of all property on which
the devices may land and of all property from which the devices are audible;
and
         (d)   By persons of the age of 18 years or older or by persons under
the age of 18 years who are under the direct supervision and in the continuous
presence of a person of the age of 18 years or older.
   (C)   Permits. No person shall sell fireworks within the town, without first
having obtained a permit from the Town Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Clayton
the fee for the permits shall be $50 each without proration and the permits
shall be issued for period of 1 year beginning February 1, and ending January
31. There shall be 2 types of permits issued:
      (1)   Permits for sale of fireworks other than aerial devices and ground
audible devices. Permits may be issued for the sale of fireworks other than
aerial devices and ground audible devices; and the Town Clerk-Treasurer may
issue without limitation as many permits for sale of fireworks other than
aerial devices and ground audible devices as there may be a demand for the
permits; and
      (2)   Permits for sale of fireworks including aerial devices and ground
audible devices. Permits may be issued for the sale of fireworks including
aerial devices and ground audible devices; provided, however, that the Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall issue no more than 3 permits during any 1 permit year
which permits shall be issued without preference on a first-come, first-served
basis.
(Ord. 593, passed 9-12-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Possession of fireworks, public displays, see §
132.63
FIRE LIMITS
§ 91.20 FIRE LIMITS OF THE TOWN.
   (A)   All that part of the town included within the following described
boundaries shall hereafter be and be known as the fire limits of the town:
      (1)   On the west, Front Street;
      (2)   On the north, Chestnut Street;
      (3)   On the east, Third Street; and
      (4)   On the south, Walnut Street.
   (B)   In addition shall be included: all of Block 950, all of Block 951, all
of Block 952, all of Block 953, all of Block 1049, Block 1050, Block 1051, all
of Block 1052, all of Block 1053, all of Block 1149, Block 1151, all of Block
1152, Block 1250, and Block 1251 of the town, and all that portion of the
Colorado & Southern Railway Company right-of-way between the south line of
Broadway Street and a line across the right-of-way in line with the south line
of Maple Street.
(Ord. 35, passed 12-22-1908; Am. Ord. 75, passed 5-25-1915; Am. Ord. 86, passed
12-5-1916; Am. Ord. 133, passed - -1924; Am. Ord. 170, passed 8-27-1928; Am.
Ord. 192, passed 10-14-1929; Am. Ord. 333, passed 9-12-1949; Am. Ord. 328,
passed 2-28-1949)
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations within the fire limits, see
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
91.01 shall be fined up to $500 or shall be imprisoned up to 90 days or shall
be both so fined and so imprisoned; and the parent or legal custodian of any
minor who violates §
91.01 shall be guilty of a violation of §
91.01 and shall be subject to the fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 593, passed 9-12-1994)
CHAPTER 92: FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS
Section
Installations, Equipment and the Like
   
92.01   Prohibiting future installation for/use of liquified petroleum gases
within fire limits
   
92.02   Equipment installed inside fire limits to comply with regulations
   
92.03   Installations outside of fire limits
   
92.04   Inspection
   
92.05   All equipment to be inspected
   
92.06   Fees for inspection
   
92.07   Tanks prohibited on town property; tanks for wholesale prohibited
   
92.08   Tank trucks and trailers
   
92.09   Malodorant
Regulate the Use, Handling, Storage and Sale
   
92.25   Applicability
   
92.26   Unlawful amounts of flammable liquids
   
92.27   Applications
   
92.28   Notification to Inspector
   
92.29   Underground storage tank requirements
   
92.30   Drawing flammable liquids from tank cars prohibited
   
92.31   Gasoline contained in the reservoir
   
92.32   Special permission
   
92.33   Dry cleaning establishments
   
92.34   Material and construction of tanks
   
92.35   Location and installation
   
92.36   Vent pipes in underground storage
   
92.37   Filling pipes
   
92.38   Matches and smoking prohibited around flammable liquids
   
92.39   Prohibited to fill gas containers with motors running
   
92.40   Portable wheeled tanks and handling flammable liquids in buildings is
prohibited
   
92.41   Flammable liquids around open flames is prohibited
   
92.42   Tank wagons to be approved by Inspector
 
   
92.99   Penalty
INSTALLATIONS, EQUIPMENT AND THE LIKE
§ 92.01 PROHIBITING FUTURE INSTALLATION FOR/USE OF LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GASES
WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   There shall be no other, further or additional installations for or use of
manufactured and/or liquefied petroleum gases for lighting, heating, cooking or
commercial use within the fire limits, as now or as may hereafter be
established, within the town.
(Ord. 326, passed 10-11-1948)
Cross-reference:
   Fire limits defined, see §
91.20
§ 92.02 EQUIPMENT INSTALLED INSIDE FIRE LIMITS TO COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS.
   Any and all storage tanks or equipment for the use of manufactured and/or
liquefied petroleum gases which have heretofore been installed and are in
service within the fire limits as now established within the town shall be made
to comply in all respects with the regulations prescribed by Underwriters
Laboratories, Inc., and the National Board of Fire Underwriters, and this
compliance must be fully made within 30 days from the date of the passage of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 326, passed 10-11-1948)
§ 92.03 INSTALLATIONS OUTSIDE OF FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   Any and all storage tanks or other equipment for the use of
manufactured and/or liquefied petroleum gases for lighting, heating, cooking or
commercial purposes which may hereafter be installed anywhere within the town
outside the fire limits, as now or as they may hereafter be established, shall
in all things fully comply with the rules, regulations and specifications
promulgated by the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., and the National Board of
Fire Underwriters, and any of the equipment which may have heretofore been
installed, and is now in service, shall be made so to comply with the rules,
regulations and specifications within 30 days after the adoption of this
subchapter.
   (B)   If at the end of the 30 days full compliance has not been effected,
the use of the equipment shall be discontinued and the equipment shall be
removed.
(Ord. 326, passed 10-11-1948)
§ 92.04 INSPECTION.
   The Fire Chief of the Town of Clayton, or the other person as may hereafter
be designated by the Board of Trustees, shall act as Inspector of each and all
equipment for the use of manufactured and/or liquefied petroleum gases which is
now in service or may hereafter be installed within the town, and is hereby
given power to make arrests for violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 326, passed 10-11-1948)
§ 92.05 ALL EQUIPMENT TO BE INSPECTED.
   All equipment for the use of manufactured and/or liquefied petroleum gases
shall be inspected by the Inspector and approved by him or her before being
placed in service, and all the equipment that may be in service on the date of
the adoption of this subchapter shall be inspected by the Inspector within 10
days from the date of the adoption of this subchapter, and shall be made to
comply with the rules and regulations of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.,
and the National Board of Fire Underwriters, and shall have the approval of the
Inspector before they may be further used. All equipment for the use of
manufactured and/or liquefied petroleum gases in the town shall be inspected
every 90 days after the adoption of this subchapter, and should they be found
defective or in a condition as to create a hazard to persons or property, they
shall be sealed so as to prevent their further use until the defect or
dangerous condition has been corrected.
(Ord. 326, passed 10-11-1948)
§ 92.06 FEES FOR INSPECTION.
   The Inspector shall be authorized to collect, and the owner or owners of the
equipment shall be required to pay, the following fees for initial inspection
of the equipment:
 
Amount of Work and Equipment                             Fee
A minimum fee                                            $1.00
For work and equipment costing $300 and less than $500   $2.50
For work and equipment costing $500 and less than $1,000 $3.00
For each additional $100 or fraction thereof             $0.25
For quarterly inspections as provided                    $1.00
 
(Ord. 326, passed 10-11-1948)
§ 92.07 TANKS PROHIBITED ON TOWN PROPERTY; TANKS FOR WHOLESALE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No storage or service tank shall be located upon any of the streets or
alleys or on any other property owned by the town, any tank or tanks as may be
now so located shall be removed within 10 days from the date of the adoption of
this subchapter.
   (B)   No storage tank for the gases for wholesale purposes shall be located
anywhere within the town.
(Ord. 326, passed 10-11-1948) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 TANK TRUCKS AND TRAILERS.
   (A)   All tank trucks and tank trailers used for the transportation of
liquefied petroleum and gases within the town, shall be so constructed and
operated as to comply with the regulations for the design, construction and
operation of automobile tank trucks and tank trailers for the transportation of
liquefied petroleum gases as adopted by the Underwriters Laboratories Inc., and
the National Board of Fire Underwriters and National Fire Protection
Association; and any person, firm or corporation who shall operate or cause to
be operated any tank truck or tank trailer used for the purpose of transporting
liquefied petroleum gases within the corporate limits of the town shall keep
any equipment in good condition at all times, and upon the development of any
defect that would create a hazard to persons or property, the tank truck or
tank trailer shall be removed from the streets of the town, until the defects
have been repaired, or faulty equipment replaced; and any tank trucks and tank
trailers shall be subject to inspection by the Town Inspector at any time.
   (B)   All trucks and tank trailers used for the transportation of liquefied
petroleum gases within the town shall comply with all traffic laws, rules and
regulations of the town, and all trucks and tank trailers used for the
transportation of liquefied petroleum gases shall not park within the town for
any other purpose than the delivery of the products for necessary repairs or
refilling of gasoline and oil in the vehicles. Parking at any time shall not
exceed 30 minutes, unless by special permission of the Fire Chief of the Town
of Clayton, or any other person as may hereafter be designated by the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 326, passed 10-11-1948)
§ 92.09 MALODORANT.
   All liquified petroleum gases sold within the town shall be treated with a
malodorant in quantities as required to create an odor easily detected in case
of leaks in piping or equipment.
(Ord. 326, passed 10-11-1948)
REGULATE THE USE, HANDLING, STORAGE AND SALE
§ 92.25 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all new plants, stores, equipment and
installations and, except as otherwise specified to existing plants, stores,
equipment, installations and other conditions which constitute a distinct
hazard to adjoining property, insofar as the intent of this subchapter can be
fulfilled reasonably. All persons and businesses not specifically named in this
subchapter storing, handling or using inflammable liquids shall be governed by
this subchapter where it is applicable to that storing, handling or using.
(Ord. 128, passed - -)
§ 92.26 UNLAWFUL AMOUNTS OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation either as principal
or agent to keep or have in excess of 5 gallons of gasoline, naptha or other
inflammable liquids on any premises within the corporate limits of the Town of
Clayton without first obtaining a permit from the Town Clerk-Treasurer, except
as hereinafter provided. The fee for permit to install any tank, pump or
apparatus for the storage or handling of gasoline or other inflammable liquids
shall be $1 for each permit.
(Ord. 128, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 APPLICATIONS.
   All applications for permits to sell or store inflammable liquids must be
made in writing to the Town Clerk-Treasurer on special printed forms and
accompanied with the required fee as provided in §
92.26. The Town Inspector shall forthwith make an inspection of the premises
proposed to be used for the sale or storage, and the means of distribution if
the conditions, surroundings and arrangements are such that the intent of this
subchapter can be observed, then he or she shall issue a permit for the
installation of the system or equipment, subject to his or her final
inspection.
(Ord. 128, passed - -)
§ 92.28 NOTIFICATION TO INSPECTOR.
   Before any installation is covered from sight, a notification in writing
shall be given the Town Inspector who shall inspect the installation within 40
hours after the receipt of notification and give his or her written approval or
disapproval. Upon failure of the Town Inspector to inspect within the specified
time, the installation may be covered but shall be subject to inspection by the
Town Inspector at expense of the town.
(Ord. 128, passed - -)
§ 92.29 UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Underground storage.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, either as
principal or agent, to have or keep more than 5 gallons of gasoline, naptha or
other inflammable liquids on his or her premises, at any 1 time unless the same
is contained in an approved underground storage tank, constructed, installed
and maintained in accordance with the following rules and requirements.
      (2)   All the new installations of tanks and pumps used in connection
therewith shall be constructed under the supervision of the Underwriters
Laboratories or other authorized concern, and each tank and pump shall bear
their label of approval showing that the device has been tested and approved.
(Ord. 128, passed - -)
   (B)   Existing above-ground storage.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership, or
other association of persons to erect, put in, construct, install, or maintain
any gasoline, kerosene, or oil tank or pump on the curb or sidewalk on any
street within the town, or nearer thereto than in division (B)(2) specified;
provided, however, that this division shall not be constructed as applicable to
those premises upon which the erection, installation and maintenance of curb
pumps and tanks was authorized by a permit issued prior to June 16, 1926.
(Am. Ord. 237, passed 8-14-1933)
      (2)   Any person or persons, corporation or partnership handling or
selling gasoline, kerosene or oil within the town, for which a permit had not
been issued prior to June 26, 1926, shall place the tank or pump from which the
same is distributed not less than 6 feet back from the property line. No permit
for the installation or maintenance of a tank or pump contrary to the
provisions of this division (B) shall be issued.
(Ord. 150, passed 2-14-1927; Am. Ord. 200, passed 6-23-1930) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.30 DRAWING FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS FROM TANK CARS PROHIBITED.
   The drawing of gasoline or other inflammable liquids from tank cars shall
not be permitted at any location where the tank cars are within 50 feet of any
building except buildings of like occupancy or where in the judgment of the
Town Inspector the operations would be unsafe to life or property. The piping,
pumps or other equipment used for the emptying of the tank cars must be of
sufficient size and so arranged as to permit the emptying or withdrawing of the
gasoline or other inflammable liquids within a period of 12 hours. The person
or firm to whom the tank cars are consigned will be required to complete the
emptying of the same within a period of 24 hours from the time the tank car is
placed in position for unloading.
(Ord. 128, passed - -)
§ 92.31 GASOLINE CONTAINED IN THE RESERVOIR.
   This subchapter shall not be construed as applying to gasoline contained in
the reservoir of motor vehicles and not to exceed 1 gallon in approved
measuring pumps used for filling purposes or to portable wheeled tanks for use
in garages when not exceeding 60 gallons capacity, and when constructed and
used in accordance with requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 128, passed - -)
§ 92.32 SPECIAL PERMISSION.
   By special permission granted by the Town Board of Trustees and the Town
Inspector, above- ground storage tanks may be permitted in sparsely built-up
sections of the town if located entirely outside of the mercantile and other
congested districts.
(Ord. 128, passed - -)
§ 92.33 DRY CLEANING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   This subchapter shall not be construed as applying to gasoline, naptha or
other inflammable liquids while contained in washers used in connection with
dry cleaning establishments when located outside the fire limits of the town as
now established or hereafter extended, or when inside the fire limits,
providing the building used for dry cleaning purposes is constructed wholly of
noncombustible material, not used for other occupancy and located at least l0
feet from other building or a public thoroughfare.
(Ord. 128, passed - -)
§ 92.34 MATERIAL AND CONSTRUCTION OF TANKS.
   (A)   Tanks must be constructed of galvanized steel, basic open hearth steel
or wrought iron of a minimum gauge depending upon the capacity as indicated by
the following table:
 
Capacity (Gallons) Minimum Thickness Metal
1 to 560           14 gauge
561 to 1,100       12 gauge
1,101 to 4,000     7 gauge
4,001 to 10,500    1/4 inch
 
   (B)   Tanks constructed of 12 and 14 gauge metal must be well galvanized;
tanks constructed of #7 gauge or heavier metal must be galvanized or thoroughly
coated on the outside with tar asphaltum or other suitable rust resisting
material.
(Ord. 128, passed - -)
§ 92.35 LOCATION AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Tanks shall have tops at least 3 feet below the surface of the ground
and below the level of the lowest pipe in the building to be supplied. Tanks
may be permitted underneath a building if buried at least 3 feet below the
lowest floor. Tanks shall be set on a firm foundation and surrounded with soft
earth or sand, well tamped into place or encased in concrete. Tanks may have a
test well, provided the test well extends to near the bottom of the tank, and
the upper end shall be hermetically sealed and locked except when necessarily
open. When the tank, if located underneath a building, the test well shall
extend at least 12 feet above the source of supply. The maximum limit of
storage permitted in 1 tank shall be 10,500 gallons, and shall depend upon the
location of tanks with respect to the building to be supplied and adjacent
buildings and property as follows:
      (1)   A total capacity of 10,500 gallons if over 30 feet from any
property line which may be built upon and if lower than any floor, basement,
cellar or pit in any building within 30 feet;
      (2)   A total capacity of 4,000 gallons if over 20 feet from any property
line which may be built upon and if lower than any floor, basement, cellar or
pit in any building within 20 feet;
      (3)   A total capacity of 1,100 gallons if over 10 feet from any property
line which may be built upon and if lower than any floor basement, cellar or
pit in any building within 10 feet; and
      (4)   Total of 560 gallons if within 10 feet of any property in which may
be built upon and if not lower than every floor, basement, cellar or pit in any
building within 10 feet, in which case it must be entirely encased in 6 inches
of concrete.
   (B)   The above provisions and requirements shall be construed as
prohibiting the installation of any storage tanks in the public streets,
avenues or alleys of the town except by special permission of the Town Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 128, passed - -)
§ 92.36 VENT PIPES IN UNDERGROUND STORAGE.
   All underground storage systems which may contain inflammable gases shall
have at least a 1- inch vent pipe, run from top of the tank to a point outside
of the building and acceptable to the Town Inspector, but which shall end at
least 12 feet above the level of the source of supply and in a location remote
from fire escapes and not less than 3 feet, measuring horizontally and
vertically, from any window or other opening; the tank vent pipe shall
terminate in a goose-neck protected at the outer end by a 30 by 30 mesh or
equivalent brass wire screen. The vent pipes from 2 or more tanks may be
connected to 1 upright, provided they be connected at a point at least 1 foot
above the level of the source of supply.
(Ord. 128, passed - -)
§ 92.37 FILLING PIPES.
   Ends of filling pipes for all underground storage tanks shall be carried to
an approved location outside of any building, but not within 5 feet of any
entrance door or cellar opening, and shall be set in an approved metal box with
cover which shall be kept locked except during filling operations; this filling
pipe shall be closed by a screw cap. A 30 by 30 mesh or equivalent brass screen
strainer shall be placed in the supply end of the filling pipe. The piping of
gasoline or other inflammable liquids in the streets or alleys of the town for
any distance exceeding 50 feet shall not be permitted except in outlying
districts where the piping and system be buried properly below the frost line,
kept clear of other piping and sewers; and where in the judgment of the Town
Inspector, the piping can be maintained properly and would in no way create a
hazard to life and property.
(Ord. 128, passed - -)
§ 92.38 MATCHES AND SMOKING PROHIBITED AROUND FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   (A)   In all rooms or parts of buildings which contain inflammable liquids
in open containers or in which the vapors from inflammable liquids are present,
or in which inflammable liquids are used in any manufacturing process, the
carrying of matches is prohibited and smoking shall be a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Suitable signs lettered “Smoking Prohibited By Order of the Town of
Clayton” shall be displayed.
(Ord. 128, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.39 PROHIBITED TO FILL GAS CONTAINERS WITH MOTORS RUNNING.
   It is hereby expressly prohibited to open or fill any gasoline tank of an
automobile or motorcycle while the engine or motor is running. No inflammable
liquids shall be drawn or handled in the presence of open flame or fire, but
may be drawn and handled when lighting is by incandescent electric lamps
installed in compliance with the rules and regulations of the National
Electrical Code; the rules and regulations are hereby made a part of the
requirements of this subchapter as affecting all electrical equipment.
(Ord. 128, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.40 PORTABLE WHEELED TANKS AND HANDLING FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS IN BUILDINGS IS
PROHIBITED.
   No portable wheeled tank for the handling of inflammable liquids inside
buildings shall exceed 60 gallons capacity. The tanks must be of iron or steel,
3/16 inch with all openings at the top and screened with 30 by 30 mesh or
equivalent, brass wire screen. Wheels must be rubber tired and tanks so hung as
not to be tipped over in ordinary usage. Liquids must be drawn from tanks by
means of a tight-fitting pump, and the device must bear the Underwriters
Laboratories’ label of approval.
(Ord. 128, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.41 FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AROUND OPEN FLAMES IS PROHIBITED.
   The handling or storing of any inflammable liquid within dangerous proximity
to open flame or fire is expressly prohibited.
(Ord. 128, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.42 TANK WAGONS TO BE APPROVED BY INSPECTOR.
   All tank wagons and wagons containing, tanks with faucets, when used for the
distribution of inflammable   liquids shall be of substantial workmanlike
construction and shall be subject to the approval of the Town Inspector, who
shall inspect and keep a record of the wagons or vehicles, which shall be
plainly marked with their record number. All faucets connected to the tank
wagons shall be kept locked or have handles removed when not in actual use; the
handles to be so constructed that they may not be removed except when the
faucet is tightly closed, and all measures and faucets shall be covered or
otherwise protected.
(Ord. 128, passed - -)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
92.01 through
92.09 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction for
violation thereof, shall be fined in any sum not to exceed $100 or by
imprisonment in the town or county jail for not less than 5 nor more than 60
days, or by both the fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the court
imposing the sentence. Each day of use and operation of any equipment, without
having first secured the approval of the Town Inspector, shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 326, passed 10-11-1948)
   (C)   Any and all persons, firms or corporations who shall violate any of
the provisions of §§
92.25 through
92.42 or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate, or fail to comply with
any order or regulation made thereunder after receiving due notice, or who
shall build in violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans,
submitted and approved thereunder, shall severally for each and every violation
and noncompliance, respectively, forfeit and pay a penalty in the sum of $25,
each day constituting a separate offense. The imposition of 1 penalty for any
violation of §§
92.25 through
92.42 shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and all the
persons shall be required to correct or remedy the violation or defects within
a reasonable time.
(Ord. 128, passed - -)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Endorsing and supporting fair housing
Fair Housing Generally
   
93.15   Policy
   
93.16   Definitions
   
93.17   Unlawful practice
   
93.18   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
93.19   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
93.20   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
93.21   Exemption
   
93.22   Administration
   
93.23   Education and conciliation
   
93.24   Enforcement
   
93.25   Investigations, subpoenas and giving of advice
   
93.26   Enforcement by private persons
   
93.27   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
93.28   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 ENDORSING AND SUPPORTING FAIR HOUSING.
   (A)   The Mayor and Board of Trustees endorses and supports the principle of
fair and open housing, as set forth in Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of
1968 being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e et seq., and the right of every person to have
access to adequate housing of his or her own choice without regard to race,
color, religion, HIV-positive persons, sex or national origin.
   (B)   The Mayor and Board of Trustees encourages all citizens to respect and
support the law of the land in regard to the right of every person to have
access to adequate housing of his or her own choice.
   (C)   The Mayor and Board of Trustees encourages all citizens to undertake
voluntary actions to foster racial harmony, including individual and group
decisions to promote fair and open housing and individual commitment to avoid
discrimination in all sale and all rental of property.
   (D)   The Mayor and Board of Trustees will cooperate with the Local Housing
Authority and nonprofit and limited dividend developers to provide low and
moderate income housing within the town, and the development will have the full
cooperation of the Town Administration in determining locations and sites that
meet HUD criteria to the end that housing will not be limited to any given area
of the town and will be available to all citizens without regard to race,
color, religion, HIV-positive persons, sex or national origin.
   (E)   The town will assist in promoting affirmative action and advertising
programs so that all housing will be made available to all citizens. Any board
or group dealing with housing and appointed or licensed by the town will be
directed to carry out the provisions of the Fair Housing Act of 1968 being 42
U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq.
   (F)   The town agrees to the establishment of an adequate housing program,
including both low-rent public housing and subsidized housing.
   (G)   The town will inform the Local Housing Authority, realtors and other
agencies, and to the greatest extent possible, mortgage lenders and general
public, of the existence and implications of its adopted open housing
resolution.
   (H)   The town will develop policies that will help make a selection of land
and/or sites available so that housing costs will remain at a reasonable level,
particularly for low and moderate income families.
   (I)   The town will encourage local newspapers and owners of housing to
comply with the HUD advertising guidelines.
   (J)   The town will maintain cooperation with fair housing groups, human
relations bodies and other social, civic and religious groups interested in
facilitating open communities.
   (K)   The town will assist in the development of educational programs on
equal housing opportunity, informing the real estate industry of their
responsibilities under federal law, encouraging minority citizens to exercise
their rights under law, providing general human relations education and stating
the Mayor’s commitment to fostering fair housing and defending the civil rights
of all citizens.
   (L)   The town will assist in the development of a program or programs to
inform citizens of their rights under federal civil rights laws and provide
support in the filing of complaints under these laws.
(Ord. 517, passed 1-22-1979)
FAIR HOUSING GENERALLY
§ 93.15 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the town.
(Ord. 607, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 93.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that he or she will be injured by a discriminatory housing
practice that is about to occur.
   CHIEF ELECTED OFFICIAL. The person who holds the highest elected position of
the local unit of government and who is signatory to the Small Cities Community
Development Block Grant Agreement with the Local Government Division.
   COMPLAINANT. The person (including the Chief Elected Official) who files a
complaint under §
93.24.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.18,
93.19 or
93.20 of this subchapter.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portions thereof which is occupied as,
designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by 1 or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for construction or location
thereon of any building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of 18 years)
being domiciled with:
         (a)   A parent or another person having legal custody of the
individual or individuals; or
         (b)   The designee of the parent or other person having the custody,
with the written permission of the parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant, or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   HANDICAP. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits 1 or
more of the person’s major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment; or
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment, but the term does not
include current, illegal use of or addiction to, a controlled substance (as
defined in § 102 of the Controlled Substances Act [21 U.S.C. 802]).
   PERSON. Includes 1 or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   RESPONDENT.
      (1)   The person or other entity accused in a complaint of an unfair
housing practice; and
      (2)   Any other person or entity identified in the course of
investigation and notified as required with respect to RESPONDENTS so
identified under §
93.24.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 607, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 93.17 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) and §
93.21 below, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of
housing set forth in this subchapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below.
   (B)   Nothing in §
93.18 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
the private individual owner does not own more than 3 single-family houses at
any 1 time; provided further, that in the case of the sale of any single-family
house by a private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of
the sale, or who was not the most recent resident of the house prior to the
sale, the exemption granted by this section shall apply only with respect to 1
sale within any 24-month period; provided further, that the bona fide private
individual owner does not own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved
on his or her behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement, title to, or
any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more
than 3 single-family houses at any 1 time; provided further, that the sale or
rental of any single-family house shall be excepted from the application of
this subchapter only if the house is sold or rented without the use in any
manner of the sales or rental facilities or the sales or rental services of any
real estate broker, agent or salesperson or of the facilities or services of
any person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee
or agent of any broker, agent, salesperson or person, and without the
publication, posting or mailing, after notice of any advertisement or written
notice in violation of §
93.18(C) of this subchapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the
use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings with contained living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than 4 families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies 1 of the living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in 3 or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence in providing
sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in 2 or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, 5 or more families.
(Ord. 607, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 93.18 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
93.17 and except as exempted by §
93.17(B) and §
93.21, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
HIV-positive persons, familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, HIV-positive persons, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, HIV-positive persons, familial status or
national origin, or an intention to make any preference, limitation or
discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, HIV-positive persons, familial status or national origin that any
dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or rental when the dwelling is
in fact so available; and
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, HIV-positive persons, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 607, passed 4-14-1997) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   In general. It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose
business includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available a transaction, or in the
terms or conditions of a transaction, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, HIV-positive persons, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   Definition. As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-
RELATED TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance for purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, maintaining a
dwelling or secured by residential real estate; and
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Appraisal exemption. Nothing in this subchapter prohibits a person
engaged in the business of furnishing appraisals of real property to take into
consideration factors other than race, color, religion, sex, handicap, HIV-
positive persons, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 607, passed 4-14-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.20 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers
organization, or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of the access, membership or participation because
of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, HIV-positive persons, familial status
or national origin.
(Ord. 607, passed 4-14-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.21 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by, or in conjunction with, a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to the persons, unless
membership in the religion is restricted on account of race, HIV- positive
persons, color or national origin. Nor shall anything in this subchapter
prohibit a private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to
its primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for
other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of the
lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its members.
(Ord. 607, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 93.22 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this subchapter
shall be in the Chief Elected Official of the Town of Clayton.
   (B)   The Chief Elected Official may delegate any of these functions, duties
and powers to employees of the town or to boards of such employees, including
functions, duties and powers with respect to investigating, conciliating,
hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or otherwise acting as to
any work, business or matter under this subchapter. The Chief Elected Official
shall by rule prescribe the rights of appeal from the decisions of their
hearing examiners to other hearing examiners or to other offices in the town,
to boards of officers or to themselves, as shall be appropriate and in
accordance with law.
   (C)   All town departments and agencies shall administer their programs and
activities relating to housing and community development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this subchapter and shall cooperate
with the Chief Elected Official to further those purposes.
(Ord. 607, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 93.23 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   (A)   Immediately after the enactment of this subchapter, the Chief Elected
Official shall commence the educational conciliatory activities as will further
the purposes of this subchapter.
   (B)   He or she shall call conferences of persons in the housing industry
and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provision of this
subchapter and the suggested means of implementing it and shall endeavor with
their advice to work out programs of voluntary compliance and enforcement.
(Ord. 607, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 93.24 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice, or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “aggrieved
person”), may file a complaint with the Chief Elected Official. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in a form that
the Chief Elected Official requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
Chief Elected Official shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or
persons who have committed, or are about to commit, the alleged discriminatory
housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving a complaint or within 30 days
after the expiration of any period referenced under division (C) below, the
Chief Elected Official shall investigate the complaint and give notice in
writing to the aggrieved person whether he or she intends to resolve it. If the
Chief Elected Official decides to resolve the complaints, he or she shall
proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing
practice by informal methods of conference, conciliation and persuasion.
Nothing said or done in the course of the informal endeavors may be made public
or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this subchapter without
the written consent of the persons concerned. Any employee of the Chief Elected
Official who shall make public any information in violation of this provision
shall be subject to the provisions of §
93.99.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him or her and with the leave of the Chief Elected Official, which
shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend
his or her answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If, within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Chief Elected
Official, he or she has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this
subchapter, the aggrieved person may, within 30 days thereafter, file a
complaint with the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development. The Chief Elected Official will assist in this filing.
   (D)   If the Chief Elected Official has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the aggrieved person may, within 30
days thereafter commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this subchapter, insofar as the rights relate to the subject of the
complaint. If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has
occurred or is about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from
engaging in the practice or order the affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual comes to trial, the Chief
Elected Official shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary
compliance.
(Ord. 607, passed 4-14-1997) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.25 INVESTIGATIONS, SUBPOENAS AND GIVING OF ADVICE.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the Chief Elected Official shall have
access at all reasonable times to the premises, records, documents, individuals
and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and
copy the materials and take and record the testimony or statements of those
persons as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation;
provided, however, that the Chief Elected Official first complies with the
provisions of the Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and
seizures. The Chief Elected Official may issue subpoenas to compel his or her
access to, or the production of the materials, or the appearance of the persons
and may issue interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject
to the same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were
issued or served in aid of a civil action in the United States District Court
for the district in which the investigation is taking place. The Chief Elected
Official may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Chief Elected Official, a respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in
the name of the Chief Elected Official at the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued by the Chief Elected Official. Subpoenas
issued at the request of a respondent shall show on their face the name and
address of the respondent and shall state that they were issued at his or her
request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Chief Elected Official shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in the United States District Courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by the respondent.
   (D)   Within 5 days after service of a subpoena upon any person, the person
may petition the Chief Elected Official to revoke or modify the subpoena. The
Chief Elected Official shall grant the petition if he or she finds that the
subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or place,
that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to any matter
under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient particularity
the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly onerous or for
other good reason.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Chief Elected
Official, or other person at whose request it was issued, may petition for its
enforcement in the municipal or state court for the district in which the
person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served or transacts
business.
   (F)   (1)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and
testify, or to answer any lawful inquiry, or to produce records, documents or
other evidence, if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena
or lawful order of the Chief Elected Official shall be fined as set forth in §
93.99.
      (2)   Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the Chief Elected
Official, shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact
in any report, account, record or other document submitted to the Chief Elected
Official pursuant to his or her subpoena or other order, or shall willfully
neglect or fail to make or cause to be made full, true and correct entries in
the reports, accounts, records or other documents, or shall willfully mutilate,
alter or by any other means falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined as
set forth in § 9399.
   (G)   The Town Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Chief
Elected Official participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this
subchapter.
(Ord. 607, passed 4-14-1997) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.26 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted by §§
93.17,
93.18,
93.19 and
93.20 may be enforced by civil actions in appropriate United States district,
state or local court. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days after
the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided, however that
the court shall continue the civil case brought pursuant to this section or §
93.24(D) from time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the Chief Elected Official are likely to
result in satisfactory settlement of the alleged discriminatory housing
practice complained of in the complaint made to the Chief Elected Official and
which practice forms the basis for the action in court; and provided, however,
that any sale, encumbrance or rental consummated prior to the issuance of any
court order issued under the authority of this subchapter and involving a bona
fide purchase, encumbrancer or tenant without actual notice of the filing of a
complaint or civil action under the provisions of this subchapter shall not be
affected.
   (B)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the case of
a prevailing plaintiff; provided, that the plaintiff in the opinion of the
court is not financially able to assume the attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 607, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 93.27 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected
by §§
93.17,
93.18,
93.19 and
93.20 of this subchapter. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action.
(Ord. 607, passed 4-14-1997) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.28 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with any of the following divisions (A), (B) or (C)
shall be fined as set forth in §
93.99:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
HIV-positive persons, familial status or national origin and because he or she
is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or
contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or
occupation of any dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service
organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
the person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, HIV-positive persons, familial status or national
origin, or any of the activities, service organizations or facilities described
in division (A) above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage the citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, HIV-positive persons, familial status or national
origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities
described in division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or
peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to so participate.
(Ord. 607, passed 4-14-1997) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any employee of the Chief Elected Official who violates §
93.24(A) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 1 year.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
93.25(F)(1) or (F)(2) shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not
more than 1 year or both.
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of §
93.28 shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than 1 year
or both; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000, or
imprisoned not more than 10 years or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life and/or to other
applicable local, state or federal laws.
(Ord. 607, passed 4-14-1997)
CHAPTER 94: ABANDONED VEHICLES; JUNK
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Junk and junk yards; establishment, operation and maintenance
Abandoned Vehicles and Junk on Streets
   
94.15   Definitions
   
94.16   Abandonment of vehicle on any way unlawful
   
94.17   Unlawful to permit junk to be unsheltered
   
94.18   Unlawful to abandon any lockable device large enough to hold a person
   
94.19   Unsheltered storage of junk
   
94.20   Notice given by Town Clerk-Treasurer
   
94.21   Abatement of nuisance
   
94.22   Impounding
   
94.23   Waiver of penalties
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Junk on vacant lots, see §
96.01
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 96
   Outdoor vehicle storage, see §
135.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 JUNK AND JUNK YARDS; ESTABLISHMENT, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         JUNK. Any worn out, discarded or abandoned materials, including but
not limited to refuse, rubbish, old rags, metals, rubber, glass parts of
machines and vehicles, waste paper, cloth and textiles having only salvage
value. An accumulation of 1 or more partially dismantled or wrecked automobiles
or portions thereof not capable of moving under their own power, and plainly
not under repair, are herein defined as JUNK. An accumulation of 1 or more
automobiles or portions thereof not capable of moving under their own power and
not bearing license plates of the current year, shall be prima facie considered
JUNK and are herein defined as JUNK and are so classified for the purposes of
this section.
         JUNK YARD. Any business, enterprise, establishment, lot or yard whose
principal business is the accumulation, gathering, buying and selling of junk
as above defined, or any site where junk as defined in this section is
permitted or placed by the owner, tenant or operator of the site. Any person,
partnership, corporation, firm or enterprise who shall allow the accumulation
of junk as herein defined, upon any lot, yard or premises within the town
limits of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, shall be deemed to be conducting,
operating or maintaining a JUNK YARD.
      (2)   Exemptions. This section shall not apply to any business conducted
entirely within a building of the construction which conforms to the building
ordinances of the town.
   (B)   No person, partnership, corporation, firm or other enterprise shall
establish, conduct, operate or maintain a junk yard within the established fire
limits of the town.
   (C)   (1)   Before any person, partnership, corporation, firm or other
enterprise may build, commence or establish a junk yard within the town, an
application for a building permit must be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
Upon approval of the application by the Building Commission, a building permit
will be issued in accordance with the ordinances of the town.
      (2)   Each and every junk yard within the town must be operated under the
authority of a license issued by the town. Applications for the license shall
be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and approved by the Board of Trustees of
the Town of Clayton before the license shall be issued. The license will not be
issued if it is found that the general public welfare of the town would suffer
through unreasonable depreciation of surrounding or adjacent property by the
establishment, maintenance and operation of the junk yard at its proposed site.
   (D)   Each and every junk yard within the town shall be completely enclosed
about its perimeter within a fence not less than 8 feet in height and of a
construction as is acceptable to the Building Commission of the town. Contents
of the junk yard shall at no time be piled to a height greater than that of the
enclosure fence described above.
   (E)   No junk yard shall be established, operated or maintained within the
town unless and until all of the statutes of the State of New Mexico, as well
as all of the rules, regulations and ordinances of the Town of Clayton have
been complied with. Any junk yard being established, operated or maintained in
violation of the statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances or in violation of
this section is hereby declared a public nuisance.
   (F)   This section shall take effect 30 days after the date of publication.
(Ord. 338, passed 6-26-1950) Penalty, see §
94.99
ABANDONED VEHICLES AND JUNK ON STREETS
§ 94.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. Any vehicle left unmoved upon a street, alley or other way of the
Town of Clayton longer than 30 days shall be presumed to have been ABANDONED.
Any refrigerator, freezer, icebox or other device having an automatic lock on a
compartment large enough to enclose a human being and from which the door has
not been removed, shall be presumed to have been ABANDONED if exposed at any
place accessible to children.
   JUNK. Any worn out, discarded or abandoned materials, including but not
limited to refuse, rubbish, old rags, metals, rubber, glass, parts of machines
and vehicles, refrigerators, waste paper, cloth and textiles having only
salvage value. An accumulation of 1 or more partially dismantled or wrecked
automobiles or portions thereof not capable of moving under their own power,
plainly not under repair for a period of more than 30 days, and not bearing
license plates of the current year, shall be prima facie considered JUNK.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the town which is not a street, highway
or alley.
   STREET, HIGHWAY or ALLEY. The entire width between the property lines of
every dedicated way, whether open to public travel or not, including but not
limited to the portion of the way actually opened or capable of being opened
for vehicular travel.
   UNSHELTERED JUNK. Junk placed upon, permitted to be placed or to remain more
than 30 days upon any property for which a junkyard license is not held, except
the property is securely enclosed against trespassing and surrounded by
buildings or a solid fence adequate to obscure the junk from public view. If
the contents of any unlicensed junkyard shall be piled higher than the
obscuring fence or building, the storage shall be deemed to be UNSHELTERED.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled or intended to be propelled by power other than
human power, designed to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads,
runners or slides and to transport persons or property or pull machinery,
including but not limited to such vehicles as automobile, truck, trailer,
motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon.
   WAY. Includes all dedicated streets, highways and alleys within the town,
whether presently opened for vehicular travel or other public use or not,
including all portions of the way between the property lines on either side of
the way.
(Ord. 450, passed 5-11-1970)
§ 94.16 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLE ON ANY WAY UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful to abandon any vehicle upon any way of the town.
(Ord. 450, passed 5-11-1970) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.17 UNLAWFUL TO PERMIT JUNK TO BE UNSHELTERED.
   It is unlawful to permit junk to remain unsheltered within the town.
(Ord. 450, passed 5-11-1970) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18 UNLAWFUL TO ABANDON ANY LOCKABLE DEVICE LARGE ENOUGH TO HOLD A PERSON.
   It is unlawful to abandon any refrigerator, freezer, icebox or other device
having an automatic lock on a compartment large enough to enclose a human
being, in any place accessible to children without first removing the doors of
the refrigerator, freezer, icebox or other device having an enclosed
compartment with an automatic lock.
(Ord. 450, passed 5-11-1970) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.19 UNSHELTERED STORAGE OF JUNK.
   Unsheltered storage of junk within the town shall constitute a nuisance,
detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 450, passed 5-11-1970)
§ 94.20 NOTICE GIVEN BY TOWN CLERK-TREASURER.
   Whenever it shall come to the attention of the Town Clerk-Treasurer that a
nuisance as herein defined exists, he or she shall, in writing, notify the
owner, tenant, lessee or other occupant of the property of the existence of the
nuisance and shall request its prompt abatement; provided, however, that
failure of the Town Clerk-Treasurer to give the notice shall not constitute a
defense to any action brought to enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. 450, passed 5-11-1970)
§ 94.21 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   Every person, including the owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of any lot or
lots where a nuisance exists, shall abate any nuisance by the prompt removal of
the junk from the lot or lots or into a licensed junkyard, if within the
corporate limits of the Town of Clayton, or otherwise remove same to some
location outside the corporate limits.
(Ord. 450, passed 5-11-1970)
§ 94.22 IMPOUNDING.
   The Chief of Police, or any member of his or her Department designated by
him or her, is hereby authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle
abandoned within the town. The vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully
claimed or until disposed of in accordance with the provisions of NMSA § 29-1-
14, inclusive, which provides for the disposal of unclaimed personal property
by municipalities. The fees for towing any vehicle away for impoundment shall
be $15 or actual cost and the storage rate shall be $3 per day, or actual cost,
per vehicle in the garage or other place of impoundment as the Chief of Police
shall designate from time to time.
(Ord. 450, passed 5-11-1970; Am. Ord. 514, passed 11-13-1978)
§ 94.23 WAIVER OF PENALTIES.
   The provision for penalties in §
94.99 shall not be deemed a waiver of the right of the town to invoke the
equity jurisdiction of the District Court in compelling abatement of any
condition which constitutes a nuisance detrimental to the public health, safety
or general welfare.
(Ord. 450, passed 5-11-1970)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, partnership, corporation, firm or other enterprise
perpetrating a public nuisance, as defined in division (E) of §
94.01, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $200 or imprisonment not to exceed 60
days, or both the fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 338, passed 6-26-1950)
   (C)   Violation of any of the provisions of §§
94.15 through
94.23 shall be punishable by fine of not more than $100 or imprisonment not
longer than 30 days, or both the fine and imprisonment. Each day the violation
is committed or permitted to continue after written notice to abate the
nuisance, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Ord. 450, passed 5-11-1970)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Prohibiting breaking, destroying or breaking down globes of street
lights
   
95.02   Skating upon streets and sidewalks
   
95.03   Encroachment and obstructions
Paving of Streets; Maintenance and Repair
   
95.20   Protect streets and highways from damage; moving buildings and debris
   
95.21   Procedure of paving and improving certain streets; assessments
   
95.22   Establishing street improvements
Curbs, Gutters and Sidewalks; Maintenance and Construction
   
95.35   Sidewalk, curb and gutter improvements in Business District;
maintenance
   
95.36   No construction without a permit
   
95.37   Fee to be paid
   
95.38   Permit needed and work staked out
   
95.39   Build at grades established
   
95.40   Built in specific ways
   
95.41   Constructed as 1 unit
   
95.42   Built of concrete; proportions
   
95.43   Inspection and approval
   
95.44   Removing materials
   
95.45   Repair and replacement
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 PROHIBITING BREAKING, DESTROYING OR BREAKING DOWN GLOBES OF STREET
LIGHTS.
   Any person who shall deface, injure, destroy, break down or in any manner
damage any globe or standard of any of the street lighting system of the town,
or any part of either, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined as set forth in §
95.99.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-10-1930) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 SKATING UPON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Any person who shall skate upon or across any sidewalks or street crossing
or who shall engage in any sport or play upon the sidewalk or street crossing
within the Business District of the town shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall, for every offense, be punished by a fine as set forth
in §
95.99.
(Ord. 61, passed 6-5-1912) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 ENCROACHMENT AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, co-partnership or
corporation, to place, hang or swing, upon or over any sidewalk in the town,
any awning, sign, sign-board, plank, rod or other attachment, device or
structure, unless the same or all parts thereof shall be 6-1/2 feet above the
surface of the sidewalk.
   (B)   Any and all awnings, signs, sign-boards or other attachment, device or
structure or any portion thereof, now hanging or constructed, which shall, at
any time, be nearer than 6-1/2 feet from the surface of the sidewalk, are
hereby declared obstructions of the sidewalk, and shall be immediately removed
or raised upon notice from the Town Marshal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, co-partnership or
corporation to place, stack or pile upon the sidewalks or streets in the town,
any boxes, barrels, groceries, dry goods, hay, grain, implements, machinery or
any other things which constitute obstructions to the sidewalks or streets, and
the sidewalks and streets shall at all times be kept free from obstructions of
every kind; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be so construed as to
prohibit merchants or other business persons, firms, co-partnerships or
corporations from temporarily using the sidewalks or streets in loading or
unloading merchandise.
(Ord. 24, passed 6-30-1908) Penalty, see §
95.99
PAVING OF STREETS; MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
§ 95.20 PROTECT STREETS AND HIGHWAYS FROM DAMAGE; MOVING BUILDINGS AND DEBRIS.
   (A)   Any tractor or other vehicle having lugs is not permitted to operate
on the streets and highways of the town without a special permit in writing
first had and obtained from either the Mayor or the Police Department of the
town; the permit shall not be granted if it appears the operation of any
vehicle will result in damage to the streets and highways of the town, in the
discretion of the licensing authority.
   (B)   Trees or any portion thereof, dead livestock or any other material or
object, of whatsoever nature, shall not be dragged upon the streets and
highways of the town, without a special permit in writing first had and
obtained from either the Mayor or the Police Department; the permit shall not
be granted if it appears that the dragging would result in the littering with
debris of any streets and highways of the town to any considerable extent, in
the discretion of the licensing authority.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation obtaining any permit in writing as set
forth in division (B) above shall clean up all litter, mess and debris left by
any dragging so done and shall constitute a separate violation of this section.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation intending to bring any building
through or upon the streets and highways of the town shall first obtain a
permit in writing so to do from the Mayor or the Police Department, and at the
same time shall pay in advance a license fee of $15 an hour to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer for the time estimated to complete the moving of the building either
to its intended location within the town, or through the town; the estimate to
be made by the Mayor or the Police Department, with a minimum license fee of
$15; and in addition, the person, firm or corporation shall deposit in advance
of any moving, with the Town Clerk-Treasurer, the cost estimated for moving and
repairing any poles or wires, as determined in the discretion of the Mayor or
the Police Department, and shall reimburse the town for any actual cost in
addition thereto, occasioned by the moving when completed; any surplus above
actual cost of moving poles or wires shall be refunded to the person making the
deposit with the Town Clerk-Treasurer, but the license fee shall be retained by
the town, at the rate of $15 for each hour or part thereof consumed.
(Ord. 436, passed 3-27-1967) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 PROCEDURE OF PAVING AND IMPROVING CERTAIN STREETS; ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   All the proceedings heretofore had, taken, done or performed in
connection with paving and improving the streets specified in the plans and
plats, and to be of benefit to the property described in the modified
assessment roll on file in the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office, be and the same
are in all respects hereby ratified, approved and confirmed.
   (B)   For the purpose of paying the cost and expenses of the improvements,
except the sum of $20,000 per year, during the time that the improvements are
under construction which shall be paid from the Treasury of the town, there be
and there hereby is levied and assessed against the lots, tracts and parcels of
lands set out in the assessment roll as modified and confirmed, which is on
file in the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office in the Town of Clayton, New Mexico,
and in the amounts as set out in the assessment roll, as modified and
confirmed, opposite each lot, parcel or tract land.
   (C)   The assessments shall be due and payable at the office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer as follows:
      (1)   The sum of $0.25 per annum per front foot for each foot fronting
upon the streets to be improved, the first payment being due and payable at the
office of the Town Treasury on January 25, 1958, and a like installment due on
January 25 of each year thereafter until the time as paving is laid down in
front of a particular lot, tract or parcel of land, at which time the $0.25 per
front foot charge per annum payment shall cease upon the particular lot, tract
or parcel of land in front of which paving has been laid down and the balance
of the assessment as set forth in the assessment roll, as modified, shall be
paid as set out in division (C)(2) below hereof.
      (2)   After deducting from the assessment upon each particular lot, tract
or parcel of land in front of which paving has been laid down, the amount paid
under division (C)(1) above, that is, at the rate of $0.25 per front foot per
annum, the balance of the assessment as shown on the assessment roll, as
modified, shall be due and payable at the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer on
the first day of January of the year immediately following the time that the
paving is laid down in front of each particular lot, tract or parcel of land
without demand by the town, provided that all the assessments made at the
election of the owner be paid in installments without interest. Failure to pay
the whole assessment when due as provided herein shall be conclusively
considered and held and election to pay in installments, as herein after
provided. In case of an election to pay in installments, the assessments shall
be payable at the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer in 10 equal annual
installments, the first of which installment shall be due and payable on or
before January 1 of the year immediately following the laying down of pavement
in front of the lots, tracts and parcels of land within the year, and the
remainder of the assessment shall be due and payable successively on the first
day of year thereafter until paid in full, and provided further that the
installments may, at the election of the owner, be paid monthly commencing on
January 1 of the year immediately following the year in which the pavement is
laid down in front of the owner’s property. Failure to pay any installments
provided in division (C)(1) above or this section, when due, shall at the
election of the town cause the whole of the unpaid principal to become due and
payable immediately. Delinquent installments shall bear interest at the rate of
8% per annum from date of delinquency.
   (D)   The amounts assessed as aforesaid shall be a lien upon the lots and
parcels of land from the time this section becomes effective, which lien shall
be superior to all liens, except the lien for general taxes, but the sale of
any lot or parcel of land for general taxes shall not relieve the lot or parcel
of land from the assessments or the lien thereof. It shall be the duty of the
Town Clerk-Treasurer within 60 days hereafter to make out, sign, attest with
the seal of the town, and file for record in the office of the County Clerk of
Union County, New Mexico, a claim of lien for the amount due and assessed
against each lot or parcel of land as specified in the assessment roll, as
modified, and all purchasers, mortgagees and encumbrances of the lots and
parcels of land shall take the same subject to the lien. In case any lot or
parcel of land so assessed becomes delinquent in the payment of the assessment
or any installment thereof, the Board of Trustees shall cause the lien to be
enforced and foreclosed as provided by law.
When the assessments and the installments thereof have been paid in full, it
shall be the duty of the Town Clerk-Treasurer to release and discharge the lien
and liability.
   (E)   Any owner who wishes to do so may pay all of the assessment against
his or her property in advance, and in case of full payment in advance shall be
allowed a discount of 2% upon the total assessment.
(Ord. 379, passed 12-9-1957)
§ 95.22 ESTABLISHING STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Board of Trustees shall receive a petition in
writing, executed by the owners of more than ½ of the front feet of property
abutting upon any highway or portion thereof proposed to be improved,
requesting it to order the improvements of the highway or part thereof therein
described, the Board of Trustees shall pass a resolution ordering the
improvement made in conformity with the petition and the passage of the
resolution shall be conclusive of the public necessity therefor. The resolution
shall in general terms set forth the nature and extent of the improvements to
be made, the section or sections of any public highway or highways to be
improved and the materials or material with which the improvements are to be
constructed and the manner in which the cost thereof is to be discharged. The
resolution may specify alternative materials of which the improvements may be
constructed, at the option of the Board of Trustees, and different and
alternative plans and methods of construction and paying for same unless the
petitioners have specified in their original petition a particular kind of
paving or improvements, in which event the Board of Trustees shall be limited
to the kind of improvement so specified.
      (2)   Upon the passage of the resolutions, it shall be the duty of the
Town Engineer, or an engineer as may be designated by the Board of Trustees, to
forthwith prepare specifications for the construction specified in the
resolution. The specifications shall be submitted to and approved by the Board
of Trustees. When the specifications have been approved, it shall be the duty
of the Town Clerk- Treasurer, or the officer as may be designated by the Board
of Trustees, to at once advertise for sealed bids for the performing of the
work in accordance with the specifications. The advertisement shall be
published in some newspaper of general circulation in the town not less than 10
days prior to the date mentioned therein for the opening of bids. The Board of
Trustees shall have the right to accept the most advantageous bid or bids to
the town and owners of property abutting the proposed improvements. No bid
shall be amended or changed after being opened by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   When the bid or bids shall have been accepted, the town shall enter
into a written contract with the successful bidder or bidders for the
performance of the work, which shall be executed by the Mayor, or the other
officer as may be designated by the Board of Trustees, and attested with the
corporate seal by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, or other officer as may be
designated by the Board of Trustees. The bidder or bidders may be required to
enter into bond for the performance of the work, or maintenance and repair
thereof, for the period of time as may be determined by the Board of Trustees
from completion, in case the materials, methods or plans of construction
employed therein shall prove defective.
   (C)   The contract and bond, if any, having been approved by the Board of
Trustees shall be the duty of the Town Engineer, or engineer as may be
designated by the Board of Trustees, to prepare and file with the Board of
Trustees a statement containing the name of the person, firm, corporation or
estate owning the property abutting on the proposed improvements and describing
each parcel by lot or block number, number of front feet or otherwise, so as to
sufficiently identify the same. The statement shall contain the estimated cost
and expense of the improvement; the boundaries of the assessment district, if
any, to be formed, the route of the improvement by streets, alleys or
otherwise, the place of commencement and ending of the proposed improvements, a
description of the property to be affected belonging to the owners to be served
and the amount of the assessment against the property with a statement of set-
offs, if any. The Board of Trustees shall examine the statement and after
correcting any errors therein, approve the same, but no error, mistake or
omission shall invalidate the same or any assessment made thereunder. After
approving the statement, if it is fully determined to assess a part or all of
the costs of the improvement against property owners and their property, the
Board of Trustees shall so declare by resolution, ordering a hearing to be
given to owners of the abutting property and notice thereof, and the notice
shall be given and the hearing held in compliance with the provisions of the
Act of the Second Session of the First Legislature approved on March 11, 1913
set out above.
   (D)   After the hearing has been closed, the Board of Trustees shall from
the evidence before it, determine the amounts, if any, to be assessed against
each owner and his or her property, and shall by ordinance, assess the same
against the property of each owner and declare the amount so assessed to be a
personal liability of its owner as provided by the act of the legislature. The
total amount to be assessed against the owners and their property shall be
proportioned among them in accordance with the front feet plan or rule, in
proportion as the frontage of each owner is to the whole frontage to be
improved; provided that if the application of this rule shall, in the opinion
of the Board of Trustees, be unjust or unequal, or result in individual cases,
in an assessment in excess of special benefits received from the improvements,
then the Board of Trustees shall adopt the rule of apportionment as shall
effect a substantial equality and uniformity between the owners, considering
benefits received by and burdens imposed upon them are their property.
(Ord. 68, passed 1- -1914)
CURBS, GUTTERS AND SIDEWALKS; MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 95.35 SIDEWALK, CURB AND GUTTER IMPROVEMENTS IN BUSINESS DISTRICT;
MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   This section concerns and affects the Business District of the town
which is defined as that area:
      (1)   Bounded on the north by East Broadway Street and including the
properties on both sides of the street which abut East Broadway Street;
      (2)   Bounded on the east by Third Street and including the properties on
both sides of the street which abut Third Street;
      (3)   Bounded on the south by Maple Street and including the properties
on both sides of the street which abut on Maple Street; and
      (4)   Bounded on the west by the railroad tracks.
   (B)   All owners of property which abut the streets within the Business
District shall construct and maintain sidewalks, curbs and gutters or shall
renovate existing sidewalks, curbs and gutters in accordance with the
specifications on file at the Town Office; all the construction and maintenance
or renovation shall be completed within 2 years of the effective date of this
section, which date is referred to as the “completion date”.
   (C)   After the completion date, all sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be
repaired and maintained and no property owner shall permit any crack, chip,
break or other failure of any part of that property owner’s sidewalk, curb or
gutter as follows:
      (1)   Vertical separations of 3/4 inch or more;
      (2)   Horizontal separations of 3/4 inch or more;
      (3)   Holes or depressions of 3 inches or more in diameter and 3/4 inch
or more in depth;
      (4)   Spalling over 50% of a single 6-foot by 6-foot square or panel of
the sidewalk with 1 or more depressions of 3/4 inch or more;
      (5)   A single square or panel of sidewalk, curb or gutter, cracked in
such a manner that no part thereof has a piece greater than 1 square foot or is
cracked in such a manner that it constitutes a danger or a potential danger to
the public;
      (6)   A sidewalk, curb or gutter with any part thereof missing 3/4 inch
or more; and
      (7)   A deviation on the staked and constructed grade of 3/4 inch or more
as to any sidewalk, curb or gutter newly constructed.
   (D)   No person shall remove, deface, damage, destroy or otherwise alter the
condition of any sidewalk, curb or gutter except when making immediate repairs.
Any damage or destruction, which is occasioned by any party whether it be
accidental or otherwise, shall be repaired or replaced immediately by the
property owner at the property owner’s expense. If the damage or destruction
was occasioned by the actions of a person other than the property owner, the
abutting property owner shall have the right to recover the cost of repair or
replacement from the responsible person according to applicable law and
available remedies, but the actions of the third person shall not alleviate the
abutting property owner of the responsibility to maintain, replace or repair
damaged, destroyed or defective sidewalks.
(Ord. 645, passed 11-15-2005) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.36 NO CONSTRUCTION WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   No sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be built within the limits of the
town, without obtaining permits to do so from the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 404, passed 8-14-1961; Am. Ord. 536, passed 8-23-1982) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.37 FEE TO BE PAID.
   All companies, firms, corporations or individuals, before beginning on
construction work, shall pay a fee to the Town Clerk-Treasurer of $2.50 for the
first 50 feet of curb and gutter front footage and $1.00 for each additional 50
feet contiguous thereto, and the companies, firms, corporations or individuals
shall obtain and pay for the services of a licensed professional engineer or
licensed surveyor to furnish line and grade stakes according to which the
sidewalk and curb shall be built.
(Ord. 404, passed 8-14-1961; Am. Ord. 536, passed 8-23-1982)
§ 95.38 PERMIT NEEDED AND WORK STAKED OUT.
    No sidewalk or curb shall be built before a permit has been obtained and
the work properly staked out.
(Ord. 404, passed 8-14-1961; Am. Ord. 536, passed 8-23-1982) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.39 BUILD AT GRADES ESTABLISHED.
   All sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be built at the grades established by
the Engineer.
(Ord. 404, passed 8-14-1961; Am. Ord. 536, passed 8-23-1982)
§ 95.40 BUILT IN SPECIFIC WAYS.
   All sidewalks, except in the Business District, shall be built in 1 of 3
ways:
   (A)   According to the standard section on file in the Town Office, i.e.,
the sidewalk shall be placed 2 feet from the property line, and 4 feet wide
extending toward the street. All curbs shall be 10 feet from the property line,
in the 80 foot streets and 20 feet from the property line, in the 100-foot
streets, leaving 60 feet of clear roadway in both cases.
   (B)   In the event a majority of the owners on 1 side of any street, avenue
or highway in any block in the town agree in writing that their sidewalk should
be immediately adjacent and against the curb of the street, avenue or highway,
the writing shall be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer, whereupon they shall
be entitled to construct a sidewalk 3-1/2 feet wide and 4 inches thick
immediately adjacent to and against the curb line on the side of the street
adjacent to their properties; provided, that if any sidewalk shall already
exist along any part of the block on the same side of the street as the lots of
the consenting property owner, they must obtain permission in writing from the
owners of the lots adjacent to the sidewalks already in place, to destroy the
same and construct a new sidewalk adjoining the curb line; if the permission
cannot be obtained, then no sidewalk on the street, avenue or highway may be
constructed next to the curb along the front lines of the lots fronting upon
the street, avenue or highway, but any sidewalk shall then be constructed only
in line with the existing sidewalk already in place, unless the existing
sidewalk shall be in such poor condition that same shall be condemned by the
Town Engineer as hereinafter provided; likewise, if a sidewalk exists next to
the curb in part of any block, the remainder of the sidewalk on same street in
the block must be constructed next to the curb.
   (C)   In the event any property owner desires to construct a sidewalk next
to the curb line along the side line of his or her lot, where he or she owns up
to the alley the entire lot whose side line is immediately adjacent to the
street, avenue or highway, in the town, he or she may at his or her option
construct a sidewalk either as provided in division (A) above, or the sidewalk
3-1/2 feet wide and 4 inches thick adjacent to and against the curb line of the
street, avenue or highway; provided that no sidewalk next to the curb shall be
constructed as provided in division (B) above or this division, unless the curb
and gutter have already been constructed or are constructed at or about the
same time as any sidewalk immediately adjacent to the curb.
(Ord. 404, passed 8-14-1961)
§ 95.41 CONSTRUCTED AS 1 UNIT.
   All curbs and gutters shall be constructed together as 1 unit, with the curb
7-1/2 inches high above the gutter, and the gutter shall be 24 inches wide, and
the curb and gutter shall be otherwise constructed as prescribed by the Town
Engineer.
(Ord. 404, passed 8-14-1961)
§ 95.42 BUILT OF CONCRETE; PROPORTIONS.
   (A)   All sidewalks and curbs shall be built of concrete mixed in the
following proportions; 1 part approved cement, 2 parts clean sand and 3 parts
crushed salpais rock or gravel, and shall be given a float finish on top.
   (B)   Sidewalks shall be blocked in 4-foot squares and otherwise in
accordance with specifications by the Town Engineer.
(Ord. 404, passed 8-14-1961)
§ 95.43 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   All sidewalks and curbs shall be subject to the inspection and approval of
the Town Engineer.
(Ord. 404, passed 8-14-1961)
§ 95.44 REMOVING MATERIALS.
   All materials or workmanship condemned by the Town Engineer shall be removed
at once; in the event the Town Engineer upon inspection of any old sidewalk
shall find the same to be so broken, cracked or uneven that in his or her
discretion he or she shall deem the same to be unsafe for public travel, he or
she shall give notification to the adjoining property owner in writing of the
condemnation and the property owner shall have 10 days after receipt of the
notification to remove the defective work; or, if in the judgment of the Town
Engineer, the sidewalk shall be capable of repair so as to render the same
reasonably safe for public travel, he or she shall so notify the adjoining
property owner who shall have 10 days after the notification in writing to
repair or to cause the same to be properly repaired, subject to the approval of
the Town Engineer of the workmanship and materials used when same is completed.
(Ord. 404, passed 8-14-1961)
§ 95.45 REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT.
   In the event any adjoining property owner fails to replace or repair, as the
case may be, any new or previously existing sidewalk condemned by the Town
Engineer, the Board of Trustees of the town may, upon the filing of the report
of the Engineer, take further action as is by statute provided, concerning the
replacement or repair of the sidewalk.
(Ord. 404, passed 8-14-1961)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
95.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined in any sum not exceeding $200 or imprisoned in the town or county jail
for any period not exceeding 90 days, or punished by both the fine and
imprisonment in the discretion of the court trying the case.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-10-1930)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
95.02 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, for every offense, be
punished by a fine of not less than $3 nor more than $10, or by imprisonment in
the town jail for not less than 3 nor more than 10 days, or by both the fine
and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 61, passed 6-5-1912)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the foregoing sections of §
95.03 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $5 nor
more than $25, or by imprisonment in the town or county jail for a period of
not less than 5 days nor more than 30 days, or by both the fine and
imprisonment in the discretion of the court trying the case, and each day that
any obstructions hereby prohibited are allowed to remain upon or over the
sidewalks or streets, in violation of §
95.03, shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be subject to
the penalties hereof.
(Ord. 24, passed 6-30-1908)
   (D)   (1)   Violation of any section of §
95.20 shall constitute a separate and distinct offense from violation of any
other section thereof.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
§
95.20 shall be punished for each offense by a fine not to exceed $300, or by
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 436, passed 3-27-1967)
   (E)   Any person violating §
95.35 shall be subject to citation into Municipal Court and upon conviction
shall be fined up to $500 or imprisoned up to 90 days or both the fine and
imprisonment. Each day that a violation exists constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 645, passed 11-15-2005)
   (F)   Any person, company, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
95.36 through 95.45 or any section, clause or paragraph or any section of this
subchapter, or who shall assist in any violation, shall for each and every
violation be deemed guilty of violating §§
95.36 through
95.45 and upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not less than $10 nor
more than $100.
(Ord. 404, passed 8-14-1961)
CHAPTER 96: NUISANCES
Section
   
96.01   Junk on vacant lots
   
96.02   Pit or outdoor toilets
   
96.03   Low tree branches a nuisance
   
96.04   Unnecessary and improper noises
   
96.05   Nuisances generally
   
96.06   Junk, weeds and rubbish on vacant and non-vacant lots
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles and junk on streets, see §
94.15 through
94.23
   Junk and junk yards, see §
94.01
   Nuisances, see also
Chapter 135
   Slaughterhouse wastes, see §§
52.051,
96.05
   Slaughterhouses prohibited within town limits, see §
99.01
§ 96.01 JUNK ON VACANT LOTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      JUNK. Any worn out, discarded or abandoned materials, including but not
by way of limitation refuse, rubbish, old rags, metals, rubber, glass parts of
machines and vehicles, waste paper, cloth, textiles and old lumber having only
salvage value.
      VACANT LOT. Any lot which is not being used for dwelling or business
purposes and which is not being used as a JUNK YARD as is authorized under §
94.01.
   (B)   Clean lots. It shall be the duty of all persons, partnerships or
corporations, who own vacant lots within the corporate limits of the Town of
Clayton, New Mexico, to keep the vacant lots free and clear of all junk.
   (C)   Junk on lots.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of
Clayton, New Mexico, whenever it shall come to his or her attention that there
is junk on a vacant lot within the corporate limits of the town, to notify the
owner of the lot, asking him or her to remove the junk.
      (2)   If, within 10 days of the notification, the owner has not complied
with the notice, the Town of Clayton, New Mexico shall clear the lot of the
junk.
      (3)   Charges for the clearing of the lot and the removal of the junk by
the town shall constitute liens upon the property so cleared, and shall be
filed for record in office of the County Clerk of Union County, New Mexico. The
liens shall be superior to all other liens, except general property taxes and
may be foreclosed in the manner provided for by law for the foreclosure of
municipal assessment liens.
(Ord. 383, passed 6-23-1958)
§ 96.02 PIT OR OUTDOOR TOILETS.
   (A)   Outdoor and pit toilets, not connected with the sanitary sewer system
of the town, nor to any private cesspool or septic tank, are hereby declared a
nuisance and a menace to the public health and welfare.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, tenant or other person in charge
of any premises within the town to maintain, construct or use thereon any
outdoor or pit toilet not connected either with the sanitary sewer system of
the town or else with a private cesspool or septic tank of approved type of
construction.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to construct a private cesspool or septic tank at
any place within the sanitary sewer district of the town or upon any premises
outside the sanitary sewer district which reasonably has access to the sanitary
sewer system of the town.
(Ord. 334, passed 9-12-1949) Penalty, see §
96.99
Cross-reference:
   Requirement to connect to sanitary sewer system, see §
52.001
§ 96.03 LOW TREE BRANCHES A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It is declared a nuisance and unlawful for the owner or occupant of
any premises within the town to permit the growth of branches or trees upon the
parking in front of the premises in the way that same overhang the sidewalks
with less than 7 feet of clearance between the sidewalk and overhanging limbs.
   (B)   It is declared a nuisance and unlawful for the owner or occupant of
any premises within the town to permit the growth or branches of trees upon the
parking in front of the premises in such a way that same shall project beyond
the curb line and into the public street, except and unless the branches or
tree limbs overhanging the public streets shall have a clearance of not less
than 10 feet between the established gutter level and any overhanging branches.
(Ord. 292, passed 3-14-1944) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 UNNECESSARY AND IMPROPER NOISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to make, assist in
making or allow or cause to be made unnecessary or improper noise or
disturbance within the Town of Clayton, New Mexico.
   (B)   UNNECESSARY OR IMPROPER NOISE OR DISTURBANCE is defined to mean and
include:
      (1)   The use and operation of any phonograph, radio or combination of
the same so that the sound there from is projected immediately into the street
by means of a street speaker. STREET shall be deemed to include sidewalk, and
this section shall be construed so as to prohibit what is commonly called a
“street speaker”, by whatsoever name known, by which sounds therefrom are
projected immediately into the street, and shall also be deemed to include any
radio or phonograph or combination of the 2 or the reproducing unit thereof
when so placed in any doorway or opening of any building or business
establishment within the Business District of the town so that the sound
therefrom is projected immediately into the street. BUSINESS DISTRICT is
defined as set forth in §
95.35;
      (2)   The unnecessary blowing or sounding of an automobile or other
vehicle horn or warning device; and/or
      (3)   The operation of a motor vehicle upon the street with the muffler
cutout open so that the exhaust does not go through the muffler.
(Ord. 213, passed 3-9-1931) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 NUISANCES GENERALLY.
   (A)   If any person, firm, company or corporation shall permit or suffer any
ground, building, ditch or other premises within the town, owned or occupied by
him, her or it, or of which he, she or it shall be the agent having charge of
the same, to become or be offensive, nauseous, hurtful or dangerous to the
neighborhood or travelers by reason of stagnant water, dead animals or from any
cause or causes, he, she or it shall be punished as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   If any person shall suffer any animal belonging to him or her or in
his or her charge, which may die of disease, or otherwise, to be in or upon any
street, alley or other grounds or place within the town limits, public or
private, for the space of 24 hours after the same shall have died, he or she
shall be punished as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   If any person shall allow to flow from any house, shop, factory,
stable, slaughterhouse or place, any foul or nauseous liquor or substance, of
any kind whatsoever, into or upon any adjacent ground or lot, or into any
street, alley or ditch within the town so as to be offensive, nauseous, hurtful
or dangerous; and any person who shall deposit in any such place any filth,
litter or refuse or carcass or thing so as to be offensive, nauseous, hurtful
or dangerous to any portion of the inhabitants of the town, he or she shall be
punished as hereafter provided.
   (D)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be and hereby is declared a
nuisance and misdemeanor to keep, operate, maintain or use a slaughterhouse or
to slaughter meat cattle, sheep or swine within the limits of the town;
provided, however, there is excluded, from this prohibition and it shall be
lawful to keep, operate, maintain and use slaughterhouses and to slaughter meat
cattle, sheep and swine in that area of the town lying east of the right-of-way
of Colorado & Southern Railway Company and north of the right-of-way of the
Elkhart & Santa Fe Railroad Company, upon condition that the slaughterhouses be
kept in a sanitary condition, that no offal or waste matter therefrom be
permitted to accumulate therein or thereby and that no offensive odors emanate
therefrom. Violation of the conditions or any of them shall render the
slaughterhouses a nuisance, subject to abatement as such, and their keeping,
operation maintenance or use a misdemeanor punishable as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 12, passed 6-10-1908; Am. Ord. 279, passed 2-22-1940) Penalty, see §
96.99
Cross-reference:
   Cesspools, see also
Chapter 50 and §
52.005
   Nuisances, see also
Chapter 135
   Slaughterhouse wastes, see also §
52.051
   Slaughterhouses prohibited within town limits, see §
99.01
§ 96.06 JUNK, WEEDS AND RUBBISH ON VACANT AND NON-VACANT LOTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NON-VACANT LOT. Any lot other than a vacant lot.
      RUBBISH. Trash and waste fragments, including, but not by way of
limitation, refuse, old rags, metals, rubber, glass parts of machines and
vehicles, waste paper, cloth, textiles, and old lumber having only salvage
value, and any and all other materials and junk having little or no value.
      VACANT LOT. Any lot which is not being used for dwelling or business
purposes and which is not being used as a junk yard as is authorized under §
94.01.
      WEEDS.  All vegetation allowed to grow to a height of 12 inches or more,
except for trees and cultivated, ornamental shrubs and flowers.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of all persons, firms, partnerships, and
corporations, who own vacant lots or non-vacant lots within the corporate
limits of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, to keep the vacant lots or non-
vacant lots free and clear of all junk, weeds and rubbish.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of
Clayton, New Mexico, whenever it shall come to his or her attention that there
is junk and/or rubbish on a vacant lot or non-vacant lot or that a vacant lot
or non-vacant lot is overgrown with weeds, and the lot is within the corporate
limits of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, to notify the owner of the lot,
asking him or her to remove the junk, rubbish and/or weeds.
      (2)   If, within 10 days of such notification, the owner has failed to
comply with the notice, the town shall clear the lot of the junk, rubbish and/
or weeds.
   (C)   Charges for the clearing of the lot and the removal of the junk,
rubbish and/or weeds by the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, shall constitute liens
upon the property so cleared, and shall be filed of record in the office of the
County Clerk of Union County, New Mexico. These liens shall be superior to all
other liens, except general property taxes and may be foreclosed in the manner
provided for by- law for the foreclosure of municipal assessment liens.
   (D)   In addition to or in lieu of the enforcement provisions of division
(C) above, in the event that a vacant lot or non-vacant lot is not in
compliance with the requirements of division (B), the owner of such lot may be
cited into Municipal Court, and upon being found by the Municipal Judge to be
guilty of the violation fined as set forth in §
96.99.
   (E)   This section is effective 30 days after passage.
(Ord. 572, passed 3-11-1991)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, association or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §
96.02 shall upon conviction be punished by fine in any amount not exceeding
$200 or imprisonment for any period not exceeding 60 days, or both the fine and
imprisonment, in the discretion of the court. Each day the nuisance is
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The foregoing penal provisions shall not be so construed as to
prevent injunctive relief against anyone maintaining such a nuisance or
attempting or threatening to erect any prohibited toilet.
(Ord. 334, passed 9-12-1949)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
96.03 shall upon conviction thereof be fined in any sum not exceeding $25 or
imprisoned for a term of not exceeding 10 days, or be punished by both the fine
and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 292, passed 3-14-1944)
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
96.04 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine in any amount not exceeding
$200, and each days violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 213, passed 3-9-1931)
   (E)   Violation of any of the provisions of §
96.05 shall be punishable by fine not exceeding $200 or imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 90 days, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 12, passed 6-10-1908; Am. Ord. 279, passed 2-22-1940)
   (F)   The owner of a lot in violation of the provisions of §
96.06 shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $300 and/or imprisoned for a
term not to exceed 60 days; for purposes of this section, each day in which a
lot is in violation shall be considered as a separate offense and may be cited
as such, and a penalty shall be imposed for each such offense.
(Ord. 572, passed 3-11-1991)
CHAPTER 97: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Health
   
97.01   Inquire as to the sanitary condition of the town
   
97.02   Vaccines
   
97.03   Cleaning and quarantine
   
97.04   Certificate of cleaning and quarantine
   
97.05   Source of filth or cause of sickness on private property
   
97.06   Complying with Marshal
   
97.07   Deceased persons
   
97.08   Cause of death from certain diseases
   
97.09   Records of births and deaths
   
97.10   Records of births and deaths by parents and relatives
 
   
97.99   Penalty
HEALTH
§ 97.01 INQUIRE AS TO THE SANITARY CONDITION OF THE TOWN.
   The Board of Trustees of the town may from time to time make and establish
by ordinance, resolution or order those rules and regulations as they may deem
necessary, or as emergency may require, looking to the health and sanitary
condition of the community and town, the abatement of all nuisances tending to
endanger the public health, and the removal of all sources of filth and causes
of sickness, and it may take the steps as, in its judgment, are necessary to
restrain, stamp out or eradicate, check the progress of and isolate all
contagious diseases.
(Ord. 16, passed 6-18-1908)
§ 97.02 VACCINES.
   The Town Board of Trustees may, as often as it deems necessary, by order or
by resolution, require all persons within the corporate limits to be vaccinated
against small pox, and failure, neglect or refusal to do so will be deemed a
violation of this subchapter. Vaccine matter shall be provided at the cost of
the town, but each person shall bear the cost of his or her vaccination;
provided, however, if any person shall make affidavit that he or she is unable
to pay the cost, it shall be the duty of the Town Physician to vaccinate him or
her free of charge.
(Ord. 16, passed 6-18-1908)
§ 97.03 CLEANING AND QUARANTINE.
   All premises upon which any contagious disease has existed shall, upon the
order of the Town Physician, and under his or her direction, be thoroughly
cleansed and fumigated, and the quarantine provided in this section shall not
be raised, nor the placards of the premises be removed, until the same are
cleansed and fumigated as herein provided.
(Ord. 16, passed 6-18-1908)
§ 97.04 CERTIFICATE OF CLEANING AND QUARANTINE.
   When any contagious disease which has existed upon any premises in the town
has ceased to exist thereon and the premises have been thoroughly cleansed and
fumigated, as herein provided, it shall be the duty of the Town Physician to
deliver a certificate of the fact to the attending physician or to the owner or
occupant of the premises, which certificate shall be presented to the Town
Marshal, and thereupon the Town Marshal shall raise the quarantine, remove the
placards and file the certificate with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 16, passed 6-18-1908)
§ 97.05 SOURCE OF FILTH OR CAUSE OF SICKNESS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Whenever any nuisance, source of filth or cause of sickness shall be found
on private property within the town, the Town Marshal shall order the owner or
occupant, or the person or persons who permit the conditions, to remove the
same within 24 hours, and any person who shall fail or refuse to obey the order
shall be deemed to have violated the provisions of this subchapter, and each
day the conditions shall remain shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
(Ord. 16, passed 6-18-1908)
§ 97.06 COMPLYING WITH MARSHAL.
   If the owners or occupants shall not comply with the order of the Marshal,
he or she may summon sufficient assistance and remove the source of filth and
cause of sickness, and if admittance to the premises is refused, the Marshal or
any person interested may make complaint before the Justice of the Peace,
stating the facts of the case, and the Justice of the Peace shall thereupon
issue a warrant to the Marshal commanding him or her to take sufficient aid and
between the hours of sunrise and sunset, to proceed to the place and remove the
nuisance, source of filth or cause of sickness, and the Town Physician may
attend and direct the Marshal in the service of the warrant.
(Ord. 16, passed 6-18-1908)
§ 97.07 DECEASED PERSONS.
   Every physician practicing medicine within the corporate limits of the Town
of Clayton shall within 24 hours after the death of any patient under his or
her charge report the same to the Town Physician, giving the name, age and
occupation of the deceased and the cause of the death, who shall thereupon
issue a permit of burial or transportation; and no undertaker or other person
shall bury or transport any corpse without the burial permit.
(Ord. 16, passed 6-18-1908)
§ 97.08 CAUSE OF DEATH FROM CERTAIN DISEASES.
   In case of deaths from smallpox, varioloid, diphtheria, membranous croup,
scarlet fever or measles, no public funeral shall be held aside from members of
the family, and no minor child shall attend the funeral.
(Ord. 16, passed 6-18-1908)
§ 97.09 RECORDS OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS.
   It shall be the duty of all physicians, nurses and midwives practicing
within the limits of the town to keep an accurate record of all births and
deaths occurring under their supervision, and upon the last day of each month
every physician, nurse or midwife shall file with the Town Physician a written
report of the birth or death; the reports shall be prepared upon blanks
furnished by the town, and in case of births shall give date of birth, sex of
child and name of the parents thereof; and in case of deaths shall give the
date of death and cause thereof, the name, age and occupation of the deceased.
(Ord. 16, passed 6-18-1908)
§ 97.10 RECORDS OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS BY PARENTS AND RELATIVES.
   In case of births and deaths where no physician, nurse or midwife is in
attendance, the report shall then be made by any parent or relative of the born
or deceased person, by any person in charge, or by anyone having knowledge of
the facts. Any person who shall fail to make the report required by the
preceding sections within 10 days of the date whereon the same is required to
be filed, shall be deemed to be guilty of a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 16, passed 6-18-1908) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter in any manner
shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in any sum not less than $5 nor more than $50, or by
imprisonment in the town or county jail for a period of not less than 5 days
nor more than 30 days, or both the fine and imprisonment by the discretion of
the court trying the case.
(Ord. 16, passed 6-18-1908)
CHAPTER 98: WEEDS
Section
   
98.01   Cutting of weeds
 
   
98.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Additional provisions, weeds as nuisances, see §
135.02
§ 98.01 CUTTING OF WEEDS.
   (A)   Hereafter it shall be unlawful for any person or owner of real estate
within the corporate limits of the Town of Clayton, Union County, New Mexico,
to allow or maintain any rank growth of weeds over 12 inches in height on any
real estate.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owner of the real estate to cut and remove
any weeds from and after 10 days’ notice so to do by the Mayor, and notice to
the tenant on the property shall be notice to the owner; and if vacant, then
notice left placed on the property shall constitute proper notice.
   (C)   The term WEEDS in this section shall mean and include all rank growths
of vegetation which shall exhale or may exhale unpleasant or noxious odors, and
all high and rank vegetable growth that conceals or may conceal filthy
deposits.
(Ord. 134, passed - -)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   On the failure of the owner so to cut and remove the weeds after proper
notice thereof, the town may cut and remove the weeds and the cost thereof
shall be and remain a lien upon the property until paid, and in addition, the
owner may be punished, on conviction in the police court, by a fine of not less
than $5 not more than $10, or be confined in the jail for not less than 5 days
nor more than 10 days, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 134, passed - -)
CHAPTER 99: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
99.01   Prohibiting certain animal establishments
   
99.02   Prohibiting the grazing of certain animals on certain premises
   
99.03   Three-year rabies vaccine
Animal Control
   
99.20   Definitions
   
99.21   Rabies control
   
99.22   License required
   
99.23   Prohibited activities
   
99.24   Impoundment
   
99.25   Kennels
   
99.26   Wild and exotic animals
   
99.27   Domestic livestock
   
99.28   Unlawful to be cruel to animals
   
99.29   Effective date
Owning, Keeping, Impounding and Disposition of Dogs
   
99.45   Pound
   
99.46   Pound Master
   
99.47   Running at large generally and committing damage a nuisance
   
99.48   Interference with personnel
   
99.49   Dog killing or injuring livestock; damages; dog to be killed
   
99.50   Vaccination of dogs brought into town
   
99.51   Vaccination and licensing of guide dogs
 
   
99.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Additional slaughterhouse provisions, see §§
52.051,
96.05
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 99.01 PROHIBITING CERTAIN ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   The creation, establishment and operation for commercial or private
use of any barns, feedlots, farms, pens, stables, slaughterhouses or
stockyards, whether for feeding, storing, shipment or slaughtering of any
animal or fowl, including but not limited to cattle, goats, horses, pigs,
poultry or sheep, within a 1-mile radius of the municipal boundaries of the
Town of Clayton, New Mexico, is hereby prohibited and declared a public
nuisance as being detrimental and offensive to the public health, prosperity,
order, comfort, convenience and welfare of the town and its inhabitants.
   (B)   The enlargement of any existing, similar facilities described in
division (A) above, located within a 1-mile radius of the municipal boundaries
of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico, whether by additions for the existing
physical facilities or by increases in the number of animals or fowl over the
present normal capacity, is likewise prohibited and declared a public nuisance.
(Ord. 460, passed 11-22-1971) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.02 PROHIBITING THE GRAZING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS ON CERTAIN PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tie, stake or cause to be tied
or staked, for the purpose of grazing or pasturing, any horse, mule or cow upon
any premises within the town not owned or controlled by the person or persons.
   (B)   The tying or staking of any horse, mule or cow upon any of the
premises of the aforesaid, or in a manner that the animal or animals may graze
or pasture upon any premises, shall be deemed prima facie evidence that the
animal or animals have been placed there for the purpose of grazing or
pasturing the premises not owned or controlled by the person or persons.
(Ord. 227, passed 7-25-1932) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.03 THREE-YEAR RABIES VACCINE.
   (A)   The provisions of the town ordinances which require annual rabies
vaccinations for certain animals and annual licenses for those animals, may be
complied with by an owner who chooses to have the owner’s animal vaccinated
using a 3-year rabies vaccine, provided that the owner pays the license fee to
the town for the same 3-year period.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to issue a 3-year license to
the owner of an animal required under town ordinances to have an annual rabies
vaccination and to have an animal license upon provision of proof satisfactory
to the Town Clerk-Treasurer that the animal has received a 3-year vaccine and
upon receipt of payment of 3 times the annual license fee.
(Ord. 633, passed 9-16-2003)
ANIMAL CONTROL
§ 99.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate excluding humans.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any establishment authorized by the municipality for the
care and custody of impounded animals.
   BITE. A puncture or tear of the skin inflicted by the teeth of an animal.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the municipality or his or her
designated representative.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. An animal which is rare or different from ordinary
domesticated animals and is not indigenous to the State of New Mexico.
   KEEPER. Any person who owns, harbors, keeps or has control or custody of an
animal for more than 6 days, provided that this term shall not apply to
veterinarians or kennel owners temporarily maintaining on their premises
animals owned by others.
   KENNEL. Any establishment or premises where dogs or cats are boarded or
kept.
   MUNICIPALITY. The area lying within the incorporated boundaries.
   NUISANCE. Disturbing the peace, emitting noxious or offensive odors, or
otherwise endangering or offensive to the environment of the municipality.
   PERSON. Any individual, household, firm, partnership, corporation, society,
association and every agent and employee thereof.
   QUARANTINE. To detain or isolate an animal suspected of being infected with
rabies.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. An animal off the premises of the keeper and not under the
direct control of a competent person. Direct control means connected by a
secure leash not over 6 feet in length or some other equivalent means of direct
control.
   STRAY or ESTRAY. Any animal that has no identifiable keeper.
   VACCINATION. The vaccination of an animal with an anti-rabies vaccine
approved by the Secretary of the Health and Environment Department and
administered under the supervision of a veterinarian.
   VETERINARIAN. Any veterinarian licensed in the State of New Mexico.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which commits an unprovoked attack upon a person
on private property, or which terrorizes or attacks a person on public property
or in a public place.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal which is wild by nature and cannot normally be
domesticated or controlled.
(Ord. 635, passed 1-13-2004)
§ 99.21 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Annual vaccination. It is the duty of every person keeping a dog or
cat over the age of 3 months to have the animal vaccinated against rabies. All
dogs and cats must be re-vaccinated annually. Every veterinarian who vaccinates
a dog or cat hereunder shall issue to the owner or keeper of the animal a
numbered vaccination certificate and tag. The certificate shall contain the
name and address of the owner or keeper of the animal, a description of the
animal vaccinated, the type of vaccine used, the date of vaccination and the
expiration date of the period of immunity.
   (B)   Vaccination certificate. Every person who keeps a vaccinated dog or
cat must exhibit his or her copy of the certificate of vaccination upon the
demand of any person charged with the enforcement of this section.
   (C)   Harboring unvaccinated animals. It is unlawful for any person to keep
a dog or cat which has not been vaccinated against rabies as provided herein.
   (D)   Reporting rabies suspects. Every veterinarian who makes a clinical
diagnosis of rabies and every person who suspects rabies in a domestic or wild
animal shall immediately report the same to the Local District Health Office of
the Health Services Division of the Health and Environment Department, stating
precisely when and where the animal was seen and if possible where it may be
found.
   (E)   Human exposure to rabies. Any person with knowledge that an animal has
bitten a human being shall immediately report the incident to the animal
shelter and to the Local District Health Office. Every physician or other
health care professional who treats a person for the bite shall report the
treatment to the Local District Health Office within 12 hours of the treatment.
The treatment must specify the name and precise location of the person bitten.
   (F)   Quarantine of rabies suspects. Any dog or cat which has bitten a
person shall be confined and observed for a period of 10 days from the date of
the bite at the animal shelter, a veterinary hospital or an approved kennel;
provided, however, that if the animal has a current vaccination for rabies and
the area involved is not under quarantine for rabies, the Animal Control
Officer may permit quarantine of the animal at the owner’s home. Home
confinement shall not be permitted unless the premises have been inspected and
approved for the purpose by the Animal Control Officer.
   (G)   Enforcement of the quarantine. It is unlawful to remove any dog or cat
from enforced quarantine during the period of confinement without consent of
the responsible Animal Control Officer.
   (H)   Wild animal bites. Bites inflicted by animals other than dogs and cats
must be reported to and discussed with the Local District Health Office for
proper disposition.
(Ord. 635, passed 1-13-2004) Penalty, see §
99.99
Cross-reference:
   Three-year vaccine, see §
99.03
§ 99.22 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   License. Every keeper of any dog or cat 3 months of age or older shall
procure a license. License fees shall be paid annually not later than March 1
of each year and the full amount shall be paid for any fraction of the
licensing year. Upon collection of the license fee by the municipality, a dated
and numbered certificate shall be issued stating the name and address of the
owner, rabies tag number and the animal’s description.
   (B)   Proof of rabies vaccination. No dog or cat shall be licensed without
proof of rabies vaccination as provided in this section.
   (C)   Certificates and tags.  The current municipality’s license and rabies
tags shall be affixed to the licensed dog at all times except when the dog is
being kept in an approved kennel, veterinary hospital or training class. The
original license and tag and the rabies certificate and tag of all dogs and
cats shall be retained by the owner and shall be available for inspection by
any person charged with the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (D)   Loss of license tag. In the event the original license tag is lost,
the keeper shall obtain a duplicate tag from the municipality at a cost of $1.
   (E)   Fee. The annual license fee shall be $2 for a neutered dog or cat and
shall be $3 for a not neutered dog or cat. Guide dogs are free.
(Ord. 635, passed 1-13-2004)
§ 99.23 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   False and stolen documents. It shall be unlawful for any person to
transfer any license or rabies tag from 1 animal to another or to make use of a
stolen, counterfeit or forged license, certificate or tag.
   (B)   Animals running at large. It shall be unlawful for any keeper of a dog
or cat or other pet animal to permit the animal to run at large.
   (C)   Nuisance.  It is unlawful for a keeper to allow any animal to
persistently bark, howl or make noise or to be kept or maintained in such a
manner as to disturb or otherwise endanger the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the neighborhood.
   (D)   Confinement during estrus. Any female dog or cat in the state of
estrus (heat) shall be confined to a building or other secure enclosure so that
contact with a male animal of the same species will be prevented except for
intentional breeding purposes. Keepers who do not comply with this section may
be required to place the animal in a boarding kennel or veterinary hospital at
the keeper’s expense.
   (E)   Physical abuse. It is unlawful for any person to maliciously kill,
maim, torture, mutilate, burn or to cruelly drive or work any animal.
   (F)   Abandonment of animals. It is unlawful to abandon any animal within
the municipality.
   (G)   Poisoning. It is unlawful to poison domestic animals or to distribute
poison or toxicant in any manner with the intent of so poisoning.
   (H)   Care and maintenance. It is unlawful for any keeper to fail to provide
an animal with proper food, drink and shelter, or to carry an animal in or upon
any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner.
   (I)   Animal fights. It is unlawful to cause, instigate or promote any fight
in which 2 or more animals are engaged for the purpose of injuring, maiming or
destroying themselves or another animal.
   (J)   Premiums and novelties. It is unlawful to sell, offer for sale, barter
or give away any live animal as a premium, prize, award, novelty or incentive
to purchase merchandise; it is unlawful to color, stain or dye any chicken,
duckling or fowl.
   (K)   Turtles. It is unlawful to offer for sale, sell, barter or give away
turtles except in conformance with appropriate federal regulations.
   (L)   Vicious animal. It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any
vicious animal.
(Ord. 635, passed 1-13-2004) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.24 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Animal shelter.  A suitable animal shelter shall be provided for the
purpose of boarding and caring for animals impounded under the provision of
this section.
   (B)   Impounding animals. Animals kept in violation of this section and
stray animals shall be taken into custody by an animal control officer or other
designated official and thereupon impounded.
   (C)   Right of entry. Animal control officers, in performance of their
duties may enter upon private property, except a private residence, for the
purpose of apprehending animals running at large and stray animals.
   (D)   Register. The animal control officer, upon impounding or receiving any
animal, shall register the animal by entering the breed, color and sex of the
animal and the time and place the animal was apprehended into the registry kept
for this purpose.
   (E)   Notice to owner. If the keeper of an impounded animal is known, he or
she must immediately be notified. If the keeper of the animal is not known,
notice of the impoundment shall be posted in a conspicuous place at the animal
shelter for a period of 2 days.
   (F)   Right to redeem. The keeper of any animal which has been impounded
under the provisions of this section shall have the right to redeem the animal
upon payment of the impoundment fees, care and feeding charges, veterinary
charges and the other costs as set by the governing body.
   (G)   Time for redemption. All impounded animals shall be redeemed within 2
days after impoundment. Any animal not redeemed within the required period
shall become the property of the animal shelter and may be placed for adoption
upon payment of the license fee, impoundment fees, care and feeding charges,
veterinary charges and the other costs as set by the Chief of Police, or the
animal may be humanely destroyed.
   (H)   Disposition of impounded animals being held on complaint. If a
complaint has been filed in the Municipal Court of the municipality against the
keeper of an impounded animal for a violation of this section, the animal shall
not be released except upon order of the court, which also may direct the owner
to pay any penalties for violation of this section in addition to all
impoundment fees, care and feeding charges and veterinary fees.
(Ord. 635, passed 1-13-2004)
§ 99.25 KENNELS.
   (A)   Restrictions. No person, group of persons or business entity in the
municipality may own, keep or harbor more than 3 dogs of 3 months of age or
older, more than 3 cats of 3 months of age or older or more than a total of 5
dogs and cats in any combination more than 3 months of age or older without
obtaining a kennel license.
   (B)   License required. Persons operating a kennel must obtain a
nontransferable kennel license, which shall be posted in a conspicuous place in
the kennel. A kennel license shall expire on December 31 of each year and shall
be renewed by February 1 of the following year. No kennel license may be issued
without an inspection certificate. The annual kennel license fee shall be $6.
   (C)   Facilities and care applicable to kennel license. Animal housing
facilities must be structurally sound and shall be constructed of nontoxic
materials. The facility shall be maintained in good repair and kept clean and
sanitary at all times, so as to protect animals from disease and injury.
Animals maintained in pens, cages or runs for periods exceeding 24 hours must
be provided with adequate space to prevent overcrowding and to permit adequate
exercise according to the requirements of the species. Indoor housing shall be
provided with adequate ventilation and temperature control to provide for the
animals’ comfort and health. Sufficient lighting shall be provided by either
natural or artificial means. If outside housing is provided, it must be
sufficient to protect the animal from sunlight, rain, snow or cold weather
detrimental to the animal’s health. Provisions shall be made for the removal
and proper disposal of animal and food waste, bedding, dead animals and debris.
Disposal facilities shall be provided and operated so as to minimize vermin
infestation, odors and disease hazards. Except where indicated for health,
animals shall be provided with clean, fresh, sufficient and wholesome food and
water. Food and water containers must be kept clean. Every animal kept in a
kennel must be observed daily, and diseased or injured animals must be provided
with veterinary care.
   (D)   Inspection. Representatives of the town shall be permitted to enter,
at any reasonable time, for the purpose of inspecting or reinspecting any
kennel or pet shop to determine compliance with this section.
   (E)   Violations, suspensions and revocations. A kennel license may be
denied, suspended or revoked upon a determination that the operator of the
kennel or pet store is in violation of this section. An opportunity for a
hearing on any denial, suspension or revocation shall be provided at a time and
place determined by the Board of Trustees. Based upon the record of the
hearing, the Board of Trustees shall make a finding and shall sustain, modify
or rescind the action considered at the hearing. Any owner of a kennel or pet
store whose license has been suspended or revoked may make application for
reinstatement of the license. If, following inspection, the applicant has
complied with the requirements of this section, the license shall be
reinstated.
   (F)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to, and shall not be
construed to require a kennel license for:
      (1)   A veterinary hospital or clinic operated by a licensed
veterinarian;
      (2)   A bona fide research institution using animals for scientific
research;
      (3)   A publicly owned animal control center or shelter; and
      (4)   A bona fide animal shelter operated by an organized humane society.
(Ord. 635, passed 1-13-2004) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.26 WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   Prohibited animals. Keeping the following animals is prohibited:
      (1)   Wild animals kept in such numbers or in such a manner as to
constitute a likelihood of harm to the animals themselves, to other animals, to
human beings, to the property of human beings or which constitute a public or
private nuisance; and
      (2)   Exotic or wild animals prohibited by federal or New Mexico law or
regulation.
   (B)   Permit required. No person shall receive, purchase, own or keep wild
or exotic animals without first applying for and receiving from the governing
body and from the State of New Mexico Department of Game and Fish a permit to
do so. The applicant must provide evidence of knowledge and facilities for the
care and feeding of the animals involved. The Chief of Police is permitted to
enter the premises of any permitee hereunder at any reasonable time for the
purpose of inspection or reinspection to determine compliance with this
section. The governing body or the Department of Game and Fish may deny, revoke
or suspend a permit for failure to comply with this section. The fee for a
permit shall be $5 and shall be renewed annually. A separate permit shall be
required for each species of wild or exotic animal.
(Ord. 635, passed 1-13-2004) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.27 DOMESTIC LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   Restrictions. No person shall keep any domestic livestock, including
but not limited to horses, cattle, mules, donkeys, burros, swine, goats, sheep
or fowl within the municipality without first applying for, and receiving from
the Board of Trustees, a permit to do so when the domestic livestock are to be
kept within the following areas of the town:
      (1)   Shields Heights Addition:
         (a)   The portion of the town west of the railroad tracks south of
Harding Street and east of Fifth Avenue and not including the fair grounds;
         (b)   The portion of the town east of the railroad tracks south of
Highway 87 and west of Highway 87;
         (c)   The portion of the town east of Highway 87, south of Santa Fe
Drive and north of Main Street;
         (d)   The portion of town east of Highway 87, south of Main Street,
west of Seventh Street and north of Aspen Street;
         (e)   The portion of town east of Seventh Street, south of Main
Street, west of West Avenue and north of Locust Street;
         (f)   The portion of town east of Highway 87, south of Aspen Street;
east of Fifth Street and north of Beech Street;
         (g)   The portion of town east of West Avenue, south of Devoy Street,
west of Miera Street and north of School Street;
         (h)   The portion of town north of Guyer Street, east of Miera Street,
south of Devoy Street and west of Pinard Avenue;
         (i)   The portion of the town south of Gyer Street, east of Miera
Street, north of School Street and west of Baca Street; and
         (j)   The municipal airport, golf course and cemetery.
      (2)   In that portion of the municipality in which a permit is required
to keep livestock, no person shall keep any equine or bovine over 6 months of
age on any premises, the overall area of which is less than 1/3 of an acre for
each equine or bovine, unless the Board of Trustees determines that a lesser
area is adequate in a particular circumstance.
      (3)   All domestic livestock shall be cared for according to accepted
livestock management practice and in such manner as to not create a public
nuisance and shall be rendered for property tax purposes to the County
Assessor.
      (4)   All domestic livestock shall be kept in a secure pen or enclosure
which shall be a reasonable distance from any inhabited dwelling, excluding the
home of the owner of the animals, or currently used food service establishment,
church or school.
      (5)   The person in possession or control of a pen or enclosure for
domestic livestock shall keep it in such a manner as to control offensive
odors, insect breeding and any other conditions affecting the public health.
   (B)   Running at large unlawful.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any domestic livestock, including but not
limited to cattle, horses, mules, donkeys, burros, swine, goats, sheep or fowl
or other animals, to be turned loose, abandoned or to run at large within the
limits of the municipality; or for any animal to be tethered that it may roam
across or into any street or public place in the municipality; and it is
unlawful for any person to herd or detain the animal in any street, avenue,
alley or other public place in the municipality.
      (2)   The police shall take up and impound every animal found running at
large in violation of the section and shall provide proper care and sustenance
for every animal impounded at the expense of the municipality.
      (3)   Within 24 hours after any animal has been impounded, the police
shall notify the owner, possessor or keeper of the animal that the animal has
been impounded. If the owner, possessor or keeper of the animal is not known or
if his or her address cannot be determined, the police shall cause to be posted
in at least 2 conspicuous public places in the municipality for 5 consecutive
days, a notice of impoundment with a description of the animal.
      (4)   Any owner, possessor or keeper of an animal desiring to redeem the
animal from impoundment shall pay the municipality the sum of $5.00 as an
impoundment fee for each animal, together with the sum of $1.50 for each day of
impoundment plus the actual cost of feeding and watering of each animal
impounded.
      (5)   Any person who shall break or in any manner, directly or
indirectly, aid in breaking into the enclosure in which any animal is impounded
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (6)   Any person who shall willfully or intentionally hinder or obstruct
the police in the discharge of official duty under the provisions of this
section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Sale of unredeemed animals.
      (1)   If any animal impounded shall remain unredeemed for 5 days after
being impounded, the police shall give 5 days’ notice of the time and place
when the animal will be sold. The notice shall be posted in at least 2
conspicuous public places in the municipality for 5 consecutive days.
      (2)   At any time before the sale thereof, any animal impounded may be
redeemed upon the payment of the penalties and costs provided for in this
section.
      (3)   The day fixed of the sale of any unredeemed animals shall be the
sixth day after the posting of the notice of the sale, except when the same
would fall on Sunday, election day or any legal holiday, in which case the day
of sale will be the next succeeding day. At the sale, the police shall sell for
cash to the highest bidder the animal advertised and shall furnish the
purchaser a bill of sale signed by the Mayor and the Municipal Clerk.
      (4)   The police shall keep records of all sale transactions, turn over
all money received to the Clerk-Treasurer of the municipality, and furnish a
monthly report to the Board of Trustees of the municipality showing all animals
impounded and all animals shall be listed individually showing the amount of
money collected on each, as well as the disposition of each case.
(Ord. 635, passed 1-13-2004) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.28 UNLAWFUL TO BE CRUEL TO ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful within the limits of the Town of Clayton to torture, torment,
deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly kill or drive any animal, or
unnecessarily fail to provide the same with proper food and drink, or cruelly
drive or work the same when unfit for labor.
(Ord. 635, passed 1-13-2004) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.29 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this subchapter is July 1, 2004.
(Ord. 635, passed 1-13-2004)
OWNING, KEEPING, IMPOUNDING AND DISPOSITION OF DOGS
§ 99.45 POUND.
   The Town Board of Trustees may, at its discretion, establish a municipal dog
pound or contract for animal control services on behalf of the town. The pound
or services, with respect to dogs, shall provide adequate pickup, impounding,
holding, isolation and humane disposition facilities for sick, biting, rabid,
unwanted, unclaimed or other dogs in violation of this subchapter and shall
supply proper housing, feed, water and care for all dogs while in lawful
custody under this subchapter.
(Ord. 465, passed 4-17-1973)
§ 99.46 POUND MASTER.
   The Town Board of Trustees may employ a Pound Master on the terms, salary or
other compensation as it may determine or a public or private provider of
animal control services on the terms as may be agreeable. In either case all
municipal ordinances and state statutes shall be complied with and the records
and reports as the Board may require shall be made.
(Ord. 465, passed 4-17-1973)
§ 99.47 RUNNING AT LARGE GENERALLY AND COMMITTING DAMAGE A NUISANCE.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring or having the
custody, control or possession of any dog to cause or permit it:
      (1)   To be in or upon any public street, alley or other public place, or
in or upon any unenclosed premises unless subject to control by leash, chain,
cord or other suitable material attached to a collar or harness;
      (2)   Commit any damage or nuisance upon the property of any other person
or upon a public street, alley or other public place; or
      (3)   To become a public nuisance through excessive, continuous or
untimely barking, molesting passers-by, chasing vehicles including bicycles,
habitually attacking other domestic animals, trespassing upon school grounds or
trespassing upon private property in the manner as to damage property.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(1) above, the person owning,
harboring or having the custody, control or possession of any dog shall keep
the dog restrained securely within an enclosure or fence which will prevent it
from running at large within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 465, passed 4-17-1973; Am. Ord. 482, passed 9-23-1974) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.48 INTERFERENCE WITH PERSONNEL.
   Any person who shall molest or interfere with the personnel of the town in
the performance of the duties provided herein, shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $10 nor more than $25 or by imprisonment in the town jail for a
term not exceeding 30 days in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 465, passed 4-17-1973)
§ 99.49 DOG KILLING OR INJURING LIVESTOCK; DAMAGES; DOG TO BE KILLED.
   If any dog shall kill or injure any livestock, the owner or keeper of the
dog shall be liable for all damages that may be sustained thereby, to be
recovered by the party so injured before any court having competent
jurisdiction, and it shall be unlawful to keep the dog after it is known that
the dog is liable to kill livestock, and it shall be the duty of the owner to
kill, or have killed, the dog upon order of the court after a finding that the
dog has killed or injured livestock, and provided further that it shall be the
right of any owner of livestock so killed or injured by the actions of any dog
to kill the dog while it is upon property controlled by the owner of the
livestock.
(Ord. 465, passed 4-17-1973) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.50 VACCINATION OF DOGS BROUGHT INTO TOWN.
   Any dog brought into the town shall be securely confined by the owner or
keeper until vaccinated against rabies and until licensed by the town, which
vaccination shall be administered and license secured within 1 week after entry
into the town unless the owner or keeper had a certificate of vaccination
issued by a veterinarian in another city, state or foreign county, and the
vaccination conforms to the requirements of the town and state. Any dog brought
into the town which is under the age of 3 months shall be securely confined by
the owner or keeper until it reaches the age of 3 months and is properly
vaccinated and licensed.
(Ord. 465, passed 4-17-1973)
§ 99.51 VACCINATION AND LICENSING OF GUIDE DOGS.
   Every owner of a guide dog trained to lead a blind person shall have the dog
vaccinated against rabies and licensed as provided hereunder. The Town of
Clayton, New Mexico, shall charge no license fee for the licensing of guide
dogs.
(Ord. 465, passed 4-17-1973)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
99.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not
more than $300 or by imprisonment not exceeding 90 days, or by both the fine
and imprisonment.
(Ord. 460, passed 11-22-1971)
   (C)   (1)   Any violation of the provisions of division (A) of §
99.02 shall be punishable by fine not to exceed $50, or by imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days, or by the fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   Each day’s violation of division (A) of §
99.02 shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 227, passed 7-25-1932)
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
99.20 through
99.29 shall, upon conviction thereof before the Municipal Judge, be punished by
a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or
both the fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 635, passed 1-13-2004)
   (E)   (1)   It is the duty of any person who is the owner or keeper of any
dog, or other animal, the keeping of which is unlawful, to cause the animal to
be killed. Failure to comply with §§
99.45 through
99.51, after knowledge by the owner or keeper of the fact which renders the
keeping unlawful, shall subject the owner or keeper to a fine of $10 and costs,
and each day’s failure to comply is a separate offense.
      (2)   It is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor for any person who is the
owner or keeper of a dog to fail to have the same licensed and vaccinated, as
herein provided, and it is further declared to be a misdemeanor for any
physician to fail to report a person bitten by an animal, as provided
hereunder, and upon conviction thereof, the person shall be fined in the sum of
$10, and each day’s failure to comply shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 465, passed 4-17-1973)
   (F)   Any person found to be in violation of §
99.47 may be fined up to $300 or imprisoned up to 90 days or both.
(Ord. 482, passed 9-23-1974)
CHAPTER 100: OUTDOOR LIGHTING
Section
   
100.01   Purpose
   
100.02   Definitions
   
100.03   Applicability
   
100.04   General standards and provisions
   
100.05   Further restrictions
   
100.06   Exemptions
   
100.07   Grandfathering
   
100.08   Submittals
   
100.09   Variances
   
100.10   Enforcement
 
   
100.99   Penalty
§ 100.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate outdoor lighting fixtures and
installations to improve nighttime public safety and security; promote energy
efficiency; reduce lighting which is detrimental to the environment or to
public use and enjoyment of public and private property; and preserve and
promote the dark sky resource of the county and the town.
(Ord. 663, passed 1-14-2009)
§ 100.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISABLING GLARE. Lighting that impairs visibility and creates a potentially
hazardous situation for either pedestrians or motorists.
   FIXTURE or LUMINARIES. A complete lighting unit including the lamps or bulbs
together with the parts required to distribute the light, to position and
protect the lamps and to connect the lamps to the power supply.
   FULL CUTOFF.  A classification for a luminaire designed and installed where
no light is emitted at or above a horizontal plane running through the lowest
point on the luminaire. In addition, the luminous intensity (as measured in
candles) emitted at any angle from 80 degrees up to 90 degrees cannot exceeded
a numerical value equal to 10% of the lumen rating of the lamp, as reported in
a photometric report from the manufacturer as produced by an independent lab. A
cutoff, or semi-cutoff design allows a restricted amount of light emitted above
the horizontal and a non-cutoff provided n restriction against light emitted
above the horizontal.
   FULLY-SHIELDED. A luminaire constructed, lamped, and installed in such a
manner that all light emitted by it, either directly from the lamp or a
diffusing element, or indirectly by reflection or refraction from any part of
the luminaire, is projected below the horizontal. A full cutoff fixture is also
FULLY SHIELDED, but without any restrictions on light distribution below the
horizontal plane, and it can be identified without a manufacturer’s report.
   GLARE. Stray, unshielded light striking the eye that may result in nuisance
or annoyance, such as light falling across property lines; discomfort, such as
bright light causing squinting of the eyes; disability, such as bright light
reducing the ability of the eyes to see into shadows and visual performance; or
distracting light which diverts the eye from a visual task.
   GRANDFATHERED FIXTURES. Outdoor lighting not conforming to this chapter that
was in place at the time this chapter went into full force and effect does not
include replacements or relocation of the fixture.
   HEIGHT OF FIXTURE. The height of a fixture shall be the vertical distance
from the ground directly below the centerline of the fixture to the lowest
direct light emitting part of the fixture.
   LAMP OR BULB. The generic term for an artificial light source, to be
distinguished from the whole assembly (see “fixture”); commonly referred to as
the “light bulb”.
   LIGHT - TYPES OF:
      ACCENT LIGHTING. Directional lighting which emphasizes a particular
object or draws attention to a particular area.
      DIRECT LIGHT. Light emitted directly from the lamp, off of the reflector
or reflector diffuser, or through the refractor or diffuser lens of a fixture
      INDIRECT LIGHT. Light that has been reflected or has scattered off of
other surfaces.
      OUTDOOR LIGHTING. The night time illumination of an outside area or
object by any man-made device located outdoors that produces light by any
means. For purposes of this chapter, any interior lighting that is intended to
project light outdoors is considered outdoor lighting.
   LIGHT POLLUTION. Any adverse effect of man-made light including but not
limited to glare, light trespass, sky glow, visual clutter, wasted energy due
to excessive or unnecessary lighting, or any man-made light that unnecessarily
diminishes the ability to view the night sky or is disruptive to flora and
fauna.
   LIGHT TRESPASS. Light emitted by a fixture that shines beyond the property
on which the fixture is installed. Light levels shall not exceed a maximum of
0.05 lumens per square foot at the property line as measured at a vertical
point 5 feet above grade. Light levels shall not exceed a maximum of 0.05
lumens measured at any point on the property line. LIGHT TRESPASS measurements
shall be made at the property line with the meter held normal to a line between
any offending light source(s) and the light meter.
   LUMEN. A unit used to measure the actual amount of light that is produced by
a bulb. The lumen quantifies the amount of light energy produced by a lamp at
the lamp, not by the energy input, which is indicated by the wattage. For
example, a 75-watt incandescent lamp can produce 1,000 lumens while a 70-watt
high-pressure sodium lamp produces 6,000 lumens. Lumen output is listed by the
manufacture on the light bulb packaging. For the purposes of this chapter, the
lumen output values shall be the initial lumen output rating of the bulb,
“Initial” refers to the manufacturer’s stated rating for a new bulb.
   LUMINARIES. See FIXTURE.
   LUMINOUS TUBE. A glass tube filled with a gas or gas mixture (including
neon, argon, mercury or other gasses), usually of small diameter (10-15
millimeters), caused to emit light by the passage of an electric current and
commonly bent into various forms for use as decorations or signs. A “neon” tube
does not include common fluorescent tubes. Neon signs shall be treated as
internally illuminated signs for the purposes of this chapter.
    NUISANCE GLARE. Light that creates an annoyance or aggravation but does not
create a potentially hazardous situation.
   REPAIR OF A LUMINAIRE OR SIGN. Any service normally provided by a licensed
electrician upon a luminaire or sign. Repair shall be considered to include
replacement or modification or any of the following: poles, mounting arms,
housings, hardware, wiring, ballasts, lenses, reflectors, diffusers, baffles,
shields, sensors, switches, relays, poser supplies, and lamp replacement
modules which contain any of the items listed above. Replacement of a user-
serviceable lamp will not by itself be considered a repair.
   SKY GLOW. The overhead glow from fight emitted sideways and upwards,
including light reflected upward from the ground or other surfaces. SKY GLOW is
caused by the reflection and scatterings of various forms of light by dust,
water, and other particles suspended in the atmosphere. Among other effects,
sky glow reduces one’s ability to view the night sky. Different sources of
light, in equal quantities, can contribute differently to sky glow.
   SPOTLIGHT or FLOODLIGHT. Any light fixture or bulb that incorporates a
reflector or a refractor to spread or concentrate the light output into a
directed beam in a particular direction.
   TEMPORARY OUTDOOR LIGHTING. The specific illumination of an outside area or
object by any man-made device located outdoors that produces light by any means
for a period of not more than 7 days and that occurs only once within a 365-day
time period.
(Ord. 663, passed 1-14-2009)
§ 100.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all outdoor lighting
fixtures used for illumination or advertisement
   (B)   All outdoor lighting fixtures existing and legally installed and
operative before the effective date of this chapter are exempt from these
requirements until the end of the grandfather period.
   (C)   When existing lighting fixtures are replaced or relocated, their
replacements shall be subject to all the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   All governmental agencies, federal, state or county which operate
within the town limits are encouraged to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 663, passed 1-14-2009)
§ 100.04 GENERAL STANDARDS AND PROVISIONS.
   The following general standards and regulations shall apply to all outdoor
lighting installed after the effective date of this chapter with the exception
of lighting which is exempt pursuant to the section addressing grandfather
clauses.
   (A)   Residential and commercial outdoor lighting fixtures and devices shall
be fully-shielded and aimed downward in such a manner that light rays emitted
by a fixture whether directly from a bulb or from the fixture, are restricted
to regions below an angle 15 degrees beneath the horizontal plane running
through the point on the fixture where the light is emitted.
   (B)   Wall mounted fixtures shall be limited to a total light output of
3,000 lumens (such as a 150-watt incandescent bulb).
   (C)   Wall mounted fixtures shall be fully shielded and limited to 1 per
every 400 square feet of wall surface.
   (D)   Pole mounted fixtures shall be fully shielded and limited to 9,500
lumens (such as a 100- watt high pressure sodium bulb) and the number of said
fixtures shall be limited to 1 per every 8,000 square feet of ground surface
area. Pole mounted fixtures need not be limited to a maximum of 9,500 lumens
for taller poles, which may be necessary for very large parking lots.
   (E)   Fully shielded condition can be accomplished for fixtures rated no
greater than 60 watts by using a surrounding architectural structure. Opaque
awnings can be used to meet this condition.
   (F)   If a motion sensor is used, unshielded lights may be up to 1800 total
lumens per fixture, provided that the lights do not remain on longer than 10
minutes after being triggered, are aimed at least 45 degrees below the
horizontal and are not aimed onto adjacent property. If a motion sensor is
used, a single unshielded light fixture per structure may be allowed up to 1800
total lumens per fixture and the light is not visual from the adjacent
property.
   (G)   Any light shining onto an adjacent property or street which results in
light trespass, nuisance glare or a disabling glare shall not be permitted.
   (H)   Lighting, other than street lights, mounted on poles or structures
shall not exceed a mounting height of 15 feet. If needed, additional shielding
shall be added to the light fixture to eliminate light trespass and disabling
glare. For very large parking lots, mounting height will be allowed to be
increased to 18 feet provided the lighting plan shows that light trespass
limits will be met.
   (I)   Existing fixtures may be adapted to comply with this chapter by adding
a properly designed fully shielded structure.
   (J)   Lighting for signs shall be directed downward onto the sign’s surface
and not toward the sky or adjacent properties. Such lighting shall be limited
to 1800 initial lumens (such as a 100-watt incandescent bulb) per every 15
square feet of sign surface.
   (K)   Up lighting on landscaping and foliage shall be limited to 900 initial
lumens (such as a 40-watt incandescent bulb) with a limit of one lamp fixture
per each 900 square feet of landscaped area, and shall not be operated dusk to
dawn.
   (L)   Up lighting for architectural illumination is permitted provided that
the total output is less than 5,400 initial lumens per 3,000 square feet of
wall surface area and less than 1,800 initial lumens per fixture (such as a
100-watt incandescent bulb). No illumination may project beyond the highest
point of the structure or beyond the structure’s edges. Side shielding shall be
used to avoid light trespass or glare. Up lighting shall not be operated dusk
to dawn.
   (M)   Flag illumination is limited to 800 initial lumens (such as a 40-watt
incandescent bulb) and when possible shall originate from a fixture at the top
of the pole, and aimed downward. Flags are encouraged to be raised in the
morning and lowered at night per tradition to avoid artificial illumination.
   (N)   Internally illuminated signs shall be constructed so that the top of
the sign does not allow light to emit directly towards the sky and so that the
light is encased all the way around.
   (O)   Any light source permitted by this chapter may be used to light
outdoor recreational facilities (public or private) such as, but not limited
to, football fields, soccer fields, baseball fields, softball fields, tennis
courts, or show areas provided all of the following conditions are met:
   (P)   All fixtures used for event lighting shall be fully shielded as
defined in this chapter, or be designed with or provided with sharp cut-off
capability so as to minimize up light, spill light, light trespass and glare.
Such installations shall be placed per manufacturer’s recommendations and in a
manner to maximize shielding. Metal Halide lighting shall not be allowed except
where pure color needs to be rendered and all metal halide sources shall be
extinguished before 11:30 p.m.
   (Q)   All events shall be scheduled so that all activity is complete before
or as near to 11:00 p.m. as practical. Under no circumstance shall any
illumination of the playing field, court or track be permitted after 11:30 p.m.
except to conclude a scheduled event that was in progress before 11:00 p.m. and
circumstances prevented conclusion by 11:00 p.m.
   (R)   In order to comply with The New Mexico Night Sky Protection Act
mercury vapor lamps shall not be sold, re-lamped, or installed in the town. A
suggested replacement is high pressure sodium lights.
   (S)   Parking lot lighting shall be shut off by 11:00 p.m. unless a specific
scheduled event requires parking lot lighting to be left on until the event is
finished. In this situation, the lights shall be shut off within a reasonable
period of time following the event
   (T)   Light emitted from inside of a structure to the outside of the
structure shall be subject to control by this chapter if it is determined that
such light constitutes a nuisance glare, a nuisance light trespass or a
disabling glare as defined by this chapter, and should therefore be treated as
if it were outdoor lighting.
(Ord. 663, passed 1-14-2009) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.05 FURTHER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited: searchlights, unless permitted by the town; aerial lasers;
flashing, blinking or tracing lights, metal halide, mercury vapor, or
commercial lighting that has not received a permit per this chapter.
   (B)   The town reserves the right to further restrict outdoor lighting,
including by not limited to searchlights for special events, quartz lighting,
laser lights, pole height and level of illumination when it is deemed to be in
the best interests of the public and in keeping with the stated purpose of this
chapter.
   (C)   The town reserves the right to further restrict outdoor lighting,
including, but not limited to pole height and level of illumination when it is
deemed to be in the best interests of the public and in keeping with the stated
purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 663, passed 1-14-2009) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Unshielded outdoor light fixtures located within 5 feet of an active
doorway, single or multiple, provided that such lighting does not exceed a
total light output of 800 lumens (such as a 40-watt incandescent bulb).
   (B)   Traffic control signals and devices.
   (C)   Temporary emergency lighting (such as, fire, police, repair workers).
   (D)   Moving vehicle lights.
   (E)   Navigation lights (such as, airports, heliports, radio/television
towers).
   (F)   Seasonal decorations with individual lights in place no longer than 60
days in a calendar year.
   (G)   Other special situations approved by the governing body of the town
for temporary or periodic events (such as, rodeos, revivals, fairs, fiestas,
carnivals, right-time construction).
(Ord. 663, passed 1-14-2009)
§ 100.07 GRANDFATHERING.
   (A)   All lighting installations must be brought into compliance with the
provisions of this chapter within 10 years of its effective date.
   (B)   This grandfathering provision does not apply to the following:
      (1)   Lighting on an existing building with a change of use, roofline or
building size or accompanying structures, including parking lots, exceeding 25%
due to renovations or remodeling, shall be brought into full compliance before
reoccupation or re-use.
      (2)   Fixtures that are replaced or relocated. Such fixtures shall be
brought into full compliance at the time of replacement or relocation.
      (3)   Existing fixtures that direct light toward streets or parking lots
and that cause disabling glare to motorists or cyclists may be ordered to be
removed or extinguished at any time.
(Ord. 663, passed 1-14-2009)
§ 100.08 SUBMITTALS.
   Applications for building permits, including new construction and
remodeling, or applications for subdivisions which include the installation of
outdoor lighting fixtures for any purpose shall provide evidence of compliance
with the requirements of this chapter. The submittal shall contain the
following information and be submitted as part of the site plan to the town for
recommendation for approval:
   (A)   Plans indicating the location, type and height of luminaries, planned
and existing, including both building and ground mounted fixtures;
   (B)   A description of the luminaries, including lamps, poles or other
supports and shielding devices, which may be provided as catalogue
illustrations from the manufacturer.
   (C)   Photometric data, such as that furnished by the manufacturer, showing
the angle of light emission for fixtures with an output of 3,000 lumens or
more; and
   (D)   Additional information as may be required by the Planning and Zoning
Department in order to determine compliance with this chapter. For large
projects, the Planning and Zoning may require a lighting plan with foot-candle
renderings from all sources of light in 5-foot grids. It is recommended that
these light levels not exceed the illuminating Engineering Society of North
America’s Recommended Practices tor Exterior Lighting and Parking lots (RP 33-
99 and RP-20).
(Ord. 663, passed 1-14-2009)
§ 100.09 VARIANCES.
   Variance from the provisions of this chapter shall be permitted as
authorized pursuant to the provisions of the town’s zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 663, passed 1-14-2009)
§ 100.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Duty to enforce. It shall be the duty of the persons designated by the
governing body of the town to enforce the regulations contained in this
chapter.
   (B)   Notice of non-compliance and abatement. The town may issue a written
notice of non-compliance directed to the owner of record of the property on
which the non-compliant lighting fixture(s) or installation(s) exist or to the
occupant or tenant of the property, or both. The notice shall describe the
violation and shall establish a reasonable time limit for abatement which shall
be not less than 10 days or more than 90 after service of the notice. The
notice may be served either personally or by registered mail at the owner’s
last known address.
   (C)   Complaint. In the event the owner or occupant of the property where
the non-compliant lighting fixture(s) or installation(s) exist has failed,
within the prescribed time, to abate the violation, then the town shall file a
complaint charging violations) of this chapter with the municipal court.
   (D)   This chapter does not grant to any party other than the town the right
to enforce this chapter or to bring any suit in any court for violation of this
chapter. It does not create a private cause of action.
(Ord. 663, passed 1-14-2009)
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation or any officer or employee thereof,
who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a petty
misdemeanor and upon conviction may be punished by a fine of not more than $500
or imprisonment for not more than 90 days or both by such fine and imprisonment
for each separate offense.
   (B)   Each 24-hour period during any portion of which any violation of this
chapter is committed or continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 663, passed 1-14-2009)
CHAPTER 101: CLAYTON MEMORIAL CEMETERY
Section
   
101.01   Clayton Memorial Cemetery
   
101.02   Lots and owners
   
101.03   Care of lots and improvements
   
101.04   Monuments and memorials
   
101.05   Foundations
   
101.06   Contractors and workmen
   
101.07   Miscellaneous
   
101.08   Opening and closing graves
 
   
101.99   Penalty
§ 101.01 CLAYTON MEMORIAL CEMETERY.
   (A)   Clayton Memorial Cemetery is an endowed care cemetery. This care is
made possible under an arrangement whereby a portion of the purchase price
realized from the original sale of any plot is placed in a trust fund. Income
from this trust fund is used to permanently maintain the cemetery. The income
from this trust fund is expended for the specified purpose by the Town of
Clayton. Care and maintenance shall be provided only in so far as the net
income from the amount deposited in the trust fund will permit.
   (B)   This chapter and enforcement of this chapter is intended to protect
the cemetery and create and preserve its beauty. All owners of lots, all
visitors and those performing work within the cemetery shall be subject to this
chapter.
   (C)   All persons entering the cemetery shall obey this chapter.
   (D)   The Clayton Memorial Cemetery will not be liable for any act of lot
owners, visitors or trespassers within the cemetery, for any damage to person
or property within the cemetery, nor shall it be liable for any damage caused
by the elements, an act of God, common enemy, thieves, vandals, strikers,
malicious mischief makers, explosions, unavoidable accidents, invasion,
insurrections, riots or order of any military or civil authority, whether the
damage be direct or collateral, other than as herein provided.
   (E)   The Clayton Memorial Cemetery reserves the right to lay, maintain and
operate, or alter or change pipelines for sprinkling systems, drainage, roads
and etc. The cemetery reserves the right of ingress and egress over the lots
for the purpose of passage to and from other lots.
   (F)   When all the gates are locked the cemetery is closed. It is a
violation of this ordinance for anyone to be in the cemetery when it is closed.
The cemetery will typically be open during daylight hours.
(Ord. 712, passed 9- -2020)
§ 101.02 LOTS AND LOT OWNERS.
   (A)   The Clayton Memorial Cemetery will care for and maintain all roads,
grass, vegetation, shrubbery and improvements belonging to the cemetery, but
lot owners are to care for and maintain all monuments erected on their lots.
   (B)   No transfer or assignment of any lot or interest therein shall be
valid without the consent of the cemetery endorsed upon such transfer or
assignment.
   (C)   No interment of body, other than that of a human being, will be
permitted in the cemetery.
   (D)   The burial of more than one body in the same grave is strictly
prohibited, except in the case of mother and infant child, or twin children or
two children at the same time.
   (E)   A second interment will not be allowed on any lot in the cemetery
against which lot there are unpaid accounts.
   (F)   No interment of body will be permitted within the Clayton Memorial
Cemetery without the use of a vault. Only concrete, metal or fiberglass vaults
will be permitted.
   (G)   All graves will be well compacted by mechanical means.
   (H)   All graves will be sodded level and no mounding will be allowed on any
grave.
(Ord. 712, passed 9- -2020)
§ 101.03 CARE OF LOTS AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Permanent planting of trees and shrubs are to be made by the Clayton
Memorial Cemetery and any further permanent planting will be permitted only on
consent of the Cemetery Superintendent. Such additional planting is usually not
considered desirable or necessary.
   (B)   Should any tree or shrub on any lot, by means of its roots, branches
or otherwise become dangerous, detrimental, unsightly or annoying to adjacent
lots or drives, and its removal be deemed necessary, the Cemetery
Superintendent shall have the right, and it shall be his duty, to remove such
tree or shrub or any part thereof, as in his or her judgment may seem best.
   (C)   No lot or grave space may be decorated by its owner or others with any
tree or shrub; nor may trees or shrubs already planted thereon be disturbed In
any way without first obtaining the consent of the Cemetery Superintendent.
   (D)   No lots or parcels of ground in the Clayton Memorial Cemetery may be
defined by any kind of fencing, coping, railing, hedge or embarkment; nor may
any lot be filled above me established grade.
   (E)   Wire arches and trellises shall not be placed on any lot or grave.
   (F)   To protect the grounds from injury by inexperienced or irresponsible
workmen, to be sure good work, and especially to improve the lot, the Clayton
Memorial Cemetery reserves the right to supervise or construct all foundations
for monuments, markers or other super-structures and to approve all
excavations, digging of graves, grading and sodding of lots, performed by
others.
(Ord. 712, passed 9- -2020)
§ 101.04 MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS.
   (A)   While there is no desire to interfere with the preference of
individuals in regard to the style of their monuments, in justice to the
interests of the Clayton Memorial Cemetery, the management reserves to itself
the right to prevent the placing of, or remove any structure or object which
they shall deem injurious to the general good appearance of the grounds and
particularly to the adjoining lots.
   (B)   All monuments, markers or other memorial structures shall be
constructed of granite, marble or standard bronze. The monument shall not be
longer than 40% of the front footage of the lot(s) on which it is to be placed.
   (C)   No monument or marker raised above the surface of the ground will be
allowed in the Clayton Memorial Cemetery, except in the designated sections as
depicted on the attached drawings of the cemetery. The marker or monument shall
be 2 feet or less wide and not less than 4 inches thick. No grave covers of any
type shall be allowed in the Clayton Memorial Cemetery.
(Ord. 712, passed 9- -2020)
§ 101.05 FOUNDATIONS.
   (A)   Foundations will be required for all monuments, markers and structures
of every description placed on lots, a 6-inch border being required on
foundations having upright monuments. From this rule, there will be no
deviation.
   (B)   All foundations are to be constructed of granite, or stone spalls,
concrete and portland cement, and when completed, the surface shall be ground
level.
(Ord. 712, passed 9- -2020)
§ 101.06 CONTRACTORS AND WORKMEN.
   (A)   Workmen engaged in the erection of monuments, markers, etc., will be
subject to the rules and regulations of the Clayton Memorial Cemetery and their
employers will be held accountable for any violations thereon by them.
   (B)   In depositing or moving materials for monuments to lots situated apart
from the main drives, the intervening lots must not be unnecessarily trespassed
upon. Planks shall be laid on the grass over which machinery or heavy materials
are to be moved to protect the lots from injury.
   (C)   Workmen must suspend their labors when in the immediate vicinity of a
funeral until the conclusion of all the service.
   (D)   The Cemetery Superintendent has entre charge of the cemetery and is
authorized to enforce all rules, to maintain order, to oversee all workmen, to
inspect, and when necessary refuse entrance to, all materials and to insist
upon the immediate removal of all trash and material as soon as work is
completed.
   (E)   All surplus materials, tools, rubbish, etc., must be removed on
completion of the work, or when directed by the Cemetery Superintendent.
(Ord. 712, passed 9- -2020)
§ 101.07 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   All dried and dead flowers, withered set-pieces, shrubs and plants and
other rubbish will be removed by the management as soon as it becomes
unsightly.
   (B)   Funeral designs and floral pieces shall be removed as soon as they
become withered or unsightly and the manager of the cemetery may remove them,
when in his or her judgement, it is for the best interest of the cemetery.
   (C)   In no case will the Clayton Memorial Cemetery be responsible for
articles which may be placed on lots.
   (D)   No boxes, shells, toys, crockery, glassware, cans or other objects
will be permitted on any grave space, and if so placed, it shall be removed at
once.
   (E)   The Town Manager shall be the Superintendent of the Clayton Cemetery
as part of his or her regular duties provided that the Town Manager may
delegate such duties to the code enforcement officer. However, if deemed
necessary, a caretaker may be hired part-time or full-time as available funds
will permit.
   (F)   All funds received from the sale or lease of Cemetery Plots, shall be
used as follows: 2/5 of said cemetery funds shall be used to meet the term
maintenance expenses and 3/5 of said cemetery funds shall be placed in the
Clayton Cemetery Reserve Fund, from which fund the interest received only, can
be used for cemetery upkeep and maintenance. This Cemetery Reserve Fund is to
be maintained and added to, until such time that it is determined to be large
enough to where the interest therefrom will be of sufficient amount each year
to properly care for and maintain the Clayton Cemetery.
   (G)   All other funds received for cemetery purposes other than from the
sale or lease of cemetery plots, shall be used as directed by the donor(s) of
said funds.
   (H)   All money collected from the sale or lease of the cemetery plots is to
be turned into the town, the first of each month or sooner if possible.
(Ord. 712, passed 9- -2020)
§ 101.08 OPENING AND CLOSING GRAVES.
   Any person or persons employed or authorized to open and close graves in the
Clayton Cemetery, shall careful in the performance of their work; to keep in
mind the adjoining graves when opening and closing a new grave and avoid any
trespassing over or across any other graves when it can be avoided; to keep in
mind and be careful not to damage any placed headstones, curbing or water
hydrants; to clean up as carefully and neatly as possible any oil spill from
the machinery used in said work and to remove such oiled soil and replace it
with new top soil. In short, our policy is for you to be thoughtful, respectful
and careful in this work, fn order to keep at a minimum the complaints and
criticism which from time to time are received by the Association.
(Ord. 712, passed 9- -2020)
§ 101.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be cited into
Municipal Court by any town police officer or code enforcement officer and be
subject to a fine of up to $500 and jailed for up to 30 days or sentenced to
both such fine and jail time upon conviction.
(Ord. 712, passed 9- -2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   LICENSES GENERALLY
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   SALES AND AUCTIONS
      
114.   FOOD REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
110.01   Physical exam of barbers and beauticians
Dancing
   
110.15   Regulate lighting in dance halls and certain businesses
   
110.16   Public dance permit requirements
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 110.01 PHYSICAL EXAM OF BARBERS AND BEAUTICIANS.
   (A)   (1)   The practice of barbering is hereby defined to be any, or a
combination of the following practices for hire or reward:
         (a)   Shaving or trimming the beard or cutting the hair;
         (b)   Giving facial or scalp massage or treatments with oils, creams,
lotions or other preparations either by hand or mechanical appliances;
         (c)   Singeing, shampooing, arranging, dressing or dyeing the hair or
applying hair tonics; and
         (d)   Applying cosmetics, antiseptics, powders, oils, clay or lotions
to scalp, face or neck.
      (2)   The term BARBER SHOP is hereby defined to embrace and include any
establishment or place of business wherein the practice of barbering, as herein
above defined, is engaged in or carried on.
   (B)   The PRACTICE OF BEAUTY CULTURE is here defined to be any, or a
combination, of the following practices for hire or reward; cutting the hair;
giving facial or scalp massage or treatments with oils, creams, lotions or
other preparations either by hand or mechanical appliances; singeing,
shampooing, arranging, dressing or dyeing the hair or applying hair tonics;
applying cosmetics, antiseptics, powders, oils, clay or lotions to scalp, face
or neck. BEAUTY PARLOR is hereby defined to embrace and include any
establishment or place of business wherein the practices of beauty culture, as
herein above defined is engaged in or carried on.
   (C)   The term HEALTH OFFICER shall be taken to mean the Health Officer of
the County of Union, his or her duly authorized agent or representative.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any barber shop or
beauty parlor to employ any person who does not possess a health certificate
issued by the Health Officer or a duly licensed physician. This certificate
shall show that the person has successfully passed a physical examination which
indicates that he or she has no communicable disease. The Health Officer may
require any other examination that he or she may deem necessary. These health
certificates shall be renewed every 6 months by again passing a physical
examination approved by the Health Officer.
   (E)   In case of sickness among employees, it shall be the duty of the owner
or operator to notify the Health Officer immediately that the sickness exists,
and the owner or operator shall be governed by the instructions issued by the
Health Officer.
(Ord. 219, passed 8-24-1931) Penalty, see §
110.99
DANCING
§ 110.15 REGULATE LIGHTING IN DANCE HALLS AND CERTAIN BUSINESSES.
   All dance halls, places where intoxicating liquors are sold and all places
of amusement or recreation where minors are prohibited as a matter of law,
shall at all times when open for business be lighted with lights of a power of
not less than 5 foot candles of light at a distance of 5 feet from the
principal floor.
(Ord. 332, passed 7-25-1949)
§ 110.16 PUBLIC DANCE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. Any person giving, sponsoring or promoting a public
dance within the municipal limits of the Town of Clayton shall apply for a
permit to do so at the Town Office in Clayton, New Mexico, at least 3 days
prior to the date on which public dance or party is to be held. An application
of $10 shall be paid at the time of application. No permits shall be denied any
person applying for 1, but it is the purpose of this section to notify the town
authorities of any pending event prior to its occurrence.
   (B)   Employment of peace officer.
      (1)   Each and every applicant shall contract with 1 or more qualified
peace officers to provide security and police the conduct of patrons of the
dance. Persons hired to act as security officers shall be commissioned officers
of the Union County Sheriff’s Department, sheriff’s posse, Clayton Police
Department, New Mexico State Police, Game and Fish officers, brand inspectors
or licensed security guards. The Town Office and Clayton Police Department
shall maintain for public view, a list of qualified persons willing to act as
security officers at public dances pursuant to this section including names,
addresses and phone numbers of each qualified person. Compensation for the
security officers shall be provided by the person submitting the application
for a dance permit.
      (2)   Any peace officer retained pursuant to this section shall not be
deemed to be an employee of the town for any purpose while employed pursuant to
this section, and the town will not be liable for collection of any fees due to
peace officers retained pursuant to this section, nor shall the town be
responsible for any act or omission committed by the peace officer.
      (3)   In the event none of the qualified persons are available for
service as security officers as contemplated by this section, the requirement
may be waived by the Chief of Police in his or her sole discretion and upon the
conditions as the Chief of Police may impose.
   (C)   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
public dance, party or celebration held on property owned by the schools,
private clubs or liquor establishments duly licensed as such by the State of
New Mexico nor to any privately sponsored dance or party not open to the
general public except this section shall apply to any dance held in a town-
owned facility.
(Ord. 614, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Physical exam of barbers and beauticians. Any person in violation of §
110.01 or any part thereof shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10 or
more than $100, and each violation constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 219, passed 8-24-1931)
   (C)   Dances.  
      (1)   The owner, operator, manager or other person or persons in charge
of any place of business violating provisions of §
110.15 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined any sum not exceeding $200 or imprisoned not longer than 60 days
or punished by both the fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 332, passed 7-25-1949)
      (2)   Any person or group of persons promoting or sponsoring a public
dance not exempted from the provision of §
110.16 without obtaining a permit or without obtaining the services of
qualified peace officers in accordance with the provisions of §
110.16, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or imprisonment of 90
days, or both the fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 614, passed 11-8-1999)
CHAPTER 111: LICENSES GENERALLY
Section
Business Registration
   
111.01   Imposition of business registration fee
   
111.02   Application to do business
   
111.03   Application
   
111.04   Proof of CRS compliance
   
111.05   Verification of compliance
   
111.06   Renewal
   
111.07   Failure to register
Miscellaneous
   
111.20   New liquor license location; petition and consent required; other
restrictions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Gasoline tax in lieu of licenses, see §
35.080
   Truck license to convey goods or merchandise; fees, see
Ch. 71
BUSINESS REGISTRATION
§ 111.01 IMPOSITION OF BUSINESS REGISTRATION FEE.
   There is imposed on each place of business conducted in this municipality, a
business registration fee of $35. The fee is imposed pursuant to NMSA § 3-38-
3 as amended, and shall be known as the business registration fee. The business
registration fee may not be prorated for businesses conducted for the portion
of the year.
(Ord. 674, passed 2-10-2010)
§ 111.02 APPLICATION TO DO BUSINESS.
   Any person prior to engaging in business within the municipal limits of the
town shall apply for and pay the business registration fee for each outlet,
branch or location.
(Ord. 674, passed 2-10-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION.
   Any person filing an application for issuance or renewal of any business
registration shall include in the application, his or her current revenue
division taxpayer identification number.
(Ord. 674, passed 2-10-2010)
§ 111.04 PROOF OF CRS COMPLIANCE.
   Any person applying for a business registration must be active and all
reports with New Mexico Taxation and Revenue Department, Combined Reporting
System (CRS) taxes due are paid.
(Ord. 674, passed 2-10-2010)
§ 111.05 VERIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   An “in CRS Compliance” letter from the New Mexico Taxation Revenue
Department, showing compliance must be provided for issuance of annual business
registration.
   (A)   Business may obtain “In CRS Compliance” letter from the New Mexico
Taxation Revenue Department, from the New Mexico Taxation and Revenue
Department online system, Taxpayer Access Point (TAP).
   (B)   Business may request the town request “In CRS Compliance” letter from
the New Mexico Taxation Revenue Department, upon completion of “State of New
Mexico-Taxation and Revenue Department CRS Tax Compliance Authorization”.
(Ord. 674, passed 2-10-2010)
§ 111.06 RENEWAL.
   Prior to March 16 of each year, any person with a place of business in the
town and subject to this chapter shall apply for renewal of business
registration with the Municipal Clerk.
(Ord. 674, passed 2-10-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 FAILURE TO REGISTER; PENALTY.
   Any person with a place of business within the town who fails to register
his or her business or who fails to renew his or her business registration
within the time provided by this subchapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to the provisions of §
111.99.
(Ord. 674, passed 2-10-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 111.20 NEW LIQUOR LICENSE LOCATION; PETITION AND CONSENT REQUIRED; OTHER
RESTRICTIONS.
   No license for the sale of liquors on any lot where there is not a saloon in
operation at the time of application for the license shall be issued or
granted, except upon petition and written consent of the owners of more than ½
of the lots in the half block in which the lot is situated, or if the place
described in the application is not a part of a regularly numbered block, then
upon petition and written consent of the owners of more than ½ of the property
in the square or other subdivision in which the same is situated; and no
license shall be granted for the sale of liquors within 1 block or square of
any church, public library or public school, nor in any purely residence
district.
(Ord. 33, passed 12-14-1908)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
111.01 through
111.07 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine in any sum not to exceed $300 and or by
imprisonment for any period not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 674, passed 2-10-2010)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Reserved
   
112.02   Motor vehicles and consuming alcohol; adopted by reference
   
112.03   Imposition and collection of municipal license tax on alcoholic
beverages
   
112.04   License required for sale of liquor
Alcoholic Beverages; Sales and Consumption
   
112.20   Sale to intoxicated persons
   
112.21   Drinking in public establishments; selling or serving other than in
licensed establishments
   
112.22   Selling or giving alcoholic beverages to minors; possession; minor
defined
   
112.23   Documentary evidence of age and identity
   
112.24   Refusal to sell or serve alcoholic beverages to a person unable to
produce identity card
   
112.25   Demanding and seeing identity card before furnishing alcoholic
beverages
   
112.26   Presenting false evidence of age or identity
   
112.27   Delivery of identity card to minor for use in obtaining alcoholic
beverages
   
112.28   Minors in licensed premises
   
112.29   Employment of minors
Liquor Licenses for Establishments
   
112.45   Definitions
   
112.46   Dispensers; annual license tax
   
112.47   Dispensers to pay extra when selling liquor at public celebrations
   
112.48   Failure to pay fees
   
112.49   Revocation or suspension of license
   
112.50   Selling, serving, furnishing and permitting drinking in establishments
between certain hours
   
112.51   Sunday liquor sales prohibited
   
112.52   Prohibited to sell liquors to habitual drunkards or persons unsound of
mind
   
112.53   Serving to persons under 21 unlawful
   
112.54   Unlawful to knowingly sell to minor
   
112.55   Immediate consumption on premises unlawful
   
112.56   Public intoxication unlawful
   
112.57   Unlawful to consume alcoholic beverages except in licensed
establishments or to sell without a license
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Business registration fee, in lieu of license taxes, see
Chapter 111
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 RESERVED.
§ 112.02 MOTOR VEHICLES AND CONSUMING ALCOHOL; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The following laws of the State of New Mexico are hereby adopted by
reference; Laws 1989, Chapter 317 affecting NMSA § 66-8-116; Laws 1989, Chapter
316 affecting NMSA §§ 66-8-116, 66-8-138 and 66-8-139; and Laws 1979, Chapter
320 affecting NMSA §§ 66-7-301, 66-8-7 and 66-8-116.
(Ord. 568, passed 8-28-1989)
§ 112.03 IMPOSITION AND COLLECTION OF MUNICIPAL LICENSE TAX ON ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CLUB. Any nonprofit group, including an auxiliary or subsidiary group,
organized and operated under the laws of the state, with a membership of not
less than 50 members who pay membership dues at the rate of not less than $5
per year, and who under the constitution and by-laws of the club, have all
voting rights and full membership privileges, and which group is the owner,
lessee or occupant of premises used exclusively for club purposes and which
group the director finds is operated solely for recreation, social, patriotic,
political, benevolent or athletic purposes.
      DEPARTMENT. The Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department.
      DISPENSER. Any person licensed under the provisions of the Liquor Control
Act being NMSA §§ 60-3A-1 et seq., selling, offering for sale or having in his
or her possession with the intent to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink for
consumption on the licensed premises and in unbroken packages for consumption
and not for resale off the licensed premises.
      GOVERNING BODY. The Mayor and elected municipal Board members or
Commissioners of an incorporated municipality.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, firm, partnership, co-partnership,
association or legal entity.
      RESTAURANT. Any establishment having a New Mexico resident as a
proprietor or manager which is held out to the public as a place where meals
are prepared and served primarily for on- premises consumption to the general
public in consideration of payment and which has a dining room, a kitchen, and
the employees necessary for preparing, cooking and serving meals; provided that
RESTAURANT does not include establishments defined in regulations promulgated
by the Director as serving only hamburgers, sandwiches, salads and other fast
foods.
      RETAILER. Any person licensed under the provisions of the Liquor Control
Act being NMSA §§ 60-3A-1 et seq., selling, offering for sale or having in his
or her possession with intent to sell any alcoholic beverages in unbroken
packages for consumption and not for resale off the licensed premises.
   (B)   Imposition of liquor license tax.
      (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of NMSA § 7-24-11, on or after the
effective date of this section, no person who has been issued a state license
from the Department shall be given possession of the license by the
municipality until the person has paid the municipal license tax as follows:
         (a)   Payment in full by July 1; and
         (b)   The license tax shall be prorated so that licenses issued prior
to October 1 of any year shall be subject to the full amount of the annual
license tax. Licenses issued on or subsequent to October 1 and before January
1, shall be subject to 3/4 of the annual license tax. Licenses issued on or
subsequent to January 1 and prior to April 1 of a year shall be subject to ½ of
the annual license tax. Licenses issued on or subsequent to April 1 shall be
subject to 1/4 of the annual license tax.
      (2)   The tax rates shall be:
 
Type of License            Tax Amount
Retailer’s license       $250
Dispenser’s license      $250
Special dispenser’s permi$10
Club license               $250
Restaurant license         $250
 
      (3)   Persons granted a special dispenser’s permit, under the provisions
of NMSA § 60-6A-12, shall pay to the municipality a fee of $10 per day for each
day the permittee dispenses alcoholic beverages.
   (C)   Failure to pay tax. Failure of any person holding a retailer’s,
dispenser’s, canopy, club or restaurant license tax on the date(s) and in the
manner imposed by this section, shall be subject to appropriate action by the
governing body of the municipality of the Town of Clayton, as provided by NMSA
§ 7-24-3, relating to the closing of establishments.
(Ord. 584, passed 5-24-1993)
§ 112.04 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR SALE OF LIQUOR.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS. Any and all distilled or rectified spirits, potable
alcohol, brandy, whisky, rum, gin, aromatic bitters bearing the Federal
Internal Revenue Strip Stamps or any similar alcoholic beverage, including all
blended or fermented beverages, dilutions or mixtures of 1 or more of the
foregoing containing more than 0.5% alcohol, but excluding medical bitters.
      BEER. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion
or decoction of barley, malt, hops or other cereals in water, and shall include
the liquors as porter, beer, ale and stout.
      GENERAL DISPENSER. Any person selling, offering for sale or having in his
or her possession with the intent to sell, wine, beer and spirituous liquors by
the drink or in packages containing less than 5 gallons.
      INTOXICATING LIQUORS. Any alcoholic beverages, whether herein above
defined as beer, wine or a spirituous liquor.
      PERSON. Any male or female, corporation or association, and shall include
both the singular and plural numbers.
      RETAILER. Any person selling, offering for sale or having in his or her
possession with the intent to sell any alcoholic liquors for consumption off of
the premises of the licensee and in packages containing less than 5 gallons.
      SPECIAL DISPENSER. Any person selling, offering for sale or having in his
or her possession with the intent to sell, beer or wine or both beer and wine
by the drink or in packages containing less than 5 gallons.
      SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. All alcoholic liquors as defined above except
fermented beverages such as wine, beer and ale.
      WINE. Includes the words “fruit juices” and shall mean all alcoholic
beverages obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar contained in fruit
or other agricultural products, with or without the addition of sugar or other
products, and which does not contain less than 0.5% nor more than 21% alcohol
by volume.
   (B)   Selling liquor unlawful.  
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to sell, offer for sale or have in
his or her possession with the intent to sell any beer, wine or spirituous
liquor unless the person is the holder of a valid license from the Town of
Clayton, for the purpose.
      (2)   Any person who shall sell, offer for sale or have for sale any
intoxicating liquor without first having secured and being the holder of a
valid license therefor from the Town of Clayton, shall be subject to the
provisions of §
112.99.
      (3)   The issuance of restaurant licenses for the sale of beer, wine, and
spiritous liquors in restaurants within the local option district of the Town
of Clayton be and hereby is approved.
(Ord. 294, passed 12-27-1944; Am. Ord. 714, passed 8-11-2021) Penalty, see §
112.99
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SALES AND CONSUMPTION
§ 112.20 SALE TO INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   It is a violation of this subchapter for a person to sell or serve alcohol
beverages to, or to procure or aid in the procurement of alcoholic beverages,
for an intoxicated person knowing that the person buying or receiving service
of alcoholic beverages is intoxicated.
(Ord. 557, passed 10-14-1986) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 DRINKING IN PUBLIC ESTABLISHMENTS; SELLING OR SERVING OTHER THAN IN
LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   It is a violation of this subchapter for any person to consume
alcoholic beverages in any public establishment unless the establishment is
licensed to sell and serve alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   It is a violation of this subchapter for any person not licensed to
sell, serve or permit the consumption of alcoholic beverages in his or her
public establishment or private club.
(Ord. 557, passed 10-14-1986) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.22 SELLING OR GIVING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TO MINORS; POSSESSION; MINOR
DEFINED.
   (A)   It is a violation of this subchapter for any governmental licensee and
its lessee, retailer, canopy licensee, dispenser, restaurant licensee, club
licensee or any other person, except the minor’s parent, guardian, adult spouse
or adult person into whose custody any court has committed the minor for the
time, outside the presence of the minor’s parent, guardian, adult spouse or
adult person into whose custody a court has committed the minor for the time,
to do any of the following acts:
      (1)   To sell, serve or give any alcoholic beverages to a minor or permit
a minor to consume alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises;
      (2)   To buy alcoholic beverages for or to procure the sale or service of
alcoholic beverages to a minor;
      (3)   To deliver alcoholic beverages to a minor; or
      (4)   To aid or assist a minor to buy, procure or be served with
alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   It is a violation of this subchapter for any minor to buy, attempt to
buy, receive, possess or permit himself or herself to be served with any
alcoholic beverages except when accompanied by his or her parent, guardian,
adult spouse or an adult person into whose custody he or she has been committed
for the time by a court, who is present at the time the alcoholic beverages are
bought, received by, served and/or delivered to him or her.
   (C)   Any person not a minor who deceives another person to believe that a
minor is legally entitled to be sold, served or delivered alcoholic beverages
has violated this subchapter. The person deceived has not violated that act.
   (D)   It is a violation of this subchapter for a minor to buy, attempt to
buy, receive, possess or permit himself or herself to be served any alcoholic
liquor except when accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, adult spouse or
an adult person into whose custody he or she has been committed for the time by
some court and who is actually, visibly and personally present at the time the
alcoholic liquor is delivered to him or her or being present in a licensed
liquor establishment, other than a restaurant or a licensed retail liquor
establishment, except when accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, adult
spouse or an adult person into whose custody he or she has been committed for
the time by some court and who is actually, visibly and personally present at
the time. As used in this division, RESTAURANT means any establishment having a
New Mexico resident as a proprietor or manager which is held out to the public
as a place where meals are prepared and served primarily for on-premises
consumption to the general public in consideration of payment and which has a
dining room, a kitchen and the employees necessary for preparing, cooking and
serving meals and does not include establishments as defined in regulations
promulgated by the Director of the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control
serving only hamburgers, sandwiches, salads and other fast foods.
   (E)   In any proceedings under division (A) above, it is not necessary for
the prosecution, or any person, official or party urging to or contending that
the division has been violated, to allege or prove that the parent, guardian,
adult spouse or any adult person into whose custody any minor has been
committed by any court, was not actually, visibly and personally present at the
time of the alleged violation, but the matters are matters of defense to be
established and proved by the person against whom the prosecution or
proceedings is brought.
   (F)   As used in this subchapter, MINOR means any person under 21 years of
age.
   (G)   Violation of this section by a minor with respect to possession is a
petty misdemeanor. Any sentence imposed pursuant to this section may be
suspended in the discretion of the court upon the condition that:
      (1)   The minor relinquish his or her driver’s license for a period not
to exceed 3 months, where upon the trial court may dismiss the possession of
alcoholic liquor charge and it shall not be considered a conviction. In the
event the minor’s drivers’s license is relinquished, the trial court shall
inform the motor vehicle division of the action; provided, however, if the
minor drives during the period of relinquishment, then the court may impose a
fine, jail sentence or both, the fine and sentence not to exceed the maximums
imposed for petty misdemeanors or may impose punishment pursuant to division
(G)(2) below.
      (2)   The minor assists in a community project, designated by the court,
up to 50 hours, whereupon the trial court may dismiss the possession of
alcoholic liquor charge, and it shall not be considered a conviction.
(Ord. 557, passed 10-14-1986) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.23 DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE OF AGE AND IDENTITY.
   Evidence of the age and identity of a person may be shown by any document
which contains a picture of the person issued by a federal, state, county or
municipal government, or subdivision or agency thereof, including but not
limited to, a motor vehicle operator’s license or an identification card issued
to a member of the Armed Forces.
(Ord. 557, passed 10-14-1986)
§ 112.24 REFUSAL TO SELL OR SERVE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TO A PERSON UNABLE TO
PRODUCE IDENTITY CARD.
   Any retailer, dispenser, restaurant licensee, club licensee, canopy licensee
or governmental licensee and its lessee may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic
beverages to any person who is unable to produce an identity card or document
prescribed by §
112.23 as evidence that he or she is 21 years of age or over.
(Ord. 557, passed 10-14-1986)
§ 112.25 DEMANDING AND SEEING IDENTITY CARD BEFORE FURNISHING ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   In any criminal prosecution under this subchapter prohibiting the gift, sale
or service of alcoholic beverages to minors, proof that the accused licensee in
good faith demanded and was shown an identity card or document prescribed by §
112.23 before furnishing any alcoholic beverages to a minor shall be a defense
to the prosecution or proceedings.
(Ord. 557, passed 10-14-1986)
§ 112.26 PRESENTING FALSE EVIDENCE OF AGE OR IDENTITY.
   A minor who presents to any licensee any written, printed or photostatic
evidence of age or identity, whether of the type prescribed by §
112.23 or not, which is false, for the purpose of procuring or attempting to
procure any alcoholic beverages, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 557, passed 10-14-1986)
§ 112.27 DELIVERY OF IDENTITY CARD TO MINOR FOR USE IN OBTAINING ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   Any person who gives, loans, sells or delivers an identity card to a minor
with the knowledge that the minor intends to use the identity card for the
purpose of procuring or attempting to procure any alcoholic beverages is guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 557, passed 10-14-1986)
§ 112.28 MINORS IN LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   Any retailer, dispenser, restaurant licensee, club licensee, canopy
licensee or governmental licensee or its lessee who permits a minor to enter
and remain in the licensed premises without lawful business, is guilty of a
violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any minor who enters and remains in the licensed premises without
lawful business, is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of
not less than $100, no part of which shall be suspended.
(Ord. 557, passed 10-14-1986)
§ 112.29 EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any retailer, dispenser,
restaurant licensee, club licensee, canopy licensee or governmental licensee or
its lessee knowingly to employ or use the service of any minor in the sale and
service of alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 557, passed 10-14-1986) Penalty, see §
112.99
LIQUOR LICENSES FOR ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 112.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS. Any and all distilled or rectified spirits, potable
alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, gin, aromatic bitters bearing the Federal
Internal Revenue Strip Stamps or any similar alcoholic beverage, including all
blended or fermented beverages, dilutions or mixtures of 1 or more of the
foregoing, containing more than 0.5% alcohol, but excluding medicinal bitters.
   CLUB. Any organization of persons organized and operating under the laws of
the State of New Mexico, to which the state has issued a liquor license.
   DISPENSER. Any person, to whom the State of New Mexico has issued a
dispenser’s liquor license, selling, offering for sale or having in his or her
possession with the intent to sell alcoholic liquors by the drink or in
packages containing less than 5 gallons.
   GENERAL ELECTION DAY. Any day during which there is a general election of
officials to state, county or municipal offices.
   MINOR. Any person under 21 years of age.
   PERSON. Any male or female, corporation, firm, co-partnership, association
or club and shall include both the singular and plural numbers.
   RETAILER. Any person, to whom the State of New Mexico has issued a
retailer’s liquor license, selling, offering for sale or having in his or her
possession with the intent to sell, any alcoholic liquors for consumption off
of the premises of the licensee and in unbroken packages containing less than 5
gallons.
   SUNDAY. The time between 2:01 a.m. of Sunday and 12:01 a.m. of Monday.
(Ord. 356, passed 11-23-1953)
§ 112.46 DISPENSERS; ANNUAL LICENSE TAX.
   Dispensers shall pay to the Town of Clayton an annual license tax in the
amount of $500. Retailers shall pay to the Town of Clayton an annual license
tax in the amount of $300. Clubs shall pay to the Town of Clayton an annual
license tax in the amount of $200. All the license taxes shall be due and
payable before July 1 of each year, commencing July 1, 1970. License taxes
shall be prorated so that licenses issued prior to the first day of October of
each year shall be subject to the full amount of the annual fee. Licenses
issued on or subsequent to the first day of October and prior to the first day
of January of each year shall be subject to 3/4 the annual fee. Licenses issued
on or subsequent to the first day of January and prior to the first day of
April of each year shall be subject to ½ the annual license fee. Licenses
issued on or subsequent to the first day of April of each year shall be subject
to 1/4 the annual license fee.
(Ord. 356, passed 11-23-1953; Am. Ord. 451, passed 6-8-1970)
§ 112.47 DISPENSERS TO PAY EXTRA WHEN SELLING LIQUOR AT PUBLIC CELEBRATIONS.
   Any person duly authorized to dispense alcoholic liquors at fairs or other
public celebrations shall pay to the Town of Clayton, in addition to the
applicable fee set out in §
112.46, the sum of $10 per day for each day that the person shall dispense
alcoholic liquors at the fair or other public celebration.
(Ord. 356, passed 11-23-1953)
§ 112.48 FAILURE TO PAY FEES.
   Failure to pay or tender payment of the fees set out in §§
112.46 and
112.47, shall render the place of business of the retailer, dispenser or club
so failing to pay or tender payment of the fees, subject to being closed
written order duly entered by the Board of Trustees of the Town of Clayton.
(Ord. 356, passed 11-23-1953)
§ 112.49 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   Revocation or suspension of any retailer’s, dispenser’s or club’s license
shall not entitle a licensee to the refund of any portion of any municipal
license tax, which the licensee has paid.
(Ord. 356, passed 11-23-1953)
§ 112.50 SELLING, SERVING, FURNISHING AND PERMITTING DRINKING IN ESTABLISHMENTS
BETWEEN CERTAIN HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, serve, give or deliver any
alcoholic liquors to any other person, except during the following hours:
   (A)   On Mondays from and after 7:00 a.m until midnight;
   (B)   On the other weekdays from and after midnight until 2:00 a.m.; and
   (C)   From and after 7:00 a.m. until midnight and on Sundays from and after
12:01 a.m. until 2:00 a.m.
(Ord. 356, passed 11-23-1953) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.51 SUNDAY LIQUOR SALES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, serve, give or deliver any
alcoholic liquors to any other person on Sunday or to permit the consumption of
alcoholic liquors on their licensed premises on Sunday.
(Ord. 356, passed 11-23-1953) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.52 PROHIBITED TO SELL LIQUORS TO HABITUAL DRUNKARDS OR PERSONS UNSOUND OF
MIND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, serve, give or deliver any
alcoholic liquors or to procure or aid in the procuration of any alcoholic
liquors to any habitual drunkard or person of unsound mind, knowing that the
person buying or receiving service of the alcoholic liquors is a habitual
drunkard or person of unsound mind.
(Ord. 356, passed 11-23-1953) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.53 SERVING TO PERSONS UNDER 21 UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any club, retailer, dispenser, bartender,
waiter or servant or any employee of any club, retailer or dispenser or for any
taxi driver, hotel employee or any other person to do any of the following
acts:
      (1)   To sell, serve or give any alcoholic liquor to a minor;
      (2)   To buy alcoholic liquor for or to procure the sale or service of
alcoholic liquor to a minor;
      (3)   To deliver alcoholic liquor to a minor; and
      (4)   To aid or assist a minor to buy, procure or to be served with
alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to buy, receive or permit himself
or herself to be served with any alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   In the event any person except a minor shall procure any other person
to sell, serve or deliver any alcoholic liquor to a minor, by actual or
constructive misrepresentation of any facts calculated to cause or by the
concealment of any facts, the concealment of which is calculated to cause the
person selling, serving or delivering the alcoholic liquors to the minor, that
the minor is legally entitled to be sold, served or delivered alcoholic liquors
and actually deceiving him or her by the misrepresentation or concealment, then
that person, and not the person so deceived by the misrepresentation or
concealment, shall have violated this subchapter.
(Ord. 356, passed 11-23-1953) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.54 UNLAWFUL TO KNOWINGLY SELL TO MINOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any club, retailer or dispenser knowingly to employ
any minor in the sale or service of alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 356, passed 11-23-1953) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.55 IMMEDIATE CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any club to sell alcoholic liquors, except beer, by
the can or bottle or in any manner other than by the drink for immediate
consumption on the premises of the club.
(Ord. 356, passed 11-23-1953) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.56 PUBLIC INTOXICATION UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear or be found on any street or
alley in a state of intoxication or drunkenness.
(Ord. 356, passed 11-23-1953) Penalty, see §
112.99
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see §
132.06
§ 112.57 UNLAWFUL TO CONSUME ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES EXCEPT IN LICENSED
ESTABLISHMENTS OR TO SELL WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to drink or consume alcoholic liquors, or for any
person who is the owner or proprietor to sell, give, serve, furnish or permit
the drinking or consumption of alcoholic liquors in any public dance hall, pool
room, bowling alley, street, alley, state, federal or town building, or in any
other public place, except establishments having a license to dispense
alcoholic liquors. For the purposes of this section, spaces reserved for
dancing and tables in connection with a liquor dispensing unit is a part of the
licensed establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, who is not the owner of a valid
license issued by the State of New Mexico authorizing the person to sell
alcoholic liquor, to sell or have in his or her possession with the intent to
sell any alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this
section shall be subject to the provisions of §
112.99.
(Ord. 356, passed 11-23-1953) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
112.04 shall upon conviction thereof be punished by a fine of not more than
$200 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days or by both the fine and
imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 294, passed 12-27-1944; Am. Ord. 688, passed 9-12-2012)
   (D)   (1)   Any violation of §§
112.22 through
112.27 by a minor, is punishable upon conviction by a fine of not less than
$100, no part of which shall be suspended, or by imprisonment in the county
jail for not more than 6 months, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   Except as set out in division (D)(1) above, any violation of §§
112.20 through
112.29 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $250 or by confinement in
jail of not more than 90 days or by both the fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 557, passed 10-14-1986)
   (E)   (1)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of
any of §§
112.50 through
112.55 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $200 or by imprisonment not
exceeding 30 days.
      (2)   Any person found guilty of violating §
112.56 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $25.
      (3)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of §
112.57 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $100.
(Ord. 356, passed 11-23-1953)
CHAPTER 113: SALES AND AUCTIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Regulate auction sales
   
113.02   Regulating sale and purchase of second-hand goods
Regulating Certain Kinds of Merchandise Auctions
   
113.15   Scope
   
113.16   Merchandise auction without a license prohibited; hours and duration
of sale
   
113.17   Application for merchandise auction license
   
113.18   Form of application
   
113.19   Bond required
   
113.20   Fees
   
113.21   Inspectors
   
113.22   Presentation of application
   
113.23   Hearing upon application
   
113.24   Offenses at merchandise auction sales
   
113.25   Recovery of bond
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 REGULATE AUCTION SALES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firms or corporations to
hold, conduct, permit or suffer to be held or conducted, any public or auction
sale upon any street, alley, sidewalk or vacant lot within the Town of Clayton,
New Mexico, unless a license therefor be first granted by the Board of Trustees
of the Town of Clayton upon application made to the Board of Trustees by the
person, firm or corporation desiring same; provided, however, that no license
or permit shall be required of any person, firm or corporation to hold a public
or auction sale within a building occupied by some business or occupation upon
which an occupation tax is paid by the person, firm or corporation holding the
public or auction sale and provided, further, that this shall not be construed
to prohibit sales made by sheriffs, constables, tax collectors, coroners,
marshals, executors, guardians assignees of insolvent debtors or bankrupts, or
any person required by law to sell real or personal property at auction.
   (B)   No license for any public or auction sale shall be issued unless the
person, firm or corporation granted same shall first pay to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer the sum of $50 and the license fee shall be paid for each day that
any sale is held within the Town of Clayton.
   (C)   The license shall be granted by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, when
authorized by the Board of Trustees, after payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may refuse to issue licenses when it may deem it
for the best interests of the public, after hearing given to the person, firm
or corporation applying therefor, if 2/3 of the members of the Board of
Trustees present at the meeting at which same is considered be of the opinion
that it be for the best interests of the public. An application for a license
may be considered at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Trustees,
if a special meeting be called for that purpose and a quorum of the Board of
Trustees be present after notice to each member of the Board who is not absent
from the Town of Clayton.
(Ord. 211, passed 2-9-1931) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 REGULATING SALE AND PURCHASE OF SECOND-HAND GOODS.
   (A)   Every person following the business of or dealing in, junk or second-
hand goods, as herein defined, shall keep a record of all purchases of the
goods made by his or her agent, in which record he or she shall enter the names
of the seller, a description of the article purchased and of the seller, the
day and hour of purchase and the signature of the seller in the seller’s own
handwriting. This record shall be open at all times to the inspection of any
sheriff, marshal or other peace officer. Entries in the record shall be made on
the day of purchase.
   (B)   No dealer in junk or second-hand goods shall purchase or receive from
any person under 18 years of age any junk or second-hand article or articles
whatsoever.
   (C)   On Monday of each week, each dealer shall make and file with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, a written report of all the purchases made the preceding week,
which report shall contain a true and correct copy of the records hereinbefore
required to be kept, and the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall safely keep the same
among the records of the town, where the same may be open at all times to the
inspection of any officer or other person interested therein.
   (D)   The term SECOND-HAND GOODS, in addition to the common understanding
thereof, shall also be construed to mean and include any article sold by any
individual otherwise than in the usual course of business, the individual not
being a recognized dealer or salesperson; provided, however, that nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to ranch, farm or garden produce.
(Ord. 203, passed 6-23-1930; Am. Ord. 266, passed 8-9-1937)
REGULATING CERTAIN KINDS OF MERCHANDISE AUCTIONS
§ 113.15 SCOPE.
   This subchapter shall apply to all merchandise auctions conducted within the
corporate limits of the Town of Clayton. It shall not apply to livestock
auctions, jewelry auctions governed by state law; bona fide judicial sales;
sales conducted by executors or administrators of estates; or to bona fide
sales upon foreclosure of a chattel mortgage, landlord’s lien or other lien or
like interest nor to sales conducted winding up a licensee business. This
subchapter shall not apply to sales of brief duration of consumer goods
conducted by residents of the Town of Clayton at their place of residence.
(Ord. 489, passed 4-14-1975)
§ 113.16 MERCHANDISE AUCTION WITHOUT A LICENSE PROHIBITED; HOURS AND DURATION
OF SALE.
   (A)   All sales of merchandise by auction within the scope of this
subchapter are forbidden unless a license issued pursuant to this subchapter
has been obtained and is in effect.
   (B)   No sales whether licensed or not shall be held, be or remain open for
business on any day after the hour of 6:00 in the evening and before the hour
of 8:00 in the morning. No sales shall be held, be or remain open for business
on Sunday or legal holidays.
   (C)   No sales shall be held, or be or remain open for business for a period
of more than 5 consecutive days exclusive of Sundays and legal holidays, nor
shall a license be granted for greater duration.
(Ord. 489, passed 4-14-1975)
§ 113.17 APPLICATION FOR MERCHANDISE AUCTION LICENSE.
   A license to conduct a merchandise auction within the scope of this
subchapter shall be secured upon application filed at least 30 days prior to
the proposed auction sale in conformity with this subchapter with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 489, passed 4-14-1975)
§ 113.18 FORM OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every application for a license hereunder shall be under oath and
include the following:
      (1)   The name, residence, business address and age of the applicant
together with an account of the applicant’s occupation for the 5 years
preceding the application;
      (2)   The name, residence, business address and age of any person who
will participate in conducting the proposed auction sale together with an
account of the occupation of the person or persons for the 5 years preceding
the application;
      (3)   A complete inventory of the merchandise to be sold at the proposed
auction, assigning a number to each item describing it specifically and giving
as to each at least the following information: name of manufacturer,
approximate date of manufacture, model name and number and whether the
merchandise is new or used;
      (4)   An oath to observe the laws of this state as well as the provisions
of this subchapter;
      (5)   The address, hours and dates of the proposed sale, only 1 place of
auction being permitted;
      (6)   The proposed terms of all sales; and
      (7)   A statement whether or not any auction license issued to the
applicant has been denied or revoked.
   (B)   All applications together with accompanying documents shall be
retained by the Town Clerk-Treasurer and shall be available for public
inspection during regular business hours.
(Ord. 489, passed 4-14-1975)
§ 113.19 BOND REQUIRED.
   All applications submitted pursuant to this subchapter shall be accompanied
by the bond of the applicant in the penal sum of $5,000 running to the Town of
Clayton, and conditioned to secure the faithful observance of this subchapter
by all persons taking part in the conduct of the auction. The bonds shall be
secured by 2 or more individual sureties each of whom must be qualified by
ownership of property subject to execution within this state over and above all
just debts and liabilities of a value equal to twice the penal sum of the bond,
or by 1 corporate surety qualified to do business in this state.
(Ord. 489, passed 4-14-1975)
§ 113.20 FEES.
   (A)   All applications shall be accompanied by payment in cash to the Town
of Clayton of an amount of $50 for each day of the proposed sale as its
duration is shown by the application.
   (B)   The fee shall be returned to the applicant in the event the
application is denied, or a pro-rata share thereof returned upon voluntary
termination of the sale before its duration has expired.
   (C)   No return of any portion of the fee shall be made if the sale is
terminated for violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 489, passed 4-14-1975)
§ 113.21 INSPECTORS.
   The fee collected pursuant to this subchapter shall be used to defray the
expense of employing a special inspector or inspectors who shall remain on the
premises upon which the auction sale is conducted during all times the sale is
open for business. The Special Inspectors shall be specially appointed for each
auction by the town and so far as possible shall be regularly employed police
officers. They shall have the power and duty to supervise the auction to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and the laws of the State of
New Mexico. The inspectors shall have the authority to make arrests for
violations.
(Ord. 489, passed 4-14-1975)
§ 113.22 PRESENTATION OF APPLICATION.
   Upon presentation of a proper application to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, the
Town Clerk-Treasurer shall examine the application to ensure compliance with
this subchapter and if it shall appear that the application is proper in all
respects the license shall be granted, otherwise the application shall be
denied. The Town Clerk-Treasurer may require a more complete description of the
items in the sale inventory as a condition to granting a license. The applicant
shall receive notice of the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s decision within 5 business
days after submission of the application. The decision shall state generally
the reasons for denial of the application in the event of a denial.
(Ord. 489, passed 4-14-1975)
§ 113.23 HEARING UPON APPLICATION.
   In the event of a denial of an application the applicant may request a
hearing before the governing board of the town. At the hearing which may be
conducted at a regular or special meeting of the governing board, the applicant
shall appear and present the evidence as he or she deems pertinent to his or
her application. Other interested residents of the town may appear and present
evidence regarding the application and otherwise participate in the hearing
through examination of the applicant. If the governing board finds the
application to be in conformity with this subchapter the application shall be
granted otherwise the decision of the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be upheld.
(Ord. 489, passed 4-14-1975)
§ 113.24 OFFENSES AT MERCHANDISE AUCTION SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter:
   (A)   To employ shills or puffers at any auction sale or to offer or to make
or to procure to be offered or made any false bid or offer any false bid to buy
or pretend to buy any article sold or offered for sale;
   (B)   To make or attempt to make any sale to any but a bona fide bidder for
cash at the highest bid above the reserve price, if any, named in the inventory
required hereof;
   (C)   To misrepresent the cost price, trade name or quality of any article
offered for sale;
   (D)   To fail to announce in a clear audible tone as to each article offered
for sale, its true description as found in the inventory required hereof;
   (E)   To fail to attach to each article sold upon its delivery, a card upon
which shall be legibly written its inventory description and number;
   (F)   To make any false statement in the application for license hereunder
or the inventory filed therewith;
   (G)   To sell or attempt to sell any article of merchandise that has not
been included in the inventory required hereof; and
   (H)   For a licensee to conduct or attempt to conduct an auction within this
subchapter other than on the premises described in the application.
(Ord. 489, passed 4-14-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.25 RECOVERY OF BOND.
   The Town of Clayton for the purpose of recovery of fines and penalties
hereunder and any person purchasing at any auction hereunder for the
satisfaction of any civil judgment in an action for misrepresentation or fraud,
or arising out of any violation of this subchapter, shall have a right of
action upon the bond required by this subchapter. Any suit on the bond shall be
in the name of the Town of Clayton.
(Ord. 489, passed 4-14-1975)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Regulate auction sales. Any person convicted of a violation of §
113.01 or any provision thereof, shall be punished by a fine in any amount not
exceeding $200 and not less than $10.
(Ord. 211, passed 2-9-1931)
   (C)   Regulating sale and purchase of second-hand goods. Any person who
shall violate any provision of §
113.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in any amount not less than $5
nor more than $100 for each offense.
(Ord. 203, passed 6-23-1930)
   (D)   Regulating certain kind of merchandise auctions. Any person or
corporation violating the provisions of this section shall upon conviction be
fined not more than $300 and may be imprisoned for not more than 90 days or
both for each violation or offense. Upon conviction of the licensee or an agent
thereof any license granted hereunder shall be revoked.
(Ord. 489, passed 4-14-1975)
CHAPTER 114: FOOD REGULATIONS
Section
Restaurants, Employees and Eating Establishments
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Permits
   
114.03   Examination and condemnation of unwholesome, adulterated or misbranded
food or drink
   
114.04   Inspection of restaurants for purposes of grading and regrading
   
114.05   Grade A restaurants
   
114.06   Notification of disease
   
114.07   Procedure when infection suspected
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Issuance of restaurant licenses for the sale of beer, wine and spiritous
liquors in restaurants, see §
112.04(B)
RESTAURANTS, EMPLOYEES AND EATING ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULTERATED. Food shall be deemed to be adulterated in any of the following
cases:
      (1)   If any substance or substances has or have been mixed and rucked
with it so as to reduce or lower or injuriously effect its quality or strength;
      (2)   If any inferior or cheaper substance has been substituted wholly or
in part for the article;
      (3)   If any valuable constituent of the article has been wholly or in
part abstracted;
      (4)   If it consists wholly or in part of filthy, diseased, decomposed,
putrid or rotten animal or vegetable substance, whether manufactured or not, or
of any portion of any animal unfit for food, or if it is placed or packed in an
unclean container, or if it is a product of a diseased animal, or 1 that has
died otherwise than by slaughter;
      (5)   If it is colored or coated or polished or powdered whereby damage
or inferiority is concealed or it is made to appear better than it really is;
      (6)   If it contains any added poisonous ingredients, or any ingredient
which may render it injurious to health; or if it contains any antiseptic or
preservative not evident and not known to purchaser or consumer; and
      (7)   If it does not conform to the standard of purity therefor as
proclaimed by the Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture.
   EATING AND COOKING UTENSILS. Any kitchenware, tableware, cutlery, utensils,
containers or other equipment with which food or drink comes in contact during
storage, preparation or serving.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who handles food or drink during preparation or
serving, who comes in contact with any eating or cooking utensils, or who is
occupied or employed at any time in a room in which food or drink is prepared
or served.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer in and for Union County, New
Mexico, the Sanitary Inspector or any officer, official or employee of the Town
of Clayton, charged with the enforcement of health measures, ordinances or
regulations, or the authorized representative of either of them, as the context
renders applicable.
   PERSON. Person, firm, corporation or association.
   RESTAURANT. Restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria, short-order café,
luncheonette, hotel dining room, tavern, sandwich stand, soda fountain and all
other eating and drinking establishments.
(Ord. 320, passed 9-12-1948)
§ 114.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits and restaurant operation. It shall be unlawful for any person
to operate a restaurant in the Town of Clayton who does not possess an
unrevoked or unexpired permit from the Health Officer and in whose place of
business the permit is not posted in a conspicuous place. This section shall
apply to temporary or itinerant as well as permanently established places of
business. Only persons who comply with the requirements of this subchapter
shall be entitled to receive and retain a permit.
   (B)   Application for permit. Any person desiring to obtain a permit to
operate a restaurant in the Town of Clayton shall file with the Health Officer
a written application for the permit, with a certificate from the Town Clerk-
Treasurer of the Town of Clayton, certifying to the fact that applicant is the
holder of a license for the operation of a restaurant as required under the
terms of this subchapter. If the application be favorably acted upon by the
Health Officer, the Health Officer shall issue to the applicant a permit to
operate a restaurant in the Town of Clayton. All permits issued under the terms
of this subchapter shall expire on January 1 of each year. No permit shall be
required for the operation of restaurants in the Town of Clayton prior to 6
months from the date on which this subchapter becomes effective.
   (C)   Revoking permits. Permits issued hereunder may be revoked by the
Health Officer upon the violation by the holder of any of the terms of this
subchapter, or at any time when in the judgment of the Health Officer the
restaurant has become a public health menace, provided that the holder of the
permit shall, after compliance with the revocation, have the right of appeal to
the State Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 320, passed 9-12-1948) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF UNWHOLESOME, ADULTERATED OR MISBRANDED
FOOD OR DRINK.
   Samples of food and drink may be taken and examined by the Health Officer as
often as he or she deems necessary for the detection of unwholesomeness,
adulteration or misbranding. The Health Officer may condemn, remove and destroy
any food or drink which he or she deems unwholesome, adulterated or misbranded.
(Ord. 320, passed 9-12-1948)
§ 114.04 INSPECTION OF RESTAURANTS FOR PURPOSES OF GRADING AND REGRADING.
   (A)   At least once every 6 months the Health Officer shall inspect every
restaurant located within the Town of Clayton. In case the Health Officer
discovers the violation of any item of sanitation required for the grade then
held, he or she shall make a second inspection after the lapse of the time as
he or she deems necessary for the defect to be remedied. If upon the second
inspection the same item of sanitation is found to be violated, the restaurant
shall be required to display 1 copy of inspection report.
   (B)   One copy of the inspection report shall be posted by the Health
Officer upon an inside wall of the restaurant and the inspection report shall
not be defaced or removed by any person except the Health Officer. Another copy
of the inspection report shall be filed with the records of the Health
Department.
(Ord. 320, passed 9-12-1948)
§ 114.05 GRADE A RESTAURANTS.
   All restaurants shall be inspected on the following items:
   (A)   Floors. The floors of all rooms in which food or drink is stored,
prepared or served, or in which utensils are washed, shall be of the
construction as to be easily cleaned, shall be smooth and shall be kept clean
and in good repair. Kitchen floors shall be impervious to water.
   (B)   Walls and ceilings. Walls and ceilings of all rooms in which food or
drink is stored, prepared or served shall be kept clean and in good repair. All
walls and ceilings or rooms in which food or drink is stored or prepared shall
be finished in light color. The walls of all rooms in which food or drink is
prepared or utensils are washed or stored, shall have a smooth, washable
surface up to the level reached by splash or spray.
   (C)   Lighting. All rooms in which food or drink is stored or prepared or in
which utensils are washed shall have an area equal to 10% of the floor area in
effective window glass or one 100-watt electric bulb for 100 square feet of
floor area.
   (D)   Ventilation. All rooms in which food or drink is stored or served, or
in which utensils are washed, shall be ventilated so as to be free of
disagreeable odors and excessive condensation. Exhaust fans or stove-hoods
shall be provided where necessary.
   (E)   Toilet facilities. Every restaurant shall be provided with adequate
toilet facilities conveniently located and conforming with the ordinances of
the Town of Clayton. Toilet rooms shall not open directly into any room in
which food, drink or utensils are handled or stored. The doors of all toilet
rooms shall be self-closing. Toilet rooms shall be kept in a clean condition,
in good repair and well lighted and ventilated. Hand washing signs shall be
posted in each toilet room used by employees. Privies or earth closets shall be
separate from the building, and shall be of the sanitary type constructed and
operated in conformity with the requirements of item 10R of the United States
Public Health Service Milk Ordinance and Code, a certified copy of which shall
be on file in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   Water supply. Water under pressure shall be piped into all rooms in
which food is prepared or utensils are washed and shall be adequate, and of a
safe, sanitary quality.
   (G)   Lavatory facilities. Adequate and convenient hand washing facilities
shall be provided, including warm running water, soap and single-service
towels. The facilities intended for employees shall be so located as to be
readily accessible from the toilet, preferably in the toilet room. The use of a
common towel is prohibited. No employee shall return from a toilet without
washing his or her hands.
   (H)   Doors and windows.  When flies are prevalent, all openings into the
outer air shall be effectively screened with not less than 16 mesh wire cloth
and doors shall be self-closing, unless other effective means are provided to
prevent the entrance of flies. Windows and doors must be tight-fitting and free
of holes.
   (I)   Construction of utensils and equipment. All eating and cooking
utensils and other equipment used in connection with the operating of a
restaurant shall be so constructed as to be easily cleaned and shall be kept in
good repair. This item shall be deemed to mean and to include:
      (1)   All surfaces with which food or drink comes in contact be smooth
and of not readily corrodible material; be free of breaks, corrosion, open
seams, cracks and chipped places; and be accessible for cleaning and self-
draining.
      (2)   All display cases, windows, counters, shelves, tables,
refrigeration equipment, stoves, hoods and other equipment be so constructed as
to be easily cleaned.
      (3)   No food or drink shall come in contact with surfaces cut with
threads other than of the Sanitary International Association of Milk Dealers
type.
      (4)   In all cases where a rotating shaft is inserted through a surface
with which food or drink comes in contact, the joint between the moving part
and the stationary surfaces shall be so fitted as to preclude the possibility
of leakage or contamination of food or drink from without.
   (J)   Cleaning; bactericidal treatment of equipment and utensils.
      (1)   All equipment, including display cases or windows, counters,
shelves, tables, refrigerators, stoves, hoods and sinks, shall be kept clean
and free from dust, dirt, insects and other contaminating material. All cloths
used by waiters, chefs and other employees shall be clean. Single-service
containers shall be used only once. Drying cloths, if used, shall be clean and
shall be used for no other purpose. All except single-service eating and
drinking utensils shall be throughly cleaned after each usage and all multi-use
utensils used in the preparation, cooking or serving of food and drink shall be
cleaned in such a manner as to be clean to the sight and touch. Cleaning shall
be accomplished by the use of warm water (100ºF to 120ºF) containing an
adequate amount of soap or an alkali cleanser to remove grease. The wash water
shall be changed at sufficiently frequent intervals to keep it reasonably clean
and free from precipitated grease. When washing is done by machine, the
temperature of the wash water shall be not less than 170ºF. After cleaning, all
the utensils shall be subjected to 1 or more of the following bactericidal
processes:
         (a)   Immersion for at least 2 minutes in a lukewarm chlorine rinse
containing at least 100 parts per million of available chlorine if hypochlorite
are used, or a concentration of equal bactericidal strength if chloramines are
used. For this method of bactericidal treatment, a 3-compartment vat shall be
required, the first compartment to be used for washing, the second for plain
rinsing and the third for chlorine immersion. Upon removal from the chlorine
rinse, the utensils may be rinsed in clean running water, if desired, and
allowed to dry on a drain shelf or tray.
         (b)   Exposure in a steam cabinet to at least 170ºF for at least 15
minutes, or at least 200ºF for at least 5 minutes.
         (c)   Exposure in an oven or hot-air sterilizer to hot air at a
temperature of at least 160ºF, for 20 minutes.
      (2)   Equipment that is too large to immerse may be treated:
         (a)   With live steam from a hose, in the case of equipment in which
steam can be confined;
         (b)   By boiling rinse water; or
         (c)   Spraying or swabbing with a chlorine solution of approved
strength.
   (K)   Examination of eating and cooling utensils for the purpose of
determining effectiveness of sterilization method. From time to time, at the
discretion of the Health Officer, eating and cooking utensils shall be examined
for bacterial content. The bacteriological examinations of cleansed and
disinfected utensils shall conform with the latest recommendations of the
Subcommittee on Standard Methods for the Examination of Dishwashing Devices of
the American Public Health Association. The bacterial count shall not exceed
200 organisms per utensil examined. Bacterial content in excess of this
standard shall be deemed to constitute inadequate sterilisation.
   (L)   Storage and maiming of utensils and equipment. After bactericidal
treatment, no utensil shall be stored except in a clean dry place protected
from flies, or other contamination and no utensil shall be handled except in
such a manner as to prevent contamination as far as practicable. Single-service
utensils shall be purchased only in sanitary containers and shall be stored
therein in a clean, dry place until used.
   (M)   Disposal of wastes. All wastes shall be properly disposed of, in
accordance with the requirements of the State Department of Health, and all
garbage and trash shall be kept in suitable receptacles, in such a manner as
not to become a nuisance.
   (N)   Refrigeration. All perishable food or drink shall be kept at or below
50ºF except when being prepared or served. Waste water from refrigeration
equipment shall discharge into an open sink or drain, properly trapped and
sewer connected, provided that where sewer connections are not available clean
adequate water with drip pans may be used.
   (O)   Wholesomeness of food and drink. All food and drink shall be wholesome
and free from spoilage. All milk, milk products, ice cream and other frozen
desserts served shall be of a grade approved by the Health Officer. Milk and
milk products shall be served in the original containers in which they were
received from the distributor or from a bulk container equipped with an
approved dispensing device; provided that this requirement shall not apply to
cream, which may be served from the original bottle or from a dispenser
approved for the service. All oysters, clams and mussels shall be from approved
sources and shall be on the approved list issued by the United States Public
Health Service.
   (P)   Storage and display of food and drink. All food and drink shall be so
stored and displayed as to protect it from dust, flies, vermin, handling,
droplet infection, overhead leakage and other vermin shall be considered as
violating this item. No animals or fowls shall be kept or allowed in any room
in which food or drink is prepared or stored. All means necessary for the
elimination of flies shall be used. All unwrapped or uncased food and drink on
display shall be protected by glass or otherwise from public handling or
contamination. Dustless methods of floor cleaning, shall be used, or dust
arresting compounds and a push type broom shall be used. All except emergency
floor cleaning shall be done during those periods when the least amount of food
or drink is exposed, such as after closing or between meals.
   (Q)   Cleanliness of employees. All employees shall wear clean outer
garments and shall keep their hands clean at all times while engaged in
handling good, drink, utensils or equipment.
   (R)   Miscellaneous. The surroundings of all restaurants shall be kept clean
and free from litter and rubbish. None of the operations connected with a
restaurant shall be conducted in any room used for domestic purposes. Adequate
lockers or dressing rooms shall be provided for employees’ clothing soiled
linens, coats and aprons shall be kept in containers provided for that purpose.
The use of tobacco by chefs, waiters and other employees who prepare, handle or
serve food is prohibited while so engaged. Poisonous compounds for the
destruction of insects or vermin shall be applied only by qualified persons. No
article, polish or other substance containing any cyanide preparation or other
poisonous material shall be used for the cleansing or polishing of eating or
cooking utensils.
   (S)   Personnel health. Every employee of a restaurant shall furnish the
information, permit the physical examination and submit the laboratory
specimens as the Health Officer may require for the purpose of determining
freedom from communicable diseases. The Health Officer shall in each instance
take a careful history if the history suggests that the person may be a carrier
of or infected with any communicable disease, he or she shall secure
appropriate specimens of body fluids, bodily discharges or both and cause them
to be examined in a laboratory approved by the State Health Department for the
examinations. Every employee of any restaurant shall be required to possess in
full force and effect, a certificate, issued by the Health Officer, of freedom
from communicable disease as a prerequisite to employment as a food handler.
The certificates shall be subject to renewal as often as may be deemed
necessary by the Health Officer.
(Ord. 320, passed 9-12-1948) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 NOTIFICATION OF DISEASE.
   (A)   Notice shall be sent to the Health Officer immediately by the
restaurant manager or by the employee concerned if he or she or any employee
contracts any infections, contagious or communicable disease, or has a fever, a
skin eruption, a cough lasting more than 3 weeks or any other suspicious
symptom.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any employee to notify the restaurant manager
immediately when any of the conditions obtain, and if neither the manager nor
the employee concerned notifies the Health Officer immediately when any of the
conditions obtain they shall be held jointly and severally to have violated
this section.
   (C)   A placard containing this section shall be posted in all toilet rooms
and privies serving restaurants.
(Ord. 320, passed 9-12-1948)
§ 114.07 PROCEDURE WHEN INFECTION SUSPECTED.
   When suspicion arises as to the possibility of transmission of infection
from any restaurant employee the Health Officer is authorized to require any or
all of the following measures:
   (A)   The immediate exclusion of the employee from all restaurants;
   (B)   The immediate closing of the restaurant concerned until no further
danger or disease outbreak exists, in the opinion of the Health Officer; and
   (C)   Adequate medical examinations of the employee and of his or her
associates, with the laboratory examination as may be indicated.
(Ord. 320, passed 9-12-1948)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
114.01 through
114.07 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $200 or imprisoned in the
jail of the town, for a period of not less than 1 day nor more than 60 days, at
the discretion of the court having jurisdiction. Each and every violation of
the provisions of §§
114.01 through
114.07 shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 320, passed 9-12-1948)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
132.   PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
134.   MINORS
      
135.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Title
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Amendments
Miscellaneous Offenses
   
130.15   Hitch-hiking
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 TITLE.
   This Title XIII is called and may be cited as the “Criminal Code Ordinance
on General Offenses” for the municipality of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980)
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCUSED. Any person charged with the violation of any ordinance of the
municipality that imposes a penalty.
   ANOTHER, OTHER. Any other human being or legal entity, whether incorporated
or unincorporated, including the United States, the State of New Mexico or any
subdivision thereof.
   ANYTHING OF VALUE. Any conceivable thing of the slightest value, tangible or
intangible, movable or immovable, corporeal or incorporeal, public or private.
The term is not necessarily synonymous with the traditional legal term
property.
   BATTERY. The unlawful, intentional touching or application of force to the
person of another, when done in a rude, insolent or angry manner.
   BET. A bargain in which the parties agree that, dependent upon chance, even
though accompanied by some skill, one stands to win or lose anything of value
specified in the agreement. A BET does not include:
      (1)   Bona fide business transactions which are valid under the laws of
contracts, including without limitation:
         (a)   Contracts for the purchase or sale, at a future date, of
securities or other commodities; and
         (b)   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of
chance, including without limitation, contracts for indemnity or guarantee and
life, health and accident insurance.
      (2)   Offers of purses, prizes or premiums to the actual contestants in
any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or
endurance or to the bona fide owners of animals or vehicles entered in the
contest;
      (3)   A lottery which is defined as an enterprise wherein, for a
consideration, the participants are given an opportunity to win a prize, the
award of which is determined by chance, even though accompanied by some skill.
As used in this division, CONSIDERATION means anything of pecuniary value
required to be paid to the promoter in order to participate in the enterprise;
and
      (4)   Betting otherwise permitted by law.
   CARRYING A DEADLY WEAPON. Being armed with a deadly weapon by having it on
the person, or in close proximity thereto, so that the weapon is readily
accessible for use.
   DEFENDANT. Any person accused of a violation of any ordinance of the
municipality that imposes a penalty.
   DISORDERLY CONDUCT. Engaging in violent, abusive, indecent, profane,
boisterous, unreasonably loud or otherwise disorderly conduct which tends to
disturb the peace, or maliciously disturbing, threatening or, in an insolent
manner, intentionally touching any house occupied by any person.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Board of Trustees of the town.
   HE or HIM or SHE or HER. Shall not be construed to be mandatory distinctions
of gender if not expressly stipulated.
   LAWFUL CUSTODY OR CONFINEMENT. The holding of any person pursuant to lawful
authority, including without limitation actual or constructive custody of
prisoners temporarily outside a penal institution, reformatory, jail, prison
farm or ranch.
   MAY. The action referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The Chief Executive Officer of municipalities having the Mayor-
Council form of government.
   MINOR. Any unmarried person who has not reached his or her eighteenth
birthday, except that under application of the Liquor Control Act being NMSA §§
60-3A-3, or any alcohol-related division of this title, MINOR means any person
under 21 years of age.
   MUNICIPALITY. Any incorporated city, town or village, whether incorporated
under general act, special act or special charter.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. A proceeding heard before any legislative, judicial,
administrative or other governmental agency or official authorized to hear
evidence under oath, including any referee, hearing examiner, commissioner,
notary or other person taking testimony or depositions in any proceeding.
   PERSON. Any human being or legal entity, whether incorporated or
unincorporated.
   POLICE OFFICER, LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER, PEACE OFFICER or OFFICER. Any
public official or public officer vested by law with a duty to maintain public
order or to make arrests for crimes, whether that duty extends to all crimes or
is limited to specific crimes.
   PROSTITUTION. Knowingly engaging in or offering to engage in sexual
intercourse for hire.
   PUBLIC EMPLOYEE. Any person receiving remuneration for regular services
rendered to the state or any of its political subdivisions.
   PUBLIC GROUND. Any real property owned or leased by a municipality.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. Any elected or appointed officer of the state or any of its
political subdivisions, serving with or without remuneration for his or her
services.
   SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
   STREET. Any thoroughfare that can accommodate pedestrian or vehicular
traffic, is open to the public and is under the control of the municipality.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980)
§ 130.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Any amendments to this title shall be adopted as ordinances as required by
state law, and when passed in the form as to indicate the intention to make the
same a part thereof, shall be incorporated into this title so that reference to
it as “The Criminal Code Ordinance on General Offenses” shall be understood as
including the amendments.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980)
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
§ 130.15 HITCH-HIKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to accost the driver of any motor
vehicle at any garage filling station, or on any state highway within the town
for the purpose of hitch-hiking, that is, riding gratis in the motor vehicle
provided; however, this section shall not apply to persons acquainted with the
driver of the vehicle accosted.
(Ord. 233, passed 5-8-1933) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.  Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions
of this title, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not more than $300 or
imprisoned for a period of not more than 90 days, or by both the fine and
imprisonment, and each day this title is violated shall constitute a separate
offense; provided, however, that if a specific penalty is provided therefor in
any particular and individual section of this chapter, then the specific
penalty shall prevail.
   (B)   Hitch-hiking. Any person violating §
130.15 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine not exceeding $200 or by imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 90 days, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 233, passed 5-8-1933)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Destroying, injuring, removing and tampering with or defacing property
   
131.02   Library property
   
131.03   Scattering trash and rubbish
   
131.04   Advertising matter
   
131.05   Petty larceny, conversion, embezzlement and fraud
   
131.06   Receiving stolen property
   
131.07   Shoplifting
   
131.08   Issuing worthless checks
   
131.09   Falsely obtaining services or accommodations
   
131.10   Wrongful use of public property
   
131.11   Removal of earth
   
131.12   Throwing objects at property
 
   
131.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Litter, see §§
95.20,
96.05; declared a nuisance, see §
135.02
§ 131.01 DESTROYING, INJURING, REMOVING AND TAMPERING WITH OR DEFACING
PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously or wantonly destroy,
injure, remove, tamper with or deface real property or improvements thereto or
personal property, either public or private.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 LIBRARY PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to carry away without authority, misuse, cut,
write upon, injure, deface, tear or destroy any book, periodical, map,
newspaper or any other property devoted to public library use.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 SCATTERING TRASH AND RUBBISH.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or permit to be deposited or
scattered upon any sidewalk, alley, street or public property or upon the
private property of another, any rubbish, waste, trash or other disposed
material of any kind.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 ADVERTISING MATTER.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to distribute any commercial advertising
such as show cards, posters, brochures, circulars or handbills upon any public
street or way.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to distribute, place or post in or upon
any private property, including utility poles, any show card, poster, handbill
or other announcement or advertisement without the express consent of the owner
or occupant of the property.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to post or affix any poster, handbill or
other form of advertisement upon the surface of any public structure or
building without the express consent of the public official having charge of
the public structure or property.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 PETTY LARCENY, CONVERSION, EMBEZZLEMENT AND FRAUD.
   It is unlawful for any person to steal, convert, embezzle or acquire by
fraud the property of another including any money, goods, chattels, bank notes,
bonds, promissory notes, bills of exchange, other bills, orders, certificates
or any books of account for or concerning money due or to become due and to be
delivered. If the property stolen, converted, embezzled or acquired by fraud
exceeds the value of $100, the matter shall be referred to the District
Attorney.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful to buy, procure, receive or conceal anything of value knowing
the same to have been stolen, converted, embezzled or acquired by fraud.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully take possession of or
conceal any merchandise valued at not more than $100 offered for sale, with the
intention of converting it without paying for it, or to willfully alter any
label, price tag or marking upon any merchandise, or transfer any merchandise
from one container to another with the intention of depriving the merchant of
all or part of the value of the merchandise. Any person who willfully conceals
merchandise on his or her person or on the person of another or among his or
her belongings or the belongings of another or on or outside the premises of
the store shall be prima facie presumed to have concealed the merchandise with
the intention of converting it without paying for it. If any merchandise is
found to be concealed on any person or among his or her belongings it shall be
prima facie evidence of willful concealment.
   (B)   Any offense concerning merchandise valued at more than $100 shall be
turned over to a higher authority.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08 ISSUING WORTHLESS CHECKS.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful to issue in exchange for anything of value with
intent to defraud any check, draft or order for the payment of money in the
amount of $1 to $25 upon any bank or other depository knowing at the time of
the issue that insufficient funds or credit exists with the bank or other
depository for the payment in full by the check, draft or order.
      (2)   Any person convicted of issuing worthless checks shall be
imprisoned for not more than 30 days or fined not more than $100 or receive
both the imprisonment and fine.
   (B)   Offense of issuance of fraudulent check in excess of $25 shall be
turned over to a higher authority.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.09 FALSELY OBTAINING SERVICES OR ACCOMMODATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to falsely obtain services or
accommodations, or for any person to obtain any service, food, entertainment or
accommodations without paying therefor, and with the intent to cheat or defraud
the owner or person supplying the service, food, entertainment or
accommodations.
   (B)   Any offense concerning falsely obtaining services or accommodations
when the value of the service, food, entertainment or accommodations is in
excess of $100 shall be turned over to a higher authority.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.10 WRONGFUL USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit unlawful use of public property by
knowingly entering any public property without permission of the lawful
custodian or his or her representative when the public property is not open to
the public, or remaining in or occupying any public property after having been
requested to leave by the lawful custodian, or his or her representative, who
has determined that the public property is being used or occupied contrary to
its intended or customary use or that the public property may be damaged or
destroyed by the use.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.11 REMOVAL OF EARTH.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to move, distribute or take away
any earth, stone or other material from any public street, way, alley, park or
public ground.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.12 THROWING OBJECTS AT PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to throw rocks, bricks,
pebbles, wood, iron or anything with which property may be injured, at or
toward any building, residence, dwelling, church, house or any structure of any
kind, with intent to break, mutilate or injure windows, doors or any portion of
the building.
(Ord. 18, passed 6-18-1908) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating §
131.12 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, be
punished by a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $100, or by imprisonment
in the town or county jail for a period of not less than 5 days nor more than
30 days, or by both the fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court
trying the case, and in addition thereto shall be liable to pay all damages to
the building to be recovered in an action in the proper court.
(Ord. 18, passed 6-18-1908)
CHAPTER 132: PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY
Section
Offenses Against Public Peace
   
132.01   Trespass
   
132.02   Prowling
   
132.03   Disturbing the peace
   
132.04   Unreasonable noise
   
132.05   Disorderly conduct
   
132.06   Unlawful assembly
   
132.07   Loitering
   
132.08   Obstructing movement
   
132.09   Removal of barricades
   
132.10   Possession of burglary tools
   
132.11   Residential soliciting prohibited
Offenses Against Public Officials
   
132.25   Assault upon a peace officer
   
132.26   Interference with officers
   
132.27   Impersonating an officer
   
132.28   Impersonating and attempting to function as public officials
   
132.29   Unauthorized display of certain words and insignia
   
132.30   Escape of prisoners
   
132.31   False alarms
   
132.32   False reports
Assault on Persons
   
132.45   Assault
   
132.46   Battery
   
132.47   Aggravated battery
   
132.48   Assault against household member
Weapons; Fireworks
   
132.60   Deadly weapons
   
132.61   Propelling of missiles
   
132.62   Failure to report treatment of wounds
   
132.63   Possession of fireworks
 
   
132.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Drinking from open containers in public, see §
112.01
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
§ 132.01 TRESPASS.
   It is unlawful to enter or remain, with malicious intent, on the property of
another knowing that consent to enter or remain has been denied or withdrawn by
the owner or occupant thereof.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 PROWLING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to loiter or prowl in a place, at a
time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals, under circumstances
that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity. Among
the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether the alarm is
warranted is the fact that the actor takes flight upon appearance of a peace
officer, refuses to identify himself or herself or manifestly endeavors to
conceal himself, herself or any object.
   (B)   Unless flight by the actor or other circumstance makes it
impracticable, a peace officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under
this section, afford the actor an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would
otherwise be warranted, by requesting him or her to identify himself or herself
and explain his or her presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of an
offense under this section if the peace officer did not comply with the
preceding sentence, or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the
actor was true and, if believed by the peace officer at the time, would have
dispelled the alarm.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It is unlawful for any person to disturb or aid in disturbing the peace of
others by violent, tumultuous, offensive or obstreperous conduct, and no person
shall knowingly permit the conduct upon any property owned by him or her, under
his or her control or supervision.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 UNREASONABLE NOISE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made,
any loud or unusual noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers
the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others.
   (B)   Unlawful noises include but shall not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Horns and signal devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling
device of any automobile, motorcycle, truck or other vehicle on any street or
public place except as a danger warning, the creation by means of any signaling
devices of any unreasonable, loud or harsh sound, the sounding of the devices
for any unnecessary and unreasonable period of time other than by accident or
mechanical, electrical or other difficulty or failure and the use of any
signaling device where traffic is held up;
      (2)   Radios and phonographs. The use or operation of any radio,
phonograph or other sound producing machine in such a manner as to disturb the
peace and quiet of neighbors;
      (3)   Loud speakers and amplifiers used for advertising. The use or
operation, or permitting to be played, used or operated any radio, receiver
set, musical instrument, phonograph, tape recorder, loud speaker, sound
amplifier or other machine or device for the production or reproduction of
sound which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial
advertising or attracting the attention of the public in any residential area,
except with the proper permit elsewhere prescribed;
      (4)   Yelling or shouting. Yelling, shouting or creating other loud
noises which annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any
office, dwelling, hotel or residence, or of any persons in the vicinity;
      (5)   Animals. The keeping of any animals which, by causing frequent or
long continuous noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in
the vicinity;
      (6)   Schools, courts, churches and hospitals. The creating of any
excessive noise on any street adjacent to any hospital, school, institution of
learning, church or court which interferes with the workings of the
institution, or which disturbs or annoys patients in a hospital; and
      (7)   Pounding. The pounding or hammering on any metal object or thing
except inside a building or in connection with the construction or erection of
a building.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Disorderly conduct is unlawful.
   (B)   A person is guilty of disorderly conduct if he or she:
      (1)   Creates a disturbance of the public order by an act of violence or
by any act likely to produce violence;
      (2)   Engages in fighting, or in violent, threatening or tumultuous
behavior;
      (3)   Makes any unreasonably loud noise;
      (4)   Addresses abusive language or threats to any person present which
creates a clear and present danger of violence;
      (5)   Causes likelihood of harm or serious inconvenience by failing to
obey a lawful order of dispersal by a police officer, where 3 or more persons
are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity;
      (6)   Damages, befouls or disturbs public property or property of another
so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive condition;
      (7)   Commits a trespass on residential property or on public property.
TRESPASS for the purpose of this section shall mean:
         (a)   Entering upon, or refusing to leave, any residential property of
another, either where the property has been posted with “No Trespassing” signs,
or where immediately prior to the entry, or subsequent thereto, notice is given
by the owner or occupant, orally or in writing, that the entry or continued
presence is prohibited; and/or
         (b)   Entering upon, or refusing to leave, any public property in
violation of regulations promulgated by the official charged with the security,
care or maintenance of the property and approved by the governing body of the
public agency owning property, where the regulations have been conspicuously
posted or where immediately prior to the entry, or subsequent thereto, the
regulations are made known by the official charged with the security, care or
maintenance of the property, his or her agent or a police officer.
      (8)   Makes a telephone call with intent to annoy another, whether or not
conversation ensues;
      (9)   Assembles together with 2 or more persons with intent to do any
unlawful act with force or violence against the person or property of another,
and who makes any overt act to carry out the unlawful purpose; or
      (10)   Disturbs, threatens or in any insolent manner intentionally
touches any house or vehicle occupied by any person.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It is unlawful for 3 or more persons to assemble with intent to do any
unlawful act by force or violence against the person or property of another and
to make any overt act to carry out the unlawful purpose.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.07 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.08 OBSTRUCTING MOVEMENT.
   It is unlawful to hinder, annoy or molest persons passing along any street,
sidewalk, crosswalk or other public way, or to lie, sit or stand around the
entrance of any church, theater, public building or other place of public
assemblage in any manner so as to unreasonably obstruct the entrance or to
place or erect upon any public way an obstruction of any type, except temporary
barriers or warning signs placed for the purpose of safeguarding the public
against any hazard.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.09 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   It is unlawful to remove, destroy or interfere with any barrier, guard or
light placed before or in any dangerous place near the streets, sidewalks or
other public ways of the town for the purpose of warning or protecting
travelers from injury or danger; provided that removal after the danger has
ceased and temporary removal to allow the passage of a vehicle with immediate
subsequent replacement shall not be considered unlawful.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.10 POSSESSION OF BURGLARY TOOLS.
   It is unlawful to possess any lock pick, skeleton key or key to be used with
a bit or bits, jimmy, sledge hammer, pry bar, cold chisel, dynamite,
nitroglycerine, blasting caps or any other burglary instrument or instruments
commonly used by burglars unless the possession is for a lawful purpose.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.11 RESIDENTIAL SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants
of the residences in the town shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
   (B)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately 3 inches by 4 inches in
size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
      “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
Penalty, see §
132.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC OFFICIALS
§ 132.25 ASSAULT UPON A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to commit assault upon a peace officer.
   (B)   Assault upon a peace officer consists of:
      (1)   An attempt to commit a battery upon the person of a peace officer
while he or she is in the lawful discharge of his or her duties; or
      (2)   Any unlawful act, threat or menacing conduct which causes a peace
officer, while he or she is in the lawful discharge of his or her duties, to
reasonably believe that he or she is in danger of receiving an immediate
battery.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.26 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   It is unlawful to resist, abuse, molest, hinder, obstruct or refuse to obey
or assist, when called upon to do so, any police officer, firefighter,
emergency medical personnel or judge while in the discharge of his or her duty.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.27 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person other than a duly commissioned police officer
to wear or carry the uniform, apparel, badge, identification card or other
insignia of office, the same, similar or a colorable imitation of that adopted
and worn or carried by duly commissioned police officers, unless acting in the
course of regular business and with the permission of the municipality, or,
without authority, to exercise or attempt to exercise the functions of, or
pretend to be, a peace officer or judge.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.28 IMPERSONATING AND ATTEMPTING TO FUNCTION AS PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DECISION-MAKING CAPACITY. The duty and/or ability of a person to exercise
judgment or discretion in the exercise of his or her duties of a public
official.
      EXERCISE THE FUNCTIONS OF A PUBLIC OFFICIAL. To attempt to or to actually
influence the actions of another person by claiming to be a public official,
claiming to be acting for the public official, claiming to be conveying a
message from the public official, or by otherwise directly or indirectly
suggesting or claiming the public official has given a particular order, made a
particular statement, set out a particular policy or the like, when the claim
or suggestion is not true. However, this definition shall not include the
publication of news in bona fide news media.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any person employed by city, county, state or federal
governments who is in any decision-making capacity whatsoever.
   (B)   Offenses. No person shall:
      (1)   Impersonate any public official; and/or
      (2)   Attempt to exercise or exercise the functions of a public official,
except insofar as he or she is employed by a governmental entity to do so.
(Ord. 531, passed - -) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.29 UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY OF CERTAIN WORDS AND INSIGNIA.
   It is unlawful to display on any vehicle or sign, without authority of the
municipality, the words “police”, “Police Department”, “Fire Department” or
words or insignia of similar import, whose design or form is such that it
appears to be an official vehicle or sign of the Fire or Police Department of
the municipality, provided that nothing contained herein shall apply to any
state or county vehicle.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.30 ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   (A)   Escape from jail or custody. It is unlawful for any person, while a
prisoner of the municipality or otherwise in the custody of or confined by the
municipality, to escape or attempt to escape, or to assist other prisoners to
escape or attempt to escape from custody or confinement.
   (B)   Assisting escape. It is unlawful for any person to assist, attempt to
assist or offer to assist any person in custody of or confined under the
authority of the municipality to escape from jail, place of confinement or
custody.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.31 FALSE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to make, turn in or give a false alarm of fire
or of need for police or ambulance assistance, or to interfere with the proper
functioning of an alarm system, or to aid or abet the commission of such an
act.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.32 FALSE REPORTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to maliciously make or file with the Police
Department any false, misleading or unfounded report or statement concerning
the commission or alleged commission of any crime.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
ASSAULT ON PERSONS
§ 132.45 ASSAULT.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit a battery upon the person of
another; nor shall any person, by any unlawful act, threat or menacing conduct,
cause another person to believe he or she is in danger of receiving an
immediate battery.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.46 BATTERY.
   It is unlawful for any person to beat, strike, wound, inflict violence or
apply force to the person of another, nor shall a person intentionally touch or
apply force to the person of another in a rude, insolent, angry or hostile
manner except in connection with an exhibition duly authorized and licensed
under law, or in lawful self-defense, or in the line of duty as a duly
authorized police officer as circumstances warrant.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.47 AGGRAVATED BATTERY.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit aggravated battery upon the person
of another; nor shall any person unlawfully touch or apply force to the person
of another with intent to injure that person or another, or inflict an injury
to the person which is not likely to cause death or great bodily harm, but does
cause painful temporary disfigurement or temporary loss or impairment of the
functions of any member or organ of the body.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.48 ASSAULT AGAINST HOUSEHOLD MEMBER.
   (A)   Definition. As used in this section, HOUSEHOLD MEMBER means a spouse,
former spouse or family member, including a relative, parent or in-law, child
or co-parent of a child or a person with whom a person has had a continuing
personal relationship. Cohabitation is not necessary to be deemed a HOUSEHOLD
MEMBER for the purposes hereof.
   (B)   Assault against a household member. Assault against a household member
consists of:
      (1)   An attempt to commit a battery against a household member;
      (2)   Any unlawful act, threat or menacing conduct that causes a
household member to reasonably believe that he or she is in danger of receiving
an immediate battery; or
   (C)   Battery against a household member. Battery against a household member
consists of the unlawful, intentional touching or application of force to the
person of a household member, when done in a rude, insolent or angry manner.
(Ord. 608, passed 8-11-1997) Penalty, see §
132.99
WEAPONS; FIREWORKS
§ 132.60 DEADLY WEAPONS.
   (A)   Carrying of deadly weapons. It is unlawful to carry within the
municipality a concealed, loaded firearm or other weapon capable of producing
death or great bodily harm, including but not restricted to any types of
daggers, brass knuckles, switchblade knives, bowie knives, poniards, butcher
knives, dirk knives, chains, can openers, ice picks and all the weapons with
which dangerous cuts or punctures can be inflicted, including swordcanes and
any kind of sharp pointed canes, also slingshots, bludgeons or any other weapon
with which dangerous wounds can be inflicted, except in a person’s residence or
on real property belonging to him or her as owner, lessee, tenant or licensee,
or in a private automobile or other private means of conveyance for lawful
protection of one’s person or property while traveling or for other lawful
purposes.
   (B)   Discharge of firearms. It is unlawful to discharge within the
municipality limits any pistol, revolver, rifle or shotgun which may be used
for the explosion of cartridges, or any gas-operated gun or any device used for
propelling missiles, or any slingshot or missile propelling device, or any bow
made for the purpose of throwing or projecting missiles of any kind by any
means whatsoever, whether any instrument is called by any name set forth above
or by any other name; provided that this section has no application in cases
involving the discharge of a firearm for lawful purposes.
   (C)   Air and BB guns. It is unlawful for anyone to shoot within the
municipality any air rifle, air gun or BB gun. Parents who permit the violation
of this section shall be deemed guilty of a violation of §
134.07.
   (D)   Exception for peace officers. The provisions set forth above shall not
be construed to forbid police officers from carrying, wearing or discharging
the weapons as shall be necessary in the proper discharge of their duties.
   (E)   Exposing others to danger. It is unlawful to endanger the safety of
another or his or her property by using a firearm or other deadly weapon in a
negligent manner or to carry a firearm while under the influence of any
intoxicant or narcotic, or to sell, loan or furnish any deadly weapon to
persons under the influence of any intoxicant or narcotic or to any incompetent
person.
   (F)   Prohibited weapons. It is unlawful to manufacture, cause to be
manufactured, possess, display, offer, sell or lend any knife which has a blade
which opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other
device or any knife having a blade which opens, falls or is ejected into
position by the force of gravity or by any outward or centrifugal thrust or
movement.
   (G)   Sales to minors. It is unlawful to give, sell, trade, barter or
exchange for anything of value any deadly weapon, air rifle, air gun or BB gun
or ammunition for any firearm to any person under the age of 18 years, provided
that this section shall not be construed to prevent any parent or legal
guardian from purchasing firearms or ammunition for his or her child or ward.
   (H)   Disposition of seized weapons. Every police officer upon making an
arrest and taking a weapon used in the violation of any section of this code
shall deliver the same to the Chief of Police to be held by him or her until
judgment is entered for the offense, and upon the finding of guilt, the weapon
shall be disposed of as provided in NMSA § 29-1-14(H).
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.61 PROPELLING OF MISSILES.
   It is unlawful for any person to shoot, sling or throw any stone, rock or
other propellant, missile or substance in any manner as to be reasonably likely
to cause injury to any person or property.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
Cross-reference:
   Throwing items at property, see also §
131.12
§ 132.62 FAILURE TO REPORT TREATMENT OF WOUNDS.
   It is unlawful for any physician, surgeon or other practitioner of the
healing arts licensed by the State of New Mexico to fail to immediately report
to the municipal Police Department his or her treatment of any person in the
municipality for a wound inflicted by a deadly weapon of any kind.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.63 POSSESSION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Unlawful acts. It is unlawful to manufacture, sell, offer to sell,
own, possess or discharge any firecracker, Roman candle, sky rocket, torpedo,
bomb, blank cartridges or any other type or form of explosive commonly known as
fireworks within the municipal limits unless the State Fire Marshal has
declared that the item is not dangerous to persons or property.
   (B)   Exclusions. The term FIREWORKS shall not include toy pistols, toy
canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper caps containing 25/100 grains
or less of explosive compound are used, providing they are so constructed that
the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for use, and toy
pistols which contain less than 20/100 grains of explosive mixture, the sale
and use of which shall be permitted at all times.
   (C)   Public display. Nothing herein contained shall be held to apply to or
prohibit any municipal or civic organization from sponsoring and conducting, in
connection with any public celebration, an officially supervised and controlled
fireworks display.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
132.99
Cross-reference:
   Sales of fireworks, permits required, see §
91.01
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99.
   (B)   Vagrants. Any person found guilty of being a vagrant as set forth in §
132.07 shall be sentenced to pay a fine in a sum of not less than $3 nor more
than $50, or by imprisonment in the town or county jail at labor compatible
with his or her strength for a term of not less than 1 nor more than 90 days,
or by both the fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court. This
section shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
publication according to law.
(Ord. 10, passed 6-10-1908)
   (C)   Soliciting; trespassing. Anyone perpetrating a nuisance as defined by
§
132.11 shall be deemed guilty of misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall
be punished by a fine in any sum not exceeding $200 or by imprisonment for any
period not exceeding 60 days, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 305, passed 4-28-1947; Am. Ord. 360, passed 4-12-1954)
   (D)   Impersonating and attempting to function as public officials. Any
person found violating §
132.28 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor
more than $300 and imprisonment in the town jail for not less than 30 days nor
more than 90 days.
(Ord. 531, passed - -)
   (E)   Assault against household member.  Any person who commits assault
against a household member or battery against a household member as set forth
in §
132.48 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined from
$100 up to $500, imprisoned for up to 6 months or receive both the fine and
imprisonment.
(Ord. 608, passed 8-11-1997)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Lewd, immoral or obscene acts
   
133.02   Gambling
   
133.03   Aiding illegal activity
   
133.04   Marijuana; possession prohibited
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 LEWD, IMMORAL OR OBSCENE ACTS.
   The following acts are lewd, immoral or obscene and their commission is
unlawful:
   (A)   Being present in any establishment where alcoholic beverages are sold
and engaging in the practice of, or for the purpose of soliciting others to
purchase alcoholic beverages, provided that this provision does not apply to
one employed as a bartender, or waiter or waitress;
   (B)   As the owner or operator of any establishment where alcoholic
beverages are sold, to knowingly permit the presence in the establishment of
any person who violates the provisions of division (A) above;
   (C)   Prostitution, which means knowingly engaging in or offering to engage
in sexual intercourse for hire;
   (D)   Entering or remaining in a house of prostitution with intent to engage
in sexual intercourse with a prostitute;
   (E)   Knowingly hiring a prostitute to engage in sexual intercourse;
   (F)   Knowingly establishing, owning, maintaining or managing a house of
prostitution or participating in the establishment, ownership, maintenance or
management thereof;
   (G)   Knowingly permitting any place to be used as a house of prostitution;
   (H)   Procuring a prostitute for a house of prostitution;
   (I)   Inducing another to become a prostitute;
   (J)   Living wholly or partly upon the earnings of prostitution;
   (K)   Knowingly soliciting a patron for a prostitute or for a house of
prostitution;
   (L)   Knowingly procuring a prostitute for a patron;
   (M)   Knowingly procuring transportation for, paying for the transportation
of or transporting a person within the municipality with the intention of
aiding that person to engage in prostitution;
   (N)   Knowingly being employed by a house of prostitution or to perform any
function which constitutes promoting prostitution; and
   (O)   Knowingly and intentionally exposing the primary genital area to
public view. PRIMARY GENITAL AREA means the mons pubis, penis, testicles, mons
veneris, vulva or vagina.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 GAMBLING.
   (A)   Engaging in gambling. It is unlawful for any person to make a bet,
enter or remain in a gambling place with intent to make a bet, participate in a
lottery or play a gambling device or to conduct a lottery or possess facilities
with intent to conduct a lottery.
   (B)   Commercial gambling. It is unlawful to participate in the earnings of
or to operate a gambling place; or to receive, record, forward or possess
facilities with the intent to receive or forward bets or offers to bet or
become a custodian of anything of value bet or offered to be bet; or to conduct
a lottery or possess facilities with the intent to conduct a lottery where both
the consideration and the prize are money; or to set up for use for the purpose
of gambling, or operate any gambling device or collect the profits therefrom.
   (C)   Permitting use of premises. It is unlawful for any person to knowingly
permit any property owned or occupied by him or her or under his or her control
to be used as a gambling place or to knowingly permit a gambling device to be
set up for the purpose of gambling in a place under his or her control.
   (D)   Dealing in gambling devices. It is unlawful to manufacture,
commercially transfer or possess with the intent to commercially transfer any
device which he or she knows evidences, purports to evidence or is designed to
evidence a gambling purpose or any device which he or she knows is designed
exclusively as a subassembly or essential part of the device, including but not
limited to gambling machines, numbers, jars, punch boards or roulette wheels.
Proof of possession of any device designed exclusively for gambling purposes
other than in a gambling place and not set up for use is prima facie evidence
of possession with intent to transfer commercially.
   (E)   Permitted lottery. Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply
to any sale or drawing of any prize at any fair held in this state for the
benefit of any church, public library or religious society if the benefit shall
be expended in this state for the benefit of the church, public library,
religious society or charitable purposes. A lottery may be operated for the
benefit of the organization or charitable purpose only when the entire proceeds
of the lottery go into the organization for charitable purposes and no part of
the proceeds go to any individual member or employee thereof.
   (F)   Prizes. Nothing in this section shall be held to prohibit any motion
picture theater from offering prizes of cash or merchandise for advertising
purposes in connection with the business whether or not any consideration other
than monetary in excess of the regular price of admission is exacted for
participation in drawings for prizes.
   (G)   Track betting. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit
on-track pari-mutuel betting as authorized by NMSA § 60-1-11.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 AIDING ILLEGAL ACTIVITY.
   It is unlawful to be found in any place where gambling or prostitution is
being conducted with knowledge of the activity, or to give or attempt to give
any signal intended to give warning of the approach of any police officer to
any person in or about any place where any illegal activity is being conducted.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 MARIJUANA; POSSESSION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Drug possession. It is unlawful for any person intentionally to
possess marijuana unless it was obtained pursuant to a valid prescription or
order of a practitioner while acting in the course of his or her professional
practice, or except as otherwise authorized by law.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MARIJUANA. All parts of the plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or
not, the seeds thereof, and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture or preparation of the plant or its seeds. It does not include the
mature stalks of the plant, hashish, tetrahydrocannabinols extracted or
isolated from marijuana, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from
the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture or preparation of the mature stalks, fiber, oil or cake or the
sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination.
      PRACTITIONER. A physician, dentist, veterinarian or other person licensed
to prescribe and administer drugs which are subject to the Controlled Substance
Act of New Mexico being NMSA §§ 31-1 et seq.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Marijuana.
      (1)   Any person found guilty of violating § 133.05 with respect to 1
ounce or less of marijuana shall be punished by a fine not less than $50 nor
more than $100 and by imprisonment for not more than 15 days.
      (2)   Second and subsequent offenses, and possession of more than 1 ounce
of marijuana shall be turned over to a higher jurisdiction.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980)
CHAPTER 134: MINORS
Section
Harm to Minors
   
134.01   Abandonment of children
   
134.02   Cruelty to children
   
134.03   Enticement of child
   
134.04   Unlawful assistance to minors
   
134.05   Unlawful presence in liquor establishments
   
134.06   Offenses by minors
   
134.07   Failure of parental responsibility
   
134.08   Abandonment of dangerous objects
   
134.09   Sale, offer for sale, delivery or gift of certain glues
Curfew; Truancy
   
134.20   Curfew for persons under 18 years of age
   
134.21   Truancy
 
   
134.99   Penalty
HARM TO MINORS
§ 134.01 ABANDONMENT OF CHILDREN.
   It is unlawful for the parent, guardian or custodian of a child to
intentionally leave the child or abandon him or her under circumstances whereby
the child may suffer from neglect.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.02 CRUELTY TO CHILDREN.
   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having the care or
custody of any child to cause or permit any child to be placed in a situation
where the life or health of the child will be
endangered, or to torture, cruelly confine or cruelly punish the child or to
willfully or negligently expose the child to the inclemency of the weather.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 ENTICEMENT OF CHILD.
    It is unlawful to persuade any child under the age of 16 years to enter a
vehicle, building, room or secluded place with intent to commit an act which
would constitute a crime under Article 9 of the Criminal Code (NMSA §§ 30-9-
1 to 36-9-9) or having possession of a child under the age of 16 years to
commit such a crime.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 UNLAWFUL ASSISTANCE TO MINORS.
   It is unlawful to assist minors to buy, procure, obtain or be served any
alcoholic beverages, or to induce any person to sell, serve or deliver any
alcoholic beverage to a minor by actual or constructive misrepresentation of
any facts calculated to cause, or by the concealment of any facts which are
calculated to cause the person selling, serving or delivering the alcoholic
beverages to sell to a minor or to any person for ultimate delivery to a minor.
This section does not apply to the parent or lawful guardian of a minor who
serves alcoholic beverages to that minor on real property, other than licensed
premises, under the control of the parent or lawful guardian.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.05 UNLAWFUL PRESENCE IN LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENTS.
   It is unlawful for the owner or operator of any establishment serving
alcoholic beverages to permit any person under the age of 21 years to attend,
work in, frequent or loiter in or about the premises unless the person is
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.06 OFFENSES BY MINORS.
   (A)   False statement or identification. It is unlawful for any minor to
make false statements or to furnish, present or exhibit any fictitious or false
registration card, identification card or other instrument, or to furnish,
present or exhibit any document issued to another person, for the purpose of
gaining admission to prohibited places or for the purpose of procuring the
sale, gift or delivery of prohibited articles, including but not limited to
alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Procuring unlawful services. It is unlawful for any minor to engage or
authorize the services of any other person to procure for the minor any article
which the minor is prohibited by law to purchase.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
134.99
Cross-reference:
   Curfew, see §
134.20
§ 134.07 FAILURE OF PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of a minor to knowingly permit the minor to violate the
provisions of §
134.04 or §
134.05; §
134.06; and §
132.60(C).
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.08 ABANDONMENT OF DANGEROUS OBJECTS.
   (A)   Containers. It is unlawful to abandon, discard or keep in any place
accessible to children any refrigerator, icebox, freezer, air-tight container,
cabinet or similar container of a capacity of 1-1/2 cubic feet or more which is
no longer in use without sealing or removing the doors or other entrances so as
to make it impossible for any child to be imprisoned therein, or being the
owner, lessee or operator of any premises to permit the articles to remain upon
the premises in a condition whereby a child may be imprisoned therein.
   (B)   Plastic bags. It is unlawful for any person to abandon, expose, leave
in any place accessible to children or permit upon premises under his or her
control any plastic bag without first tearing the same sufficiently to render
it no longer dangerous to a child.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.09 SALE, OFFER FOR SALE, DELIVERY OR GIFT OF CERTAIN GLUES.
   (A)   Prohibited conveyance. It is unlawful to sell, offer for sale, deliver
or give to any person under the age of 18 years any glue or cement commonly
known as model airplane glue, plastic cement, household cement, cement or any
other similar substance, if the glue, cement or substance contains 1 or more of
the following volatile solvents: hexane, benzene, toluol, toluene, xylene,
carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, ethylene dichloride, acetone, cyclohexanone,
methyl ethyl ketone, methyl isobutyl ketone, amyl acetate, butyl acetate, ethyl
acetate, tricresyl phosphate, butyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol, isopropyl alcohol,
methyl cellosolve acetate, trichloroethane or ether.
   (B)   Exception. The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply when
the glue or cement is sold, delivered or given simultaneously with and as part
of a kit used for the construction of model airplanes, model boats, model
automobiles, model trains or other similar models.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
134.99
CURFEW; TRUANCY
§ 134.20 CURFEW FOR PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   Curfew. It is unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways,
alleys, parks, playgrounds, other public places or buildings or vacant lots
between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. except for Friday and Saturday
nights on which nights curfew shall commence at 12:00 a.m. midnight rather than
at 10:30 p.m.; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to a minor
accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and
custody of the minor, or where the minor is upon an emergency errand or
legitimate business directed by persons having the care or custody of him or
her.
   (B)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the town, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the town, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (C)   Failure of parental responsibility. It is unlawful for any parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor to permit
a minor to violate the provisions of division (A).
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980; Am. Ord. 599, passed 7-10-1995; Am. Ord. 604,
passed 9-9-1996) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.21 TRUANCY.
   (A)   Prohibition.  
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to loiter,
idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways, alleys,
parks, playgrounds, other public places or buildings, or vacant lots during the
hours when the person is required to be in attendance at either a public or
other school as required by state law.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a person to encourage or assist a student
not to attend or return to school unless the absence is excused by an
authorized school official or the excuse is recognized by law.
      (3)   This section is in no way intended to replace the New Mexico
Compulsory School Attendance Law being NMSA Chapter 22, Article 12.
      (4)   This section is in no way intended to replace the mandatory truancy
supervision by the local school boards and authorities and the governing
authorities of other schools required by law.
   (B)   Failure of parental responsibility. It is unlawful for any parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor to permit
a minor to violate the provisions of division (A) above.
(Ord. 604, passed 9-9-1996) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
130.99.
   (B)   Any person under the age of 18 years violating any of the provisions
of §§
134.20 and
134.21 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction hereof shall
be fined a sum not more than $300; any person over the age of 18 years
violating the provisions §§
134.20 and
134.21 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction hereof shall
be fined a sum not to exceed $300 or shall be imprisoned for not more than 90
days, or shall receive both the fine and the imprisonment.
(Ord. 599, passed 7-10-1995; Am. Ord. 604, passed 9-9-1996)
CHAPTER 135: NUISANCES
Section
   
135.01   Public nuisance
   
135.02   Nuisance declared
   
135.03   Notice of nuisance
   
135.04   Complaint
   
135.05   Removal of nuisance
   
135.06   Injunctions
 
   
135.99   Penalty
§ 135.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It is unlawful to commit a public nuisance. A PUBLIC NUISANCE consists of
knowingly creating, performing or maintaining anything affecting any number of
citizens without lawful authority which is either injurious to public health,
safety, morals or welfare, or interferes with the exercise and enjoyment of
public rights including the right to use public property.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.02 NUISANCE DECLARED.
    In the interest of the inhabitants of the municipality, it is necessary to
prohibit the accumulation of junk, trash and refuse on property within the
corporate limits of the municipality by declaring the accumulation a nuisance.
The following are hereby declared to be a public nuisance:
   (A)   Unoccupied premises. It shall be unlawful for any reason for any
person to sweep, place or throw solid waste or other waste materials in or upon
any sidewalk, street, alley or unoccupied premises.
   (B)   Unsanitary premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or
cause to remain in or about his or her premises any solid waste, weeds, motor
vehicles not in operating condition, waste water or any conglomeration of
residue thereof which emits odors or serves as a feeding or breeding place for
flies, insects or rodents; and which in the opinion of the Sanitation Officer
is unsanitary or injurious to public health. The accumulation of building
materials, pipes, lumber or boxes may be maintained on the premises if the
accumulation is evenly piled and stacked for a reasonable length of time to be
determined by the Sanitation Officer.
   (C)   Hazardous premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit in
or about his or her premises weeds, briars, brush or any other solid waste to
become in any way hazardous or injurious to public health or to obstruct
pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Accumulation of solid waste. It shall be unlawful for any person to
allow any solid waste to accumulate upon premises owned, leased, rented or
occupied by him or her during intervals between collection thereof, except in
the manner herein provided. It shall be unlawful to deposit any solid waste in
or upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks, gutters, curbing, storm sewers,
parkways or vacant lots within the municipality, except in the manner and in
the receptacles or container as provided in division (E) below.
   (E)   Solid waste receptacles. All solid waste receptacles shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition by the owner or person using the
receptacle, and the receptacles shall be located only in the places as shall be
readily accessible for removing and emptying the same, but shall not be placed
in a place or position as may constitute a nuisance or obstruction to vehicular
or pedestrian traffic.
   (F)   Outdoor vehicle storage; prohibited acts; exceptions.
      (1)   Storing motor vehicles. It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to store on, place on or permit to be stored or placed on, or
allowed to remain on any occupied or unoccupied land within the municipal
limits, a dismantled, partially dismantled or inoperative motor vehicle or any
parts of a motor vehicle, except in areas where the activity is within the
contemplated purposes of duly licensed businesses and the vehicle or parts are
kept in a wholly enclosed garage or structure.
      (2)   Exceptions. Any person, being the owner or tenant, may store,
permit to be stored or allow to remain upon his or her premises any dismantled,
partially dismantled or inoperative motor vehicle, or parts thereof, for a
period not to exceed 1 week, if the motor vehicle is registered in his or her
name; and provided further that the owner or tenant may, in the event of
hardship, secure permission from the municipality to extend the period of time.
      (3)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         DISMANTLED OR PARTIALLY DISMANTLED VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle from
which some part or parts which are ordinarily a component thereof have been
removed or are missing.
         INOPERATIVE OR INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which by
reason of dismantling, disrepair or other cause is incapable of being propelled
under its own power.
         MOTOR VEHICLE. Any wheeled vehicle which is self-propelled or intended
to be self-propelled.
      (4)   Supplementary. This section shall be construed as being
supplementary to any sections of this chapter relating to rubbish, litter and
refuse, and shall not be construed to permit the parking or placing of
dismantled, partially dismantled or inoperable motor vehicles on any public
street.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980)
   (G)   Littering.  No person shall throw or otherwise dispose of any trash,
refuse or litter of any kind anywhere within the town limits of the Town of
Clayton except in trash receptacles.
(Ord. 457, passed 3-8-1971)
Penalty, see §
135.99
Cross-reference:
   Cutting of weeds, see §
98.01
   Storage of vehicles for sale on streets, see §
90.01
§ 135.03 NOTICE OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any municipal police officer, upon observing any violation of this
chapter, shall issue a notice directed to the owner of record of the property
on which the nuisance occurs, or to the occupant or tenant of the property, or
both.
   (B)   The notice shall describe the violation and shall establish a
reasonable time limit for abatement thereof by the owner or occupant or
tenants, which limit shall be not less than 2 days or more than 30 days after
service of the notice.
   (C)   The notice may be served either personally or by registered mail at
the owner’s or occupant’s last known address.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980)
§ 135.04 COMPLAINT.
   In the event the owner or occupant of the property where the nuisance
violation of this chapter exists has failed, within the prescribed time, to
abate the nuisance, then any municipal police officer shall file a complaint
charging violation of this chapter with the municipal court demanding that the
owner of the property or the occupant thereof, or both, be held to answer to
the court for the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980)
§ 135.05 REMOVAL OF NUISANCE.
   In the event that a person is convicted of violating this chapter and still
refuses to remove the junk trash or refuse, the municipality may enforce this
section in any manner consistent with law. Should the person refuse or fail to
pay the assessment, the municipality shall collect the assessment as provided
by law.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980)
§ 135.06 INJUNCTIONS.
   The Chief of Police, when a nuisance exists as set forth in this chapter,
may maintain a complaint in the name of the municipality, perpetually, to
enjoin all persons from maintaining or permitting the nuisance and to abate the
same.
(Ord. 523, passed 4-14-1980)
§ 135.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of §
135.02(G) shall be punished by a fine of not more than $200 or imprisonment for
not more than 90 days, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 457, passed 3-8-1971)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILERS
      
153.   MANUFACTURED HOMES
      
154.   ZONING
      
155.   AIRPORT HAZARD ZONING
      
156.   SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Address ordinance; 911 system
Cross-reference:
   Gas, kerosene and oil curb tanks, see §
92.29
§ 150.01 ADDRESS ORDINANCE; 911 SYSTEM.
   (A)   Short title. This section may be cited as the “Town of Clayton
Addressing Ordinance”.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to enhance the easy and rapid
location of properties by law enforcement, fire rescue and emergency medical
service personnel in Clayton, New Mexico.
   (C)   Administration. This section shall be administered by the Town of
Clayton, which is authorized to and shall assign road names and/or number and
numbers to all properties, both existing and proposed, in accordance with the
criteria in divisions (D), (E) and (F) below. The town shall also be
responsible for maintaining the following official records of this section:
      (1)   A community map for official use showing road names and/or numbers;
      (2)   A listing of all road names and road numbers with low and high
address ranges; and
      (3)   A listing of all addresses assigned.
   (D)   Naming system. All roads that serve 1 or more properties shall be
named regardless of whether the ownership is public or private. A ROAD refers
to any highway, road, street, avenue, lane, private way or similar paved,
gravel or dirt thoroughfare. PROPERTY refers to any property on which a more or
less permanent structure has been erected or could be placed. A road name
assigned by the town shall not constitute or imply the acceptance of the road
as a public way. The following criteria shall govern the naming system:
      (1)   No 2 roads shall be given identical names;
      (2)   Roads should not have similar sounding names; and
      (3)   Each named road shall have the same name throughout its entire
length.
   (E)   Urban numbering system. Numbers in the town and others shall be
assigned such that their address changes in increments logically by 100 as each
street block intersection is crossed. Even numbers shall appear on the south
and west sides of streets (southwest quadrant) and odd addresses on the north
and east sides of streets (northeast quadrant). Generally, the low address is
found where the road intersects another, more significant road. Notwithstanding
the provisions of this section, street names and numbers previously assigned by
the constituent municipalities remain in effect and will not be disturbed.
Addresses established subsequent to the effective date of this section shall be
assigned in accordance with this section. The following criteria shall govern
the numbering system:
      (1)   All number origins shall begin from 0. For dead-end roads,
numbering shall originate at the intersection of the adjacent road and
terminate at the dead end;
      (2)   The number assigned to each structure shall be that of the numbered
interval falling closest to the driveway or front door of the structure;
      (3)   Every structure with more than 1 principal use or occupancy shall
have a separate number for each use or occupancy. For example, duplexes will
have 2 separate numbers;
      (4)   Apartments will have 1 property number followed by an apartment
number, such as 235 Maple Street, Apt 2. Trailer courts will be numbered in a
similar manner using the lot numbers as the sub-address; and
      (5)   The Town of Clayton shall have the authority to modify these
guidelines as necessary to ensure that the addresses assigned are logical for
emergency and postal service.
   (F)   Compliance. All owners of structures shall display and maintain in a
conspicuous place in the structure, the assigned numbers in the following
manner:
      (1)   Number on the structure. The address number shall be displayed on
the front of the structure in the vicinity of the front door or entry when the
structure can be easily seen from the road right-of-way. If the structure is
easily seen from the road right-of-way, but too far from the right-of-way for
the number to be easily seen, then the address number will be placed at the
street line set forth in division (F)(2) below.
      (2)   Number at the street line. The assigned number shall be displayed
on a post, fence, wall, the mail box, the curb or on some structure at the
property line adjacent to the walk or access drive to the numbered structure,
when the structure is difficult to see from the street line, or if the distance
from the street line to the structure is such that an address number posted on
the structure would be difficult to see.
      (3)   Size and color of number. Address numbers shall be a minimum 4
inches high and be of a contrasting color to its background.
      (4)   Old number. Any existing old numbers shall be removed in order to
display the new address numbers in order to prevent confusion about the address
of the property.
   (G)   New developments and subdivisions. All new structures and subdivisions
shall be named and numbered in accordance with the provisions of this section
and as follows:
      (1)   New structures. Whenever any residence or other structure is
constructed or developed, or trailer, mobile home or “double-wide” brought into
Clayton, it shall be the duty of the developer/owner to procure an address from
the town. This shall be done at the time of the issuance of the building or
septic permit from the state.
      (2)   New subdivision. Any prospective subdivider or developer of a
subdivision shall show a proposed road name and lot number system on the pre-
application submission to the Mayor’s office. The town shall check the
suggested road name and addressing to ensure that it conforms with town road
naming and addressing requirements for the enhanced 9-1-1 system. The town
shall have the final authority on the acceptance of all road naming and address
assignment. The approved road names and addresses shall be indicated by the
owner/developer of the new subdivision on the final plan by showing proposed
roads, approved road names and approved addresses for all properties likely to
be constructed.
(Ord. 630, passed 3-11-2003)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Building regulations; adopted by reference
§ 151.01 BUILDING REGULATIONS; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Town of Clayton’s building regulations , including fire limits
regulations, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set
out in full. Copies of the ordinances will be on file in the Town Clerk-
Treasurer’s office and are available for public inspection and copying.
(Ord. 35, passed 12-22-1908; Am. Ord. 60, passed 2-17-1912; Am. Ord. 75, passed
5-25-1915; Am. Ord. 86, passed 12-5-1916; Am. Ord. 170, passed 8-27-1928; Am.
Ord. 202, passed 6-23-1930; Am. Ord. 232, passed 9-26-1932; Am. Ord. 328,
passed 2-28-1949; Am. Ord. 333, passed 9-12-1949; Am. Ord. 340, passed 10-9-
1950; Am. Ord. 358, passed 3-9-1954; Am. Ord. 384, passed 8-25-1958)
CHAPTER 152: MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILERS
Section
Regulation of Sanitary and Electrical Connections to House Trailers
   
152.01   Definition
   
152.02   Prohibited plumbing
   
152.03   Electrical connections
   
152.04   Trash containers
   
152.05   Parking regulations
   
152.06   Padlocking a trailer by Building Inspector
REGULATION OF SANITARY AND ELECTRICAL
CONNECTIONS TO HOUSE TRAILERS
§ 152.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOUSE TRAILER. Any house car, house trailer, trailer home or other mobile
unit, either similar or dissimilar, which may be used as living quarters and is
generally of a mobile character.
(Ord. 398, passed 9-26-1960)
§ 152.02 PROHIBITED PLUMBING.
   (A)   The use of built-in house trailer toilets, water closets or chemical
toilets is prohibited within the Town of Clayton.
   (B)   The use of other house trailer plumbing of any character is
prohibited, unless the fixtures are connected to the sewer system of the town
in conformity with the ordinance of the town relating to plumbing and sewer
connections or unless the plumbing fixtures are connected to a septic tank
approved by the Town Sanitary Inspector and meeting the requirements of the New
Mexico State Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 398, passed 9-26-1960) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03 ELECTRICAL CONNECTIONS.
   Electrical connections to house trailers shall meet the approval of the Town
of Clayton Electrical Inspector.
(Ord. 398, passed 9-26-1960)
§ 152.04 TRASH CONTAINERS.
   Each house trailer occupied by any person shall have its own outdoor trash
container constructed of metal and of not less than 55 gallons content.
(Ord. 398, passed 9-26-1960)
§ 152.05 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   No trailer shall be parked or maintained less than 6 feet from alley lines,
6 feet from inside property lines, 10 feet from street lines, nor less than 6
feet from adjacent buildings of all types.
(Ord. 398, passed 9-26-1960) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.06 PADLOCKING A TRAILER BY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The occupancy by any person of a house trailer in violation of any provision
of this subchapter constitutes a nuisance and may be summarily abated by the
Town of Clayton Building Inspector by padlocking the house trailer. Any house
trailer so padlocked shall be released to the owner thereof upon satisfactory
assurance that the conditions creating a nuisance have been or will be
rectified.
(Ord. 398, passed 9-26-1960)
CHAPTER 153: MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
Regulating Approval and Development of Manufactured Home Parks
   
153.01   Applicability
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Permitted locations
   
153.04   Design standard
   
153.05   Development Plan
   
153.06   Park administration
   
153.07   Interpretations
Regulating Approval and Installation of Manufactured Homes
   
153.20   Applicability
   
153.21   Definitions
   
153.22   Standards
   
153.23   Accessory structures
   
153.24   Permits
   
153.25   Nonconforming status
   
153.26   Temporary use permit
 
   
153.99   Penalty
REGULATING APPROVAL AND DEVELOPMENT
OF MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
§ 153.01 APPLICABILITY.
   The regulation and development of manufactured home parks within the
jurisdiction shall be subject to the conditions set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 525, passed 6-8-1981)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. Any structure attached or adjacent to a manufactured
house, including awnings, carports, porches and similar structures.
   ARTERIAL STREET. A street used primarily for through traffic.
   BUILDING LINE. A line on a plat indicating a limit beyond which buildings or
structures may not be erected.
   CARPORT. A stationary structure consisting of a roof with its supports and
not more than 1 wall or storage cabinet substituting for a wall and used for
sheltering a motor vehicle.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street supplementary to the arterial street system,
providing a means of intercommunication between this system and adjacent areas,
used to some extent for through traffic and to some extent for access to
abutting properties.
   DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD) STANDARDS. The National
Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 being 42 U.S.C. §§
5401 et seq., and rules and regulations adopted thereunder, including:
      (1)   Regulations and interpretations of the State Department of Labor
and Industries, adopted pursuant to HUD rules; and
      (2)   Information supplied by the manufacturer of a manufactured home,
which has been stamped approved by the Department of Housing and Urban
Development pursuant to HUD rules.
   LOCAL STREET. A street primarily for access of abutting properties.
   LOT LINE. A line bounding the lot as shown on the plot plan.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Any structure, transportable in 1 or more sections upon
the public streets and highways on its own running gear, which, when erected
on-site, is designed to be connected to required utilities and utilized as a
dwelling, and which is at least 32 feet in length and 8 feet in width.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any tract of land that is divided into rental spaces
under common ownership or management for the purpose of locating 2 or more
manufactured homes for dwelling purposes.
   OCCUPIED AREA. The area of an individual space which is occupied by a
manufactured home.
   SPACE. An area or lot in a manufactured home park upon which an individual
manufactured home is sited.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A recreational vehicle that does not exceed 8 feet in width
and 32 feet in length and is not designed for use as a permanent residence.
(Ord. 525, passed 6-8-1981)
§ 153.03 PERMITTED LOCATIONS.
   Unless otherwise provided, upon compliance with applicable regulations and
processes, manufactured home parks shall be permitted in all zones.
(Ord. 525, passed 6-8-1981)
§ 153.04 DESIGN STANDARD.
   The following standards and requirements shall govern the design of a
manufactured home park:
   (A)   A manufactured home park shall be not less than 6,000 square feet and
shall not contain fewer than 2 rental spaces.
   (B)   A manufactured home park shall not be established on a site providing
less than a 30-foot wide access to a collector street or an arterial street.
   (C)   Spaces within a manufactured home park shall contain a minimum of
3,000 square feet, with a maximum occupied area of 50% of the space.
   (D)   Only 1 manufactured home shall be permitted on any space.
   (E)   No building, structure or land within the boundaries of a manufactured
home park shall be used for any purpose, except as follows:
      (1)   Manufactured homes shall be used as residences only, together with
the normal accessory uses such as patio, carport or garage, and storage and
washroom buildings;
      (2)   Private and public utilities services, subject to applicable
restrictions;
      (3)   Community recreation facilities, including swimming pools, for the
residents of the park and guests; and
      (4)   One residence for the use of a manager or caretaker responsible for
maintaining or operating the property.
   (F)   All manufactured homes shall be located at least 20 feet from the
property boundary line abutting upon a public street or highway, 25 feet from
the right-of-way of a state highway and at least 10 feet from other boundary
lines defining the outside limits of the park, except that when a 6-foot high
sound-deadening, fireproof barrier, such as earthen berm or brick wall is
provided, the Town Planning Authority may allow the setbacks to be reduced to
10 feet.
   (G)   Unless an intervening firewall is provided, a manufactured home or
accessory structure shall not be located closer than 15 feet from any other
manufactured home, or closer than 10 feet from any roadway. Manufactured home
accessory buildings, when not attached to the manufactured home, shall not be
closer than 5 feet from the manufactured home, unless an intervening firewall
is provided.
   (H)   Attached structures shall be considered part of the manufactured home
for setback purposes.
   (I)   All spaces shall be provided with a foundation base which shall be
improved, to provide adequate support for the placement of a manufactured home,
in accordance with HUD standards.
   (J)   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided at each manufactured
home space, with a minimum 10 feet access to a park street. Also, additional
parking space shall be provided in parking areas distributed around the park,
not to be less than 2 parking spaces per 10 homes, nor more than 1 space per
home. All off-street parking spaces are to be all-weather surfaced.
   (K)   Adequate street lighting shall be provided within the park.
   (L)   Buffering or screening, if required by the Town Planning Authority,
shall be sight-obscuring fence, wall, evergreen or other suitable planting, at
least 6 feet high. Fences or windbreaks exceeding 40 inches high shall be no
closer than 5 feet to any home or accessory structure.
   (M)   Swimming pools shall be set back at least 50 feet from the nearest
residential area and shall have a fence surrounding which is at least 8 feet
high and does not obscure vision into the pool area. The swimming pool shall be
operated and maintained pursuant to the standards and requirements of the New
Mexico Environmental Improvement Division.
   (N)   There shall be landscaping within the open areas of the manufactured
home park not otherwise used for park purposes. The open areas and landscaping
shall be continually and properly maintained.
   (O)   Storage areas for recreational vehicles, boats or trailers may be
provided. A 6-foot high sight-obscuring fence with a lockable gate shall be
erected around the perimeter of the storage areas.
   (P)   Signs identifying the manufactured home park shall conform to
applicable sign ordinances.
   (Q)   All vehicular ways shall be based, graded and paved with an all
weather surface. Speed shall be set at 10 mph, and notice shall be given by
placement of appropriate signs. Surfaced widths of streets shall be a minimum
of 15 feet per traffic lane.
(Ord. 525, passed 6-8-1981)
§ 153.05 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Application for development permit.
      (1)   No land shall be developed for use as a manufactured home park and
no plan for the park shall be filed or recorded until submitted to the Town
Planning Authority and approved.
      (2)   The requirements and standards set forth in this subchapter are the
minimum standards to which a manufactured home park must conform for approval
by the Town Planning Authority.
      (3)   All applications submitted for approval of a manufactured home park
shall consist of 5 copies of the development plan. The plan shall be submitted
15 days before the meeting at which the plan will be reviewed, and shall
contain, as a minimum, the following information:
         (a)   Name of person who prepared the plan;
         (b)   Names of persons owning and managing the land proposed for the
park development;
         (c)   Name and address of the proposed manufactured home park;
         (d)   Scale and north point of the plan;
         (e)   Boundaries and dimensions of the manufactured home park, and
number of acres included;
         (f)   Vicinity map showing relationship of the development to adjacent
properties;
         (g)   Location and dimensions of each space, with the space designated
by number or other designation;
         (h)   Location and dimensions of each existing or proposed building;
         (I)   Location and width of streets and pedestrian ways;
         (j)   Location of each lighting fixture for exterior lighting;
         (k)   Location of recreational and other common areas;
         (l)   Location and type of landscaping, fences, walls and other
screening structures;
         (m)   Location, arrangement and design of all parking facilities;
         (o)   Location of fire hydrants;
         (p)   Enlarged plot plan of a typical space, showing location of
foundation base, storage space, parking, utility connections and other
improvements;
         (q)   Topography of the park site with contour intervals of not more
than 50 feet, and a drainage plan; and
         (r)   A survey plat of the property, plans of structures to be
constructed, public water system and sewage disposal plan approved by
appropriate governmental agencies and garbage disposal provisions.
   (B)   Plan approval. Upon application to the Town Planning Authority for the
development of a manufactured home park, and conformance to requirements of
submission of the plan for the development, and upon the review and public
hearing as may be otherwise required by law, the Planning Authority shall reach
a decision relative to the plan, as follows:
      (1)   Reject the plan, providing the developer with a list of specific
reasons for the action;
      (2)   Withhold approval of the plan subject to specified conditions which
shall be met prior to approval; or
      (3)   Accept and approve the development of the manufactured home park.
Approval of the plan will expire in 1 year unless the plan is substantially
implemented. Any interested person may appeal a decision of the Town Planning
Authority in the manner as is otherwise provided by law in similar matters.
(Ord. 525, passed 6-8-1981)
§ 153.06 PARK ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the park owner and manager to assure
that the provisions of this subchapter are observed and maintained within the
manufactured home park. Violations of this subchapter shall subject both the
owner and the manager of the facility to any penalties provided for the
violation. The owner, or a designated agent, shall be available and responsible
for the direct management of the manufactured home park.
   (B)   No travel trailer or recreational vehicle shall be utilized except as
temporary living quarters.
   (C)   Manufactured homes and accessory structures installed in the
manufactured home park shall be required to conform to the following
installation requirements:
      (1)   Construction of accessory structures shall be subject to
requirements of the Building Department, and necessary permits and inspections
shall be obtained, if required, for the construction.
      (2)   All manufactured homes shall be installed with blocking supports
conforming to standards of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
      (3)   All manufactured homes shall have compatible foundation fascia of
fire and weather resistant material, which must be properly maintained.
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be of a material, size, color and design
which is compatible with the manufactured home and in compliance with local
building codes.
   (D)   All electrical connections to each manufactured home shall comply with
the Electrical Code and shall be inspected. All sewage connections to
manufactured homes shall be provided in a manner conforming to the Plumbing
Code.
   (E)   Portable fire extinguishers, rated for Classes A, B and C shall be
kept in service buildings and other locations, as required by local codes.
   (F)   The park shall be maintained free of any brush, leaves and weeds which
might communicate fires between manufactured homes and other improvements. No
combustible materials shall be stored in, around or under any manufactured
home. The Town Planning Authority shall inspect each park annually, prior to
licensing, and submit to the park owner and manager a written report stating
whether or not the park is in compliance and listing any repairs which may be
required prior to issuance of an annual license renewal. An extension of time
to complete repairs may be granted if no risk to public health or safety is
created by the extension.
   (G)   Centrally located individual mail boxes shall be provided for each
space in the park.
   (H)   Refuse shall be collected and disposed of on a regular and sanitary
basis.
(Ord. 525, passed 6-8-1981)
§ 153.07 INTERPRETATIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be liberally construed to effect the
purpose of this subchapter. These provisions are declared to be the minimum
requirements necessary to accomplish the purposes hereof, and where conditions
herein imposed are less restrictive than comparable restrictions imposed by any
other ordinance, state law or regulation; the comparable provisions shall
govern.
(Ord. 525, passed 6-8-1981)
REGULATING APPROVAL AND INSTALLATION OF MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 153.20 APPLICABILITY.
   The location of manufactured homes on property within the jurisdiction shall
be subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth. This subchapter shall not,
however, apply to any home placed in an approved manufactured home park.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-8-1981)
§ 153.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure attached to or located adjacent to a home,
such as awnings, carports, garages, porches or steps.
   ANCHORING SYSTEM. A system of straps, cables, turnbuckles or chains, which
is used to secure a home to ground anchors, and which complies with standards
of the Department of Housing and Urban Development for manufactured homes.
   DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD) STANDARDS. The National
Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 being 42 U.S.C. §§
5401 et seq., and rules and regulations adopted thereunder, including:
      (1)   Regulations and interpretations of the State Department of Labor
and Industries, adopted pursuant to HUD rules; and
      (2)   Information supplied by the manufacturer of a home, which has been
stamped approved by the Department of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to
HUD rules.
   FOUNDATION BASE. A base of concrete, crushed rock or other properly
engineered design, which meets standards of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development for proper support of a manufactured home.
   FOUNDATION FASCIA. A fire and weather resistant material surrounding the
entire perimeter of a home and completely enclosing the space between the
exterior wall of the home and the ground.
   LOT. A building site that is described by reference to a recorded plat, by
metes and bounds, or by section, township and range, which has direct legal
access to a street or has access to a street over a recorded easement.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Any structure, transportable in 1 or more sections upon
the public streets and highways on its own running gear, which, when erected
on-site, is designed to be connected to required utilities and utilized as a
dwelling, and which exceeds 32 feet in length and 8 feet in width.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A home which was placed and maintained upon a lot prior
to the effective date of this subchapter.
   PERMANENTLY AFFIXED. A home which is equipped with a foundation base and
foundation fascia conforming to this subchapter, and has permanently installed
utility connections conforming to applicable codes.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-8-1981)
§ 153.22 STANDARDS.
   The establishment and use of a manufactured home as a permanent dwelling
shall be permitted in any zone permitting installation of a single-family
residence, provided the home shall meet the following assembly and installation
requirements:
   (A)   Shall bear a tag or seal of approval of the State of New Mexico or of
the Department of Housing and Urban Development;
   (B)   Shall be permanently affixed;
   (C)   Shall be located on the same size lot as required for a site-built
home, and in compliance with setback provisions applicable to the homes;
   (D)   Shall meet the requirements of the HUD standard and other applicable
regulations for utility connections;
   (E)   Shall have the space between the wall of the home and the ground fully
enclosed with a foundation fascia which is aesthetically harmonious and
compatible with the home, which provides adequate ventilation and access, and
which is properly maintained;
   (F)   Shall be provided with approved detectors of products of combustion
other than heat, conforming to Department of Housing and Urban Development
standards; and
   (G)   Shall be assembled in compliance with Department of Housing and Urban
Development standards.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-8-1981)
§ 153.23 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Accessory structures shall be constructed in compliance with the standards
specified by applicable local codes, and shall be aesthetically harmonious with
the home and with the neighborhood. If attached structurally to the home, the
construction shall also conform to Department of Housing and Urban Development
and Department of Labor and Industries standards, relative to the attachment.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-8-1981)
§ 153.24 PERMITS.
   Prior to the location, relocation, establishment or occupancy of any
manufactured home, the owner or authorized representative shall secure a permit
for the action from the Building Department as follows:
   (A)   Application for a permit shall be made on forms prescribed by the Town
Planning Authority.
   (B)   The fee for a permit shall be $35. This fee is in addition to fees
required for other necessary permits.
   (C)   Applicants shall be required to:
      (1)   Provide plot plans as required;
      (2)   Have Health Department approval for sewage disposal, water supply
or gas supply system;
      (3)   Meet all conditions of HUD or subdivision approval, where
applicable;
      (4)   Submit to an on-site inspection consisting, as applicable, of
setbacks, anchoring system, foundation fascia, utility connections and
accessory structures; and
      (5)   Provide the Town Planning Authority with a copy of the
manufacturer’s HUD approved installation instructions, if applicable.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-8-1981)
§ 153.25 NONCONFORMING STATUS.
   A manufactured home which was placed and maintained upon a lot prior to the
adoption of this subchapter shall be a legal nonconforming use upon proof to
the Town of Clayton Planning Authority, that the home was placed and maintained
upon the lot prior to adoption of this subchapter. Upon compliance with all
applicable provisions of §
153.22, except division (A) of §
153.22, the home may be relocated within the jurisdiction, provided the
relocation otherwise conforms to all applicable provisions hereof.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-8-1981)
§ 153.26 TEMPORARY USE PERMIT.
   Subject to conditions, fees and standards otherwise required by this
subchapter, a temporary use permit shall be issued by the town in the following
circumstances:
   (A)   An applicant who is in the process of building a conventional dwelling
may apply for a temporary permit to locate a manufactured home on the building
lot during the course of construction of the dwelling. The permit shall not be
issued until after a building permit for the dwelling has been obtained.
   (B)   A manufactured home may be used as caretaker’s quarters at a job site,
including construction projects and gravel pits.
   (C)   An applicant whose health necessitates continual care may apply for a
temporary permit to locate a manufactured home, adjacent to the residence of
one who is able to provide the care. A permit issued under this section shall
be issued for a period not to exceed 1 year, subject to renewal by the Building
Department. At the time the permit expires, the temporary use and all
appurtenances thereto shall be moved from the property forthwith.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-8-1981)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of or failure to comply with the provisions of §§
153.01 through
153.07 shall subject the offender, upon conviction, to a fine not to exceed
$300. Each day of violation constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 525, passed 6-8-1981)
   (C)   Any violation of or failure to comply with the provisions of §§
153.20 through
153.26 shall subject the offender, upon conviction, to a fine not to exceed
$300. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-8-1981)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Title
   
154.02   Purpose
   
154.03   Application of zoning ordinance
   
154.04   Definitions
   
154.05   General regulations
   
154.06   Nonconforming uses and structures
   
154.07   Building permits
   
154.08   Off-street parking requirements
   
154.09   Off-street loading requirements
   
154.10   Conditional use procedures; limited; use; home occupation
Zone Districts
   
154.15   Boundaries
   
154.16   Regulations
   
154.17   R - Single-Family Residential
   
154.18   C-B - Commercial - Business
   
154.19   C-R - Commercial - Restricted
   
154.20   I - Industrial
   
154.21   S-U - Special Use
   
154.22   Table of allowable land uses
Signs and Billboards
   
154.35   Definitions
   
154.36   Sign permits
   
154.37   Sign maintenance
   
154.38   Nonconforming signs
   
154.39   Exemptions
   
154.40   General regulations
   
154.41   Off-site roof signs
   
154.42   Free-standing off-site signs
   
154.43   Projecting signs
   
154.44   Variances
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.60   Generally
   
154.61   Variance procedures
   
154.62   Zone change and amendment procedure
   
154.63   Appeals
   
154.64   Fees
   
154.65   Conflict
   
154.66   Appearance
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known as the “Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance of
the Town of Clayton, New Mexico”, and shall be referred to herein as “this
chapter”.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 154.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The regulations and restrictions of this chapter are designed to
lessen congestion in the streets and public ways; to secure safety from fire,
flood waters, panic and other dangers; to promote health and the general
welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of
land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate
provisions for transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other
requirements; to conserve the value of buildings and lands; to encourage the
most appropriate use of land throughout the town; and to control and abate the
unsightly use of buildings or land.
   (B)   Additionally, this chapter is adopted for the purpose of promoting
coordinated and sound development, to encourage innovation in residential
development or renewal so that housing demands may be met by a greater variety
of types and design of housing units, to provide for higher quality in site and
land planning, to conserve open space, and to provide more efficient and
attractive use of open space.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 154.03 APPLICATION OF THE ZONING ORDINANCE.
   All property, except that property owned or controlled by the federal
government, state, county and town, and their subdivisions or agencies, is
governed according to the zone in which it is located. Any use not classified
as permissive or conditional within a particular zone is hereby prohibited from
that zone, except as otherwise provided herein. The zones and boundaries of
zones are shown on the zone map and Exhibit “A” attached Ordinance 558.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 154.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY. A use or structure normally incidental to a principal use or
structure on the same lot.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the finished lot grade to the
highest point of the coping of a flat roof; the deck line of a mansard roof; or
the average height between the top plate and ridge of a gable, hip, or gambrel
roof.
   CANNABIS. All parts of the plant of the genus cannabis containing a delta-9-
tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than 0.3% on a dry weight basis,
whether growing or not, as well as the seeds from the plant, the resin
extracted from any part of the plant, and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant or its seeds or resin. CANNABIS
does not include industrial hemp, the fiber produced from the stalks of the
plant of the genus cannabis, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant,
sterilized seeds to prepare topical or oral administrations, food, drink, or
other products.
   CANNABIS CONSUMPTION AREA. An area where cannabis products may be served and
consumed.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A facility in which cannabis is grown, harvested,
dried, cured, or trimmed.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT. Cannabis concentrate and products that are composed of
cannabis and other ingredients and that are intended for use or consumption,
including edible products, ointments, and tinctures.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING. A facility for the processing, including but
not limited to extraction, refinement, isolation, or packaging of a product
other than cannabis itself, which contains or is derived from cannabis,
including but not limited to concentrates, cannabis infusions, edible products,
ointments, and tinctures, but excluding hemp. See also HEMP.
   CANNABIS RETAIL. A retail sales establishment licensed by the state to sell
cannabis and cannabis products to qualified patients, primary caregivers, and
reciprocal participants and directly to consumers.
   CONDITIONAL USE. Any one of those uses enumerated as conditional uses in a
given zone district or any use which satisfies the provisions of §
154.10. Such uses require individual approval and permit granted by the
Planning and Zoning Commission. A conditional use shall not be considered as a
nonconforming use under the provisions of this chapter.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more connected rooms and a single kitchen designed for
and occupied by no more than 1 family for living and sleeping purposes.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that
unless all members are related by blood, marriage or legal adoption, no such
family shall contain more than 3 unrelated persons.
   FLOOR AREA. The total gross area of all floors of a building.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Board of Trustees and Mayor of the Town of Clayton.
   GRADE. The average of the finished ground level at the center of all walls
of the building or at the center of the structure.
   HEMP. As defined by NMSA § 20-10-2-7. For the purposes of this chapter, hemp
is not regulated as cannabis. See also CANNABIS.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation conducted in a dwelling unit pursuant to
conditional use requirements in §
154.10.
   LOT. Any parcel of land platted or described by metes and bounds and placed
on record with the town or county in accordance with all applicable laws and
ordinances.
      (1)   LOT, AREA. The total aggregate area of the lot as measured to
include all the land in the lot inside its property lines.
      (2)   LOT, CORNER. Any lot located at the intersection of, and having
frontage on 2 or more streets.
      (3)   LOT, WIDTH. The average distance between the side lot lines
measured parallel to the front lot line.
      (4)   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot bordering on a street. For
the purpose of determining setback requirements on a corner lot and a lot which
has frontage on 2 streets and is not a corner lot, all sides bordering on a
street shall be considered the front.
      (5)   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot opposite the front lot line.
A corner lot shall have 1 rear lot line which is opposite the front of the
structure on such corner lot. A lot which has frontage on 2 streets and is not
a corner lot has no rear lot line.
      (6)   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary line of a lot which is not a front
line or a rear lot line.
      (7)   LOT OF RECORD. A lot placed on record on or before the effective
date of this chapter or an amendment hereto.
   MARIJUANA. Used interchangeably with CANNABIS and means all parts of the
plant of the genus cannabis, whether growing or not, as well as the seeds from
the plant, the resin extracted from any part of the plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant or its seeds
or resin. MARIJUANA does not include industrial hemp, the fiber produced from
the stalks of the plant of the genus cannabis, oil or cake made from the seeds
of the plant, sterilized seeds to prepare topical or oral administrations,
food, drink, or other products.
   MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY. The State of New Mexico, Regulation and
Licensing Division, or its successor agency, or another entity that is licensed
by the Regulation and Licensing Division to analyze the potency of marijuana
and test marijuana for harmful contaminants.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any tract of land that is divided into rental spaces under
common ownership or management for the purpose of locating 2 or more
manufactured homes for dwelling purposes.
   MOBILE HOUSING UNIT or MOBILE HOME. A vehicle or structure which is greater
than 8 feet wide and greater than 40 feet long and which:
      (1)    Is designed or used as a dwelling;
      (2)   Is not designed, constructed and inspected in accordance with the
requirements and specifications of the New Mexico Uniform Building Code;
      (3)   Whose structural, electrical, water supply, sanitary sewage,
heating, insulation, and mechanical parts and components are not designed,
constructed and inspected in accordance with the requirements and
specifications of the New Mexico Uniform Building Code; and
      (4)   Which is designed, constructed and inspected in accordance with the
requirements and specifications of the New Mexico Mobile Housing Act or the
Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standard.
   N.M.E.I.D.  New Mexico Environmental Improvement Division, or any state
regulatory agency whose purpose is the environmental protection of the public.
   NON-CONFORMING USES, LOTS, STRUCTURES. Any lot, building, structure, or
portion thereof, or use of any building or lot which does not conform to the
provisions of this chapter and which lawfully existed on the effective date of
those provisions with which it does not conform.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. A body appointed by the governing body and
delegated the power, authority, jurisdiction, and duty to enforce and carry out
the provisions of this chapter.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A structure which does not exceed 8 feet in width and
40 feet in length and which:
      (1)   Is designed or used as temporary living quarters for recreational,
camping or travel; and
      (2)   Is a self-propelled motor vehicle or is a wheeled vehicle with no
motive power of its own, or is designed to be mounted on a motor vehicle, such
as a pick-up camper.
   SETBACK. The required distance between every building or structure, fences
excepted, and any lot line on the lot on which it is located. Setbacks shall
consist of an open space, unoccupied and unobstructed by any part of a building
or structure, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (1)   SETBACK, FRONT. An open area extending across the full width of a
lot, the depth of which is the shortest distance between the front lot line and
the nearest portion of a building or structure located on the lot.
      (2)   SETBACK, REAR. An open area extending across the full width of a
lot, the depth of which is the shortest between the rear lot line and the
nearest portion of the building or structure located on the lot.
      (3)   SETBACK, SIDE. An open area not included in any front or rear
setbacks of a lot and measured in width by the shortest distance between a side
lot line and the nearest portion of a building or structure located on the lot.
   SIGN. A device designed to inform or attract the attention of persons not on
the premises on which the device is located.
   SPOT ZONING. Assigning a lot, a parcel, or several lots or parcels a zoning
classification inconsistent with that of the zone district in which it is
located with the effect of conferring special benefits or privileges upon
particular property owners, or bringing about a detriment to the general
welfare of the surrounding neighborhood.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground. Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls,
fences, billboards, and poster panels, but exclude sidewalks, driveways and
uncovered patios.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or
intended, or for which land or a building is or may be occupied.
   VARIANCE. A variance is a relaxation of the terms of this chapter where such
variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of actions of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of the ordinance would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship that would deprive the owner of the reasonable use of land
or building. As used in this chapter, a variance may be authorized only for
area, height, dimension, distance, setback, off-street parking, and off-street
loading requirements.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986; Am. Ord. 715, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 154.05 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Storage of boats, campers, trailers (to include livestock trailers and
any type of flat bed trailer), or other recreational vehicles will be permitted
in all zones for no more than 30 continuous days unless the owner has obtained
a variance from the planning and zoning committee for a longer period so long
as such boat camper or trailer is currently registered with the department of
motor vehicles with a current registration sticker being displayed, and is in
operable condition. Vehicles cannot be parked within 30 feet of an intersection
and or fire hydrant and cannot obstruct ingress or egress of private driveways.
Boat, camper, trailer, or vehicle cannot be used as a dwelling or additional
living quarters for more than 30 days for an occasional guest and is not
connected to utilities except for use by such guest. In no case shall a
recreational vehicle be allowed as a permanent dwelling or office unless the
owner has obtained a variance from the planning and zoning committee.
   (B)   Home occupations are permitted only to the extent authorized by the
express provisions in this chapter.
   (C)   Fences or walls will not exceed 6 feet in height except by variance
permit.
   (D)   The setback in buildings and structures shall have the following
minimum setback unless otherwise provided in this chapter or excepted by
permit:
      (1)   In Residential Zones: Front - 25 feet. There are no side or rear
setback requirements except as required by division (A) of this section and as
required by off street parking requirement.
      (2)   In Commercial and Industrial Zones, there are no setback
requirements except as are required by division (G) of this section and as
required by off street parking requirement.
      (3)   In special use situations, setbacks shall be dictated on a case by
case basis by the Zoning and Planning Commission giving due regard to the
general residential or commercial characteristics of the area in question. In
no case shall the setback requirements be more restrictive than those imposed
upon residential property by this part. However off-street parking requirements
and requirements set out in division (G) of this section are independent of the
setback requirements in all cases.
   (E)   Off-street parking in all zones is provided in §
154.08 of this chapter.
   (F)   Off-street loading in all zones is provided in §
154.09.
   (G)   No obstructions to view shall be placed or maintained between 3 feet
and 8 feet above the street level within the triangular space at the street
corner of a corner lot as defined by the street rights-of-way bordering the
corner lot and a line connecting 2 points each located 25 feet distant along
such street rights-of-way from the intersection or projected intersection of
the street right-of-way lines.
   (H)   The minimum lot area for each zone shall be as required by this
chapter, but in no case shall be less than that required by the N.M.E.I.D. In
no case shall lot area boundary lines include any portion of a proposed or
existing public road or street, being defined here as a right-of-way used or to
be used by more than 1 property owner.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986; Am. Ord. 679, passed 6-15-2011; Am. Ord. 702,
passed 4-11-2018) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.06 NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Within the zones established by this chapter, or amendments that may
later be adopted, there may exist: lots, structures, uses of land, uses of
structures, signs, and characteristics of use which were lawful before this
chapter was passed or amended, but which are not lawful under the terms of this
chapter or any future amendments hereto. It is the intent of this chapter to
allow these non-conformities to continue until they are removed, but not to
encourage their survival.
   (B)   At any time after the effective date of this chapter, the Planning and
Zoning Commission or the Zoning Administrator shall notify the owner of
property containing a non-conforming use, lot, structure, or sign, by certified
mail return receipt requested, that such use, lot, structure, or sign does not
conform with the requirements of this chapter. The notice shall advise the
owner that if the owner fails to apply to the Zoning Administrator for a
certificate of non-conformance within 30 days from the date the notice was
received by the owner, that the use, lot, structure, or sign shall be
considered a violation of this chapter. Upon receipt of an application for
certificate of non-conformance, the Zoning Administrator shall determine
whether the use, lot, structure, or sign was lawful before this chapter was
passed or amended. If so, then the Zoning Administrator shall issue the
certificate of non-conformance. If the use, lot, structure or sign was not
lawful before this chapter was passed or amended, then the Zoning Administrator
shall not issue the certificate of non-conformance. If the decision of the
Zoning Administrator to refuse the issue the certificate of non-conformance is
not appealed, then the decision shall be considered final and the use, lot,
structure, or sign shall be considered in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   A use, structure or sign for which a certificate of non-conformance
has been issued shall not be enlarged, expanded, or extended, but the addition
of a lawful use under the terms of this chapter to any portion of a
nonconforming building for which a certificate of non-conformance has been
issued shall not be deemed an extension of such non-conforming use.
   (D)   A non-conforming building for which a certificate of non-conformance
has been issued may not be reconstructed or structurally altered during its
life to an extend exceeding an aggregated cost of 25% of the assessed value of
the building unless said building when rebuilt contains a conforming use and
otherwise conforms with this chapter. Any building damaged by fire or other
causes to the extent of more than 50% of its assessed value shall only be
restored or rebuilt after an application for such restoration or rebuilding has
been approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Such application must show
that the building and its use fully comply with this chapter.
   (E)   Whenever a non-conforming use has been discontinued for a period of 90
days or more, such use shall not thereafter be re-established, and any future
use shall be in conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall require any change in plans,
construction, or designated use of a building for which a building permit has
been issued prior to enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 154.07 BUILDING PERMITS.
   No building or structure shall be erected, moved, added to, or structurally
altered without first obtaining a building permit as required by the applicable
ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.08 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In all zone districts, there shall be provided, at the time any new
building or structure is erected, off-street parking spaces as set forth in the
following subsections. All existing buildings or structures need supply such
parking only to the extend ground space is available. Off-street parking must
be provided on site.
   (B)   The minimum number of parking spaces to be provided shall be shown on
the following list:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings: 2 spaces per dwelling unit.
      (2)   Hospitals, clinics, and convalescent or nursing homes: 1 space per
bed, and 1 space per staff doctor.
      (3)   Medical and dental offices: 5 spaces per doctor.
      (4)   Places of public assembly, including churches, community centers,
auditoriums, theaters, gymnasiums, arenas, and mortuaries: 1 space per 4 seats.
      (5)   Club, lodge, or fraternal organization: 1 space per 200 square feet
of floor area.
      (6)   Banks, offices, service establishments, retail businesses, and
public buildings: 1 space per 300 square feet of floor area.
      (7)   Restaurants (except drive-ins), bars: 1 space per four seats.
      (8)   Industrial, manufacturing, and wholesale establishments: 1 space
per 2 employees on largest shift.
      (9)   Shopping center developments: 5 spaces 1,000 square feet of floor
area.
      (10)   Bowling alleys: 4 spaces per alley.
      (11)   Laundromats: 1 space per 3 washing machines.
      (12)   Motels, hotels: 1 space per room.
   (C)   For mixed uses within the same building or structure, the total
requirements for off-street parking spaces shall be the sum of requirements of
each use computed separately.
   (D)   The following minimum design standards shall be observed in laying out
off-street parking facilities:
      (1)   All facilities must provide appropriate access to a street, alley,
or public thoroughfare.
      (2)   All driveways shall be of sufficient width to permit access into
parking spaces, but in no case less than 20 feet wide except those in
residential use.
      (3)   Each parking space shall consist of an area not less than 9 feet
wide by 20 feet long exclusive of driveway area except those in residential
use.
   (E)   An applicant for a building permit must submit plans showing the off-
street parking required by this section. These plans must show location,
arrangement, and dimensions of the off-street parking, turning spaces, drives,
aisles, and ingress and egress in a manner satisfactory to the Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.09 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Under the conditions of this section, loading space shall be provided
for bulk pickups and deliveries and accessible to delivery vehicles when
required off-street parking spaces are filled. Required off-street loading
space is not to be included in the computation of required off-street parking
space. All existing buildings or structures need supply such parking only to
the extend ground space is available.
   (B)   Individual loading spaces required under this section shall be at
least 50 feet long and 12 feet wide, and shall be located on private property.
   (C)   Every building or structure used for commercial or industrial purpose
shall be provided with off-street loading space.
   (D)   Buildings or structures used for office or research purposes and
having a total floor area of at least 20,000 square feet shall be provided with
off-street loading space.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.10 CONDITIONAL USE PROCEDURES; LIMITED; USES; HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   No conditional use shall be established in any zone district, except
upon permit issued by the Planning and Zoning Commission, which shall be guided
in making a decision by the criteria set forth in this section. Any person
seeking a conditional use permit shall provide to the Planning and Zoning
Commission such information as it may reasonably require to determine whether
the grant of the requested conditional use permit is consistent with the intent
and purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   Any request for a conditional use permit shall be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Commission through the Zoning Administrator on prescribed
application forms. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall approve or
disapprove the application following consideration at 1 of its regular
meetings. Notice of the meeting shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested to the owner of land within 100 feet of the land area on which the
conditional use is proposed, excluding public right-of-way at least 15 days
prior to the meeting at which the application for the conditional use permit is
considered.
   (C)   (1)   In considering an application for a conditional use permit, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall not grant any conditional use permit
unless satisfactory provision and arrangement has been made concerning the
following, where applicable:
         (a)   Ingress and egress to property and proposed structures thereon
with particular reference to automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience,
traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire or catastrophe;
         (b)   Off-street parking and loading areas where required, with
particular attention to refuse and service areas;
         (c)   Public and private utilities, with reference to locations,
availability, and compatibility;
         (d)   The economic, noise, glare, or odor effects of the conditional
use on adjoining properties; and
         (e)   General compatibility with adjacent properties and other
property in the district.
      (2)   If a conditional use permit is denied, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall state in writing which of the previous 5 categories have not
been satisfied, why or how they have not been satisfied, and why this has
resulted in a denial of the permit. This shall apply to all “C” permits, “L”
permits, or “L” permit renewals.
   (D)   The following conditional uses are limited to the period of time for
which the permits are issued but the period of such permit shall not exceed 1
year. At the expiration of the permit, the permit must be reviewed and a new
permit granted in order to continue. Any permit issued for a period of more
than 1 year shall not necessarily be made permanent.
      (1)   Dwelling, temporary watchman or caretaker: conditional use in all
zones - a mobile home or recreational vehicle may be permitted;
      (2)   Offices, temporary (real estate sales, and the like): conditional
use in all zones - a mobile home or recreational vehicle may be permitted;
      (3)   Mobile home in any zone during construction of permanent residence,
for 1 year, subject to review by the Planning and Zoning Commission annually
for renewal. Under certain circumstances a recreational vehicle might be
permitted for such use for a lesser period.
   (E)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may impose reasonable restrictions
and requirements when granting a conditional use permit and it shall state in
writing the reasons for the restrictions and requirements. Such requirement or
restriction will be plainly stated on the conditional use permit issued, and
noncompliance with such requirement or restriction within 30 days shall render
the permit null and void.
   (F)   A conditional use permit for a home occupation may be issued subject
to the following requirements:
      (1)   No person other than members of the family residing on the premises
shall be engaged in such home occupation.
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling unit shall
be used in the conduct of the home occupation, nor more than 600 square feet of
an accessory building.
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than 1 sign, not exceeding 5 square feet in area and non-illuminated;
unless otherwise specifically permitted.
      (4)   There shall be no sales in connection with such home occupation
that would disrupt the residential nature of the district.
      (5)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates a nuisance including but not restricted no noise, vibration, glare,
fumes, odors or electrical interference detectable to the normal senses off the
lot, if the occupation is conducted in a single-family residence, or outside
the dwelling unit if conducted in other than a single-family residence. In the
case of electrical interference, no equipment or process shall be used which
creates visual or audible interference in any radio or television receivers off
the premises, or causes fluctuations in the line voltage off the premises.
      (6)   If there is an occasional requirement to park vehicles or provide
short-term outside storage of equipment, materials, and the like on or at the
premises, the applicant for a permit shall so state such information on the
permit application.
      (7)   After approval of a home occupation permit by the Planning and
Zoning Commission has been entered, a copy of the permit containing all limits
and restrictions shall be immediately given to the applicant. The Commission
shall ascertain that all limits and restrictions are clear to the applicant at
the time of permit approval.
      (8)   An applicant for a permit which is approved by the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall purchase a business registration within 10 days of
issuance of a permit.
      (9)   Any of the following shall be cause for withdrawal of a home
occupation permit by the town:
         (a)   Misrepresentation of information given by the applicant on the
permit application or in person to the Planning and Zoning Commission;
         (b)   Expanding or increasing beyond any requirements or restrictions
imposed by the Planning and Zoning Commission; or
         (c)   Violation of any of the provisions of this section.
      (10)   Occupations allowed under the conditional use/home occupation
permit system shall be determined independently of the Table of Allowable Land
Uses (§
154.22). Any occupation may be considered and might be allowed, so long as it
meets the criteria of this section.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986) Penalty, see §
154.99
ZONE DISTRICTS
§ 154.15 ZONE DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, the town is
hereby divided into zone districts, as named and described in this subchapter.
The regulations prescribed in this chapter shall apply within the corporate
limits of the town.
   (B)   The boundaries of said zone districts are hereby established as shown
on the town zone map which shall be made a part of this chapter as if fully
described herein.
   (C)   Where due to the scale, lack of detail or illegibility of the official
town zone map, there is any uncertainty, contradiction or conflict as to the
intended location of any zone district boundaries shown therein,
interpretations concerning the exact location of zone district boundary lines
shall be determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission upon a written
request.
   (D)   Abutting zone districts along frontage of a public right-of-way shall
automatically extend to the center line upon vacation from public use of the
right-of-way.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.16 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following zone districts are
hereby established:
      (1)   R - Single-Family Residential.
      (2)   C-B - Commercial-Business.
      (3)   C-R - Commercial-Restricted.
      (4)   I - Industrial.
      (5)   S-U - Special Use.
   (B)   Uses permitted within each zone district shall be as indicated by the
Table of Allowable Land Uses in this chapter. A use that is not permitted in a
particular zone district shall not be considered an accessory use in that zone
district. The general requirements of each zone district are as described in
this subchapter.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 154.17 R - SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Intent. The purpose of this zone is to allow single-family dwelling
units and those uses which are compatible and enhance the predominately
residential nature of the area. Density shall be limited to 1 dwelling unit per
50-foot frontage.
   (B)   Accessory uses. The following accessory uses shall be allowed:
buildings or structures customarily incident to uses in this zone district.
   (C)   Supplementary regulations. A residential dwelling will:
      (1)   Be built in all respects to at least Uniform Building Code
specifications set out in the New Mexico Housing Act or Federal Mobile Home
Construction and Safety Standard Act where applicable.
      (2)   Have hardboard, wood lap, board and butt, brick, stucco, rock or
better siding.
      (3)   Pitched roofs shall have a minimum 3/12 slope and shall be roofed
with composition shingles, wood shingles, shakes or new metal roofing material.
Other roof types shall be constructed to at least minimum Uniform Building Code
standards.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 154.18 C-B - COMMERCIAL-BUSINESS.
   (A)   Intent. The purpose of this zone is to provide for those commercial
uses which serve the community on a day-to-day basis such as retailing,
financial, and personal services, as well as provide for highway oriented
commercial uses to serve both local and transient automotive and related needs.
   (B)   Accessory uses. Buildings and structures customarily incident to uses
in this zone district.
   (C)   Cannabis.
      (1)   Cannabis retail uses.
         (a)   Where allowed, cannabis retail is limited to one establishment
per city block, provided however, that there shall be no more than seven
cannabis retail stores within the Town of Clayton.
         (b)   All buildings containing a cannabis retail use shall not be
located within 300 feet of any elementary or secondary school; or day care
facility unless a conditional use permit is issued by the Clayton Board of
Trustees under the provisions of this chapter.
         (c)   This use shall operate within a fully enclosed building or
structure, capable of being locked and secured.
         (d)   This use shall not include any storage or display area outside
of a fully enclosed building or structure.
         (e)   Signage associated with cannabis retail shall be located on the
same lot as the cannabis retail use and comply with all other sign and outdoor
advertising requirements of the Town of Clayton. Any signage or advertising
shall not be designed to appeal solely to persons under 21 years of age.
         (f)   If located in the C-R, commercial-restricted zone district, this
use shall be subject to those provisions, including but not limited to, the
requirement that a conditional use permit be granted if ingress or egress is to
be allowed along the front frontage of the property facing onto a residential
zone district.
         (g)   The hours of operation for cannabis retail establishments shall
be 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight, unless further restricted by the terms of a
conditional use permit.
      (2)   Cannabis consumption area.
         (a)   This use is incidental to and shall be associated with and
adjacent to a cannabis retail use as part of the same business location, and is
subject to the requirements for cannabis retail in addition to the following:
            1.   This use requires that a conditional use permit be issued by
the Clayton Board of Trustees under the provisions of this chapter.
            2.   An applicant for this use shall provide an odor control plan
as part of any conditional use permit application.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986; Am. Ord. 715, passed 10-13-2021; Am. Ord. 715-A,
passed 4-13-2022)
§ 154.19 C-R - COMMERCIAL-RESTRICTED.
   (A)   The purpose of this zone is to provide a buffer between the
commercially zoned districts and residential districts where the front footage
of a commercial restricted district faces, across a street, the front footage
of a residential district. Any land use allowable in the commercial business
zone of the table of allowable land uses is also allowable in property zoned
commercial restricted with the following restrictions:
      (1)   A screening fence, landscaping and/or wall compatible with the
design and architecture of the commercial improvements located on the
commercial restricted property to be screened shall be constructed and
maintained in order to reduce the impact of any noise, odor, glare or other
characteristics of such commercial operation incompatible with the residential
use and character of adjoining property. Such wall, fence and/or landscaping
shall be of such construction and dimension so as to be compatible with
adjacent residential properties.
      (2)   That if any ingress or egress is to be allowed along the front
footage of property zoned commercial restricted, the provisions for a
conditional use permit be followed as to this use.
   (B)   As of the adoption of this chapter, property zoned commercial
restricted is as indicated on the zone map and Exhibit “A” attached to
Ordinance 558.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 154.20 I - INDUSTRIAL.
   This district is comprised of areas which provide for non-offensive types of
manufacturing, processing and warehousing activities.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 154.21 S-U - SPECIAL USE.
   (A)   Intent. This zone permits only those uses which require special
consideration because of their unusual nature, dimensions, frequency of
occurrence, effect on surrounding property, or other similar reason. The
boundaries of this zone district shall be determined only on a case-by-case
basis following the procedures for a zone change as provided in this chapter.
Any accessory uses shall be expressly approved by the governing body.
Supplementary regulations and special conditions may be imposed by the
governing body upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission or by
the governing body on its own motion. The governing body may not grant a zone
change for Special Use unless satisfactory provisions have been made:
      (1)   To assure that a satisfactory degree of compatibility of property
uses shall be maintained with respect to the Special Use and the surrounding
uses of property in the general area;
      (2)   To preserve the integrity and character of the zone in which the
use will be located, and utility and value of property in the Special Zone and
in adjacent zones; and
      (3)   To assure that the use will not be or become detrimental to the
public interest, health, safety, convenience, or the general welfare.
   (B)   A Special Use Zone may be authorized and established for the following
uses:
      (1)   Airports, aircrafts sales and service;
      (2)   Armories;
      (3)   Automobile wrecking, dismantling, and salvage provided that:
         (a)   All activities are conducted within a completely enclosed
building or within an area enclosed on all sides by a solid wall or fence at
least 8 feet in height, and the principal building is not within 200 feet of a
lot in residential use or zoned primarily for residential use.
         (b)   Inoperative automobile bodies may not be stacked above the plane
established by the top of the required surrounding wall.
      (4)   Cannabis cultivation, provided the following criteria are met:
         (a)   Cannabis cultivation shall only be authorized within the Clayton
Business Park, located north of US Highway 87 along Dr. Michael Jenkins Road.
         (b)   All buildings containing a cannabis cultivation use shall not be
located within 300 feet of any properly zoned and permitted church or place of
worship; elementary or secondary school; or day care facility unless a
conditional use permit is issued by the Clayton Board of Trustees under the
provisions of this chapter.
         (c)   There shall be no outdoor cultivation, processing, curing,
drying, selling; storage, or other, display of cannabis or cannabis products
except as specifically authorized by the Board of Trustees.
         (d)   The applicant must show that the applicant owns, or has under
lease, water rights' sufficient for applicant's proposed use, provided however,
any cannabis cultivation use of municipal water which detrimentally affects the
domestic, commercial, fire protection or other previously established uses of
water in the Town of Clayton shall not be approved and, further provided, in
times of shortage cannabis cultivation use of municipal water shall be
subordinate and inferior to all other uses.
      (5)   Cannabis product manufacturing:
         (a)   Cannabis product manufacturing shall only be authorized within
the Clayton Business Park, located north of US Highway 87 along Dr. Michael
Jenkins Road.
         (b)   All buildings containing a cannabis product manufacturing use
shall not be located within 300 feet of any properly zoned and permitted church
or place of worship; kindergarten, elementary, or secondary school; or day care
facility, unless a conditional use permit is issued by the Clayton Board of
Trustees under the provisions of this chapter.
         (c)   There shall be no outdoor cultivation, processing, curing,
drying, selling, storage, or other display of cannabis or cannabis products
except as specifically authorized by the Board of Trustees.
       (6)   Cemetery, mausoleum, crematory, provided that a cemetery be
located on not less than 5 acres;
      (7)   Chemical manufacturing or processing provided that all buildings
shall not be within 500 feet of any lot in residential use unless sufficient
blast, explosion, or fire confinement structures are installed;
      (8)   Detention institutions;
      (9)   Fairgrounds, athletic park complex, stadium;
      (10)   Feed lot operation, livestock auction, provided that a feed lot be
located on not less than 10 acres;
      (11)   Fuel wholesalers and storage (gasoline, liquefied petroleum)
provided that all buildings shall not be within 500 feet of any lot in
residential use unless sufficient blast, explosion, or fire confinement
structures are installed;
      (12)   Funeral home, mortuary;
      (13)   Hospital, sanatorium, private nursing home;
      (14)   Junk yard or salvage operation provided that all activities are
conducted within a completely enclosed building or within an area enclosed on
all sides by a solid wall or fence at least 8 feet in height and so long as no
junk or salvage is stacked above the plane of the required wall or fence;
      (15)   Marijuana testing facility:
         (a)   Marijuana testing facilities shall only be authorized within the
Clayton Business Park, located north of US Highway 87 along Dr. Michael Jenkins
Road.
         (b)   All buildings containing a marijuana testing facility use shall
not be located within 300 feet of any properly zoned and permitted church or
place of worship; elementary or secondary school; or day care facility unless a
conditional use permit is issued by the Clayton Board of Trustees under the
provisions of this chapter.
      (16)   Mobile home parks, subject to the following regulations:
         (a)   The minimum park size shall be 3 acres.
         (b)   Maximum density shall be 6 mobile homes per acre, exclusive of
public right-of-way.
         (c)   Each mobile home shall be located on a land space not less than
1/6 of 1 acre with a minimum width of 40 feet.
         (d)   No mobile home shall be located within 20 feet of any other. Any
mobile home shall be at least 30 feet from the right-of-way line of any street
and at least 10 feet from any property line of the mobile home park.
         (e)   All driveways shall be at least 30 feet wide and shall be either
paved or graveled.
         (f)   The site shall be graded, drained, and free of rubbish.
         (g)   No mobile home shall be occupied unless it is connected to
adequate utilities, provided with skirting of a durable material, and
stabilized and anchored in accordance with regulations promulgated by the State
Mobile Housing Commission.
         (h)   So far as the regulations regarding mobile homes and mobile home
parks in this part conflict with Ordinance Numbers 525 and 526 said ordinance
are repealed. Any parts of Ordinance Numbers 525 and 526 not contrary or
incompatible with this part shall remain in full force and effect.
      (17)   Radio or television station (with transmitter tower);
      (18)   Schools: university or college; business, technical, or trade;
elementary or secondary;
      (19)   Theater (drive-in) subject to the following regulations:
         (a)   ingress and egress for any site abutting a state highway shall
be approved in writing by the State Highway Department.
         (b)   Reserve off-street standing space or side service road space
shall be provided at any entrance sufficient to accommodate vehicles in an
amount equal to at least 20% of the vehicular capacity of the theater.
         (c)   Any screen less than 500 feet from a county arterial of state
highway shall be so located or shielded that the picture surface cannot be seen
from such highway.
   (C)   Each application for Special Use Zone shall be accompanied by
development plans which shall:
      (1)   Be drawn to a minimum scale of 1" = 100'.
      (2)   Show boundaries of the property to be developed.
      (3)   Show the proposed size, location, use and arrangement of all
structures parking and loading areas, drainage facilities, and traffic
circulation routes.
      (4)   Indicate the location, type, use and size of structures on adjacent
properties within 200 feet of the proposed development.
   (D)   In the event that a use authorized as a Special Use Zone is
permanently discontinued by the owner, the Special Use Zone may be cancelled
and removed from the zone map under the provisions for a zone change in this
chapter. Upon proper application, that area delineated by such discontinued
Special Use Zone shall be re-zoned to the appropriate zone district as
determined by the governing body.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986; Am. Ord. 715, passed 10-13-2021) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.22 TABLE OF ALLOWABLE LAND USES.
   (A)   A person seeking to use land or conduct business in a manner not
mentioned by the Table of Allowable Land Uses shall file with the Zoning
Administrator a written request for such land use or business activity to be
included in the table. This request will be handled as in a “zone-text
amendment” according to procedures outlined in §
154.62, except that:
      (1)   No proposed land use or business activity may be excluded totally
from the table unless it is determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission
and/or the Governing Board to constitute a public nuisance or violate state
statutes or town ordinances.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall issue a recommendation for
a proposed designation for such land use or business activity on the table,
either as “C”, “L”, or “X”, or any combination of the above, for any or all
zones. At least one zone must be labeled “C”, “L”, or “X”, unless the use
proposed falls within subsection (1).
   (B)   The following abbreviations shall be given the following definitions
when used in the Table of Allowable Land Uses:
      (1)   X = Permissive Use
      (2)   C = Conditional Use (Requiring Permit)
      (3)   L = Conditional Use Limited for Term of Permit
   (C)   Table of Allowable Land Uses.
Allowable Land Uses
X=Permitted Use                                C-B
C=Conditional Use (Requiring Permit)         R C-R I SU
L=Conditional Use Limited for Term of Permit
Allowable Land Uses
X=Permitted Use                                                  C-B
C=Conditional Use (Requiring Permit)                           R C-R I SU
L=Conditional Use Limited for Term of Permit
Airports; aircraft sales and service                                X
Amusement parks; carnival; circus                                   L
Animal shelter; kennel                                              X
Antique dealer                                                  X     
Appliance store; repairs                                        X     
Armory                                                           X
Art gallery                                                     X     
Auction houses (excluding livestock)                            X   X  
Automobile sales; service; repair                               X     
Automobile rental                                               X     
Automobile wrecking; dismantling; salvage                           X
Bakery, candy and confectionery manufacture (wholesale)         C   X  
Bakery; confectionery store (retail)                            X     
Bank; savings and loan; trust company                           X     
Bars, lounges; package liquor stores                            X     
Barber or beauty shop                                          C X     
Boat dealers; marine supplies                                   X     
Book store                                                      X     
Bottling plant                                                  C   X  
Bowling alley                                                   X     
Brick products; manufacturing                                      X  
Brick products; retail                                          X     
Buildings; prefabricating assembly                                 X  
Bus depot                                                       X     
Cabinet makers                                                  C   X  
Camper equipment; sales                                         X     
Candle manufacturing/wholesale/retail                           X     
Cannabis consumption area                                       C     
Cannabis cultivation                                                X
Cannabis product manufacturing                                      X
Cannabis retail                                                 X     
Car wash                                                        X     
Carpet and rug cleaners                                         X     
Catering shop                                                   X     
Cemetery; mausoleum; crematory                                      X
Ceramics manufacturing                                          X   X  
Chemical manufacturing and processing                              X  
Churches; places of worship                                         X
Clinics; dental or medical                                     C X     
Clothing and/or dry goods store; retail                         X     
Club or lodge; (with or without liquor license)                     X
Cold storage plant                                              X     
Concrete products manufacture; sales                               X  
Construction contractors; building trades (storage equipment       X  
sales and service)
Dance studio                                                    X     
Dairy products; processing and wholesale                           X  
Data processing service                                         X     
Delicatessen                                                    X     
Delivery service (parcel and package)                           X     
Department or variety store                                     X     
Detention institution                                               X
Drug store; pharmacy; cosmetics                                 X     
Dwelling, single-family                                        X C     
Dwelling, temporary watchman or caretaker (mobile homes may be L L   L L
allowed)
Dwellings, multi-family                                        C X     
Fairgrounds, baseball park complex, stadium                         X
Farm supplies, equipment sales and service                      X   X  
Feed manufacturing, sales; livestock (poultry)                     X  
Feed sales; livestock and poultry                               X   X  
Feed lot operation; livestock and auction                           X
Fertilizers (wholesale or manufacturing                            X  
Fix-it shop                                                    C X     
Floral shop; plant store                                        X     
Food products (manufacturing and processing)                       X  
Food products (wholesale, storage and sales)                    X   X  
Food store; convenience                                         X     
Food store; grocery market                                      X     
Fuel wholesalers and storage gasoline, liquefied petroleum          X</C>
Funeral home; mortuary                                              X
Gasoline service station                                        X     
Gift shop; crafts store; curios                                 X     
Glass products, installation                                    X     
Greenhouse or nursery; landscaper                                   X
Guns                                                                 
Gunsmiths                                                      C X     
Hardware store                                                  X     
Hospital equipment and supplies; sales and storage              X     
Hospital; sanatorium; private nursing home                          X
Ice cream store                                                 X     
Interior decorator                                             C X     
Interior decoration store                                       X     
Janitorial service; supplies                                    X     
Jewelry manufacture and wholesalers                             X   X  
Jewelry store (retail)                                          X     
Judo, karate instruction                                        X     
Junk yard, salvage operation                                        X
Laboratory (dental, medical)                                   C X     
Laboratory (research, testing)                                      X
Laundromat; dry cleaning; linen supply                          X     
Library                                                             X
Liquor wholesalers                                              C   X  
Locksmith                                                      C X     
Lumber yard (retail and wholesale)                              X   X  
Machine shop; metal fabrication; products                          X  
Marijuana testing facility                                          X
Mobile home parks (rental)                                          X
Mobile home and trailer sales; service; repair                  X     
Motel; hotel                                                    X     
Motorcycle sales, service; repair                               X     
Moving and transfer company                                     C   X  
Museum                                                              X
Music store                                                     X     
Offices; professional and semi-professional                    C X     
Offices; temporary (real estate sales, and the like)           L L   L L
Office equipment and supplies                                   X     
Optician; optical goods                                        C X     
Paint store and related supplies                                X     
Paper supplies (wholesale)                                      C   X  
Parking lot                                                     X   X  
Pawn shop                                                       X     
Pest control; exterminator                                      X     
Pet shop                                                        X     
Photographic equipment and supplies                             X     
Photographic studio                                            C X     
Printing and all allied trades                                  X   X  
Radio or television station (with transmitter tower)                X
Radio or television station (without transmitter tower)         X     
Recreation facility (business enterprise)                       X     
Recreation facility (community, nonprofit)                          X
Reducing salon; health spa                                      X     
Rental service stores                                           X     
Restaurant (with liquor license)                                X     
Restaurant, café, cafeteria (without liquor license) (no curb  X     
service)
Restaurant (drive in)                                           X     
Schools; nursery day care or kindergarten                      C X     
Schools; elementary and secondary                                   X
Schools; business, technical or trade                               X
Schools; nursery day care or kindergarten                      C X     
Schools; elementary and secondary                                   X
Schools; business, technical or trade                               X
Schools; university or college                                      X
Shopping center complex                                         X     
Sign shop                                                       X     
Skating rink (indoor or outdoor)                                X     
Specialty shop                                                  X     
Sporting goods store                                            X     
Stone cutting and monument sales                                X     
Storage (commercial)                                            C   X  
Surplus and salvage goods; second-hand store                    C     
Tailor shop                                                     X     
Taxidermist                                                     X     
Theater (indoor)                                                X     
Theater (drive-in)                                                  X
Truck terminal and maintenance                                  C     
Utility company service center or structure                         X
Veterinary hospital (small animal) (completely enclosed)        X     
Veterinary hospital (large animal)                                  X
Watch repair                                                   C C     
Welding shop                                                    C   X  
 
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986; Am. Ord. 715, passed 10-13-2021) Penalty, see §
154.99
SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
§ 154.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANNER. Any sign printed or displayed upon cloth or other flexible material,
with or without frames.
   DISPLAY SURFACE AREA. The net geometric area enclosed by the display surface
of the sign including the outer extremities of all letters, characters, and
delineations; provided, however, display surface area shall not include the
structural supports for freestanding signs; provided further, that each face of
a double faced sign as defined shall be considered in determining the display
surface area.
   ERECT. To build, construct, attach, hang, place, paint, suspend, or affix, a
sign.
   FLASHING SIGN. An illuminated sign on which artificial or reflected light is
not maintained stationary and constant in intensity and color at all times when
in use.
   FREE-STANDING SIGN. A sign which is attached to or a part of a completely
self-supporting structure including a billboard which is so constructed. The
supporting structure shall be firmly in or below the ground surface and not
attached to any building or any other structure whether portable or stationary.
   IDENTIFICATION AND INFORMATIONAL SIGNS. Signs of an identification or of
informational nature bearing no advertising.
   JOINT IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign which serves as common or collective
identification for a group of persons or businesses operating on the same zone
lot (such as, shopping center, office complex, and the like). Such sign may
name the persons, or businesses, included but carry no other advertising
matter.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign existing at the effective date of the adoption of
this subchapter which could not be built under the terms of this subchapter.
   OFF-SITE SIGN. A sign other than an on-site sign.
   ON-SITE SIGN. A sign relating in its subject matter to the premises on which
it is located, or to products, accommodations, services, or activities on the
premises.
   PORTABLE TEMPORARY ATTRACTION SIGN BOARD. A single or double surface painted
or poster panel type sign or some variation thereof, which is temporary in
nature, usually mounted on wheels, easily movable, not permanently attached
thereto.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A temporary sign placed upon property for the purpose of
advertising to the public the sale or lease of the property.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign wholly erected, constructed or maintained on the roof
structure or parapet wall of any building.
   SIGN. Every device, frame, letter, figure, character, mark, plane, point,
design, picture, stroke, stripe, trademark or reading matter, which is used or
intended to be used to attract attention or convey information when the same is
placed out of doors in view of the general public. For the purpose of
determining number of signs, a sign shall be considered to be a single display
surface or display device containing elements organized, related, and composed
to form a unit. Where matter is displayed in a random manner without organized
relationship to elements, or where there is reasonable doubt as to the
relationship of elements, each element shall be considered to be a single sign.
   WALL SIGN. Any sign that shall be affixed parallel to the wall or printed on
the wall of any building; provided, however, the wall sign shall not project
above the top of the wall or beyond the end of the building. For the purpose of
this subchapter, any surface of a mansard roof shall be considered a wall sign.
Any sign that is affixed to the face of a building marquee, building awning, or
a building canopy shall be considered a wall sign.
(Ord. 612, passed 2-9-1998)
§ 154.36 SIGN PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, repair, alter, relocate or
keep within the town any sign or other advertising structure as defined in this
chapter without first obtaining a sign permit from the Town Manager and paying
the fee required by this section.
   (A)   Application for initial sign permit. Application for initial sign
permits shall be in writing addressed to the Town Manager and shall contain or
have attached thereto the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant.
      (2)   Location of building, structure, or lot to which or upon which the
sign or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected.
      (3)   Position of the sign or other advertising structure in relation to
nearby building or structures.
      (4)   Two blueprints or ink drawings of the plans and specifications and
method of construction and attachment to the building or in the ground.
      (5)   Name of person, firm, corporation or association erecting structure
and applicable contractor’s license numbers.
      (6)   Written consent of the owner of the building, structure or land to
which or on which the structure is to be erected.
      (7)   Any permit required and issued for the sign by any other
governmental agency.
   (B)   Sign permit fees. Every applicant, before being granted a permit
hereunder, shall pay to the town office a permit fee of $25 plus $.50 per
square foot of sign face for each sign or other advertising structure regulated
by this subchapter.
   (C)   Issuance of sign permit. It shall be the duty of the Town Manager,
upon the filing of an application for an erection permit to examine such plans
and specifications and other data and the premises upon which it is proposed to
erect the sign or other advertising structure, and if it shall appear that the
proposed structure is in compliance with all the requirements of this
subchapter and all other laws and ordinances of the town, he or she shall then
issue the erection permit. If the work authorized under an erection permit has
not been completed within 6 months after date of issuance, the permit shall
become null and void.
(Ord. 612, passed 2-9-1998) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.37 SIGN MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Sign identification. Every sign hereafter registered shall show in a
conspicuous place thereon which is visible to the inspector and is readable by
the inspector from the ground, the permit number.
   (B)   Premises maintenance. All free-standing signs and the premises
surrounding the same shall be maintained by the owner thereof in a clean,
sanitary, and inoffensive condition, and free and clear of all noxious
substances, rubbish and weeds.
   (C)   Unsafe and unlawful signs. If the Town Manager shall find that any
sign or other advertising structure regulated herein is unsafe or insecure, or
is a menace to the public, or is abandoned or is maintained in a dilapidated
condition, or has been constructed or erected or is being maintained in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter, he or she shall give written
notice to the permittee or property owner thereof. If the permittee or property
owner fails to remove or alter the structure so as to comply with the standards
here set forth within 10 days after such notice, such sign or other advertising
structure may be removed or altered to comply, at the expense of the permittee
or owner of the property upon which it is located. The Town Manager shall
refuse to issue a permit to any permittee or owner who refuses to pay costs so
assessed.
(Ord. 612, passed 2-9-1998) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.38 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, a nonconforming sign shall be defined
as a sign which does not conform with the provisions of this subchapter or
which does not conform with the town zoning ordinance; such sign shall be
removed within a period of 3 years from the effective date of the adoption of
this chapter, except that:
      (1)   On-site nonconforming signs. All nonconforming signs not otherwise
prohibited by the provisions of this chapter, relating to a place of business
and located on the same premises as such place of business, may be continued
until:
         (a)   The nature of the business conducted on the premises changes in
such a manner as to occasion a change in the existing sign; or
         (b)   The name of the business changes and the sign is changed or
modified either in shape, size or legend.
      (2)   Off-site nonconforming signs. Where an off-site non-conforming sign
is located off the premises of the place of business to which the sign pertains
and exists at effective date of the adoption of this subchapter and could not
be built under the terms of this subchapter by reason of restrictions on sign
area, height, its location on the lot, or other requirements, the owner of the
sign shall remove the sign within 3 years from the effective date of the
adoption of this subchapter.
   (B)   No nonconforming sign may be enlarged or altered in a way from which
would increase its nonconformity.
   (C)   Should any nonconforming sign be damaged by any means to an extent of
more that 50% of its replacement cost at time of damage, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 612, passed 2-9-1998) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.39 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exemptions shall not be construed as relieving the owner of such signs from
the responsibility of complying with applicable provisions of this subchapter.
The exemptions shall apply to the requirement for sign permit only and no sign
permit shall be required for the erection of the following signs:
   (A)   Professional name plates erected flat on walls of building and not
exceeding 4 square feet of display surface area.
   (B)   One on-site building construction sign on each construction site
provided that the maximum display surface are shall not exceed 8 square feet.
   (C)   On a lot there may be erected on each street frontage 1 unanimated
real estate sign not more than 8 square feet in surface area.
   (D)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection
when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other
noncombustible materials.
   (E)   Traffic or other municipal signs, legal notices, railroad crossing
signs, danger, and such temporary, emergency or nonadvertising signs required
by law.
   (F)   Election campaign signs are permitted but only for the period 90 days
prior to the elections to which it applies, and it shall be removed within 10
days following the final election that is held.
   (G)   Street banners which advertise upcoming community events in the town
or county.
   (H)   All signs located within a building that are not visible to the public
outside the building.
   (I)   Signs painted on, or affixed to, glass surfaces of windows or doors
pertaining to the lawful business conducted therein.
   (J)   Temporary holiday decorations.
(Ord. 612, passed 2-9-1998)
§ 154.40 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Removal of certain signs. Any sign now or hereafter existing which no
longer advertises a bona fide business conducted, or a product sold, shall be
taken down, or removed by the owner, agent, or person having the beneficial use
of the building or structure upon which such sign may be found within 10 days
after written notification from the Town Manager, and, upon failure to comply
with such notice within the time specified in such order, the Town Manager is
hereby authorized to cause removal of such sign, and any expense incident
thereto shall be paid by the owner of the property, building, or structure to
which such sign is attached or affixed.
   (B)   Signs not to constitute traffic hazard. No sign or other advertising
structure as regulated by this subchapter shall be erected or continued to be
displayed at the intersection of any street in such a manner as to obstruct
free and clear vision; or at any location where, by reason of the position,
shape, or color, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused
with any authorized traffic sign, signal or device; or which makes use of the
words, “stop,” “look,” “drive-in,” “danger,” or any other word, phrase, symbol
or character in such manner as to interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic.
   (C)   Obstructions. No obstructions to view shall be placed or maintained
between 3 and 8 feet above the street level within the triangular space at the
street corner of a corner lot as defined by the street rights-of-way bordering
the corner lot and a line connecting two points each located 25 feet distant
along such street rights-of-way from the intersection or projected intersection
of the street right-of-way lines. In addition, on Highway 87 (First Street), no
objects greater than 2.5 feet in height above street level, shall be placed or
maintained within the area located 10 feet back from the street right-of-way.
   (D)   Parked vehicle. A parked vehicle carrying advertising shall be
considered a sign unless in operable condition and carrying a current, valid
license tag.
(Ord. 612, passed 2-9-1998) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.41 OFF-SITE ROOF SIGNS.
   Off-site roof signs shall be prohibited. All off-site roof signs existing on
the date of adoption of this subchapter are nonconforming signs.
(Ord. 612, passed 2-9-1998) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.42 FREE-STANDING OFF-SITE SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect any free-standing off-site signs. All free-
standing off-site signs existing on the date of the adoption of this subchapter
are nonconforming signs.
(Ord. 612, passed 2-9-1998) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.43 PROJECTING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect any projecting sign that projects more than 2
feet from the wall of the building upon which it is erected or which projects
beyond the end or top of the wall to which it is attached. Display surface area
of projecting signs shall not exceed 16 square feet. Only 1 projecting sign per
business shall be permitted and a projecting sign shall not be permitted on
property which has a free-standing sign.
(Ord. 612, passed 2-9-1998) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.44 VARIANCES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a variance from the strict
application of the requirements of this subchapter owing to conditions peculiar
to the property and not the result of actions of the applicant where the strict
application of the requirements of this subchapter would result in unnecessary
or undue hardship that would deprive the owner of the reasonable use of land or
building, so long as such variance is not contrary to the public interest. A
variance shall be good for the time specified by the Planning and Zoning
Commission but no longer than 3 years. Successive variances may be granted but
must be independently applied for and granted and the previous granting of a
variance shall in no way obligate the Commission to grant a subsequent
variance. There shall be a presumption that locating a free-standing off-site
sign, such as a billboard, within 500 feet of another free-standing off-site
sign is contrary to the public interest and such presumption can be over come
by only clear and convincing evidence and a unanimous vote of the Commission.
The procedures for applying for a variance, fees, notice, publication,
deadlines, hearings, conditions of variances and appeals shall be the same as
those set out in Ordinance 558 governing zoning.
(Ord. 612, passed 2-9-1998) Penalty, see §
154.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.60 GENERALLY.
   (A)   A Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the
approval of a majority of all members of the governing body, to administer and
enforce this chapter. The Zoning Administrator may also serve in some other
capacity as an employee or appointed officer of the town. The Zoning
Administrator shall administer the provisions of this chapter and shall have
all administrative powers in connection therewith which are not specifically
assigned to some other officer or body. The Zoning Administrator shall have no
power to vary or waive ordinance requirements.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator has the authority to enter all buildings and
premises for the purpose of inspection, provided, however, that no dwelling may
be entered without the consent of the occupant or owner without a warrant based
upon probable cause in accordance with law issued by the Magistrate Judge
setting out with specificity the place to be searched and condition suspected
to be a violation of this chapter. The Zoning Administrator may institute any
appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate a
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall review all building permit
applications required by the town municipal code. The Zoning Administrator
shall determine if the proposed construction is in compliance with all
provisions of the municipal code, or if it requires a variance, zone change or
conditional use permit.
      (2)   No building permit shall be issued for a building or structure
which is not in compliance with the municipal code. If a variance, zone change,
or conditional use permit is necessary, the Zoning Administrator shall notify
the applicant that he or she may request such change at the next scheduled
meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission, subject to proper publishing
procedures.
   (D)   Whenever, in the course of administration and enforcement of this
chapter, it is necessary or desirable to make any administrative decision,
then, unless other standards are provided in this chapter, the decision shall
be made so that the result will not be contrary to the spirit and purpose of
this chapter or injurious to the surrounding neighborhood.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain an office to supply the public
with any information concerning this chapter and shall maintain the official
zone map in an updated form. A zoning action file shall be established and
maintained and shall contain accounts and related records of the following:
      (1)   Conditional use permits.
      (2)   Variances.
      (3)   Application for zone changes and amendments.
      (4)   Certificates of nonconformances.
      (5)   Zoning appeal.
      (6)   Building permits.
      (7)   Violations.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.61 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a variance from the
strict application of area, height, dimension, distance, setback off-street
parking and off-street loading requirements of this chapter owing to conditions
peculiar to the property and not the result of actions of the applicant where
the strict application of the requirements of this chapter would result in
unnecessary or undue hardship that would deprive the owner of the reasonable
use of land or building, so long as such variance is not contrary to the public
interest.
   (B)   A request for a variance shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission through the Zoning Administrator on prescribed application forms.
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall approve or disapprove the variance
request at 1 of its regular meetings, or at a special hearing if necessary.
Public notice shall be given in a newspaper of general circulation in the area
at least 15 days prior to the date of the meeting. The City Clerk shall cause a
copy of the variance application to be sent by registered mail return receipt
requested to the owners of property within 100 feet excluding public right-of-
way of the property for which the variance is sought and that such mailing was
made not less than 15 days prior to the date of hearing before the Planning and
Zoning Commission at which the variance application is considered.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may attach any conditions to the
grant of a variance in order to assure that the requested variance:
      (1)   Will cause no significant hazard, annoyance or inconvenience to the
owners or occupants of nearby property;
      (2)   Will not significantly change the character of the neighborhood or
reduce the value of nearby property;
      (3)   Will not impose any significant cost burden upon the town; and
      (4)   Will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this
chapter.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 154.62 ZONE CHANGE AND AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Applications for an amendment to the map or text of the ordinance may
be made by any landowner or his or her agent or by the town or any official or
body thereof.
   (B)   Amendments to the map or text of this chapter shall be initiated by
application to the Zoning Administrator on prescribed forms. Each application
for an amendment to the zone map shall be accompanied by an accurate site plan,
building plan, sketch, evidence of interest in property, or other related
information as required by the Planning and Zoning Commission or the governing
body. Submission of inaccurate information with an application is grounds for
denial.
   (C)   Request for all zone changes shall first be examined by the Planning
and Zoning Commission in order to determine if they are spot zoning as defined
by this chapter. Any zone change requests determined by the Planning and Zoning
Commission to be spot zoning shall not be given a positive recommendation to
the governing body unless it is demonstrated that the public welfare be served.
   (D)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a public hearing to
evaluate proposed zone changes or amendments to this chapter and shall submit
its recommendation in writing to the governing body. Notice of the public
hearing shall be given in a newspaper of general circulation in the area at
least 15 days prior to the meeting.
   (E)   Applicants requesting a zone change shall post a copy of the
prescribed form on the property at the applicant’s expense. Posting shall be in
the form of a sign at least 3 feet high and large enough to receive the form.
The sign shall be placed in such a location that it can readily be viewed.
   (F)   If the Planning and Zoning Commission fails to make written
recommendation to the governing body following any application for a zone
change or amendment to this chapter within 45 days after receipt thereof, then
the governing body shall act upon the application without such recommendation
by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (G)   The governing body shall conduct a public hearing at which all parties
in interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. Notification of
the time and place of the public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the area at least 15 days prior to the hearing. The
notice of public hearing published 15 days before the Planning and Zoning
Commission meeting shall be considered sufficient notice if it has included the
time and place of the public hearing to be held by the governing body. Whenever
a change in zoning is proposed, notice of the public hearing shall be mailed by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owners of land within the area
proposed to be changed by a zoning regulation and within 100 feet, excluding
public right-of-way, of the area proposed to be changed by zoning regulation.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 154.63 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an interpretation, decision or action of the
Zoning Administrator in administering this chapter may appeal such
interpretation, decision, or action to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   An appeal shall be initiated by application to the City Clerk on
prescribed forms within 30 days of the contested determination made by the
Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   A decision on an appeal shall be made by the Planning and Zoning
Commission following a public hearing. Public notice of an appeal hearing shall
be given in the same manner as prescribed for a zone change in this chapter.
The City Clerk shall give written notice of an appeal, together with a notice
of the date, time and place of hearing to the applicant, each member of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, and a representative of the opponents, if any.
An appeal shall be decided within 60 days of the date of its filing.
   (D)   Should the Planning and Zoning Commission uphold the Zoning
Administrator, the applicant may appeal such decision to the governing body
within 30 days of the determination of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
Also, direct decisions by the Commission may be appealed in the same manner.
   (E)   An appeal shall be initiated as prescribed in division (B) of this
section and notice of hearing shall be given as prescribed in division (C) of
this section.
   (F)   Should the governing body uphold the determination made by the
Planning and Zoning Commission, the applicant may appeal such decision to the
District Court as prescribed by state law.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.64 FEES.
   Conditional use, variance, zone changes, special use, amendments, and
appeals shall not be considered until there is first paid a fee as required
below, except that such fee shall not be required where the town or an official
or body thereof is the moving party. The required fee shall be $25 for any
appeal or application plus the actual cost of required postage and publication
associated with the appeal or application. Each applicant shall post a $100
cost deposit with their application or notice of appeal from which expenses
shall be deducted. The balance of such cost deposit shall be refunded to the
applicant or appellant as soon as practicable after receipt of the bills for
postage and publication.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 154.65 CONFLICT.
   The provisions of this chapter are held to be minimum requirements to carry
out the purpose of this chapter and are not intended to interfere with,
abrogate, or annul any easement, covenant, or other valid ordinance. Where this
chapter imposes a greater restriction than is required by existing regulations,
easements, covenants, agreements, or ordinances, the provisions of this chapter
shall control. Regardless of any other provision of this chapter, no land shall
be used and no structure erected or maintained in violation of any state or
federal pollution control or environmental protection law or regulation.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.66 APPEARANCE.
   Applicant(s) or their agent(s) submitting a conditional use, variance, zone
change, zone text amendment, or appeal request shall appear in person at any
meeting or hearing scheduled to consider the respective application(s). If
applicant(s) or their agent(s) do not appear in person at the respective
meeting, the application will be denied and any fees paid will be forfeited to
the town.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
154.01 through
154.22 and
154.60 through
154.66 shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $300 or
imprisonment for a period not exceeding 90 days, or both. Violations continued
for a period of 15 days after conviction shall be prosecuted and treated as a
separate offense.
(Ord. 558, passed 12-8-1986)
   (B)   Any person who violates the prohibition of §§
154.35 through
154.44 shall be subject to a fine from $100 to $500 or imprisoned for up to 90
days or shall receive both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a sign or
billboard which was erected, constructed, or expanded or the location of which
was changed in violation of §§
154.35 through
154.44 is not removed, shall constitute a separate offense. Further, the sign
or billboard shall constitute a menace to the public safety and welfare and may
be removed as such by the town and the costs of the removal shall constitute a
municipal lien upon the real estate upon which the sign or billboard was
located and the lien may be foreclosed pursuant to the statutes, and the town
shall be entitled to recover the costs of such removal and interest at the
statutory rate for municipal liens and attorney's fees incurred. The owner or
tenant of any building, structure, premises or part thereof, and any architect,
builder, contractor, agent, or other person who commits, participates in, or
maintains such violation may be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer
the penalties herein provided.
(Ord. 612, passed 2-9-1998)
CHAPTER 155: AIRPORT HAZARD ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Short title
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Airport zones
   
155.04   Airport zone height limitations
   
155.05   Use restrictions
   
155.06   Nonconforming uses
   
155.07   Permits
   
155.08   Enforcement
   
155.09   Board of Adjustment
   
155.10   Appeals
   
155.11   Judicial review
   
155.12   Conflicting regulations
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as Clayton Municipal Airpark
Hazard Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 491, passed 9-13-1975)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. The Clayton Municipal Airpark.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The highest point of an airport’s usable landing area
measured in feet from mean sea level.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or object of natural growth located on or in
the vicinity of a public airport, or any use of land near such airport, which
obstructs the airspace required for the flight or aircraft in landing or
takeoff at such airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or takeoff of
aircraft.
   APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL, AND CONICAL ZONES. These zones apply to
the area under the approach, transitional, horizontal, and conical surfaces
defined in the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) Volume XI, Part 77.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. A board consisting of 5 members appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees as provided in NMSA § 14-
40-20.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea
level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any pre-existing structure, object of natural growth, or
use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment thereto.
   PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends 200
feet beyond each end of that runway; but when the runway has no specially
prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the primary surface ends at
each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface of a runway will be
that width prescribed in Part 77 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) for
the most precise approach existing or planned for either end of that runway.
The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation
of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
   RUNWAY.  A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.
   STRUCTURE. An object constructed or installed by man, including, but without
limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks, earth formation, and overhead
transmission lines.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
   UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and less.
   VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures with no straight-in instrument approach procedure
and no instrument designation indicated on an FAA-approved airport layout plan,
a military service’s approved military airport layout plan, or by any planning
document submitted to the FAA by competent authority.
(Ord. 491, passed 9-13-1975)
§ 155.03 AIRPORT ZONES.
   In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are hereby
created and established certain zones which include all of the land lying
within the approach zones, transitional zones, horizontal zones and conical
zones as they apply to a particular airport. Such zones are shown on Clayton
Municipal Airpark Hazard Zoning Map consisting of 1 sheet, prepared by Molzen-
Gorbin and Associates, and dated January, 1975, which is attached to this
chapter and made a part hereof. An area located in more than 1 of the following
zones is considered to be only in the zone with more restrictive height
limitation. The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
   (A)   Utility runway visual approach zone. The inner edge of this approach
zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 250 feet wide. The
approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 1,250 feet at a
horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline
being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   (B)   Transitional zones. These zones are hereby established as the area
beneath the transitional surfaces. These surfaces extend outward and upward at
90 degree angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at
a slope of 7 feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the
primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and
conical surfaces. Transitional zones for those portions of the precision
approach zones which project through and beyond the limits of the conical
surface extend a distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of
the approach zones and at 90 degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
   (C)   Horizontal zone. The horizontal zone is hereby established by swinging
arcs of 5,000 feet radii from the center of each end of the primary surface of
each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those
arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional zones.
   (D)   Conical zone. The conical zone is hereby established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet. The conical zone does not include the
precision instrument approach zones and the transitional zones.
(Ord. 491, passed 9-13-1975)
§ 155.04 AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure or tree
shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or be maintained in any zone
created by this chapter to a height in excess of the applicable height limit
herein established for such zone. Such applicable height limitations are hereby
established for each of the zones in question as follows:
      (1)   Utility runway visual approach zone. Slopes upward 20 feet
horizontally for each foot vertically, beginning at the end of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of
5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
      (2)   Transitional zones.  Slopes upward and outward 7 feet horizontally
for each foot vertically beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as
the primary surface and the approach zones, and extending to a height of 150
feet above the airport elevation which is 4,975 feet above mean sea level. In
addition to the foregoing, there are established height limits sloping upward
and outward 7 feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the sides
of and at the same elevation as the approach zones, and extending to where they
intersect the conical surface. Where the precision instrument runway approach
zone projects beyond the conical zone, height limits sloping upward and outward
7 feet horizontally for each foot vertically shall be maintained beginning at
the sides of and at the same elevation as precision instrument runway approach
surface, and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet measured at 90
degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
      (3)   Horizontal zone. One hundred and fifty feet above the airport
elevation or a height of 5,125 feet above mean sea level.
      (4)   Conical zone. Slopes upward and outward 20 feet horizontally for
each foot vertically beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at
150 feet above the airport elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet
above the airport elevation.
      (5)   Excepted height limitations. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as prohibiting the growth, construction, or maintenance of any tree
or structure to a height up to 50 feet above the surface of the land.
   (B)   Where an area is covered by more than 1 height limitation, the more
restrictive limitation shall prevail.
(Ord. 491, passed 9-13-1975) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.05 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no use may be made of
land or water within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as
to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to
distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of
pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport or
otherwise in any way create a hazard or endanger the landing, takeoff, or
maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
(Ord. 491, passed 9-13-1975) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.06 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
chapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other
changes or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the
regulations as of the effective date of this chapter, or otherwise interfere
with the continuance of a nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein shall
require any change in the construction, alteration, or intended use of any
structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the
effective date of this chapter, and is diligently prosecuted.
   (B)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this
section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby
required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such
markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Airport Manager to
indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport, the
presence of such airport hazards. Such markers and lights shall be installed,
operated, and maintained at the expense of the town.
(Ord. 491, passed 9-13-1975)
§ 155.07 PERMITS.
   (A)   Future uses. No material change shall be made in the use of land and
no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted, or otherwise
established in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been
applied for and granted.
      (1)   However, a permit for a tree or structure of less than 75 feet of
vertical height above the ground shall not be required in the horizontal and
conical zones or in any approach and transitional zones beyond a horizontal
distance of 4,200 feet from each end of the runway except when such tree or
structure, because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, would
extend above the height limit prescribed for the respective zone.
      (2)   Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which
the permit is desired with sufficient particulars to determine. Whether the
resulting use, structure, or tree would conform to the regulations herein
prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be
granted.
   (B)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date of this chapter or any amendments thereto or than it is when
the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for
such a permit shall be granted.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Airport
Manager determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been abandoned or
more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated, or decayed, no permit shall
be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable
height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
   (D)   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use his or her property not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the
Board of Adjustment for a variance from such regulations. Such variances shall
be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of
the regulations would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship
and relief granted would not be contrary to the public interest but will do
substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit of this chapter.
   (E)   Hazard marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted may, if
such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter and
be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner
of the structure of tree in question to permit the town, at its own expense, to
install, operate, and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be
necessary to indicate to pilots the presence of an airport hazard.
(Ord. 491, passed 9-13-1975) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Airport Manager to administer and enforce the
regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be
made to the Airport Manager upon a form furnished by him or her. Applications
required by this chapter to be submitted to the Airport Manager shall be
promptly considered and granted or denied by him or her. Application for action
by the Board of Adjustment shall be forthwith transmitted by the Airport
Manager.
(Ord. 491, passed 9-13-1975)
§ 155.09 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Adjustment to have and exercise the
following powers: to hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by the Airport Manager in the enforcement of
this chapter; to hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this
chapter upon which such Board of Adjustment under such regulations may be
required to pass; and to hear and decide specific variances.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of 5 members appointed by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, and each shall
serve for a term of 3 years and until his or her successor is duly appointed
and qualified. Of the members first appointed, 1 shall be appointed for a term
of 1 year, 2 for a term of 2 years, and 2 for a term of 3 years. Members shall
be removable by the appointing authority for cause, upon written charges, after
a public hearing.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and in
harmony with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the Board of
Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chairman and at such other times as
the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chairman, or in his or her absence
the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. All hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be public. The Board
of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each
member upon each question; or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such
fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions,
all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the Airport Manager
and on due cause shown.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of facts and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any order,
requirement, decision, or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the Airport Manager or to decide in favor of the applicant on
any matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter, or to effect
variation in this chapter.
(Ord. 491, passed 9-13-1975)
§ 155.10 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the
Airport Manager made in his or her administration of this chapter, may appeal
to the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time as
provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment, by filing with the Airport
Manager a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Airport Manager
shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting
the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   (C)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the Airport Manager certifies to the Board of Adjustment,
after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason of the facts
stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed except
by order of the Board of Adjustment on notice to the Airport Manager and on due
cause shown.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provision of this
chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision, or determination, as may be appropriate under the
circumstances.
(Ord. 491, passed 9-13-1975)
§ 155.11 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment, may appeal to the District Court of Union County as provided in
NMSA § 14-20-21.
(Ord. 491, passed 9-13-1975)
§ 155.12 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or
trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or
requirement shall govern and prevail.
(Ord. 491, passed 9-13-1975)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order, or ruling
promulgated hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable by a
fine of not more than $100 or imprisonment for not more than 10 days or both;
and each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 491, passed 9-13-1975)
CHAPTER 156: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Purpose
   
156.002   Statutory authority
   
156.003   Jurisdiction
   
156.004   Definitions
Suitability and Design Standards
   
156.015   Geographic suitability
   
156.016   Design standards
Application Review, and Approval Procedures; Minor Subdivision Plat
   
156.030   Minor subdivision plat
   
156.031   Elective pre-application procedure
   
156.032   Minor plat submittal requirements
   
156.033   Submittal and review procedures for minor plats
Application Review, and Approval Procedures; Major Subdivision
   
156.045   Application and review process outline
   
156.046   Sketch plat
Application Review, and Approval Procedures; Preliminary Plat
   
156.060   Submittal requirements for preliminary plat
   
156.061   Submittal and review procedures for preliminary plat
   
156.062   Planning and Zoning Commission review and action
   
156.063   Board of Trustees action on preliminary plat
Application Review, and Approval Procedures; Final Plat
   
156.075   Submittal of final plat
   
156.076   Action required
   
156.077   Taxes and fees to be paid
   
156.078   Limit on town’s liability
   
156.079   Construction of improvements or filing of security
   
156.080   Town control of signed plats and supporting documentation
   
156.081   Filing of plat
   
156.082   One year life of final plat
   
156.083   Plat amendments
   
156.084   Plat vacations
   
156.085   Cause
   
156.086   Processes of vacation
   
156.087   Statement of vacation
   
156.088   Scheduling and notification
   
156.089   Action
   
156.090   Right to retain roadways and utility easements
   
156.091   Filing
Plat Requirements and Fees
   
156.105   Preliminary plat
   
156.106   Final plat
   
156.107   Fees
Variances
   
156.120   Conditions for granting
   
156.121   Application and approval procedure
   
156.122   Waivers of submittal requirements
 
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are intended to regulate the orderly, harmonious, and
economically sound division and development of land in order to promote the
health, safety, convenience, and welfare of citizens of the Town of Clayton and
its area of jurisdiction.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.002 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are passed, adopted, and approved by the Board of Trustees
of the Town of Clayton by Ordinance No. 719 as authorized by NMSA §§ 3-19-1 to
3-19-12 and §§ 3-20-1 to 3-20-16. These regulations implement the planning and
platting authority provided by New Mexico statute and the Clayton Town
Ordinance No. 719.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.003 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall govern all platting or re-platting of land within the
Town of Clayton and all territory lying within 3 miles of the town's corporate
limits pursuant to NMSA §§ 3-19-5 and 3-20-5.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.004 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in these regulations, words in the singular include the plural
meanings and the plural meanings and the plural words include the singular.
"Person" includes a corporation, unincorporated association, and a partnership
as well as an individual. "Building" and "street" are used generally and shall
be construed as followed by the phrase "in part thereof." "May" is permissive;
"shall" and "will" are mandatory subject to the provisions of these
regulations. The words or phrases set out in this chapter when used in these
regulations shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ADJACENT. Refers to one or more parcels nearest to another parcel, whether
by shared boundary line or divided only by a private or public road or other
easement.
   ALLEY. A service roadway, with a right-of-way width sufficient for vehicular
access to the back or side of properties otherwise contiguous to a street.
   ARTERIAL, PRINCIPAL. Serves as the major roadway system for the community
and is designed to carry the largest amount of vehicular traffic, provide a
high degree of mobility, and serve the major population and commercial centers
of the town.
   ARTERIALS, MINOR. Serves as secondary major routes that provide service for
trips of moderate length, serve smaller geographic areas than PRINCIPAL
ARTERIALS, generally have lower posted speed limits and less traffic than a
PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL, and more accessibility.
   BLOCK. An area bounded by existing or proposed streets. Under certain
conditions of terrain, such as where lots back up against a steep slope or a
watercourse, etc., this definition may be qualified to say, "an area bounded by
existing or proposed streets and outside property lines."
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES. Governing body of the Town of Clayton, New Mexico
comprised of elected officials.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING SETBACK. The required distance between every building or structure,
fences excepted, and any lot line on the lot on which it is located. Setbacks
shall consist of an open space, unoccupied and unobstructed by and part of a
building or structure.
   COLLECTOR, MAJOR. Serves to gather and direct traffic from local roads lo
arterial roadways, are longer, have higher speed limits, are spaced at greater
intervals, and have higher traffic volumes than MINOR COLLECTORS.
   COLLECTOR, MINOR. Typically has more points of access than MAJOR COLLECTORS
and lower speed limits.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The Comprehensive Plan of the Town of Clayton, New
Mexico adopted by resolution.
   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL. Approval of a preliminary or final plat by the
approving authority, which is granted upon the condition that certain
requirements are met prior to final approval or recording in the office of the
Union County Clerk.
   CONTIGUOUS. Refers to one or more parcels that share a boundary line with
another parcel.
   CORPORATE LIMITS. The municipal boundaries of the Town of Clayton.
   COUNTY. Union County, New Mexico.
   DEDICATION. The appropriation of land, or an easement therein, by the owner,
for the use of the public, and accepted for such use by or on behalf of the
public.
   DEVELOPMENT. The division of a parcel of land into two or more parcels; the
construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation, or
enlargement of any structure; any mining, excavation, landfill, or land
disturbance; or any use or extension of the use of land.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot that has both front and back property lines
fronting on parallel or approximately parallel streets.
   DRAINAGE RIGHT-OF-WAY. The lands required for the installation of storm
water sewers or drainage ditches or required along a natural street or
watercourse for preserving the channel and providing for the flow of water
therein to safeguard the public against flood damage.
   EASEMENT. A "non-possessory" property interest that allows the beneficiary
to use property that he or she does not own or possess. The beneficiary cannot
occupy the land or to exclude others from the land unless they interfere with
the beneficiary's use.
   ENGINEER. An engineer or engineering firm registered in accordance with the
laws of New Mexico.
   FAMILY. Any individual or group of persons related by consanguinity,
adoption, foster care, or marriage, or not more than five unrelated persons
that have a right to live together pursuant to the federal Fair Housing Act
Amendments of 1988 (or as amended), as interpreted by the courts.
   FAMILY SPLIT. A plat amendment for a residential property, which is subject
to a minor procedure.
   FILING, PLAT. The act of processing a subdivision plat, which is seeking
approval by the town as required by this title.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any constructed, fixed item that becomes part of or placed upon
real property.
   IMPROVEMENT, PRIVATE. Any improvement, facility, or service, together with
its associated site or right-of-way, necessary to provide transportation,
drainage, utilities, or similar essential services and facilities that is
located on private property and not dedicated to the town.
   IMPROVEMENT, PUBLIC. Any improvement, facility, or service, together with
its associated site or right-of-way, necessary to provide transportation,
drainage, utilities, or similar essential services and facilities and that is
usually owned and operated by a governmental agency.
   IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEE. A deposit of cash, bond, certified check, or other
negotiable securities submitted to the town to ensure that all improvements,
facilities, or work required by the land development and subdivision
regulations or required by the town as a condition of approval, will be
completed in compliance with the approved plans and specifications of a
development; and an agreement to the effect that the subdivider will install
said required improvements.
   LOT. Any parcel of land platted or described by metes and bounds and placed
on record with the Town of Clayton or Union County in accordance with all
applicable laws and ordinances.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The boundary of a lot bordering on a street.
   MONUMENT. Refers to one or more of the following:
      (1)   BENCHMARK. A brass cap, set in a base that meets town standards,
with the elevation and the land surveyor's registration number inscribed
thereon.
      (2)   PERMANENT SURVEY MONUMENT. A brass cap set in a base that meets
town standards, or a standard BLM monument marking sectionalized corners,
containing coordinates referenced to the New Mexico Coordinate System and the
land surveyor's registration number inscribed thereon.
      (3)   SUBDIVISION CONTROL MONUMENT. A metal stake or pipe that meets town
standards, with the land surveyor's registration number affixed thereto.
   OWNER. Any person or legal entity having a proprietary interest in land,
including that area of land proposed to be subdivided, but not including a
mortgagee, lien holder, or lessee.
   PARCEL. A contiguous quantity of land in possession of, owned by, or
recorded as property of the same claimant person or company.
   PLAN SET. The complete set of plans, drawings, and diagrams required for a
particular subdivision application.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. A body appointed by the Board of Trustees
and delegated the power, authority, jurisdiction, and duty to enforce and carry
out the provisions of this chapter.
   PLAT. A plan or a map of a plot of land, certified by a surveyor, containing
a description of the property and everything on it, including roads,
boundaries, and real property a map of a town, section, or subdivision with
ties to permanent monuments.
   PLAT, FINAL. The plat that is submitted to Board of Trustees for final
approval, which conforms substantially to the preliminary plat approved by the
Planning and Zoning Commission under this title.
   PLAT, ORIGINAL. The first plat for a defined area of land, prior to any
subsequent replats or plat amendments, which has been recorded with the office
of the Union County Clerk.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The development plan of a subdivision, prepared by a New
Mexico licensed and registered surveyor, presented to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for preliminary approval.
   PLAT VACATION. The process to formally remove the legal effects of all or a
portion of a properly approved and recorded plat from record, as recorded in
the office of the Union County Clerk.
   PLATTED AREA. An area of land that has been legally subdivided in accordance
with this title.
   PLAYGROUND. An active recreational area with a variety of facilities,
including equipment for younger children as well as court and field games.
   PREAPPLICATION MEETING. A meeting with town staff to review all or a portion
of a set of subdivision plans in order to offer guidance and direction prior to
a formal application.
   PUBLIC HEARING. A meeting announced and advertised in accordance with the
New Mexico Open Meetings Act and the requirements set in this title, advertised
in advance and open to the public, with the public given an opportunity to ask
questions, comment, and participate.
   RECORDING. The act of processing a subdivision plat, which has been approved
by the town as required by this title, as an official record in the deeds and
records section of the office of the Union County Clerk.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITY. A place designated and equipped for the conducting of
sports and leisure-time activities.
   REPLAT. The process to prepare and record a new plat, replacing all or a
portion of a previously recorded plat.
   RESERVOIR. A storage space for water, which may include an enlarged natural
or artificial lake, storage pond, or impoundment created using a dam or lock to
store water.
   REZONING. The process of changing the current zoning designation of
particular lots or parcels of land.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land reserved for uses as a street, alley, crosswalk, or other
public ingress and egress.
   SEWER SERVICE. A system supplying the public with sewer infrastructure.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a road right-of-way paralleling and usually
separated from the road, paved, and designated for preferential or exclusive
use by pedestrians.
   SKETCH PLAT. A preliminary, preapplication map of a proposed subdivision,
which may be a sketch on a topographic survey, or a draft of a digitally
produced plan, showing proposed layout of streets, lots, and other features in
relation to existing conditions,
   STREET. A public way for vehicular and pedestrian traffic whether designated
as a street, drive, highway, throughway, turnpike, road, avenue, boulevard,
lane, place, way, or however otherwise designated.
   STREET, DEDICATED. A street accepted for public improvement and maintenance,
whether by municipal, county, state, or federal government.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street that is used primarily for access to contiguous
parcels and designed to carry slow-speed traffic primarily having a destination
or origin on the street itself.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A street located on a privately-owned parcel, not dedicated
to the town, and not accepted by the town for maintenance and improvement.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person who undertakes the subdivision of land as defined in
this title, A subdivider shall be an owner or authorized agent of the owner of
the land to be subdivided.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of any lot or tract of land into two or more lots,
tracts, parcels, plats, or sites for the purpose whether immediate or in the
future, to sell, lease, or develop, Subdivision does not include the following:
      (1)   Any residual land retained by the subdivider after subdividing but
which has not been divided for subdivision purposes.
      (2)   The sale or lease of apartments, offices, stores, or similar space
within a building.
      (3)   Any division of land in which only gas, oil, mineral or water
rights are severed from the surface ownership of the land.
      (4)   Any division of land created by court order.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. Any subdivision not classified as minor.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. Any subdivision which:
      (1)   Does not increase the total number of parcels of land by more than
one parcel (create more than 2 parcels total) or results in the same number of
total parcels, or results in a decrease in the total number of parcels;
      (2)   Does not include any lots that do not have street frontage;
      (3)   Does not require the installation of any significant
infrastructure; and
      (4)   Only terminates easements created by plat where all benefitted and
burdened parties agree to the easement termination.
   SUBDIVISION, PROPOSED. A subdivision for which a complete application packet
has been submitted to the town, prior to the granting of final approval by the
Board of Trustees.
   SURVEYOR. A registered land surveyor licensed in accordance with the laws of
New Mexico.
   UTILITIES. Any agency that, under public franchise or ownership, or under
certificate of convenience and necessity, or by grant of authority by any
governmental agency, provides the public with electricity, gas, heat, steam,
communication, transportation, water, sewage collection, or other similar
service; a closely regulated enterprise with a franchise for providing needed
services.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of this ordinance where such variance
will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions
peculiar to the property and not the result of actions of the applicant, a
literal enforcement of the ordinance would result in unnecessary and undue
hardship that would deprive the owner of the reasonable use of the land or
building.
   WATER RIGHTS. The legal right to appropriate water from an aquifer or river.
A permitted or declared right is considered a valid water right only to the
extent water has been legally placed to beneficial use and documented with the
New Mexico Office of the State Engineer.
   WATER SERVICE. The general term for furnishing the customer with water.
   WATER WELL. An excavation or structure created in the ground by digging,
driving, boring, or drilling to access groundwater in underground aquifers.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
SUITABILITY AND DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 156.015 GEOGRAPHIC SUITABILITY.
   (A)   An area shall be suited to the purposes for which it is to be
subdivided, with reference to any officially adopted plans of the town.
   (B)   Land with the following types of problems shall have subdivision
approval withheld until it is demonstrated that such hazards have been or will
be eliminated:
      (1)   Special drainage conditions.
      (2)   Difficult topography.
      (3)   Soil conditions which are unusually limiting.
      (4)   Other geographic hazards to life, health, or property.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.016 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Parcel standards. The lot arrangement and design shall be such that
all lots will provide satisfactory and desirable building sites properly
related to topography and the character of adjacent development. All side lines
of lots shall be at right angles to straight street lines or radial to curved
street lines unless a variation of this rule will give a better street and lot
plan. Double frontage lots shall not be permitted.
   (B)   Street standards.
      (1)   The character, extent, width, and location of all streets shall
conform to any master plan or policies established by the Board of Trustees and
shall be consistent and appropriate in their relationship to existing and
planned streets, topographic conditions, public convenience, safety, and the
proposed uses of the land to be served by the streets.
      (2)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right-of-way
or limited access highway right-of-way, a street approximately parallel to the
right-of-way may be required.
      (3)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except when used as an addition
to another half street which was platted and filed before the effective date of
these regulations.
      (4)   No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be confused
with the names of existing streets within the jurisdiction of the town. Street
name changes shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees upon the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission. A street name shall only
be changed if the applicant shows that there will be a public benefit that
clearly outweighs the public confusion that would be created by the name
change.
      (5)   All streets shall be graded, and the roadway improved in accordance
with standard specifications of the town.
      (6)   Curbs and gutters may be required on both sides of the street and
constructed to standard specifications of the town.
      (7)   A 6-foot wide sidewalk is required on all arterials. A 4-foot wide
sidewalk is required on all collectors and local streets.
   (C)   Utility requirements. Easements of at least 5 feet in width shall be
provided and dedicated on each side of all rear lot lines (except where there
are alleys) and alongside lot lines where necessary for poles, wires, conduits,
storm and sanitary sewers, gas, water, and other mains.
   (D)   Public and open space requirements. The Board of Trustees may require
adequate provision for suitable park land, playgrounds, or other recreational
use in major subdivisions.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
APPLICATION REVIEW, AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES;
MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT
§ 156.030 MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may approve or deny the following types
of minor subdivision plats. A re-plat of a previously filed subdivision or
subdivision of previously unsubdivided land when:
   (A)   No more than 2 new lots are created;
   (B)   All lots to be created have direct, legal, unobstructed access to an
existing town maintained street;
   (C)   All lots to be created have direct, unobstructed legal access to
existing town water and sewer lines;
   (D)   The subdivider files with the town a letter of credit for funds
adequate to pay for connecting the lots to the town's water and sewer lines;
   (E)   The lots comply in all ways with the standards for lots contained
within the town's Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Code;
   (F)   All lots are laid out in a manner which allows utility service to be
provided to the purchasers of said lots;
   (G)   All lots to be eliminated or created exist within the area of a single
block of lots in a previously platted and filed subdivision; and
   (H)   No vacation of street dedications or utility easements is proposed;
   (I)   Lots are to be eliminated or consolidated; or
   (J)   Lot lines are to be adjusted.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.031 ELECTIVE PRE-APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Prior to filing a minor plat, the subdivider may submit a conceptual
plan of the proposed subdivision to the Town Manager. The conceptual plan shall
provide enough information for the Town Manager to locate the proposed
subdivision and to comprehend its scope and potential impacts. Neither a
written application nor an application fee is required for submittal of a
conceptual plan.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall place the proposed minor subdivision on the
next agenda of the Planning and Zoning Commission for discussion with the
subdivider or the subdivider's representative and shall indicate changes, if
any, that will be required for the submittal process.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.032 MINOR PLAT SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application signed by all property owners, including all parties
having an equitable interest, trustees of an estate, and all persons having a
specific "power of attorney" in such land;
   (B)   A record of any pending litigation or any final order entered by any
court of law regarding the ownership of the subject property;
   (C)   Application fee as established by the town;
   (D)   Documentation from the Union County Assessor's Office that the current
year's property taxes are paid and that no taxes are owed on the property;
   (E)   A plat conforming to the town's subdivision design standards; and
   (F)   Releases by all utility companies which are proposed as providers for
the subdivision.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.033 SUBMITTAL AND REVIEW PROCEDURES FOR MINOR PLATS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit all required materials to the Town
Manager.
   (B)   Incomplete submittals will not be accepted for review.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall review all materials and shall, within 3
working days from the date the application is determined to be complete,
request opinions of applicable town departments, other governmental agencies,
and utility companies for review, comments, and recommendations. Town
departments shall have 21 calendar days in which to review and respond in
writing to any such request. Within 3 working days of receiving any written
reports, comments or recommendations from any town department, governmental
agency, or utility company, the Town Manager shall make available to the
subdivider a copy of such materials.
   (D)   The Town Manager shall have the right to require that the subdivider
provide additional information or to make amendments to the plat and supporting
information if the Town Manager determines that the information originally
submitted by the subdivider was incomplete, incorrect, or invalid.
   (E)   The subdivider shall have 10 working days in which to make any
corrections or additions required by the Town Manager, or to request a
postponement of action by the Town Manager for up to 90 days.
   (F)   If a subdivision application does not meet the requirements of this
code within 120 days of its original submittal, the Town Manager shall
summarily reject the application and notify the subdivider
in writing of the reasons for the rejection.
   (G)   At such time as the subdivider meets the requirements of this code,
the subdivider shall provide the Town Manager with a copy of the final plat.
   (H)   At such time as receiving a submittal that meets all requirements of
this code, the Town Manager shall recommend that the Planning and Zoning
Commission approve the final plat by consent agenda action during its next
regularly scheduled meeting.
   (I)   The subdivider shall file a signed copy of the final plat in the
records of the County Clerk of Union County and shall provide the town with one
of the signed copies for filing at Town Hall.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
APPLICATION REVIEW, AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES;
MAJOR SUBDIVISION
§ 156.045 APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCESS OUTLINE.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.046 SKETCH PLAT.
   A sketch plat is required before the submittal of all major subdivision
applications.
   (A)   Prior to filing a major subdivision plat, the subdivider shall submit
a sketch plat of the proposed subdivision to the Town Manager. The sketch plat
shall provide enough information for the Town Manager to locate the proposed
subdivision and to comprehend its scope and potential impacts.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall place the proposed subdivision on the next
agenda of the Planning and Zoning Commission for discussion with the subdivider
or the subdivider's representative and shall indicate changes, if any, that
will be required for the submittal process.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
APPLICATION REVIEW, AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES; PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 156.060 SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Preliminary plat: Five copies of the preliminary plat that conform to
the subdivision design standards and containing all information as set out in
§§
156.105 through
156.107.
   (B)   Copies of all relevant supplemental plans.
   (C)   A completed application form signed by all property owners, including
all parties having an equitable interest, trustees of an estate, or all persons
having a specific "power of attorney" for the subject property as recorded in
the County Clerk's records. Any pending litigation of any final order entered
by any court of law regarding the subject property shall be disclosed by the
subdivider.
   (D)   Application fee as established by the town.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.061 SUBMITTAL AND REVIEW PROCEDURES FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Incomplete submittals will not be accepted for review.
   (B)   The subdivider shall submit all required materials to the Town
Manager.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall review all materials and shall request a review
and response from applicable town departments, other governmental agencies, and
utility companies within two working days from the date the application is
determined to be complete. All reviewing agencies shall have a minimum of 21
working days to review and comment on the subdivision. Within 5 working days of
receiving a written report, comment or recommendation from any town department,
governmental agency, or utility company, the Town Manager shall make a copy of
such materials available to the subdivider.
   (D)   The Town Manager shall have the right to require that the subdivider
provide additional information or to make amendments to the plat and supporting
information if the Town Manager determines by a review of the materials or from
comments received from reviewing entities that the submittal is incomplete,
incorrect, or invalid.
   (E)   The subdivider shall have 10 working days in which to make any
corrections or additions required by the Town Manager, or to request a
postponement of action by the Town Manager for up to 90 days.
   (F)   If a subdivision application does not meet the requirements of this
Code within 365 days of its original submittal, the Town Manager shall
summarily reject the application and notify the applicant in writing of the
reasons for the rejection.
   (G)   If a submittal meets all requirements of this Code within 365 days of
its submission to the town, the Town Manager shall inform the subdivider of the
status of the submittal, and within 3 days of notifying the subdivider, place
the proposed subdivision on the agenda of the next Planning and Zoning
Commission with a recommendation of approval or conditional approval.
   (H)   Notice of consideration of the proposed subdivision shall be sent by
certified mail to the owners of land within 100 feet of the boundaries of the
proposed subdivision, excluding public right-of-way, at least 15 days prior to
the meeting at with the subdivision is to be considered.
   (I)   The Town Manager shall maintain custody of the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.062 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION REVIEW AND ACTION.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall recommend approval of a
subdivision if it determines that the proposed subdivision plat and supporting
information conform with the requirements of this Code and that the subdivider
will be able to fulfill the requirements of this Code. In making this
determination, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall consult the official
record of communications regarding the proposal for comments by offices of any
and all local, state, and federal entities charged with responsibility for
monitoring and administration of any of the facets of development which the
subdivision may impact.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall recommend disapproval of a
subdivision if it determines that the subdivision submittal was incomplete or
did not comply with the requirements of this Code and that the subdivider is
unable or unwilling to bring the submission into compliance with this Code. In
making this determination, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall consult the
official record of communications regarding the proposal for comments by
offices of any and all local, state, and federal entities charged with
responsibility for monitoring and administration of any of the facets of
development which the subdivision may impact.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may give conditional approval if
the subdivision is substantially in compliance with the requirements of this
code, and if the subdivider is able and willing to bring the submittal into
complete compliance with this code prior to approval of the final plat.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.063 BOARD OF TRUSTEES ACTION ON PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   A subdivision which receives a recommendation of approval, conditional
approval, or disapproval from the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be acted
on by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   An approved preliminary plat shall remain in effect for not more than
1 year from the date of the Board of Trustees meeting approving said plat. The
subdivider may request an extension of not more than 2 years. The Planning and
Zoning Commission may grant the extension in 1- or 2-year increments if it
finds that conditions leading to the original approval have not changed
substantially.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
APPLICATION REVIEW, AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES; FINAL PLAT
§ 156.075 SUBMITTAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   Upon receiving approval of the preliminary plat from the Town Board of
Trustees, the subdivider shall prepare a final plat that is consistent with the
standards of this code for submission to the Town Board of Trustees and which
is in conformance with any conditions placed upon it via the conditional
approval of the preliminary plat. The final plat shall be submitted prior to
the expiration date of the preliminary plat. The final plat shall contain all
information contained in the preliminary plat and shall be accompanied by all
supporting information required for review of the preliminary plat. Both the
plat and supporting documentation shall contain all changes required by the
Planning and Zoning Commission in its decision to recommend approval or
conditional approval.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.076 ACTION REQUIRED.
   The Board of Trustees shall approve or disapprove a final plat within 60
days of the final plat being submitted.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.077 TAXES AND FEES TO BE PAID.
   Before final approval of a final plat, the subdivider shall have provided to
the town certification from the County Treasurer of Union County that all due
and delinquent taxes against the land included in the preliminary plat are
fully paid. Additionally, the subdivider shall pay the necessary filing fee to
the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.078 LIMIT ON TOWN’S LIABILITY.
   Approval of the final plat by the Board of Trustees shall not be deemed to
constitute acceptance by the town or any of its officers or officials of any
liability for the development of any street or other improvements within the
subdivision.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.079 CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS OR FILING OF SECURITY.
   Upon approval of the final plat, the subdivider may submit applications for
construction permits for required improvements, or secure and file a letter of
credit for 125% of the estimated cost of said improvements and guarantees of
performance and indemnity agreement for the subdivision. The subdivision shall
not be filed with the County Clerk of Union County, and lots may not be
advertised or conveyed until all required improvements have been completed and
approved by the town or until a letter of credit and guarantees of performance
and indemnity agreement for work within the subdivision are approved and filed
with the town. The town and the New Mexico Construction Industries Division
will not issue any building permits for structures on any lot within the
subdivision unless the improvements have been built or the bond has been
posted.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.080 TOWN CONTROL OF SIGNED PLATS AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION.
   Following approval of a final plat, the Town Manager shall retain an
original signed copy of the final plat and all other documents required for
approval of the final plat. The subdivider shall also provide the town with a
digital copy of the final plat.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.081 FILING OF PLAT.
   Upon the completion and acceptance of all improvements, or the filing of a
letter of credit and guarantees of performance and indemnity agreement for the
subdivision, the subdivider shall file a signed copy of the final plat in the
records of the County Clerk of Union County and shall provide the town with one
of the signed copies. The subdivider shall pay all filing fees for the
subdivision.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.082 ONE YEAR LIFE OF FINAL PLAT.
   If the subdivision's improvements have not been completed within 1 year of
the filing with the County Clerk of the final plat, the town will cause the
improvements to be made via the use of the security bond posted by the
subdivider. This period may be extended by 1 year at the discretion of the Town
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.083 PLAT AMENDMENTS.
   All amendments to existing plats shall be considered either minor or major
subdivisions based on the criteria set forth in §
156.030.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.084 PLAT VACATIONS.
   (A)   A vacation of plat occurs when part or all of a filed subdivision plat
is eliminated.
   (B)   A vacation of plat also occurs when a platted easement or other right-
of-way is eliminated.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.085 CAUSE.
   All of or any part of a final plat filed with the Union County Clerk may be
vacated if:
   (A)   The owners of record of the land proposed to be vacated sign an
acknowledged statement declaring their wish that the final plat or portion of a
final plat be vacated; or
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees finds that the final plat approval was
obtained by misrepresentation or fraud and orders a statement of vacation to be
prepared.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.086 PROCESSES OF VACATION.
   Vacations of final plat that result in the decrease in the number of lots by
not more than 1 lot may be processed using the minor plat process.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.087 STATEMENT OF VACATION.
   (A)   The vacation of all or a portion of a final plat by the owners of land
within a subdivision may be initiated by submittal to the Town Manager of the
statement of vacation bearing the acknowledged signatures of all owners of
record of property within the subdivided land to be vacated.
   (B)   The vacation of all or a portion of a final plat by the owners of land
within a subdivision may also be initiated by a vote of a majority of the Town
Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Statements of vacation shall be accompanied by a list of the names of
all owners of record of property within and contiguous to the subdivided land
to be vacated, and shall also be accompanied by acknowledged statements by the
authorized representatives of all utility companies that have easements within
the area proposed for vacation, which statements shall demonstrate the
utilities' agreement to, or opposition to, such vacation insofar as it affects
their rights to use dedicated easements in the subdivision.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.088 SCHEDULING AND NOTIFICATION.
   Within 60 days of receiving a statement of vacation and the appropriate
review fee, the Board of Trustees shall approve or deny the vacation, subject
to the following:
   (A)   Action shall be taken in a public meeting.
   (B)   At least 15 days prior to the meeting, the town shall transmit notice
of public hearing by first class mail to all owners of private property
contiguous to or within 300 feet of the land to be vacated, and to all
utilities with easements within or adjacent to the land proposed for vacation.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.089 ACTION.
   In approving, conditionally approving, or denying a vacation, the Board of
Trustees shall determine if the vacation is in the best interests of the public
well-being and whether any person is adversely affected by the vacation.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.090 RIGHT TO RETAIN ROADWAYS AND UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   The Board of Trustees may require that dedicated roads within the area
proposed for vacation remain dedicated and may require that the rights of any
utility existing before the vacation not be affected by the vacation.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.091 FILING.
   The Board of Trustee's decision shall be filed in the records of the County
Clerk by the subdivider who shall also pay all required fees. When a vacation
is approved, the County Clerk shall mark the final plat with the words
"vacated" and shall refer on the final plat to the volume and page on which the
statement of vacation is recorded. When a final plat is partially vacated, both
the Board of Trustee's decision and the plat showing the partial vacation shall
be filed in the records of the County Clerk. The County Clerk shall mark the
final plat with the words "partially vacated" and shall refer on the final plat
to both the volume and page on which the statement of vacation is filed, and
the volume and page of the plat showing the area vacated. A legal description
of the area vacated shall also be filed with the final plat.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
PLAT REQUIREMENTS AND FEES
§ 156.105 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The preliminary plat shall be prepared on 18-inch by 24-inch sheet of paper
or mylar, and the contents shall be clearly legible. The Town Manager may allow
alternative digital submission at their discretion. The following information
shall be included:
   (A)   Proposed name of the subdivision. The name of a subdivision shall not
be misleading, such as "Lakeview" when there is no lake in view or so similar
to the name of another subdivision as to cause confusion.
   (B)   Location by township, range, section, or by other legal description.
   (C)   Acreage of the subdivision to the nearest one-tenth of an acre.
   (D)   Written and graphic scale of plat, 1-inch to 100 feet or larger.
   (E)   Date.
   (F)   North arrow.
   (G)   Detailed area map clearly showing the surrounding area and the
proposed subdivision's relationship to existing road networks, and existing
natural and/or manmade features that may impact or be impacted by the proposed
subdivision. Detail must be sufficient for the subject property to be located
in the field using the map.
   (H)   Signature block containing designated spaces for all utility providers
who are proposed as providers within the subdivision, as well as spaces for the
name, signature, and address of the licensed surveyor who prepared the plat,
and for the owner of the land being subdivided. The signature of the legal and
equitable landowner must be notarized and shall be accompanied by the statement
"The subdivision of (insert a correct description of the land being planned),
appearing on this plat is with the free consent and in accordance with the
desire of the undersigned owner and proprietor of the land." Signature lines
for the Chairperson of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Mayor, and a
block for attestation of filing by the County Clerk shall be included.
   (I)   An accurate and complete survey of the land to be subdivided giving
the bearings in degrees, minutes, and seconds. Distances shall be shown in feet
and in hundredths of feet. Curved boundaries or lines on the plat shall include
central angle and arc length, radius and chord bearing, tangents, and length.
The location and description of all monuments set or found shall be included.
Permanent monuments shall be placed at all corners and points of tangency of
curve lines along the boundary of the subdivision, and center line monuments
shall be placed at the intersection of every other block, at a spacing that
shall not exceed an interval of 1,500 feet.
   (J)   An accurate description of each lot and block, numbered or lettered in
progression, with their dimensions and the dimensions of all land dedicated for
public use or for the use of the owners of lots fronting or adjacent to the
lot, and minimum setbacks permitted by the Zoning Code.
   (K)   Location, width, names of all existing or prior platted streets, and
the location, width, and use of all rights-of-way and all other public ways,
and utility rights-of-way, parks, and other public open spaces.
   (L)   Existing and proposed utilities on and adjacent to the site, including
locations and size of water wells, reservoirs, water lines, sanitary and storm
drains, irrigation canals, drains, gas lines, fire hydrants, utility poles, and
streetlights. For proposed utility locations, the system loads, and locations
of proposed connections shall be indicated, and all necessary off-site
improvements shall be described in detail.
   (M)   Existing zoning of proposed subdivision and application for proposed
zoning change if such change is necessary or desired by the subdivider.
   (N)   Existing and proposed contours at 2-foot vertical intervals.
   (O)   Layout of streets, widths of rights-of-way, and widths of easements.
   (P)   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved for
public use or set aside for use of the property owners in the subdivision.
   (Q)   The subdivider shall provide a proposed name for all streets, with an
additional name to be used if some of the proposed names are rejected. The
Board of Trustees shall approve all street names upon recommendation from the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.106 FINAL PLAT.
   The final plat shall include all of the elements required for a preliminary
plat described in §
156.105, with such changes or amendments required by the Planning and Zoning
Commission in its recommendation for approval.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.107 FEES.
   See Town of Clayton Fee Schedule for current subdivision fees.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
VARIANCES
§ 156.120 CONDITIONS FOR GRANTING.
   Variance from the strict application of design standards may be allowed in
cases where unusual conditions exist that are not of the subdivider's own
making, or a variance would provide for an improved design which would benefit
the public. Financial gain, loss, or monetary savings shall not be considered
as a basis for a variance request.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.121 APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   In no case shall any variation or modification be contrary to the mandatory
requirements of state law. The variation shall not be in conflict with the Town
of Clayton's Zoning Code and Zoning Map.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.122 WAIVERS OF SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Specifications or supplementary data required by these regulations for a
preliminary or final plat may be waived whenever such specifications or data
are determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission to be unnecessary for the
consideration of the plat.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   No building permits shall be given for development on an illegally
subdivided parcel.
   (B)   Furthermore, the following penalties may apply: Any owner or owner's
agent that transfers, sells, agrees to sell, or negotiates to sell land subject
to an unapproved plat shall pay a fine of $100 for each lot affected. The
description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document
used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the transaction
from such penalties. Until a plat has been approved by the Board of Trustees,
any official of the town or a public utility company who shall serve or connect
the land within the subdivision and within the planning and platting
jurisdiction of the town with any public utility, such as water, sewer,
electric or gas, is guilty of a misdemeanor. The town may require any utility
service connected in violation of this section to be disconnected.
(Ord. 719, passed 11-9-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.    ANNEXATIONS
      
II.    FRANCHISES, CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.    STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
      
IV.    VACATING STREETS, ALLEYS AND PROPERTY
      
V.    ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
      
VI.    SALE OF REAL PROPERTY
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
501      6-17-1976   Annexation of certain property
510      2-13-1978   Annexation of territory contiguous to town
555      6-9-1986    Annexation of territory contiguous to municipality
590      5-9-1994    Annexation of territory contiguous to and south of town
643      6-15-2005   Annexation of territory contiguous to town
658      8-14-2007   Annexation of territory contiguous to town
677      3-9-2011    Annexation of territory contiguous to town
710      3-11-2020   Annexation of territory contiguous to town
                    
TABLE II: FRANCHISES, CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
152      8-9-1927    Granting certain rights to Mountain States Telephone and
                     Telegraph Company
235      7-29-1933   Granting W.A. Cross a franchise
327      10-11-1948  Granting a franchise for operation of taxicabs
343      10-22-1951  Public Service Commission franchise
347      10-13-1952  Granting rights to Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph
                     Company
505      10-24-1977  Certain rights to Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph
                     Company
507      12-28-1977  Gas Company to division of Southern Union Company
509      12-26-1977  Certain rights to Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph
                     Company
537      2-21-1983   Electricity franchise
544      9-12-1983   Rights and privileges to E.N.M.R. Telephone Corp. Inc.
546      12-12-1983  Certain rights to Dorate Interstate, Inc.
559      2-23-1987   Public Service Company
610      12-8-1997   Granting Systems Inc. to own and operate a cable telephone
                     system
626      10-8-2002   Parking facility for 25 years in connection with Eklund
                     Association
629      2-11-2003   PNM Gas Services
649      2-23-2006   Authorizing project participation agreement between Union
                     County Community Development Corporation and the town
650      4-11-2006   SWEC Electric franchise
661      10-15-2008  SWEC Electric franchise
662      10-15-2008  E.N.M.R. Telephone Corp. Inc. franchise
667      2-11-2009   Agreement with New Mexico Finance Authority for improving
                     irrigation system for golf course
669      10-7-2009   Amending Ord. 667 to include purchase of equipment four
                     golf course and clubhouse
                     Agreement with New Mexico Finance Authority for installing
670      10-7-2009   water and wastewater infrastructure from existing well to
                     the wastewater treatment facility
671      12-9-2009   Establishing a parking facility for 30 years on real
                     estate owned by the town
678      6-15-2011   Granting a franchise to E.N.M.R. Telephone Cooperative
692      6-12-2013   Granting a franchise to Public Service Company of New
                     Mexico
717      9-21-2022   Agreement with New Mexico Environme nt Department (NMED)
                     for the purpose of obtaining project funds
 
TABLE III: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date     Description
No.  Passed
90   2-14-    Local improvement districts; streets
     1917
92   4-10-    Local improvement districts; streets
     1917
105  6-30-    Local improvement districts; streets
     1919
129  9-24-    Building, rebuilding and repairing sidewalks, lots, blocks and
     1923     streets
142  10-26-   Local improvement districts; sidewalks
     1925
143  1-11-    Local improvement districts; sidewalks
     1926
199  6-2-1930 Building sidewalks in front of block 1348
201  6-3-1930 Building sidewalks on lots 2, 4 and 6 on block 1348
207  10-13-   Requires a building of sidewalks
     1930
380  12-9-    Owners to maintain certain streets and sections of streets
     1957
412  9-10-    Certain streets and parts of streets to be improved at owner’s
     1962     expense
439  10-9-    Certain streets and intersections to be paved; improvement
     1967     district
440  10-23-   Certain streets and intersections to be paved; improvement
     1967     district
443  9-9-1968 Certain streets and intersections to be paved; improvement
              district
452  7-13-    Certain streets and intersections to be paved; improvement
     1970     district
461  12-13-   Certain streets and intersections to be paved; improvement
     1971     district
486  12-23-   Certain streets and intersections to be paved; improvement
     1974     district
497  5-24-    Certain streets and intersections to be paved; improvement
     1976     district
500  6-14-    Certain streets and intersections to be paved; improvement
     1976     district
506  11-28-   Certain streets and intersections to be paved; improvement
     1977     district
511  4-24-    Certain streets and intersections to be paved; improvement
     1978     district
518  - -      Certain streets and intersections to be paved; improvement
              district
519  6-25-    Certain streets and intersections to be paved; improvement
     1979     district
524  6-9-1980 Certain streets and intersections to be paved; improvement
              district
575  10-14-   Approve proceedings taken by Board of Trustees in paving certain
     1991     streets
582  9-13-    Approve proceedings taken by Board of Trustees in making street
     1993     improvements
TABLE IV: VACATING STREETS, ALLEYS AND PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
206      10-13-1930  Vacate Third Street
214      3-12-1931   Vacate streets and alleys
226      5-23-1932   Vacating and closing certain streets
273      11-28-1938  Vacating portions of streets and alleys
275      6-27-1939   Vacating streets; Magnolia Street
346      10-13-1952  Vacating alley which bisects Block 1243 of South Clayton
                     Addition
400      5-8-1961    Vacating a portion of Harding Street
415      2-25-1963   Vacating Highway 18
427      9-14-1964   Vacating alley
428      12-14-1964  Vacating certain streets
469      11-27-1973  Vacated streets
588      1-10-1994   Vacating a portion of an alley
589      1-10-1994   Closing certain streets and alleys
592      9-12-1994   Vacating a portion of an alley
611      12-8-1997   Vacating an alley
624      8-13-2002   Abandoning certain streets and sections
625      10-8-2002   Abandoning alleys
642      4-13-2005   Abandoning street; Spanish Trail
676      1-12-2011   Vacating a certain portion of the alleyway in Block 1250
689      12-19-2012  Vacating and closing the alleyway in Block 1143 of the
                     South Clayton Addition
700      9-20-2017   Abandoning Carnes Street
704      6-14-2018   Abandoning Talbot Street
708      4-23-2019   Abandoning a portion of Guyer Street and Pinard Avenue
 
TABLE V: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Designating lots No. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
583      11-9-1992   12, 13, 15 and 17 in Block 556 of Herzstein and Hill
                     Addition as Special Use zone
601      1-8-1996    Changing the zoning of a tract of land within the SE 1/
                     4 of Section 27, T26N, R35E, from Industrial to Commercial
                    
TABLE VI: SALE OF REAL PROPERTY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
664      1-14-2009   Sale of certain real property known as Old Worley Mills to
                     Volcanic Stone Co.
665      1-14-2009   Sale of certain real property known as Old National Guard
                     Armory to John Ford
718      10-12-2022  Sale of five-acre parcel in the town’s industrial park
                    
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to New Mexico Statutes Annotated
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEW MEXICO STATUTES ANNOTATED
NMSA Section Code Section
NMSA Section            Code Section
3-7-1                   10.99
3-17-6                  70.02
3-18-5                  31.01
3-19-1 - 3-19-12        156.002
3-19-5                  156.003
3-20-1 - 3-20-16        156.002
3-20-5                  156.003
3-36-2                  51.21
3-36-5                  51.21
3-36-6                  35.999
3-38-3                  Ch. 111
                        35.022,
3-38-13 - 3-38-24       35.024,
                        35.031
3-38-23                 35.031
3-38-24                 35.031
5-10-1 - 5-10-13        34.51
6-10-10                 34.02
7-1-1 et seq.           35.061
                        35.001 -
7-1-6.4                 35.006,
                        35.057
                        35.001 -
7-9-1 et seq.           35.006,
                        35.051,
                        35.057
                        35.002,
7-9-1 - 7-9-113         35.004,
                        35.006
7-9-43                  35.059
7-13-3                  35.057
7-14-1                  35.057
7-16-3                  35.057
7-16A(O)                35.060
7-16A-1 et seq.         35.060
7-16A-3                 35.057
7-16B-1 - 7-16B-10      35.057
7-19-10 - 7-19-18       35.051
7-19B-3(A)              35.005
7-19D-1 - 7-19D-16      35.003
7-24-3                  112.03
7-24-11                 112.03
7-25-1 et seq.          35.057
7-25-1 - 7-25-9         35.057
7-31-1 et seq.          35.057
7-33-1 - 7-33-22        35.057
10-7C-9D(2)             36.01
12-1-10-1 - 12-6-11.1   70.02
12-6-12.19 - 12-6-13.14 70.02
12-9-9 - 12-12-9        70.02
14-20-21                155.11
14-30-1                 34.04
14-40-20                155.02
20-10-2-7               154.04
Ch. 22, Article 12      134.21
29-1-14                 94.22
29-1-14(H)              132.60
30-9-1 - 36-9-9         134.03
31-1 et seq.            133.04
35-14-5                 31.02
47-8-13(C)(2)           35.058
59A-22-32(B)            54.01
60-1-8                  35.057
60-1-11                 133.02
60-1-15                 35.057
60-2C-1 et seq.         91.01
60-3A-1 et seq.         112.03
60-3A-3                 130.02
60-6A-12                112.03
64-1-1 - 64-5-4         35.060
64-1-8                  35.060
Article 65-1 et seq.    70.03
Article 65-2 et seq.    70.03
Article 65-3 et seq.    70.03
Article 65-4 et seq.    70.03
Article 65-5 et seq.    70.03
66-1-1 - 66-1-5         70.01
66-1-4.1(E)             71.04
66-3-16                 35.057,
                        73.01
66-3-801 - 66-3-887     72.17
66-3-1011               72.30
66-5-2                  72.18
66-5-18                 72.18
66-7-1 - 66-8-137       70.01
66-7-301                112.02
66-8-7                  112.02
66-8-116                112.02
66-8-138                112.02
66-8-139                112.02
72-13-29                35.058
74-4-3                  51.16
                        
 
 REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2        6-3-1908    11.01
3        6-3-1908    31.25 -
                     31.32
4        6-3-1908    31.06
10       6-10-1908   132.99
12       6-10-1908   96.05,
                     96.99
13       6-10-1908   71.08
                     97.01 -
16       6-18-1908   97.10,
                     97.99
18       6-18-1908   131.12,
                     131.99
24       6-30-1908   95.03,
                     95.99
31       11-30-1908  31.05
33       12-14-1908  111.20
35       12-22-1908  91.20
35       12-22-1908  151.01
39       3-3-1909    31.06
                     31.28,
41       11-1-1909   31.31,
                     31.32
44       1-10-1910   71.08
57       6-13-1911   31.07
59       1-19-1912   31.04
60       2-17-1912   151.01
61       6-5-1912    95.02,
                     95.99
68       1- -1914    95.22
69       1- -1914    33.03
75       5-25-1915   91.20,
                     151.01
86       12-5-1916   91.20,
                     151.01
87       12-5-1916   32.05
90       2-14-1917   T.S.O. III
92       4-10-1917   T.S.O. III
105      6-30-1919   T.S.O. III
                     32.20 -
123      6-26-1922   32.29,
                     32.99
                     92.25 -
128      - -         92.42,
                     92.99
129      9-24-1923   T.S.O. III
131      2-11-1924   50.01
133      - -1924     91.20
134      - -         98.01,
                     98.99
141      6-8-1925    Ch. 74, Sch. II
142      10-26-1925  T.S.O. III
143      1-11-1926   T.S.O. III
150      2-14-1927   92.29
152      8-9-1927    T.S.O. II
                     55.01 -
169      8-27-1928   55.15,
                     55.99
170      8-27-1928   91.20,
                     151.01
186      6-24-1929   31.32
187      6-24-1929   90.03,
                     90.99
192      10-14-1929  91.20
194      1-13-1930   52.005
195      2-10-1930   95.01
195      2-10-1930   95.99
199      6-2-1930    T.S.O. III
201      6-3-1930    T.S.O. III
200      6-23-1930   92.29
202      6-23-1930   32.05,
                     151.01
203      6-23-1930   113.02,
                     113.99
205      9-8-1930    52.004,
                     52.999
206      10-13-1930  T.S.O. IV
207      10-13-1930  T.S.O. III
211      2-9-1931    113.01,
                     113.99
212      2-9-1931    71.08
213      3-9-1931    96.04,
                     96.99
214      3-12-1931   T.S.O. IV
219      8-24-1931   110.01,
                     110.99
221      11-9-1931   31.31
226      5-23-1932   T.S.O. IV
227      7-25-1932   99.02,
                     99.99
228      7-25-1932   52.003,
                     52.999
229      7-25-1932   52.002,
                     52.999
232      9-26-1932   151.01
233      5-8-1933    130.15,
                     130.99
235      7-29-1933   T.S.O. II
237      8-14-1933   92.29
243      6-18-1934   31.31
261      8-24-1936   31.31
266      8-9-1937    113.02
270      2-28-1938   31.03
273      11-28-1938  T.S.O. IV
275      6-27-1939   T.S.O. IV
279      2-22-1940   96.05,
                     96.99
280      3-20-1940   32.04
292      3-14-1944   96.03,
                     96.99
294      12-27-1944  112.04,
                     112.99
300      6-10-1946   31.31
                     71.03,
                     71.05 -
304      12-9-1946   71.07,
                     73.02,
                     73.03;
                     Ch. 74, Sch. III
305      4-28-1947   132.99
306      8-25-1947   71.07;
                     Ch. 74, Sch. III
                     71.35 -
309      2-2-1948    71.41,
                     71.99
311      2-23-1948   73.03
312      3-8-1948    73.02
313      3-8-1948    31.28
318      7-26-1948   73.02
                     114.01 -
320      9-12-1948   114.07,
                     114.99
                     92.01 -
326      10-11-1948  92.09,
                     92.99
327      10-11-1948  T.S.O. II
328      2-28-1949   91.20,
                     151.01
                     71.06,
330      5-9-1949    71.07;
                     Ch. 74, Sch. III
332      7-25-1949   110.15,
                     110.99
333      9-12-1949   91.20,
                     151.01
334      9-12-1949   96.02,
                     96.99
338      6-26-1950   94.01,
                     94.99
340      10-9-1950   151.01
341      3-28-1951   34.15 -
                     34.33
343      10-22-1951  T.S.O. II
346      10-13-1952  T.S.O. IV
347      10-13-1952  T.S.O. II
349      12-8-1952   32.05
                     112.45 -
356      11-23-1953  112.57,
                     112.99
358      3-9-1954    151.01
360      4-12-1954   132.99
365      7-12-1954   90.02,
                     90.99
369      11-14-1955  32.28,
                     32.99
373      1-11-1956   71.06
375      4-4-1956    34.15
376      5-14-1956   31.31
379      12-9-1957   95.21
380      12-9-1957   T.S.O. III
381      1-14-1958   90.01
381      1-14-1958   90.99
382      2-10-1958   90.01
383      6-23-1958   96.01
384      8-25-1958   151.01
                     35.075 -
386      11-10-1958  35.081,
                     35.999
398      9-26-1960   152.01 -
                     152.06
400      5-8-1961    T.S.O. IV
                     95.36 -
404      8-14-1961   95.45,
                     95.99
409      3-12-1962   32.04
411      8-13-1962   71.08,
                     71.99
412      9-10-1962   T.S.O. III
415      2-25-1963   T.S.O. IV
418      12-9-1963   71.21,
                     71.99
419      12-9-1963   73.02
426      8-10-1964   73.02
427      9-14-1964   T.S.O. IV
428      12-14-1964  T.S.O. IV
                     72.15 -
431      9-13-1965   72.20,
                     72.99
434      8-8-1966    71.03
436      3-27-1967   95.20,
                     95.99
437      6-26-1967   73.02
439      10-9-1967   T.S.O. III
440      10-23-1967  T.S.O. III
444      7-8-1968    71.04
443      9-9-1968    T.S.O. III
449      3-23-1970   32.04
                     94.15 -
450      5-11-1970   94.23,
                     94.99
451      6-8-1970    112.46
452      7-13-1970   T.S.O. III
457      3-8-1971    135.02,
                     135.99
460      11-22-1971  99.01,
                     99.99
461      12-13-1971  T.S.O. III
462      2-28-1972   52.050 -
                     52.064
464      9-11-1972   32.02
                     99.45 -
465      4-17-1973   99.51,
                     99.99
                     52.050 -
466      6-11-1973   52.064,
                     52.999
469      11-27-1973  T.S.O. IV
471      4-8-1974    10.99
482      9-23-1974   99.47
482      9-23-1974   99.99
486      12-23-1974  T.S.O. III
487      2-24-1975   36.02
                     113.15 -
489      4-14-1975   113.25,
                     113.99
                     155.01 -
491      9-13-1975   155.12,
                     155.99
493      11-10-1975  34.04
494      12-22-1975  34.03
499      5-3-1976    35.050 -
                     35.062
497      5-24-1976   T.S.O. III
500      6-14-1976   T.S.O. III
501      6-17-1976   T.S.O. I
502      8-9-1976    35.050 -
                     35.062
503      2-28-1977   71.20,
                     71.99
504      7-11-1977   72.01,
                     72.20
505      10-24-1977  T.S.O. II
506      11-28-1977  T.S.O. III
509      12-26-1977  T.S.O. II
507      12-28-1977  T.S.O. II
510      2-13-1978   T.S.O. I
511      4-24-1978   T.S.O. III
512      8-28-1978   35.050 -
                     35.063
514      11-13-1978  94.22
517      1-22-1979   93.01
518      - -         T.S.O. III
519      6-25-1979   T.S.O. III
522      2-11-1980   54.01
                     130.01 -
                     130.03,
                     131.01 -
                     131.11,
                     132.01 -
                     132.06,
                     132.08 -
                     132.10,
                     132.25 -
                     132.27,
                     132.29 -
523      4-14-1980   132.32,
                     132.45 -
                     132.47,
                     132.60 -
                     132.63,
                     133.01 -
                     133.04,
                     133.99,
                     134.01 -
                     134.09,
                     134.20,
                     135.01 -
                     135.06
524      6-9-1980    T.S.O. III
                     153.01 -
525      6-8-1981    153.07,
                     153.99
                     153.20 -
526      6-8-1981    153.26,
                     153.99
527      7-3-1981    35.001
531      - -         132.28,
                     132.99
536      8-23-1982   95.36 -
                     95.39
537      2-21-1983   T.S.O. II
539      5-23-1983   73.01,
                     73.99
543      6-27-1983   71.99
544      9-12-1983   T.S.O. II
546      12-12-1983  T.S.O. II
548      - -1984     34.02
550      7-24-1984   35.001
551      1-1-1985    35.002
556      5-27-1986   31.02
555      6-9-1986    T.S.O. I
                     112.20 -
557      10-14-1986  112.29,
                     112.99
                     154.01 -
                     154.10,
                     154.15 -
558      12-8-1986   154.22,
                     154.60 -
                     154.66,
                     154.99
559      2-23-1987   T.S.O. II
561      7-13-1987   33.01
562      6-27-1988   70.01
562      6-27-1988   70.03
565      11-14-1988  52.001,
                     52.999
566      1-23-1989   30.02,
                     30.99
568      8-28-1989   112.02
570      5-28-1990   36.01
571      9-24-1990   35.005
572      3-11-1991   96.06,
                     96.99
574      9-26-1991   35.004,
                     T.S.O. III
576      1-16-1992   35.004
583      11-9-1992   T.S.O. V
584      5-24-1993   112.03
585      8-9-1993    34.01
582      9-13-1993   T.S.O. III
588      1-10-1994   T.S.O. IV
589      1-10-1994   T.S.O. IV
590      5-9-1994    T.S.O. I
592      9-12-1994   T.S.O. IV
593      9-12-1994   91.01
593      9-12-1994   91.99
595      9-12-1994   51.01
597      7-10-1995   71.02,
                     71.99
598      7-10-1995   53.01,
                     53.99
599      7-10-1995   134.20,
                     134.99
601      1-8-1996    T.S.O. V
602      3-11-1996   30.01,
                     30.99
                     134.20,
604      9-9-1996    134.21,
                     134.99
                     93.15 -
607      4-14-1997   93.28,
                     93.99
608      8-11-1997   132.48,
                     132.99
610      12-8-1997   T.S.O. II
611      12-8-1997   T.S.O. IV
                     154.35 -
612      2-9-1998    154.44,
                     154.99
614      11-8-1999   110.16,
                     110.99
620      9-11-2001   70.01
621      12-11-2001  35.004
                     35.020 -
622      1-15-2002   35.032,
                     35.999
624      8-13-2002   T.S.O. IV
625      10-8-2002   T.S.O. IV
626      10-8-2002   T.S.O. II
629      2-11-2003   T.S.O. II
630      3-11-2003   150.01
631      7-17-2003   34.01
633      9-16-2003   99.03
634      12-9-2003   35.003
                     99.20 -
635      1-13-2004   99.29,
                     99.99
636      6-14-2004   32.01
642      4-13-2005   T.S.O. IV
643      6-15-2005   T.S.O. I
645      11-15-2005  95.35,
                     95.99
646      11-15-2005  31.01
649      2-23-2006   T.S.O. II
650      4-11-2006   T.S.O. II
                     51.02,
                     51.15 -
                     51.21,
                     51.35 -
                     51.40,
653      9-14-2006   51.99,
                     52.020 -
                     52.032,
                     52.999,
                     53.15 -
                     53.28
                     52.040,
654      9-14-2006   52.041,
                     53.40,
                     53.41
655      12-13-2006  35.006
658      8-14-2007   T.S.O. I
656      11-13-2007  70.02
                     52.040,
660      7-17-2008   52.041,
                     53.40,
                     53.41
661      10-15-2008  T.S.O. II
662      10-15-2008  T.S.O. II
                     100.03 -
663      1-14-2009   100.10,
                     100.99
664      1-14-2009   T.S.O. VI
665      1-14-2009   T.S.O. VI
666      2-11-2009   35.031
667      2-11-2009   T.S.O. II
669      10-7-2009   T.S.O. II
670      10-7-2009   T.S.O. II
671      12-9-2009   T.S.O. II
673      2-10-2010   Ch. 74, Sch. III
                     110.99,
674      2-10-2010   111.02 -
                     111.07,
                     111.99
672      2-22-2010   70.02
675      9-15-2010   70.02
676      1-12-2011   T.S.O. IV
677      3-9-2011    T.S.O. I
678      6-15-2011   T.S.O. II
679      6-15-2011   154.05
680      7-13-2011   33.02
681      8-10-2011   73.02
682      9-14-2011   70.02
684      9-14-2011   73.04,
                     73.99
                     51.02,
                     51.15 -
                     51.21,
                     51.35 -
                     51.40,
685      12-14-2011  51.99,
                     52.020 -
                     52.032,
                     52.999,
                     53.15 -
                     53.28
                     52.040,
686      12-14-2011  52.041,
                     53.40,
                     53.41
688      9-12-2012   112.99
689      12-19-2012  T.S.O. IV
690      3-13-2013   34.50 -
                     34.62
692      6-12-2013   T.S.O. II
693      10-14-2014  71.10
699      8-22-2017   70.02
700      9-20-2017   T.S.O. IV
701      4-11-2018   72.30,
                     72.99
702      4-11-2018   154.05
703      6-14-2018   32.03
704      6-14-2018   T.S.O. IV
707      1-9-2019    35.001
708      4-23-2019   T.S.O. IV
710      3-11-2020   T.S.O. I
                     101.01 -
712      9- -2020    101.08,
                     101.99
713      5-19-2021   31.32
714      8-11-2021   112.04
                     154.04,
715      10-13-2021  154.18,
                     154.21,
                     154.22
715-A    4-13-2022   154.18
717      9-21-2022   T.S.O. II
718      10-12-2022  T.S.O. VI
                     156.001 -
                     156.004,
                     156.015,
                     156.016, 15.030 -
                     156.033,
                     156.045,
                     156.046,
719      11-9-2022   156.060 -
                     156.063,
                     156.075 -
                     156.091,
                     156.105 -
                     156.107,
                     156.120 -
                     156.122,
                     156.999
                     53.15 -
                     53.27,
720      5-10-2023   53.40,
                     53.41,
                     53.99
                     52.020 -
                     52.032,
721      5-10-2023   52.040 -
                     52.042,
                     52.999
                     51.15 -
                     51.17,
                     51.35 -
722      5-10-2023   51.40,
                     51.50 -
                     51.53,
                     51.99
                    
 
 
