VILLAGE CODE
of
CLOUDCROFT, NEW MEXICO
2000
Code current through:
Ord. 404, passed 12-17-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Village of Cloudcroft, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 404, passed December 17, 2024. Ordinances of the
Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 293
   AN ORDINANCE CODIFYING CERTAIN ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF CLOUDCROFT, NEW
MEXICO
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE VILLAGE OF CLOUDCROFT as
follows:
   A. There is hereby adopted the Village Code of Cloudcroft, New Mexico 2000
as published by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
   B. The Code shall be known and cited as the "Cloudcroft Village Code".
   C. The Cloudcroft Village Code may be inspected at the Village Offices
during normal and regular business hours at 201 Burro Avenue, Cloudcroft, New
Mexico.
   D. The Cloudcroft Village Code is adopted in its entirety as a codification
of the Ordinances of the Village of Cloudcroft, New Mexico except that Bonding
Ordinances adopted by the Village of Cloudcroft shall remain effective and
uncodified.
   PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE VILLAGE OF
CLOUDCROFT, NEW MEXICO, this 13th day of June, 2000.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/89ea85b46c5c3ad2b8dcc468160e75e36c056f85/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1204.jpg]
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the Village Board of Trustees, this Village Code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the Official Village Code of
Cloudcroft, New Mexico. This Village Code of ordinances shall be known and
cited as the CLOUDCROFT VILLAGE CODE and is hereby published by authority of
the Village Board of Trustees and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most
recent legislation of the Village as provided in Section
1-1-3  of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Village Code by title in any legal documents. (2000 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The Village Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this State as the ordinances of the Village of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (2000 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the Village Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Village Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Village Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the Village Code. (2000 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Village Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Village Board of Trustees. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of
this Village Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this
Village Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; assessment ordinances; ordinances
relating to boundaries, annexations and dedications; franchise ordinances and
other ordinances granting special rights to persons or corporations; contract
ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a contract or the
issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Village; the continued existence and operation of any department, agency,
commission or office heretofore legally established or held; and all special
ordinances.
   B.   The repeal of the ordinances as provided in subsection A of this
Section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is accrued, any duty imposed,
any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding commenced under or by virtue
of the ordinances repealed or the term of office of any person holding office
at the time these ordinances take effect; nor shall the repeal of any ordinance
have the effect of reviving any ordinance heretofore repealed or superseded.
(2000 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Village Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the Village Code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this Village Code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2000 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Village
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Village Code. (2000 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
   A.   General: If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase of this Village Code or any part thereof is for any reason
held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Village Board of
Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective.
   B.   Conflicting Provisions: If the provisions of different chapters of this
Code conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions of each chapter
shall prevail as to all matters and questions growing out of the subject matter
of such chapter. A particular provision shall prevail over a general provision
covering the same subject matter. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   The rules and the definitions set forth in this Chapter shall be
observed in the construction of this Code and the ordinances of the Village,
unless such construction would be inconsistent with either the manifest intent
of the Village Board of Trustees, the context of this Code or the ordinances of
the Village.
   B.   Whenever any word in any section of this Village Code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this Village Code by words importing the
singular number only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or
persons and the opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this Village Code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   C.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Village has
been changed in the content of this Village Code to "Title", "Chapter",
"Section" and/or "subsection", or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the Village's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2000
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common
and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall
be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The governing body of the Village of Cloudcroft, New
Mexico.
   BUSINESS DEALING WITH PUBLIC: Such solicitations and transactions regularly
engaged in for monetary or other consideration, but does not mean isolated or
casual business transactions in which the public is not invited or expected to
participate and which are outside the scope of a person's regular business
operation.
   CODE, THIS CODE: The Village Code of the Village of Cloudcroft, New Mexico,
unless the context indicates otherwise.
   COUNTY: The County of Otero.
   DAY: The period of time between any midnight and the midnight following.
   DAYTIME, NIGHTTIME: Daytime is the period of time between sunrise and
sunset. Nighttime is the period of time between sunset and sunrise.
   DEPARTMENT, BOARD OR EMPLOYEE: Whenever any department, board, commission,
office, officer or employee is referred to, it shall mean a department, board,
commission, office, officer or employee of the Village, unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise.
   DISCRIMINATE: Includes, but is not limited to, separate or segregate.
   EMPLOYEE: Does not include any individual employed by his parent, spouse or
child or in the domestic service of any person.
   EMPLOYER: Any person employing one or more employees in some kind of
employment and any person acting in the interest of such employer, but does not
include a social or fraternal club not organized for profit.
   EMPLOYMENT AGENCY: Any person undertaking with or without compensation, to
produce opportunities to work or to procure, recruit, refer or place persons
for employment.
   FEE: A sum of money charged by the Village for the carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
   GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
   GUARDIAN: A person having care, custody and control of another person and
having the duty to manage and control the person and property of the other
person. Guardian includes parent.
   HOUSING: Any building, structure or portion thereof, used, occupied,
intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied as the home, residence or
living quarters of one or more human beings, or any parcel of land or portion
thereof, available for the construction of such building or structure.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION: Any organization existing and constituted for the
purposes, in whole or in part, of collective bargaining or of dealing with
employers concerning grievances, terms of conditions of employment, or for
other mutual aid or protection in relation to employment.
   LENDING INSTITUTION: Any person regularly engaged in the business of lending
money or guaranteeing loans.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   MONTH: A calendar month.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the Village, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OATH: Includes affirmation or declaration.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this Code.
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY: Shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   SHALL, MAY: Shall is mandatory and may is permissive.
   SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK: Includes a mark when the signer cannot
write, such signer's or subscriber's name being written near the mark by a
witness who writes his own name near the signer's or subscriber's name; but a
signature or subscription by mark can be acknowledged or can serve as a
signature or subscription to a sworn statement only when two (2) witnesses so
sign their own names thereto.
   STATE: The State of New Mexico.
   STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   TENSES: The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the
future includes the present.
   TIME: A. Computation: The time within which an act is to be done as provided
in this Code or in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed
in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last,
except that if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or holiday it shall be
excluded; and when such time is expressed in hours, the whole of Saturday,
Sunday or a holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
   B.   Reasonable: In all cases where any section of this Code shall require
any act to be done in a reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such
reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean such time only as may be
necessary for the prompt performance of such duty or compliance with such
notice.
   VILLAGE, THIS VILLAGE: The Village of Cloudcroft, New Mexico.
   WEEK: Consists of seven (7) consecutive days.
   WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this
Code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for
the purpose of resale.
   WRITING: Any form of recorded message capable of comprehension by ordinary
visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement or record is required or
authorized by this Code, it shall be made in writing in the English language
unless it is expressly provided otherwise.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark.
   YEAR: A calendar year, except where otherwise provided. (1976 Code § 1-1-2;
amd. 2000 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the Village Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Convicted Defined: As used in this section, "convicted" means the
defendant has been found guilty of a criminal charge by the municipal judge,
either after trial, a plea of guilty or a plea of nolo contendere, or has
elected to pay a penalty assessment in lieu of trial.
   B.   Punishments Specified: Whenever in this code or any other ordinance or
resolution of the village or any rules or regulations promulgated under the
provisions of this code, any act is prohibited or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to
do any act is declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, where no
specific penalty is provided therefor, any person who shall be convicted of the
violation of any such provision of this code or other ordinance or resolution
of the village hereafter enacted or of such rules or regulations, shall be
punished as follows:
      1.   Maximum Penalty: Unless a lesser maximum penalty or a specific
penalty is established by ordinance for a particular offense, the maximum
penalty for violation of any village ordinance shall be as follows:
         a.   Except for those violations of ordinances described in
subsections B1b and B1c of this section, a fine of not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days or both;
         b.   For violations of an ordinance prohibiting driving a motor
vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs, a fine of
not more than nine hundred ninety nine dollars ($999.00) or imprisonment for
not more than one hundred seventy nine (179) days or both; and
         c.   For violations of an industrial user wastewater pretreatment
ordinance, as required by the United States environmental protection agency, a
fine of not more than nine hundred ninety nine dollars ($999.00) a day for each
violation. (Ord. 263A, 6-7-1994)
   C.   Corrections, Judicial Education And Court Automation Fees:
      1.   Prior to July 1, 2003, current fees as authorized by state law shall
remain in effect and effective July 1, 2003; any person convicted of violating
any ordinance relating to the operation of a motor vehicle, or any ordinance
that may be enforced by imposition of a term of imprisonment, shall pay to the
municipal judge, who shall collect the following fees as court costs:
         a.   A corrections fee of twenty dollars ($20.00); (Ord. 318, 6-17-
2003)
         b.   A judicial education fee of three dollars ($3.00); (Ord. 352, 8-
11-2009)
         c.   A court automation fee of six dollars ($6.00).
      2.   Any person violating an ordinance relating to the operation of a
motor vehicle for which a penalty assessment schedule has been established, and
who chooses to pay the penalty assessment, shall pay, in addition to the
penalty assessment, the fees set forth in section
 6-1-2 of this code.
      3.   All corrections fees collected pursuant to subsection C1a of this
section shall be deposited in a special fund in the municipal treasury and
shall be used for:
         a.   Municipal jailer or juvenile detention officer training;
         b.   The construction planning, construction, operation and
maintenance of a municipal jail or juvenile detention facility;
         c.   Paying the cost of housing municipal prisoners in a county jail
or detention facility or housing juveniles in a detention facility;
         d.   Complying with match or contribution requirements for the receipt
of federal funds relating to jails or juvenile detention facilities;
         e.   Providing inpatient treatment or other substance abuse programs
in conjunction with or as an alternative to jail sentencing;
         f.   Defraying the cost of transporting prisoners to jails or
juveniles to juvenile detention facilities; or
         g.   Providing electronic monitoring system;
         h.   The interest collected from fees deposited in the special fund
pursuant to this subsection shall be credited to the municipality's general
fund.
      4.   All judicial education fees collected shall be remitted monthly to
the state treasurer for credit to the judicial education fund and shall be used
for the education and training, including production of bench books and other
written materials, of municipal judges and other municipal court employees.
      5.   All court automation fees shall be remitted monthly to the state
treasurer for credit to the municipal court automation fund and shall be used
for the purchase and maintenance of court automation systems in the municipal
courts. The court automation systems shall have the capability of providing, on
a timely basis, electronic records in a format specified by the judicial
information system council. (Ord. 318, 6-17-2003)
   D.   Prior Violations: Prosecution for violations of village ordinances
prior to the effective date of this code shall be governed, prosecuted and
punished under the ordinances existing at the time such crimes were committed.
   E.   Continuing Violation: Every day any violation of this code or any other
ordinance or resolution of the village or any rule or regulation promulgated
under the provisions of this code shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
263A, 6-7-1994; amd. 2000 Code)
   F.   Incarcerated Village Prisoners:
      1.   Each convicted defendant shall receive a credit pursuant to section
33-3-11, New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978 compilation, in reduction of any
fines so imposed for each day or part thereof served by him or her in a civic
service or in a county jail as such shall be amended from time to time, and, as
of the adoption of this section, such credit shall be eight (8) times the
federal hourly minimum wage per day in reduction thereof for each day or a
portion of a day of incarceration or civil/civic community service or each hour
of actual community service. (Ord. 318, 6-17-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-17-1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (2000 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the village board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Village Seal
1-5-1: VILLAGE SEAL 1 :
   A.   Described: A Seal, the impression of which shall be as follows: in the
center of which shall be the word "Seal", and around the margin the words,
"Village of Cloudcroft, New Mexico", shall be and hereby is declared to be the
Seal of the Village of Cloudcroft. (1976 Code § 2-1-1)
   B.   Use Of Seal: The Seal of the Village shall be affixed to all
transcripts, orders, certificates and other documents which may be necessary or
proper to authenticate under the provisions of the Village ordinances, or as
otherwise provided by law. (1976 Code § 2-1-2)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-18-1.
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES 1
SECTION:
1-6-1: Village Officers
1-6-2: Village Clerk/Treasurer
1-6-3: Village Treasurer
1-6-4: Vacancy In Office Of Clerk/Treasurer
1-6-5: Village Attorney
1-6-6: Municipal Judge
1-6-7: Civil Emergency Preparedness Organization
1-6-8: Oath Of Office
1-6-9: Removal Or Suspension Of Officers
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA §§ 3-10-1 et seq., 3-13-1 et seq., and 3-37-1 et seq.
1-6-1: VILLAGE OFFICERS:
The officers of the Village, in addition to those provided by law to be
elected, shall be as follows: Village Clerk/Treasurer and Village Attorney. The
officers of the Village shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the
approval of a majority of the members of the Board of Trustees and serve at the
pleasure of the Board of Trustees. (1976 Code § 2-2-1; amd. 2000 Code)
1-6-2: VILLAGE CLERK/TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: The Mayor, with the approval of a majority of the members
of the Board of Trustees, shall appoint a Village Clerk/Treasurer to serve at
the pleasure of the Board of Trustees. The compensation of the Village Clerk/
Treasurer shall be determined by the Board of Trustees. (1976 Code § 2-2-2;
amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Duties: The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall:
      1.   Custody Of Records: Keep in custody all minutes, ordinances and
resolutions approved by the Board of Trustees.
      2.   Meeting Attendance: Attend all meetings of the Board of Trustees.
      3.   Record Proceedings: Record all proceedings, ordinances and
resolutions of the Board of Trustees.
      4.   Furnishing Records: Furnish copies of Village records upon request.
The Village Clerk/Treasurer may charge a reasonable fee for the cost of
furnishing copies of Village records.
      5.   Board Of Finance: Board of Finance, which is the Board of Trustees:
         a.   Serve as secretary to the Board of Finance;
         b.   Keep a record of the proceedings of the Board of Finance, which
shall be a public record; and
         c.   Convene a meeting of the Board of Finance whenever necessary or
whenever requested to do so by any member of the Board of Finance. (1976 Code §
2-2-3; amd. 2000 Code)
1-6-3: VILLAGE TREASURER:
   A.   Designated: The office of Village Treasurer shall be occupied by the
same person who is appointed to the office of Village Clerk/Treasurer.
   B.   Bond Required: The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall execute a bond in the
amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) to the Village, the bond to be with
a corporate surety approved by the Board of Trustees and the expenses of
procuring the bond shall be borne by the Village. The bond of the Village
Clerk/Treasurer shall be conditioned for the faithful performance of duties as
Clerk/Treasurer of the Village so long as the person shall serve as Clerk/
Treasurer, and that, when he vacates the office, he will turn over and deliver
to his successor all money, books, papers, property or things belonging to the
Village and remaining in the charge of the Clerk/Treasurer. The Board of
Trustees shall have the power to declare the office of Clerk/Treasurer vacant
if the appointee shall fail to give the required bond within ten (10) days
after notification of appointment to office, and proceed to appoint another
person to the office as in other cases of vacancy.
   C.   Duties: The village clerk-treasurer shall:
      1.   Supervise Money: Supervise the depositing of money and safekeeping
of all money belonging to the village;
      2.   Designate Banks: With the advice and consent of the village board of
finance, designate banks qualified to receive on deposit money entrusted to his
care;
      3.   Receive Monies; Maintain Records: Receive all monies belonging to
the village and shall keep such records and accounts as prescribed by this code
or other law;
      4.   Keep Money Separate: Keep the money of the village separate from any
other money in his possession;
      5.   Expend Money As Directed: Expend money only as directed by the board
of trustees;
      6.   Submit Report: Submit monthly, or more often if required by the
board of trustees, a report of the receipts and expenditures of the village;
      7.   Financial Reports: Prepare annually, at the close of the fiscal
year, a financial report showing receipts, expenditures and balances for each
fund. A copy of the financial report shall be filed in the office of the
village clerk-treasurer as a public document;
      8.   Receipt Issuance:
         a.   When receiving money for the village, the village clerk-treasurer
or any other person receiving money for the village shall make a receipt in not
less than duplicate form which shall show the:
            (1)   Amount received;
            (2)   Date of payment; and
            (3)   Account for which payment is made. One copy shall be made
available to the person paying money to the village.
         b.   In lieu of a receipt, the village clerk-treasurer, or any other
person receiving money for the village, may mark "paid" and the date paid on
the portion or the bill or statement to be retained by the payer and on the
portion retained by the village stating the particular fund or appropriation to
which the same is chargeable and the person to whom payable, and no money shall
be drawn except as provided by the board of trustees. All monies received on
any special assessment shall be held by the village clerk-treasurer as a
special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for which the
assessment was made, and the money shall be used for no other purpose whatever,
unless to reimburse the village for money extended for such improvements.
      9.   Other Duties: The village clerk-treasurer shall be bound by such
other duties as may be provided for by law.
   D.   DMV Administrative Fees: The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall cause to be
collected an administrative fee of ten dollars ($10.00) from each person
requesting a service in connection with every transaction processed for the New
Mexico Taxation and Revenue Department, Motor Vehicle Division (MVD) by the
Village of Cloudcroft as an agent of MVD. The Village Treasurer shall deposit
the fees so collected in the General Fund of the Village. (1976 Code §§ 2-2-
4 and 2-2-5; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 354, 1-12-2010; Ord. 390, 6-8-2021)
1-6-4: VACANCY IN OFFICE OF CLERK-TREASURER:
In the event that the person appointed to hold the office of village clerk-
treasurer shall not qualify, shall refuse the office or should the office in
any other way not be occupied for any reason, the mayor, subject to approval by
a majority of all members of the board of trustees, is hereby empowered to
appoint the village clerk-treasurer in the manner provided for filling
vacancies in office. (1976 Code § 2-2-7)
1-6-5: VILLAGE ATTORNEY:
   A.   Appointed: The mayor, with the approval of a majority of the board of
trustees, shall appoint a village attorney, who shall be a member of the state
bar in good standing and admitted to the practice of law in the courts of the
state.
   B.   Duties: The village attorney shall, at the request of the board of
trustees, attend the regular and special meetings of the board; he shall give
his opinion on legal questions, verbally or in writing, to the board of
trustees, mayor or any member of the board when so requested; he shall advise
when applied to, any officer of the village as to the conduct of his office,
and he shall prepare and pass upon the legality of all ordinances, bonds and
other contracts, and writings affecting the interests of the village. He shall
by virtue of his office as village attorney represent the village as its
attorney in all suits in the district court to which it is a party, including
cases appealed from the village municipal court, and in all suits and
proceedings to which it is a party, in the supreme court of New Mexico, and for
his services so rendered shall be paid such fees and compensation as the board
of trustees shall determine; provided, that whenever the village attorney by
reason of interest or for any other reason is disqualified, or because of any
disability should not be able to attend any suit or proceeding, other counsel
may be employed to represent the village; and it shall be at the option of the
board of trustees at all times to employ assistant, additional or other counsel
if deemed advisable. (1976 Code § 2-2-8; amd. 2000 Code)
1-6-6: MUNICIPAL JUDGE 1 :
   A.   Election: There is hereby confirmed the office of municipal judge, a
judicial office of the village. The municipal judge shall be elected for a term
of four (4) years at the regular village election and vacancies in the office
may be filled by appointment by the village board of trustees. (1976 Code § 3-
1-1; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Qualifications: The qualifications of the municipal judge shall be the
same as now or as may be hereafter prescribed by law for magistrates. (1976
Code § 3-1-2)
   C.   Salary: The municipal judge shall receive a salary of eight thousand
dollars ($8,000.00) per year effective after the next municipal election
following the adoption of this subsection. (Ord. 370, 2-9-2016)
   D.   Monthly Reports:
      1.   Required: The municipal judge shall make monthly written reports to
the village board of trustees and shall include in the report a statement of
all monies collected which belong to the village. The report shall be filed
with the mayor on or before the tenth of each month after the funds are
collected by the municipal judge; and the funds so collected shall be paid to
the village clerk/treasurer at the time the report is filed. (1976 Code § 3-1-
4; amd. 2000 Code)
      2.   Itemization: The report required by subsection D1 of this section
shall include an itemized statement, showing the different amounts so
collected, the purpose of the collection, the name of the person from whom the
funds were received and the date the funds were paid to the municipal judge.
(1976 Code § 3-1-5)
   E.   Municipal Court: The municipal judge is authorized, empowered and
required to inquire into, hear and determine all offenses committed within the
limits of the village, for a violation of any of the ordinances of the village,
to punish the offenders upon conviction as prescribed by law and to perform
such other duties required or authorized by law. No jury shall be required or
allowed in the trial or any case before a municipal judge for violating any of
the laws of the village. (1976 Code § 3-1-6)
   F.   Incarceration Of Convicted Persons: Any person upon whom any fine or
penalty is imposed, upon conviction of the violation of an ordinance of the
village, may, upon order of the municipal judge convicting him, be committed to
the county jail or such other place provided by the village for the
incarceration of offenders until the fine or penalty is fully paid. Every
defendant so committed shall work for the village at the direction of the
municipal judge at such labor as his strength will permit, within or without
the prison or other place provided for such incarceration, not exceeding ten
(10) hours each working day. In the event such defendant shall be committed to
the village jail or other place provided by the village for the incarceration
of offenders until the said fine is fully paid; provided however, each such
defendant shall receive a credit of five dollars ($5.00) per day in reduction
of any fine so imposed for each day served by him in said county jail or other
place of incarceration 2 . (1976 Code § 3-1-7; amd. 2000 Code)
   G.   Suspension, Probation, Community Service:
      1.   Upon a plea of guilty or a judgment of conviction for violation of a
village ordinance, the municipal court may suspend in whole or in part the
execution of sentence or place the defendant on probation for a period not
exceeding one year on terms and conditions the court deems best; or both.
      2.   Suspension of execution of the sentence or probation, or both, shall
be granted only when the municipal judge is satisfied it will serve the ends of
justice and of the public.
      3.   The defendant's liability for any fine or other punishment imposed
shall be fully discharged upon successful completion of the terms of probation.
      4.   The municipal court may, as a condition of probation, require the
defendant to serve a period of time in volunteer labor to be known as community
service. The type of labor and period of service shall be at the sole
discretion of the court; provided, that any person receiving community service
shall be immune from any civil liability other than gross negligence arising
out of the community service, and any person who performs community service
pursuant to court order or any criminal diversion program shall not be entitled
to any wages, shall not be considered an employee for any purpose and shall not
be entitled to workers' compensation, unemployment benefits or any other
benefits otherwise provided by law. As used in this subsection, "community
service" means any labor that benefits the public at large or any public,
charitable or educational entity or institution. (Ord. 215, 9-8-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-14-1 et seq.
2 1. NMSA § 35-15-3.
1-6-7: CIVIL EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS ORGANIZATION 1 :
   A.   Appointment Of Director; Duties: There is hereby created the civil
emergency preparedness organization for the village as an agency of government
to be composed of the mayor and persons that he may appoint from time to time.
The mayor shall appoint a director and staff, subject to the approval of the
board of trustees. The director and staff shall perform such duties as
prescribed by law or regulation. (1976 Code § 2-3-1)
   B.   Composition: All village officers and employees of the village,
together with those volunteer forces enrolled to aid them during a disaster,
shall constitute the civil emergency preparedness organization. (1976 Code § 2-
3-2)
 
Notes
1 2. NMSA § 12-10-5.
1-6-8: OATH OF OFFICE:
All officers shall take an oath or affirmation to support the constitution of
the United States and the constitution and laws of the state and faithfully to
perform the duties of their respective offices. The board of trustees shall
have the power to declare vacant the office of any person who shall fail to
take the oath of office within ten (10) days after notification of appointment
to the office and proceed to appoint as in other cases of vacancy. (1976 Code §
2-2-9)
1-6-9: REMOVAL OR SUSPENSION OF OFFICERS:
Removal or suspension of officers and employees shall be in accordance with
state law, as amended from time to time. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE A. FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Department Created
1-7A-2: Purpose
1-7A-3: Fire Chief; Office Created
1-7A-4: Duties Of Chief
1-7A-5: Duties Of Department
1-7A-6: Control Of Department Property
1-7A-7: Water Department To Cooperate
1-7A-8: Authority To Enter Buildings
1-7A-9: Fire Department Funds
1-7A-10: EMS/Ambulance; Billing Funds
1-7A-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created the Cloudcroft Fire Department. This Department shall
consist of the Fire Chief and such officers and employees (paid or unpaid) as
may volunteer or be provided for by the Mayor and approved by the Board of
Trustees pursuant to State law. (Ord. 387, 3-10-2020)
1-7A-2: PURPOSE:
It shall be the function of the Cloudcroft Fire Department to provide services
and equipment designed for the extinguishment of fires. It may also be the
function of the Fire Department to provide services and equipment capable of
rendering aid in the fields of emergency medical services, rescue, emergency
management and any other emergency related services determined to be
appropriate including the operation of an ambulance. (Ord. 387, 3-10-2020)
1-7A-3: FIRE CHIEF; OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the appointed office of Fire Chief, who shall be
appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Mayor or his designee and the
Board of Trustees as provided by State law. The Fire Chief shall be the head of
the Fire Department and shall be subject of the supervision of the Mayor
subject to State law. Officers and employees (paid or unpaid) assigned to the
Fire Department shall perform their duties subject to the supervision of the
Fire Chief and the management and control of the Mayor and Board of Trustees
pursuant to State law. (Ord. 387, 3-10-2020)
1-7A-4: DUTIES OF CHIEF:
The Fire Chief may make or prescribe such rules and regulations for the conduct
of his Department, as he shall deem advisable; such rules when approved by the
Board of Trustees shall be binding on such members. The rules may cover the
conduct of the members (paid or unpaid), uniforms and equipment to be worn or
carried, hours of service, vacations and other matters necessary or desirable
for the better efficiency of the Department. (Ord. 387, 3-10-2020)
1-7A-5: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
   A.   The Fire Chief and members of the Department shall have all the duties
and power assigned by the law consistent with State law.
   B.   Duties In Absence Of Chief: The duties of the Chief of the Fire
Department shall, in his absence, fall with, and be performed by, the Deputy
Chief; in the absence of both the Chief and Deputy Chief, the District Chief(s)
(in succession 82, Training, Glorietta) shall assume all duties; in the absence
of the Chief, Deputy Chief and District Chief(s), the responsibilities shall
fall with the Executive Secretary. In addition to the above, the Deputy Chief,
District Chief and Executive Secretary shall perform such other duties as may
be assigned to them by the Fire Chief, and shall be subject to the procedures
prescribed. In the absence of all the officers, the Mayor shall appoint a
temporary supervisor to the Department.
   C.   Removal: The Mayor may appoint or remove from office any officer,
subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees at their next regular or
special meeting. The removed officer may be replaced immediately by the Mayor
and the appointment of the replacement shall be subject to the approval of the
Board of Trustees at their next regular or special meeting. (Ord. 387, 3-10-
2020)
1-7A-6: CONTROL OF DEPARTMENT PROPERTY:
   A.   Fire Chief: All those carts, fire engines, hooks, ladders and all other
fire machinery, apparatus, tools, buckets and property of every description
whatsoever in any way related to and connected with the Fire Department of the
Village, shall be delivered over to the Fire Chief and from henceforth shall be
under the exclusive control and charge of the Fire Chief.
   B.   All those apparatus, equipment, supplies, etc., that in any way relate
to, and may be used by, the EMS and Ambulance shall be delivered to the Fire
Chief and shall be under the exclusive control and charge of the Fire Chief.
   C.    Primary Truck: At least one, Class A rated Structural Engine, with
capacities and capabilities equivalent to the minimum standards recommended by
NFPA/ISO for the jurisdiction, must remain inside the Fire Protection District
at all times. Mutual/Auto Aid agreements may be considered to fulfill this
requirement.
   D.   Auxiliary Trucks; Minimum Qualified Members: Anytime auxiliary trucks
leave the Village, a minimum number of members shall accompany said trucks.
   E.   Ambulances; Minimum Qualified Members: Any time an ambulance responds
to a call, it shall meet the minimum standards as designated by the State of
New Mexico Public Regulation Commission. (Ord. 387, 3-10-2020)
1-7A-7: WATER DEPARTMENT TO COOPERATE:
The Water Department shall cooperate with the Fire Department in every way
possible to provide an adequate supply of water at measures suitable for
firefighting and shall supply the Fire Department one or more accurate maps of
the roads, distributing system and hydrants, which shall be posted and
maintained in a conspicuous place in each fire station, and shall report
promptly to the Fire Department the opening and closing of all valves in street
mains and any other information relative to the water supply to any and all
parts of the Village. (Ord. 387, 3-10-2020)
1-7A-8: AUTHORITY TO ENTER BUILDINGS:
The Chief of the Fire Department and members acting under his orders or the
provisions of this Article shall have authority to enter any building in the
proper performance of their duties. (Ord. 387, 3-10-2020)
1-7A-9: FIRE DEPARTMENT FUNDS:
   A.   Accounting; Village Clerk/Treasurer: Funds made available for the
operation of the Fire Department from the New Mexico State Fire Protection
Funds and deposited in the "Fire Protection" fund, shall be accounted for and
maintained by the Village Clerk/Treasurer. Funds made available for the
operation of the Fire Department from other sources and deposited in the "Fire
Department" fund shall be accounted for and maintained by the Village Clerk/
Treasurer.
   B.   Records Maintenance: The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain records
of these funds which shall be made available to the Fire Chief.
   C.   Budget Request: An annual budget request for these funds shall be made
by the Fire Chief in accordance with the State statutes, subject to the
approval of the Board of Trustees.
   D.   Commitment and Disbursement: Commitment and disbursement of Fire
Protection Funds received shall be within the intent of the approved budget on
file with the State Fire Marshal, subject to the approval of the Board of
Trustees.
   E.   Payment of Accounts: The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall make payment of
accounts due only when in accordance with a purchase order approved by the Fire
Chief or his designee.    
   F.   Compensation: All members shall serve without compensation; provided
however, that the board of trustees may designate, by resolution, any officer
or member of the Fire Department to be a full time part time or paid per call
employee of the Village with such compensation as the Board of Trustees may
designate. (Ord. 387, 3-10-2020)
1-7A-10: EMS/AMBULANCE; BILLING FUNDS:
   A.   Accounting; Village Clerk/Treasurer: Funds made available for the
operation of the EMS/Ambulance from the state of New Mexico, billings or other
governmental entities shall be accounted for and maintained by the Village
Clerk/Treasurer.
   B.   Records Maintenance: The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain records
of these funds which shall be made available to the Fire Chief.
   C.   Budget Request: An annual budget request for these funds shall be made
by the Fire Chief in accordance with the state of New Mexico statutes, subject
to the approval of the board of trustees.
   D.   Commitment and Disbursement: Commitment and disbursement of funds
received shall be within the intent of the approved budget on file with the
state of New Mexico, subject to the approval of the board of trustees.
   E.   Payment of Accounts: The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall make payment of
accounts due only when in accordance with a purchase order approved by the Fire
Chief or his designee. (Ord. 387, 3-10-2020)
ARTICLE B. EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT
(Rep. by Ord. 387, 3-10-2020)
ARTICLE C. POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Department Created
1-7C-2: Purpose
1-7C-3: Chief Of Police; Office Created
1-7C-4: Duties Of Chief
1-7C-5: Duties Of Department
1-7C-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created the Cloudcroft Police Department. This Department shall
consist of the Chief of Police and such officers and employees as may be
provided for by the Mayor and approved by the Board of Trustees pursuant to
State law. (Ord. 294, 7-11-2000)
1-7C-2: PURPOSE:
It shall be the function of the Cloudcroft Police Department to preserve order,
enforce all ordinances and law in the Village, preserve the peace, mitigate the
results and render aid in the case of disaster or accident. (Ord. 294, 7-11-
2000)
1-7C-3: CHIEF OF POLICE; OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the appointed office of Chief of Police, who shall be
appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Mayor or his designee and the
government body as provided by State law. The Chief of Police shall be the head
of the Police Department and shall be subject of the supervision of the Mayor
subject to State law. Officers and employees assigned to the Police Department
shall perform their duties subject to the supervision of the Chief of Police
and the management and control of the Mayor and Board of Trustees pursuant to
State law. (Ord. 294, 7-11-2000)
1-7C-4: DUTIES OF CHIEF:
The Chief of Police may make or prescribe such rules and regulations for the
conduct of his Department, as he shall deem advisable; such rules when approved
by the Board of Trustees shall be binding on such members. The rules may cover
the conduct of the members, uniforms and equipment to be worn or carried, hours
of service, vacations and other matters necessary or desirable for the better
efficiency of the Department. (Ord. 294, 7-11-2000)
1-7C-5: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
The Chief of Police and police officers shall have all the duties and power
assigned by the law consistent with State law. (Ord. 294, 7-11-2000)
CHAPTER 8
LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Purpose
1-8-2: Title
1-8-3: Definitions
1-8-4: Rights Of Employees
1-8-5: Management Rights
1-8-6: Labor Management Relations Board
1-8-7: Hearing Procedures
1-8-8: Appropriate Bargaining Units
1-8-9: Elections
1-8-10: Exclusive Representation
1-8-11: Decertification Of Exclusive Representative
1-8-12: Scope Of Bargaining
1-8-13: Negotiations And Impasse Resolution
1-8-14: Prohibited Practices
1-8-15: Strikes And Lockouts
1-8-16: Agreements Valid; Enforcement
1-8-17: Judicial Enforcement; Standard Of Review
1-8-18: Conflicts
1-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is:
   A.   To guarantee employees the right to organize and bargain collectively
with their employers;
   B.   To promote harmonious and cooperative relationships between employers
and employees;
   C.   To protect the rights of employers; and
   D.   To acknowledge the rights of the citizens to orderly and uninterrupted
delivery of Village services. (Ord. 250, 1-12-1993)
1-8-2: TITLE:
The provisions contained in this Chapter may be cited and referred to as the
CLOUDCROFT LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS ORDINANCE or LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 250, 1-12-1993)
1-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
   APPROPRIATE BARGAINING UNIT: A group of employees designated by the Board
for the purpose of collective bargaining. Appropriate units shall be formed by
occupational group, such as blue collar (unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled),
white collar (clerical, secretarial, administrative, technical and
paraprofessional), professional, corrections, fire and police.
   BOARD: The Cloudcroft Labor Management Relations Board.
   CERTIFICATION: The designation by the Board of labor organization as the
exclusive representative for all employees in an appropriate bargaining unit.
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: The act of negotiating between the employer and an
exclusive representative for the purpose of entering into a written agreement
regarding wages, hours and conditions of employment.
   CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE: A person who assists and acts in a confidential
capacity with respect to a management employee.
   EMPLOYEE: A regular full-time nonprobationary employee of the Village of
Cloudcroft.
   EMPLOYER: The Village of Cloudcroft.
   EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE: A labor organization that, as a result of
certification by the Board, represents all employees in an appropriate
bargaining unit for the purposes of collective bargaining.
   GOVERNING BODY: The Board of Trustees of the Village of Cloudcroft.
   GRIEVANCE: A written complaint by a bargaining unit employee regarding an
action taken by management, resulting in a disciplinary action that does not
involve an application or interpretation of a collective bargaining agreement
in effect between the exclusive representative and the employer.
   IMPASSE: Failure of the employer and an exclusive representative, after good
faith bargaining, to reach agreement in the course of negotiating a collective
bargaining agreement.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION: Any employee organization which represents employees in
collective bargaining.
   LOCKOUT: An act by the employer to prevent its employees from going to work
for the purpose of resisting demands of the employees' exclusive representative
or for the purpose of gaining a concession from the exclusive representative.
   MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE: An employee who is engaged primarily in executive and
management functions and is charged with the responsibility of developing,
administering or officiating management policies.
   MEDIATION: Assistance by an impartial third party to resolve an impasse
between an employer and an exclusive representative regarding employment
relations through interpretation, suggestion and advice.
   PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYEE: An employee whose work is predominantly intellectual
and varied in character and whose work involves the consistent exercise of
discretion and judgment in its performance and requires knowledge of an
advanced nature in a field of learning customarily requiring specialized study
at an institution of higher education or its equivalent. The work of a
professional employee is of such character that the output or result
accomplished cannot be standardized in relation to a given period of time.
   STRIKE: An employee's refusal, in concerted action with other employees, to
report for duty or his wilful absence in whole or in part from the full,
faithful and proper performance of the duties of employment. The definition of
strike includes, but is not limited to, such actions as the blue flu, sickouts,
slow downs, traffic ticket writing campaigns, mass resignations and sympathy
strikes.
   SUPERVISOR: An employee who devotes a substantial amount of work time in
supervisory duties, who customarily directs the work of two (2) or more other
employees and who has the authority in the interest of the employer to
effectively recommend the retention, promotion or discipline of other
employees. (Ord. 250, 1-12-1993)
1-8-4: RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES:
Employees, other than management employees, supervisors and confidential
employees, may form, join or assist any labor organization for the purpose of
collective bargaining through representatives chosen by employees through
representation elections without interference, restraint or coercion. Such
employees also have the right to refuse to form, join or assist any labor
organization. Employees may not be required to pay "fair-share" contributions.
(Ord. 250, 1-12-1993)
1-8-5: MANAGEMENT RIGHTS:
Unless limited by the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement or other
statutory provision, the exclusive prerogatives, functions and rights of the
employer shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
   A.   Direct And Supervise: To direct and supervise all operations, functions
and the work of the employees;
   B.   Manner Of Work: To determine the place to report for work, to determine
methods, processes and manner of performing work;
   C.   Employee Status: To hire, lay off, promote, demote, assign, transfer,
discipline, discharge or terminate employees;
   D.   Services Rendered To Citizens: To determine what and by whom services
will be rendered to the citizens;
   E.   Staffing Requirements: To determine staffing requirements, create,
abolish positions or to eliminate or reorganize work units;
   F.   Work Schedules: To determine and revise schedules of work;
   G.   Standards Of Hiring And Promoting: To establish, revise and implement
standards for hiring and promoting employees;
   H.   Work Shifts: To assign shifts, work days, hours of work and work
locations;
   I.   Work Duties: To designate, assign and reassign all work duties;
   J.   New, Transferred And Promoted Employees: To determine the need for and
the qualifications of new employees and to determine the qualifications for and
qualifications of employees considered for transfer and promotion;
   K.   Emergencies: To take actions as necessary to carry out the mission of
the employer in emergencies; and
   L.   Retain Rights: To retain all rights not specifically limited by a
collective bargaining agreement or this Chapter. (Ord. 250, 1-12-1993)
 
1-8-6: LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS BOARD:
   A.   Created; Membership: The Labor Management Relations Board is hereby
created. The Board shall consist of three (3) members appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the Board of Trustees. The Mayor shall appoint one member,
recommended by organized labor representatives actively involved in
representing employees, one member recommended by management and one member
jointly recommended by the two (2) other appointees.
   B.   Terms; Vacancies: Board members shall serve for a period of one year,
with terms commencing April 1 of each year. Vacancies shall be filled in the
same manner as the original appointment and such appointments shall only be
made for the remainder of the unexpired term. A Board member may serve an
unlimited number of terms.
   C.   Conditions Of Term: During the term for which he is appointed, no Board
member shall hold or seek any other political office or public employment, be
an individual representing the employer in collective bargaining or be an
employee of the labor organization representing the Village employees.
   D.   Mileage And Per Diem: Each Board member shall be paid statutory mileage
and per diem for hearings required under this Chapter.
   E.   Cost Of Hearing: The cost of any hearing will be borne equally by the
parties to the hearings.
   F.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Rules And Regulations: The Board shall promulgate rules and
regulations necessary to accomplish and perform its functions and duties as
established in this Chapter, including the establishment or procedures for:
         a.   The designation of appropriate bargaining units;
         b.   The selection, certification and decertification of exclusive
representatives; and
         c.   The filing of, hearing on and determination of complaints of
prohibited practices.
      2.   Hearings, Information Requests, Hiring: The Board shall:
         a.   Hold hearings and make inquiries necessary to carry out its
functions and duties;
         b.   Request from employers and labor organizations the information
and data necessary to carry out the Board's functions and responsibilities; and
         c.   Hire such personnel or contract with such third parties as the
Board of Trustees deems necessary to assist the Board in carrying out its
functions.
      3.   Issue Subpoenas: The Board may issue subpoenas requiring, upon
reasonable notice, the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production
of any evidence, including books, records, correspondence or documents relating
to any matter in question. The Board may prescribe the form of subpoena, but it
shall adhere insofar as practicable to the form used in civil actions in the
District Court. The Board may administer oaths and affirmations, examine
witnesses and receive evidence.
      4.   Decisions Of Board: The Board shall decide all issues by majority
vote and shall issue its decisions in the form of written orders and opinions.
The decisions of the Board on interpretation and applications of this Chapter
and collective bargaining agreements are final and binding on the parties,
subject to the appeal provisions in Section
1-8-17 of this Chapter.
      5.   Enforcement; Administrative Remedies: The Board has the power to
enforce provisions of this Chapter and labor- management agreements through the
imposition of appropriate administrative remedies.
      6.   Policies: The Board shall have no power to promulgate policy other
than to accomplish and perform its functions and duties.
      7.   Condition Of Employment Prohibited: No rule or regulation
promulgated by the Board shall require, directly or indirectly, as a condition
of continuous employment, any employee covered by this Chapter to pay money to
any labor organization that is certified as an exclusive representative. (Ord.
250, 1-12-1993)
1-8-7: HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Purposes: The Board may hold hearings for the purposes of:
      1.   Information gathering and inquiry;
      2.   Adopting rules and regulations; and
      3.   Adjudicating disputes and enforcing the provisions of this Chapter
and rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this Chapter.
   B.   Regulations Of Procedures: The Board shall adopt regulations setting
forth procedures to be followed during hearings of the Board. Such regulations
shall meet minimal due process requirements of the State and Federal
constitutions.
   C.   Prohibited Labor Practices; Charges: Charges of prohibited labor
practices that are filed within sixty (60) days of the time the complainant
knew, or with reasonable diligence should have known, of the commission or
omission of the act that generated the charges, shall be heard by the Board.
Such charges must identify the specific violation and relief requested.
Proceedings against the party alleged to have committed a prohibited practice
shall be commenced by service upon it and the Board of a written notice,
together with a copy of the charges and relief requested.
   D.   Filing Of Rules And Regulations: All adopted rules and regulations
shall be filed in accordance with applicable Village ordinances.
   E.   Records: A verbatim record made by electronic or other suitable means
shall be made of every rule-making and adjudicatory hearing. The record shall
not be transcribed unless required for judicial review or unless ordered by the
Board. Payment for the transcription shall be made by the party requesting the
review.
   F.   Cost Of Producing Witnesses: Each party to a prohibited labor practice
shall bear the cost of producing its own witnesses for hearings.
   G.   Public Hearing On Regulations: No regulation proposed to be adopted by
the Board that affects any person or governmental entity outside of the Board
and its staff shall be adopted, amended or repealed without public hearing, and
comment on the proposed action before the Board. The public hearing shall be
held after reasonable notice of the subject matter of the regulation, the
action proposed to be taken, the time and place of the hearing, the manner in
which interested persons may present their views and the method by which copies
of the proposed regulation, proposed amendment or repeal of an existing
regulation may be obtained. All meetings shall be held in the Village. Notice
shall be published once at least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing date in
a newspaper of general circulation in the Village and notice shall be mailed at
least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing date to persons who have made
written request to the appropriate Village official for advance notice of
hearings related to this Chapter. (Ord. 250, 1-12-1993)
1-8-8: APPROPRIATE BARGAINING UNITS:
   A.   Designation; Determination: The Board shall, upon receipt of a valid
petition for a representation election filed by a labor organization, designate
the appropriate bargaining units for collective bargaining. Occupational groups
shall generally be identified as blue collar, white collar, professional,
paraprofessional, police, fire and corrections. Bargaining units shall not be
determined by craft or trade designations. The parties, by mutual agreement and
approval of the Board, may further consolidate occupational groups. Essential
factors in determining appropriate bargaining units shall include the
principals of efficient administration of government and the history of
collective bargaining within the Village, if any, and the assurance to the
employees of their rights guaranteed by Section
1-8-4 of this Chapter.
   B.   Hearing: Within thirty (30) days of the filing of a show of interest
petition, the Board shall hold a hearing concerning the composition of the
bargaining unit.
   C.   Inappropriate Persons Excluded: The Board shall not include in any
appropriate bargaining unit supervisors, managers or confidential employees.
(Ord. 250, 1-12-1993)
1-8-9: ELECTIONS:
   A.   Secret Ballot: Whenever, in accordance with regulations prescribed by
the Board, a petition is filed by a labor organization containing the valid
signatures of at least thirty percent (30%) of the employees in an appropriate
bargaining unit, the Board shall conduct a secret ballot representation
election.
   B.   Other Organizations; Placement On Ballot: Once a labor organization has
filed a valid petition with the Board calling for a representation election,
other labor organizations may seek to be placed on the ballot. Any organization
may file a petition with the Board containing the valid signatures of not less
than ten percent (10%) of the employees in the appropriate bargaining unit no
later than ten (10) days after the Board and the employer post a written notice
that the petition containing the signatures of not less than thirty percent
(30%) of the employees has been filed by a labor organization.
   C.   Option For No Representation: Every election shall include the option
for no representation.
   D.   Run-Off Election: In the event of an election with two (2) or more
organizations on the ballot where neither of the choices received a majority of
the votes cast, then and in such an event a run-off election shall be held
within thirty (30) days. The choices on the run-off election shall consist of
the employee organization which received the greatest number of votes in the
original election and the choice of "no representation".
   E.   Certification: Where a majority of the votes cast are in favor of
representation by a labor organization and at least sixty percent (60%) of the
members in the bargaining unit have cast a vote, the Board shall certify the
labor organization as the exclusive representative for all employees in that
appropriate bargaining unit. No labor organization shall be certified as an
exclusive representative unless at least sixty percent (60%) of the members of
the bargaining unit vote in the election or run-off election.
   F.   Time Limit Restrictions: No election shall be conducted if an election
or run-off election has been conducted in the twelve (12) month period
immediately preceding the proposed representation election. No election shall
be held during the term of an existing collective bargaining agreement, except
as provided in subsection
1-8-11B of this Chapter.
   G.   Disputes: Election disputes shall be resolved by the Board.
   H.   Cost Of Elections: The cost of elections shall be borne equally by the
parties. (Ord. 250, 1-12-1993)
1-8-10: EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATION:
   A.   Scope Of Representative: A labor organization that has been certified
by the Board as representing the employees in the appropriate bargaining unit
shall be the exclusive representative of all employees in the appropriate
bargaining unit. The exclusive representative shall act for all employees in
the appropriate bargaining unit and negotiate a collective bargaining agreement
covering all employees in the appropriate bargaining unit, without
discrimination or regard to membership in the labor organization.
   B.   Limitations Of Representative: The existence of an exclusive bargaining
representative shall not prevent employees in or out of a bargaining unit from
taking their grievances or prohibited practices to their supervisor or
management or filing prohibited practices with the Board based upon
discrimination by the exclusive representative or the employer. The Board will
adjudicate disagreements over contract interpretations only when the
disagreement is between the employer and the exclusive representative. Any
settlement of a grievance or relief given on a prohibited practice brought by
an individual shall not be inconsistent with or in violation of the collective
bargaining agreement then in effect between the employer and the exclusive
representative or inconsistent with or in violation of good faith resolution
made between the employer and the exclusive representative in the day-to-day
administration of the collective bargaining agreement. (Ord. 250, 1-12-1993)
1-8-11: DECERTIFICATION OF EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE:
   A.   Written Request: Any member of a bargaining unit or a labor
organization may initiate decertification of a labor organization as the
exclusive representative if thirty percent (30%) of the employees in the
appropriate bargaining unit make a written request to the Board for a
decertification election. Decertification elections shall be held in a manner
prescribed by rules of the Board.
   B.   Time Limit For Request: When there is a collective bargaining agreement
in effect, a request for a decertification election shall be made to the Board
no earlier than ninety (90) days and no later than sixty (60) days before the
expiration of the collective bargaining agreement; provided however, that a
request for an election may be filed at any time after the expiration of the
third year of a collective bargaining agreement with a term of more than three
(3) years.
   C.   Representation Election: When, within the time period prescribed in
subsection B of this Section, a competing labor organization files a petition
containing signatures of at least thirty percent (30%) of the employees in the
appropriate bargaining unit, a representation election rather than a
decertification election shall be conducted.
   D.   Agreement Not In Effect: When an exclusive representative has been
certified but no collective bargaining agreement is in effect, the Board shall
not accept a request for a decertification election earlier than twelve (12)
months subsequent to a labor organization's certification as the exclusive
representative. (Ord. 250, 1-12-1993)
1-8-12: SCOPE OF BARGAINING:
   A.   Good Faith Bargaining: Except for retirement programs provided under
the Public Employees Retirement Act or other municipal retirement plans,
employers and exclusive representative shall bargain in good faith on wages,
hours and other terms and conditions of employment. However, neither the
employer nor the exclusive representative shall be required to agree to a
proposal or to make a concession. All collective bargaining agreements between
the parties shall be reduced to writing.
   B.   Conflicts: The obligation to bargain collectively imposed by this
Chapter shall not be construed as authorizing employers and exclusive
representatives to enter into any agreement that is in conflict with the
provisions of any ordinance of the Village, State statute or Federal statute.
The employer and the exclusive representative may not negotiate agreements that
would be in conflict with ordinances of the Village, State statutes or Federal
statutes. In the event of conflict between the provisions of any statute of
this State or Federal government and any agreement entered into by the employer
and the exclusive representative in collective bargaining, the former shall
prevail.
   C.   Membership Dues: Payroll deduction of the exclusive representative's
membership dues is a negotiable item by either party. The amount of dues, if
such provision is agreed to by the parties, shall be certified in writing by an
official of the labor organization and shall not include special assessments,
penalties or fines of any type levied by the exclusive representative. During
the time that a Board certification is in effect for a particular appropriate
bargaining unit, the employer shall not deduct dues for any other labor
organization from members of the same bargaining unit.
   D.   Expenditure Of Funds: Any agreement provision by the employer and an
exclusive representative that requires the expenditure of funds shall be
contingent upon the specific appropriation of funds by the Board of Trustees
and the availability of funds.
   E.   Grievances; Binding Arbitration: The parties have a requirement that
grievance procedures culminating with binding arbitration be negotiated. This
applies only to grievances and does not apply to negotiations impasse.
   F.   Closed Meetings: The following meetings shall be closed as defined by
the Open Meetings Act:
      1.   Meetings for the discussion of bargaining strategy for collective
bargaining negotiations between the employer and the exclusive representative;
      2.   Collective bargaining sessions; and
      3.   Consultations and impasse resolution procedures at which the
employer and/or the exclusive representative of the appropriate bargaining unit
are present. (Ord. 250, 1-12-1993)
1-8-13: NEGOTIATIONS AND IMPASSE RESOLUTION:
   A.   Negotiation Procedures: The following negotiation procedures shall
apply to the employer and exclusive representatives:
      1.   Notice; Time Limitations: Negotiations shall be opened upon written
notice by either party to the other requesting that negotiating sessions be
scheduled. Such request shall be postmarked no earlier than one hundred twenty
(120) days, nor later than sixty (60) days, prior to the contract ending date.
The parties may open negotiations at any time by mutual agreement.
      2.   Teams: Negotiating teams will consist of a maximum of five (5)
persons designated by the exclusive representative and a maximum of five (5)
persons designated by the Mayor.
      3.   Conduct: All negotiations will be conducted in closed sessions.
Negotiations will be held at the facilities and at a time mutually agreed upon
by the negotiating teams. Negotiations will begin with the party that requested
the negotiations presenting their complete proposal and changes, section by
section.
      4.   Issues Identified: Following the complete presentation of both
proposals, the parties will identify the economic and noneconomic issues. All
noneconomic issues must be resolved prior to negotiating economic issues.
      5.   Recesses; Study Sessions: Recesses and study sessions may be called
by either team. Prior to these recesses or study sessions, the reconvening time
will be agreed upon. A caucus may be taken as needed.
      6.   Release From Duty For Participation: Employees who are members of
the exclusive representatives negotiating team will be released from their
normal duties without pay to participate in negotiations.
      7.   Tentative Agreements: Tentative agreements reached during
negotiations will be reduced to writing, dated and initialed by each team
spokesperson. Such tentative agreements are conditional and may be withdrawn
should later discussion change either team's understanding of the language as
it relates to another part of the agreement. (Ord. 250, 1-12-1993)
      8.   Accomplishment Of Agreement: Agreement on contract negotiations is
accomplished when the exclusive representative and the Mayor sign the
agreement. Provisions in multi-year agreements providing for economic increases
in subsequent years shall be contingent upon the Board of Trustees
appropriating the funds necessary to fund the increase for subsequent years.
Should the Board of Trustees not appropriate sufficient funds to fund the
agreed upon increase for a subsequent year, either party may reopen
negotiations. (Ord. 250, 1-12-1993; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Impasse Procedures: The following impasse procedure shall be followed
by the employer and exclusive representatives:
      1.   Mediator: If an impasse occurs, either party may request from the
Board that a mediator be assigned to the negotiations unless the parties can
agree on a mediator. A mediator from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation
Service will be assigned by the Board to assist negotiations.
      2.   Fact-Finder: If the impasse continues after a thirty (30) day
mediation period, either party may request from the Board that a fact-finder be
assigned to the negotiations. A fact- finder will be selected by the parties
from a list of individuals requested from the Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service.
      3.   Hearings; Decision: The fact-finder shall conduct hearings and
submit written findings and recommendations to the parties and the Board. The
fact-finder shall select either the exclusive representative's total and
complete last best offer or he may select the employer's total and complete
last best offer. The fact-finder may not create his own settlement. If the
parties have not reached agreement within fifteen (15) days after receipt of
the fact-finder's report, the Board shall publish the fact-finder's
recommendation.
      4.   Board Of Trustees' Action: The Board of Trustees may accept, reject
or modify the fact-finders recommendation. The decision of the Board of
Trustees is final and binding on both parties and shall be incorporated into
the agreement along with those items that had been tentatively agreed to by the
parties.
      5.   Cost Of Proceedings: The cost of any impasse proceeding that
requires a third party shall be borne equally by the parties to the impasse.
(Ord. 250, 1-12-1993)
1-8-14: PROHIBITED PRACTICES:
   A.   Employers: No employer or his representative shall:
      1.   Discriminate against an employee with regard to terms and conditions
of employment because of the employee's membership in a labor organization;
      2.   Restrain or coerce any employee in the exercise of any right
guaranteed under this Chapter;
      3.   Dominate or coerce employees in the formation, existence or
administration of any labor organization;
      4.   Discriminate in regard to hiring, tenure or any term or condition of
employment in order to encourage or discourage membership in a labor
organization;
      5.   Discharge or otherwise discriminate against an employee because he
has signed or filed an affidavit, petition, grievance or complaint or given any
information or testimony under the provisions of this Chapter or because an
employee is forming, joining or choosing to be represented by a labor
organization;
      6.   Refuse to bargain collectively in good faith with the exclusive
representative;
      7.   Refuse or fail to comply with any provision of this Chapter or Board
regulation; or
      8.   Refuse or fail to comply with any collective bargaining agreement.
   B.   Employees; Labor Organizations: An employee, labor organization or its
representative shall not:
      1.   Discriminate against an employee with regard to labor organization
membership because of race, color, religion, creed, age, sex or national
origin;
      2.   Solicit membership for an employee or labor organization during the
employee's duty hours;
      3.   Interfere with, restrain or coerce any employee in the exercise of
any right guaranteed by the provisions of this Chapter;
      4.   Interfere with, restrain or coerce any elected official, employee or
representative of the employer in the conduct of his duties;
      5.   Refuse to bargain collectively in good faith with the employer;
      6.   Refuse or fail to comply with any collective bargaining or other
agreement with the employer;
      7.   Refuse or fail to comply with any provision of this Chapter;
      8.   Picket homes or private businesses of elected officials or
employees;
      9.   Interfere with or coerce the employer in the selection of its agent
for bargaining;
      10.   Interfere with the normal process of negotiations between the duly
authorized negotiating teams of the employer and the exclusive representative;
      11.   During the negotiating process, including the impasse procedure,
discuss any issue with Village elected officials which is a subject of
negotiations.
   C.   Confidentiality: During the negotiating process, including the impasse
procedure, elected Village officials are prohibited from discussing any issue,
which is subject of negotiations, with employees of the bargaining unit
involved in negotiations and employees of the exclusive representative. (Ord.
250, 1-12-1993)
1-8-15: STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS:
   A.   Prohibited: No employee or labor organization shall engage in a strike.
No employee labor organization shall cause, instigate, encourage or support a
strike. No employer shall cause, instigate or engage in any employee lockout.
   B.   Emergency Board Session: In the case of an action by bargaining unit
employees where the employer alleges a strike has occurred, the Labor
Management Relations Board shall meet in emergency session, within twenty four
(24) hours of the filing of the charge by the employer, and determine whether a
strike has indeed occurred. In case the Board must meet in accordance with this
emergency during the absence of a Board member, the Mayor shall appoint an
interim member with due regard to the representative character of the Board.
   C.   Decertification Of Representative: Should it be determined by the Board
that bargaining unit employees participated in, caused, instigated, encouraged
or supported a public employee strike, walkout or slow down, the exclusive
representative for that bargaining unit shall be automatically decertified by
the Labor Management Relations Board. In such case, the collective bargaining
agreement shall be null and void, the exclusive representative for that
appropriate bargaining unit may not collect dues, negotiate or represent
employees in any fashion, and shall be barred from serving as the exclusive
representative of any bargaining unit of Village employees for a period of not
less than one year. (Ord. 250, 1-12-1993)
1-8-16: AGREEMENTS VALID; ENFORCEMENT:
All collective bargaining agreements and other agreements between employers and
exclusive representatives are valid and enforceable according to their terms
when entered into in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 250,
1-12-1993)
1-8-17: JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT; STANDARD OF REVIEW:
   A.   District Court: The Board may request the District Court to enforce any
order issued pursuant to this Chapter, including those for appropriate
temporary relief and restraining orders. The Court shall consider the request
for enforcement on the record made before the Board. It shall uphold the action
of the Board and take appropriate action to enforce it, unless it concludes
that the order is:
      1.   Arbitrary, capricious or an abuse of discretion;
      2.   Not supported by substantial evidence on the record considered as a
whole; or
      3.   Otherwise not in accordance with law.
   B.   Appeal: Any person or party, including any labor organization affected
by a final regulation, order or decision of the Board may appeal to the
District Court for further relief. All such appeals shall be based upon the
record made at the Board hearing. All such appeals to the District Court shall
be taken within thirty (30) days of final regulation, order or decision of the
Board. Actions taken by the Board shall be affirmed unless the Court concludes
that the action is:
      1.   Arbitrary, capricious or abuse of discretion;
      2.   Not supported by substantial evidence on the record taken as a
whole; or
      3.   Otherwise not in accordance with law. (Ord. 250, 1-12-1993)
1-8-18: CONFLICTS:
In the event of conflict with other Village ordinances, the provisions of this
Chapter shall supersede any other previously enacted ordinances with respect to
labor relations. Village sanctioned rules and regulations, administrative
directives, departmental rules and regulations and work place practices shall
control unless there is a conflict with a collective bargaining agreement.
Where a conflict exists, the collective bargaining agreement shall control.
(Ord. 250, 1-12-1993)
CHAPTER 9
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN
SECTION:
1-9-1: Short Title
1-9-2: Authority
1-9-3: Purpose; Local Economic Development Act
1-9-4: Definitions
1-9-5: Assistance To Economic Development Projects
1-9-6: Cloudcroft Business Investment Committee (CBIC)
1-9-7: Application Requirements
1-9-8: Applicable Review Criteria
1-9-9: Public Safeguards
1-9-10: Project Participation Agreement
1-9-11: Project Monies
1-9-12: Termination
1-9-13: Joint Regional Projects
1-9-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN ORDINANCE. (Ord.
346, 8-11-2008)
1-9-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the statutory authority conferred upon
municipalities to allow public support of economic development 1 . This chapter
is adopted as a part of the village's economic development plan. (Ord. 346, 8-
11-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA §§ 5-10-1 – 5-10-13, 1978.
1-9-3: PURPOSE; LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ACT:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to allow public support of economic
projects to foster, promote and enhance local economic development efforts
while continuing to protect against the unauthorized use of public money and
other public resources. Further, the purpose of this chapter is to allow the
village to enter into one or more joint powers agreements with other local
governments to plan and support regional economic development projects.
   B.   Local governments are allowed to provide direct or indirect assistance
to qualifying businesses for furthering or implementing an economic development
plan and projects. Furthermore, local and regional governments have the
authority to contribute assets to development projects; however, the imposition
of a tax must be approved by the voters in referendum. Municipalities may
impose a municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax and dedicate the revenue
for economic development projects. A total of 0.25 percent tax (in 4 increments
of 0.0625 percent) may be imposed. (Ord. 346, 8-11-2008)
1-9-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: The provision of direct or indirect land,
buildings or other infrastructure; public works improvements essential to the
location or expansion of a qualifying business; assistance to a qualifying
business and includes the purchase, lease, grant, or construction,
reconstruction, improvement or other acquisition or conveyance; and payments
for professional services contracts necessary for local or regional governments
to implement a plan or project.
   GOVERNING BODY: The Cloudcroft village council.
   PROJECT PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT: An agreement between a qualifying entity
and the village whereby the village provides assistance to an economic
development project in exchange for the benefits received as set forth in this
chapter.
   QUALIFYING ENTITY: An existing or proposed corporation, limited liability
company, partnership, joint venture, syndicate, association or other person
that is one or a combination of two (2) or more of the following:
      A.   An industry for manufacturing, processing, or assembling of any
agricultural or manufactured products;
      B.   A commercial enterprise for storing, warehousing, distributing, or
selling products of agriculture, mining or industry, but other than provided in
subsection D of this definition, not including any enterprise for sale of goods
or commodities at retail or for the distribution to the public of electricity,
gas, water, or telephone or other services commonly classified as public
utilities;
      C.   A business in which all or part of the activities of the business
involves the supplying of services to the general public or to government
agencies or to a specific industry or customer, but, other than provided in
subsection D of this definition, not including business primarily engaged in
the sale of goods or commodities at retail;
      D.   A telecommunications sales enterprise that makes the majority of its
sales to persons outside of New Mexico. (Ord. 346, 8-11-2008)
1-9-5: ASSISTANCE TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS:
   A.   The mayor of the village of Cloudcroft, after approval of the governing
body, may assist economic development projects in any legally permissible
manner including, but not limited to, provisions of land, buildings and
infrastructure provided that all the requirements of this chapter are met. The
village may provide land, buildings or infrastructure it already owns, or it
may build, purchase or lease the facilities needed for an economic development
project. The village at its discretion may bear the full cost or contribute a
portion of the costs including the waiver of applicable fees. The village, at
its discretion, may also contribute to the payment of costs for professional
service contracts such as industry feasibility studies and planning and design
services needed to implement a project.
   B.   The governing body may consider offering all forms of assistance
allowed under this chapter and any other legally permissible forms of
assistance; however, this does not establish any obligation on the village's
part to offer any specific type or level of assistance. (Ord. 346, 8-11-2008)
1-9-6: CLOUDCROFT BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMMITTEE (CBIC):
   A.   The governing body assigns to the CBIC the following responsibilities
with regard to the economic development plan for the village of Cloudcroft:
      1.   Identifying qualifying entities per section
1-9-4 of this chapter;
      2.   Reviewing and making recommendations to the governing body on
applications for assistance for economic development projects; and
      3.   Reviewing and making recommendations to the governing body on
applications for industrial revenue bonds (IRBs).
   B.   The mayor of the village of Cloudcroft, with the advice and consent of
the village council, may appoint a member of the CBIC. (Ord. 346, 8-11-2008)
1-9-7: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any "qualifying entity" meeting the definition set forth in section
1-9-4 of this chapter may propose an economic development project to the
village. Meeting the definition of a "qualifying entity" does not create any
obligation on the part of the village of Cloudcroft.
   B.   Applications from qualifying entities shall be submitted to the village
of Cloudcroft on forms provided by the village.
   C.   Applications shall contain the following information for business
applicants:
      1.   Identification information:
         a.   Complete name and address of entity;
         b.   Incorporation papers with bylaws;
         c.   List of board of directors and executive director, with
addresses; and
         d.   Resumes of all directors and officers.
      2.   Evidence of financial solvency (personal statement of principals):
         a.   Financial statement (income statement and balance sheets) for the
past three (3) years;
         b.   Federal tax number, New Mexico state taxation and revenue number
and village business license; and
         c.   Projected income statement for at least three (3) years.
      3.   Evidence of organizational capacity:
         a.   Brief history of the entity;
         b.   Organizational chart of the entity; and
         c.   Business plans for the entity and proposed project (shall include
pro forma cash flow analysis).
      4.   The project participation agreement and any other pertinent
information will be forwarded to the governing body for final consideration at
a public meeting. (Ord. 346, 8-11-2008)
1-9-8: APPLICABLE REVIEW CRITERIA:
   A.   Applications for economic development projects requesting economic
assistance from the village, which meet the policies and objectives of the
village's economic development plan, shall receive priority. Examples include,
but are not limited to:
      1.   Manufacturing firms (including intellectual property such as
computer software);
      2.   Projects which enhance the exporting capacity of companies and/or
provide goods and services which currently have to be imported into the village
of Cloudcroft;
      3.   Private companies seeking to build, expand or relocate facilities;
      4.   Private companies which provide facilities or services which enhance
the ability of the village of Cloudcroft's businesses to operate;
      5.   Organizations which assist business startups or bring small
companies together to increase their competitive abilities. This must involve a
tangible project, which will create jobs and promote an industry. Examples
include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Business incubators;
         b.   Art incubators or coalition (e.g., a performing arts coalition
seeking construction of rehearsal or performance facilities);
         c.   Public markets for farmers, gardeners, crafts, etc.; and
         d.   Organizations which foster economic development by promoting work
force development efforts such as apprenticeships or other job training
programs;
      6.   Projects in industry clusters listed above are particularly
encouraged, but others are eligible to apply as well. The intention is to
retain flexibility in the use of incentives; and
      7.   Qualifying entities with existing contracts or projects with the
village of Cloudcroft when this plan is adopted may propose a restructuring of
their projects as an economic development project.
   B.   All applications for economic development projects requesting economic
assistance from the village shall submit a cost-benefit analysis. Preparing a
cost-benefit analysis shall be the responsibility of the applicant. The village
retains the right to specify a format and methodology for the cost-benefit
analysis. The CBIC shall review and approve the methodology used. The source
and rationale for any multiplier effects shall be identified. The cost-benefit
analysis shall show that the village will recoup the value of its donation
within a period of ten (10) years. The analysis shall address the following:
      1.   The number and type of jobs to be created, both temporary
construction jobs and permanent jobs (by New Mexico department of labor job
category);
      2.   Pay scale of jobs;
      3.   Determination of which jobs are expected to be filled locally and
which will be filled by transfers from other facilities or recruited from
outside the Cloudcroft area;
      4.   Total payroll expected at startup and after one year;
      5.   Anticipated impact on local tax base; and
      6.   Anticipated impact on local school systems.
   C.   All applicants for economic development projects requesting economic
assistance from the village shall require the same review required of
industrial revenue bond applications. This review shall focus on environmental
and community impacts of proposed projects. Special attention shall be given to
job training and career advancement programs and policies. Projects shall
demonstrate a strong commitment to providing career opportunities for
Cloudcroft area residents. Cultural impacts of projects shall also be
considered.
   D.   Any qualifying entity seeking assistance shall prepare and make
available a job training and career development plan for their employee.
   E.   All applicants for economic development projects requesting economic
assistance from the village shall clearly demonstrate the benefits which will
accrue to the community as a result of the donation of public resources. The
village has considerable flexibility in determining what is considered as
adequate benefits. Benefits such as providing components or production
capabilities which enhance a targeted industry cluster, or addressing critical
deficiencies in regional economy, may be recognized. The benefits claimed of
any proposal will receive careful scrutiny. However, it is the intent of this
chapter to be flexible in the evaluation of these benefits, and to recognize
the qualitative as well as quantitative impact of the proposal.
   F.   All applicants for economic development projects requesting assistance
from the village shall clearly demonstrate how the qualifying entity is making
a substantive contribution. The contribution shall be of value and may be paid
in money, in-kind services, jobs, expanded tax base, property or other thing or
service of value for the expansion or improvement of the economy. The village
retains flexibility in defining the "substantive contributions". The benefits
identified in the previous subsections may be accepted as adequate
contributions on their own, or cash donations may be required. Assistance in
providing affordable housing to its employees or the community at large may
also qualify. Determination of what constitutes an acceptable contribution for
a given project shall be at the discretion of the governing body. (Ord. 346, 8-
11-2008)
1-9-9: PUBLIC SAFEGUARDS:
   A.   All economic development projects receiving assistance from the village
shall be subject to an annual performance review conducted by the CBIC. This
review shall evaluate whether a project is attaining the goals and objectives
set forth in the project participation agreement. This review shall be
presented to the governing body for their consideration. The governing body at
a public hearing may terminate assistance to the economic development project
by provisions set forth in the agreement, which terminates the agreement and
specifies the disposition of all assets and obligations of the project.
   B.   The village shall retain a security interest which shall be specific in
the project participation agreement. The type of security given shall depend
upon the nature of economic development project and assistance provided by the
county. Types of security may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Letter of credit in the village's name;
      2.   Performance bond equal to the village's contribution;
      3.   A mortgage or lien on the property or equipment;
      4.   Prorated reimbursement of donation if a company reduces work force
or leaves the community before the term agreed to; and
      5.   Other security agreeable to both parties.
   C.   Should a qualifying entity move, sell, lease or transfer a majority
interest in the economic development project before the expiration of the
project participation agreement, the village retains the right to deny any and
all assignments, sales, leases or transfers of any interests in the economic
development project until adequate assurances are made that the transferee,
assignee or lessee is a qualifying entity and that the terms of the agreement
will be satisfied by the transferee, assignee or lessee. At its discretion, the
village may choose to deny said assignment, lease or transfer or may negotiate
a new agreement with the new operator, or the village may reclaim the facility
and enter into an agreement with the new qualifying entity.
   D.   Any qualifying entity seeking assistance from public resources shall
commit to operate in accordance with its project participation agreement for a
minimum of ten (10) years from the date the ordinance is adopted and the
governing body passes the project participation agreement. (Ord. 346, 8-11-
2008)
1-9-10: PROJECT PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT:
   A.   The qualifying entity shall prepare with the village a project
participation agreement. This agreement is the formal document, which states
the contribution and obligation of all parties in the economic development
project. The agreement must state the following items:
      1.   The economic development goals of the project;
      2.   The contribution of the village and the qualifying entity;
      3.   The specific measurable objectives upon which the performance review
will be read;
      4.   A schedule for project development and goal attainment;
      5.   The security being offered for the village's investment;
      6.   The procedures by which a project may be terminated and the
village's investment recovered; and
      7.   The time period for which the village shall retain an interest in
the project. Each project agreement shall have a "sunset" clause after which
the village shall relinquish interest in and oversight of the project.
   B.   Each project participation agreement shall be subject to review and
approval by the governing body at a public hearing. (Ord. 346, 8-11-2008)
1-9-11: PROJECT MONIES:
All project monies shall be kept in a separate account by the entity and the
village with such account clearly identified. These accounts shall be subject
to an annual independent audit. (Ord. 346, 8-11-2008)
1-9-12: TERMINATION:
The governing body may terminate this chapter and the village's economic
development plan and any or all project participation agreements undertaken
under its authority. Termination shall be by ordinance at a public hearing or
in accordance with the terms of the project participation agreement. If an
ordinance or a project participation agreement is terminated, all contract
provisions of the project participation agreement regarding termination shall
be satisfied. Upon termination of the ordinance or any project participation
agreement, any village monies remaining in the village project accounts shall
be transferred to the village's general fund. (Ord. 346, 8-11-2008)
1-9-13: JOINT REGIONAL PROJECTS:
The village may engage in economic development projects involving one or more
than one municipality or county. In such instances, the relevant governing
bodies shall adopt a joint powers agreement. This agreement will establish the
application criteria and the terms of all project participation agreements.
Criteria established under a joint powers agreement shall be consistent with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 346, 8-11-2008)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Created
2-1-2: Terms Of Office
2-1-3: Powers And Duties
2-1-4: Rules And Regulations
2-1-5: Handling Funds
2-1-6: Removal Of Members
2-1-1: CREATED:
There had been created by earlier ordinance and codification a planning and
zoning commission composed of five (5) residents of the village, which has
existed and is operating as of the date of this ordinance. The members of the
planning and zoning commission are in staggered terms as provided by law.
Members shall be nominated by the Mayor and approved by the Board of Trustees
from time to time as necessary to be in compliance with NMSA 3-19-2 and in
conformance with NMSA 3-11-5. New members shall, within one year of being
appointed, attend a workshop/orientation on their duties and responsibilities.
(Ord. 322, 10-14-2003; amd. Ord. 396, 1-11-2022)
2-1-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
In transition to the election cycle in effect in the Village of Cloudcroft
pursuant to NMSA 1-22-3.1, each member of the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall serve a two (2) year term. The two (2) year term of a member of the
Planning and Zoning Commission who is appointed or reappointed in 2022 to
position one, two or three shall expire on January 1st of 2024. The term of a
member of the Planning and Zoning Commission who is appointed or reappointed in
2022 to position four or five shall expire on January 1st of 2023. Thereafter
the term of position one, two or three shall expire on January 1st of each even
numbered year and the term of position four and five shall expire on January
1st of each odd numbered year. (Ord. 322, 10-14-2003; amd. Ord. 396, 1-11-2022)
2-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The planning and zoning commission shall have power and authority to
study and investigate the subject of village planning, for the purpose of
formulating a master plan, and shall make surveys as it deems necessary for the
formulation of a master plan.
   B.   The planning and zoning commission shall have power and authority to
hold public hearings on the formulation of a master plan.
   C.   The planning and zoning commission shall have power and authority to
call before it any and all department heads and officers and employees of the
village, who shall at the request of the commission furnish the commission
data, information and reports as the commission may request.
   D.   All personnel required to be hired for services under this chapter
shall be appointed by the board of trustees from a list submitted to them by
the planning and zoning commission.
   E.   The planning and zoning commission may make recommendations to the
board of trustees for the passage of ordinances which it deems advisable.
   F.   The planning and zoning commission shall file an annual report with the
mayor and the board of trustees of its activities, meetings and progress.
   G.   The planning and zoning commission shall have other powers, authority
and jurisdiction as may be from time to time delegated to the commission by
ordinance of the board of trustees or by resolution of the board of trustees.
   H.   The planning and zoning commission shall have the power and authority
to fulfill and perform its functions, promote village planning, and carry out
the purposes of New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-19-12, as amended.
(1976 Code § 7-1-3)
   I.   The planning and zoning commission shall have the power and authority
to enforce and carry out the provisions of laws of New Mexico relating to
planning, platting, zoning and subdividing; provided however, that the actions
of the planning and zoning commission shall be subject to approval by the board
of trustees; provided further, that any power and authority relating to
planning, platting, subdividing and zoning, which is expressly given to the
board of trustees by this code shall be exercised by the board of trustees with
such recommendation from the commission as may be appropriate from time to
time.
   J.   In the absence of a duly appointed code enforcement officer, the mayor
or his designee may perform the functions of a code enforcement official as set
forth in section
9-2-1 of this code as may be appropriate from time to time. (Ord. 374, 2-14-
2017)
2-1-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Election Of Officers: The commission shall have authority to elect a
chairman, secretary and any other necessary officers. The powers and duties of
the officers and of any employees of the planning and zoning commission shall
be established by the commission by resolution.
   B.   Adoption Of Rules And Regulations: The planning and zoning commission
shall adopt rules and regulations for the conduct of its business and shall
publish the rules and regulations, together with procedures for compliance,
with the rules and regulations.
   C.   Meetings: The planning and zoning commission shall meet at least once a
month but may meet more often if necessary. The commission shall establish a
regular time and place to meet and conduct its business.
   D.   Quorum: For the conduct of ordinary business, a quorum of the planning
and zoning commission shall consist of three (3) regularly appointed members.
   E.   Records Maintained: The planning and zoning commission shall keep a
record of its transactions, findings, resolutions and determinations.
   F.   Term Of Chairman: The chairman elected by the planning and zoning
commission shall serve for a one year term. (1976 Code § 7-1-4)
2-1-5: HANDLING FUNDS:
   A.   Authority: The planning and zoning commission shall have power and
authority in the performance of its delegated duties to disburse funds
allocated to it by the board of trustees in the budget for the village and
other funds which may be allocated to it by the board of trustees for
expenditures upon request of the commission and approved for submission by the
mayor.
   B.   Acceptance Of Monies: The planning and zoning commission shall have
power and authority to accept monies by grant, gift, bequest or other manner
from persons or estates, and to expend those monies under its regularly
constituted power and authority. (1976 Code § 7-1-5; amd. 2000 Code)
2-1-6: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
The board of trustees may, by a majority vote of the members, remove any member
of the planning and zoning commission. (1976 Code § 7-1-6)
CHAPTER 2
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-2-1: Created
2-2-2: Terms Of Office
2-2-3: Duties
2-2-4: Rules And Regulations
2-2-5: Removal Of Members
2-2-1: CREATED:
   There is created a Parks and Recreation Committee of five (5) residents of
the village, appointed by the mayor and approved by the governing body. The
members of the committee shall serve staggered terms and shall provide advice
to the Governing Body concerning matters relating to the use of parks and
recreation facilities owned by the Village.
(Ord. 402, 4-11-2023)
2-2-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
   Each member of the Parks and Recreation Committee shall serve a two (2) year
term. The two (2) year term of a member of the Parks and Recreation Committee
who is appointed or reappointed in 2023 to position one, two or three shall
expire on January 1st of 2025. The term of a member of the Parks and Recreation
Committee who is appointed or reappointed in 2023 to position four or five
shall expire on January 1st of 2024. Thereafter the term of position one, two
or three shall expire on January 1st of each odd numbered year and the term of
position four and five shall expire on January 1st of each even numbered year.
Each member shall be a resident and qualified elector of the Village of
Cloudcroft.
(Ord. 402, 4-11-2023)
2-2-3: DUTIES:
   A.   The Parks and Recreation Committee shall have the ability to make
recommendations to the Board of Trustees for the use of village parks and
recreational facilities and the creation of new facilities.
   B.   The Parks and Recreation Committee shall have the ability to seek
community input regarding the use and condition of village parks and
facilities.
   C.   The Parks and Recreation Committee may make recommendations to the
board of trustees for the passage of ordinances which it deems advisable.
   D.   The Parks and Recreation Committee shall file an annual report with the
mayor and the board of trustees of its activities, meetings and progress.
(Ord. 402, 4-11-2023)
2-2-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Election of Officers: The Parks and Recreation Committee shall have
authority to elect a chairman, secretary and any other necessary officers. The
powers and duties of the officers shall be established by the Parks and
Recreation Committee by resolution.
   B.   Adoption Of Rules And Regulations: The Parks and Recreation Committee
shall adopt and comply with an open meetings resolution pursuant to New Mexico
law, shall keep minutes of each meeting and may adopt other rules and
regulations for the conduct of its business which shall be approved by the
Village Board of Trustees.
   C.   Meetings: The Parks and Recreation Committee shall meet at least once
every other month but may meet more often if necessary.
   D.   Quorum: For the conduct of ordinary business, a quorum of the Parks and
Recreation Committee shall consist of three (3) regularly appointed members.
   E.   Records Maintained: The planning and zoning commission shall keep a
record of its meeting minutes, including any transactions, findings,
resolutions and written recommendations to the Board of Trustees.
   F.   Term Of Chairman: The chairman elected by the Parks and Recreation
Committee shall serve for a one year term.
(Ord. 402, 4-11-2023)
2-2-5: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
   The board of trustees may, by a majority vote of the members, remove any
member of the Parks and Recreation Committee.
(Ord. 402, 4-11-2023)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Policy
3-1-2: License Required; Fees Enumerated
3-1-3: Penalty For Failure To Pay
3-1-4: Issuance Of License
3-1-5: Peddlers And Solicitors; Bond Required
3-1-6: Refusal Or Revocation Of License
3-1-7: Records Administration
3-1-8: Exhibition Of License
3-1-9: Prior Ordinances
3-1-10: Remedies
3-1-11: Penalty
3-1-12: Offenses; Nuisances; Procedures Nonexclusive
3-1-1: POLICY:
The board of trustees hereby declares that the licensing or regulation of
businesses not otherwise exempt by law is conducive to the promotion of the
health and general welfare of the village and hereby imposes a license fee and
a separate license on each place of business conducted by the same person. The
board of trustees hereby finds the fees enumerated in section
3-1-2 of this chapter are reasonably related to the expenses of regulating the
businesses therein described and issuing licenses. (1976 Code § 9-3-1)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES ENUMERATED:
All persons engaged in any business hereinafter listed shall, before commencing
business and, if appropriate, annually thereafter, as provided in section
3-1-4 of this chapter, secure a license from the village clerk/treasurer
therefor, and shall pay a license fee according to the following schedule and
rates:
   A.   Circuses, at the rate of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day.
   B.   Carnivals, at the rate of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day.
   C.   Cane racks and other novelties at the rate of five dollars ($5.00) per
day for each concession operated.
   D.   Concerts and traveling exhibition shows of all kinds or description,
and all public exhibitions or amusements of any nature or kind whatsoever, at
the rate of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per performance.
   E.   Amusement shows, cattle shows, horse shows, rodeos, automobile shows,
equestrian exhibitions and dog shows, at the rate of twenty five dollars
($25.00) per day.
   F.   Sparring, boxing and wrestling exhibitions at the rate of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per performance. (1976 Code § 9-3-2)
   G.   Permanent skating rinks, ice or roller, at the rate of fifteen dollars
($15.00) per annum, or one dollar ($1.00) per one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
of gross receipts, whichever is higher. (1976 Code § 9-3-2; amd. 2000 Code)
   H.   Portable skating rinks, ice or roller, at the rate of fifty dollars
($50.00) per month, payable quarterly in advance.
   I.   Public dances, other than those given by fraternal or charitable
organizations, at the rate of ten dollars ($10.00) per night; provided, the
owner or promoter must secure the service of one or more officers as may be
required by the chief of police to police all public dances of whatsoever
nature. (1976 Code § 9-3-2)
   J.   Dance halls operated one night per week or more often at the rate of
thirty five dollars ($35.00) per annum; provided, the owner or promoter must
secure the services of one or more officers as may be required by the chief of
police to police all public dances as of whatever matter. (1976 Code § 9-3-2;
amd. 2000 Code)
   K.   Shooting galleries, at the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) per annum,
payable quarterly in advance.
   L.   Fortunetellers, clairvoyants, palmists, phrenologists and all like
professions and businesses, at the rate of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per
day.
   M.   Billiard and pool halls, at the rate of twenty dollars ($20.00) per
table, per annum.
   N.   Domino tables, at the rate of five dollars ($5.00) per table, per
annum.
   O.   Bowling alleys, at the rate of one dollar ($1.00) per thousand per
annum gross volume of business done or five dollars ($5.00) per alley, per
annum, whichever is greater; but provided, that the minimum fee shall be twenty
five dollars ($25.00).
   P.   Taxis, rent cars, trucks and all other vehicles used for hire or
contract of any nature, at the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) per annum, for
the first two (2) vehicles or less used; for each additional taxi, rent car,
truck or other vehicle, where more than two (2) are used, at the rate of ten
dollars ($10.00) per annum.
   Q.   Peddlers, other than residents of the County, selling farm products and
meats of their own raising, at the rate of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per
day.
   R.   Keepers of street stands, at the rate of five dollars ($5.00) per day.
   S.   Bill posters and bill posting companies, at the rate of ten dollars
($10.00) per annum.
   T.   Billboards, maintained by bill posting companies and space rented to
others, or maintained by a concern other than at their respective places of
business, at the rate of five dollars ($5.00) per panel, per annum.
   U.   Advertising signs, owned and maintained by anyone other than the owner
of the business advertised, and rented or leased to the business advertised,
but affixed to the building occupied by the business as advertised, at the rate
of one dollar ($1.00) per square foot of area, per annum.
   V.   Signs of all kinds on or partially on sidewalks, streets, alleys or
parks, abutting on property of one other than the owner of the signs, at the
rate of five dollars ($5.00) per annum; provided however, that an application
must be presented to and be granted by the Board of Trustees to maintain a sign
on any public property.
   W.   Public scales, at the rate of five dollars ($5.00) per annum.
   X.   Itinerant doctors, dentists, corn doctors and masseurs, at the rate of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) per week.
   Y.   Whiffle boards, shuffle boards, automatic marble or pool tables,
pinball machines or other instruments or devices or things whatsoever, not
forbidden by law to operate, for which money is charged or used for paying or
operating, requiring one cent ($0.01) to play or operate, at the rate of five
dollars ($5.00) each per annum, devices requiring five cents ($0.05) at the
rate of seven dollars fifty cents ($7.50) each per annum; devices requiring
over five cents ($0.05) at the rate of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per annum; with
the following exceptions to the above rates: mechanical music playing machines
at the rate of fifteen dollars ($15.00) each per annum and coin-operated
cigarette dispensing machines at the rate of ten dollars ($10.00) each per
annum; provided however, that the maximum license fee for operating of
cigarette dispensing machines shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for
twenty five (25) or more cigarette dispensing machines. Automatic vending
machines selling candy, gum, nuts or like items, other than cigarettes, shall
pay the following rates: those requiring one cent ($0.01) to operate, three
dollars ($3.00) per annum; those requiring five cents ($0.05) to operate, five
dollars ($5.00) per annum, and those requiring over five cents ($0.05) to
operate, ten dollars ($10.00) per annum; provided however, that whenever any
coin- operated device of any nature as licensed under this Section is wholly
owned, free of liens and encumbrances by the owner of the establishment or
premises where the device is located, then no separate license shall be
required for the device in the event the owner of the premises shall include
all receipts from the operation of the device in his statement of gross volume
done as required hereunder and shall pay the full occupation tax or license
fee, as the case may be, required hereunder for the operation of the
establishment or premises. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to
require the licensing of any of the automatic vending machines hereinabove
mentioned when they are owned or operated by any bona fide nonprofit civic,
service, fraternal or religious organization.
   Z.   Parades, sound trucks, cars or vehicles and all kinds of street
demonstrations for advertising purposes, ten dollars ($10.00) per day.
   AA.   Itinerant photographers, at the rate of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
per day. (1976 Code § 9-3-2)
   BB.   Those persons selling goods or services within the Village who do not
maintain a place of business within the Village, the rate of thirty five
dollars ($35.00) per annum will be assessed; provided, that mere delivery does
not constitute sales of goods or services. (Ord. 105, 1-2-1982; amd. 2000 Code)
3-1-3: PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO PAY:
A penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount owed to the Village under this
Chapter shall be assessed upon any person who shall fail to pay the license fee
in accordance with the terms of this Chapter and prior to the date on which the
tax or fee is due as specified herein. Thereafter, the Village Clerk/Treasurer
shall assess an additional penalty of one percent (1%) per month, for each
portion thereof after the first month that the license fee is unpaid. The
Village Clerk/Treasurer shall not issue any occupation license or license of
any kind until the license fee, plus all assessments and penalties due herein,
are paid. (1976 Code § 9-3-9; amd. 2000 Code)
3-1-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Application; Fee: On or before March 15 of each year, every person
engaging in a business, described in Section
3-1-2 of this Chapter, shall apply for a business license for that year. Every
person filing an application for a business license shall include in the
application the amount of gross receipts of the business done during the
previous calendar year within the Village. No business license shall be issued
to any person who has not furnished to the Village the information required in
this subsection. (1976 Code § 9-3-5)
   B.   Investigation: Upon receipt of such application, the original shall be
referred to the Chief of Police, who shall cause such investigation of the
applicant to be made as he deems necessary for the protection of the public
good.
   C.   Unsatisfactory Result: If, as a result of such investigation, the
applicant is found to be unsatisfactory, the Chief of Police shall endorse on
the application his reasons for the same and return the application to the
Village Clerk/Treasurer, who shall notify the applicant that no permit can be
issued without the approval of the Board of Trustees, after a hearing held
pursuant to Section
3-1-6 of this Chapter. The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the applicant
of the time and place of the hearing before the Board of Trustees.
   D.   Satisfactory Result: If, as a result of such investigation, the
applicant is found to be satisfactory, the Chief of Police shall endorse on the
application his approval and the Village Clerk/Treasurer shall execute a
permit, addressed to the applicant for the carrying on of the business applied
for, upon payment of the prescribed license fee. (1976 Code § 9-3-5; amd. 2000
Code)
   E.   Notice Of Fee; Issuance Of License: As soon as convenient after March
15 of each year, the Board of Trustees shall give notice of the business
license fee to each business and not less than five (5) days' notice of a
hearing when protest may be made as to the fee assignment. If the Board of
Trustees determines at the hearing that the business license fee is reasonably
related to the expense to the Village of regulating of and issuing of the
license, the business license fee shall be assessed upon the business. Upon
payment of its business license fee, the Village Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a
business license to the business. (1976 Code § 9-3-5)
3-1-5: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS; BOND REQUIRED:
Every itinerant peddler, photographer, salesperson, magazine solicitor and each
itinerant salesperson of every kind and description who shall propose to
solicit orders for or sell merchandise of any kind shall post a bond with the
Village Clerk/Treasurer in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00),
conditioned upon the faithful performance of all provisions of this Code and of
all contracts entered into by the itinerant while located in the Village, in
addition to the license fee specified in this Chapter, and which bond shall
either be in cash or a surety warranted by a surety company authorized to do
business in the State. The surety bond to have a life of not less than six (6)
months. In the event a cash bond is posted, the Village Clerk/Treasurer shall
issue a receipt therefor, and upon the expiration of six (6) months, shall
refund the bond upon demand and return of the receipt; provided, no valid
claims upon the bond shall have been filed and/or allowed and paid, in which
event no part of the bond deposited shall be returned. (1976 Code § 9-3-9)
3-1-6: REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Authority: For the purpose of regulation, the Board of Trustees may
refuse to grant a license or revoke a license.
   B.   Public Hearing: No license application shall be refused until after a
public hearing at which the applicant or licensee shall be given an opportunity
to be heard.
   C.   Evidence; Decision: At a public hearing concerning the refusal or
revocation of a license, the applicant or licensee and representative of the
Village shall be allowed to present evidence, either orally or in writing,
relevant to the effect of the business on the health, safety or welfare of the
citizens of the village. The license shall be refused or revoked if a majority
of the members of the board of trustees find:
      1.   That the business of the applicant or licensee is substantially
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of the village; or
      2.   The applicant or licensee is guilty of violating an ordinance of the
village relating to the granting of a license; or
      3.   The applicant or licensee is guilty of violating any other ordinance
of the village. (1976 Code § 9-3-3)
3-1-7: RECORDS ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Preparation: The village clerk/treasurer shall prepare all licenses
authorized by this code and countersign the same under seal of the village.
   B.   Records Maintained: The village clerk/treasurer shall keep a full and
complete record of all licenses issued with the names of the parties in whose
favor they are drawn, including dates, amounts, numbers and purposes for which
given. (1976 Code § 9-3-4)
   C.   Information Contained On License: Licenses shall contain the signature
and seal of the issuing officer and shall show the name and address of the
licensee, the class of license issued and the kind of goods to be sold
thereunder, the amount of fee paid, if any, the date of issuance, the length of
time the same shall be operative, as well as the license number and other
identifying description of any vehicle used in such peddling. (1976 Code § 9-3-
4; amd. 2000 Code)
3-1-8: EXHIBITION OF LICENSE:
The license issued to each person hereunder shall, at all times, be exhibited
in a prominent place in the particular place of business or office. (1976 Code
§ 9-3-6)
3-1-9: PRIOR ORDINANCES:
This chapter does not apply to tax or fee liability for payment of which was
incurred prior to its effective date, or to any act done prior thereto. The
payment, collection or enforcement of such taxes is to be accomplished
according to the provisions of appropriate ordinances previously in force and
in every manner as though this chapter had not been enacted. (1976 Code § 9-3-
8)
3-1-10: REMEDIES:
All remedies provided in this chapter and by state law are of equal application
to this chapter and the village may use any of them in collecting license fees.
(1976 Code § 9-3-7)
3-1-11: PENALTY:
In addition to other penalties provided in this code or by state law, any
person violating any provision of this chapter by failure to pay the license
fee herein imposed or violating any other provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment of not less than one day, nor more than
ninety (90) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of
the court trying the cause. (1976 Code § 9-3-10; amd. 2000 Code)
3-1-12: OFFENSES; NUISANCES; PROCEDURES NONEXCLUSIVE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on any
business or occupation within the village of Cloudcroft without first
registering the same or obtaining a license therefor, and without first paying
the fees in compliance with the provisions of this title.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly file an application for
issuance or renewal of any business registration or business license, upon
which any of the information required by the application has been falsified.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on any
business within the village without obtaining any license that may be required
for it by the state of New Mexico. This prohibition includes, but is not
limited to, engaging in the business of contracting of a type for which the
owner is not licensed, even though the owner may be licensed for another type
of contracting.
   D.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be punished
as provided in section
3-1-11 of this chapter.
   E.   No business registration or license issued pursuant to this chapter
shall be construed to permit the operation of the business as a nuisance.
   F.   The remedies provided in this section are nonexclusive. If a person
engages in business in the village, without obtaining the required registration
or license, the village may proceed in any manner authorized by law, including
specifically, but not limited to, the procedures set forth in sections 3-38-
5 and 3-38-6, New Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978, as the same may be amended or
superseded from time to time.
   G.   In addition to other remedies provided in this section, the village may
enforce the requirements of sections 3-38-1 through 3-38-6, New Mexico Statutes
Annotated 1978, as amended or superseded, by an appropriate action in a court
of competent jurisdiction any time up to four (4) years after the violation.
(Ord. 308, 2-12-2002)
   H.   No vending or advertising is allowed on village rights of way or on
other village owned property except as specifically authorized elsewhere in
this code or by specific act of the village board of trustees. Such
authorization is not granted by the mere issuance of a business license or
payment of a business registration fee in accordance with this code. (Ord. 311,
9-11-2002)
ARTICLE A. BUSINESS REGISTRATION FEE
SECTION:
3-1A-1: Imposition Of Fee; Exemption
3-1A-2: Application
3-1A-3: Renewal
3-1A-4: Penalty
3-1A-1: IMPOSITION OF FEE; EXEMPTION:
   A.   Imposed: There is imposed on each place of business conducted in the
Village a business registration fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00). The fee is
imposed pursuant to section 3-38-3, New Mexico Statutes Annotated, as it now
exists or is amended and shall be known as the business registration fee. The
business registration fee may not be prorated for businesses conducted for a
portion of the calendar year. Business registration fees paid during 1999 shall
be valid until December 31, 1999, and thereafter business registration fees
shall be valid during the calendar year in which they are due and payable.
(Ord. 264, 7-12-1994; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Exemption: No business registration fee shall be imposed on any
business which is licensed under
Chapter 1 of this Title, pursuant to section 3-38-1, New Mexico Statutes
Annotated. (Ord. 264, 7-12-1994)
3-1A-2: APPLICATION:
   A.   Required: Any person proposing to engage in business within the
Municipal limits of the Village shall apply for and pay a business registration
fee for each outlet, branch or location within the Municipal limits of the
Village prior to engaging in business, unless such person is required to obtain
a business license fee under
Chapter 1 of this Title.
   B.   Taxpayer Identification Number Required: Any person filing an
application for issuance or renewal of any business registration shall include
in the application his current revenue division taxpayer identification number
or evidence of application for a current revenue division taxpayer
identification number. (Ord. 264, 7-12-1994)
3-1A-3: RENEWAL:
Prior to March 16 of each calendar year, any person with a place of business in
the Village and subject to this Article shall apply for renewal of business
registration with the Village Clerk. Any person who fails to pay the
registration fee by March 16 and is in business prior to March 16 of such
calendar year, shall pay a late fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per year. (Ord.
264, 7-12-1994)
3-1A-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates this Article or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 264, 7-12-1994)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Required Conditions; Fee
3-2-4: Application For License
3-2-5: Special License; Public Celebrations
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
The sale of all intoxicating liquors in the Village shall be licensed,
regulated and controlled so as to protect the public health, safety and morals
of the inhabitants of the Village. (1976 Code § 9-1-1)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
The sale, possession, for the purpose of selling, and the offering for sale of
alcoholic liquors is hereby prohibited, except by persons duly licensed within
the Village and upon the conditions specified in this Chapter. (1976 Code § 9-
1-2; amd. 2000 Code)
3-2-3: REQUIRED CONDITIONS; FEE:
   A.   Established: Any person who meets all requirements and who shall have
procured a license from the State for the sale of intoxicating liquors, may be
granted a dispenser's license for the sale of alcoholic liquors in broken
packages or by the drink to be consumed on the premises where sold and/or as a
retailer for the sale of alcoholic liquors in unbroken packages, not to be
consumed on the premises where purchased and for a restaurant license for the
sale of beer and wine in licensed premises, upon making application therefor
and paying to the Village Clerk/Treasurer the fee of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) for the license. (Ord. 251, 5-31-1993)
   B.   Prorated Fee: License fees shall be prorated so that a license issued
prior to the first day of October of each year shall be subject to the full
amount of the annual fee. Licenses issued subsequent to the first day of
October and prior to the first day of January each year shall be subject to
three-fourths (3/4) of the annual fee. A license issued subsequent to January 1
and prior to April 1 of each year, shall be subject to one-half (1/2) of the
annual license fee. Licenses issued subsequent to April 1 of each year shall be
subject to one-fourth (1/4) of the annual fee. No license shall be granted
until the full fee therefor to June 30 following shall have been paid in
advance. (1976 Code § 9-1-8)
3-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All persons not having an existing liquor license and who desire a license to
sell alcoholic liquors in the Village shall file an application with the
Village Clerk/Treasurer stating the location of the proposed place of business,
the kind of license desired by the applicant, and the date on which he intends
to commence business. The application shall be accompanied by the required
license fee to cover the period of time from the date of the application to
June 30 following. The application shall be accompanied by sufficient evidence
showing that the applicant has complied with the laws of the State with
reference to procuring a proper license from the State for the sale of
intoxicating liquors. (1976 Code § 9-1-7; amd. 2000 Code)
3-2-5: SPECIAL LICENSE; PUBLIC CELEBRATIONS:
Any person holding a dispenser's license may dispense intoxicating liquors at
any fair or other public celebration held within the limits of the Village,
upon receiving a concession from the Board of Trustees for the fair or
celebration and upon the payment of a fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per day for
each day of the fair or celebration; provided however, that all requirements of
the laws of the State regulating dispensing of liquors on such occasions are
complied with. (1976 Code § 9-1-4)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
SECTION:
3-3-1: Imposition Of Tax
3-3-2: General Provisions; Act Adopted
3-3-3: Specific Exemptions
3-3-4: Dedication
3-3-1: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
There is imposed on any person engaging in business in this Municipality for
the privilege of engaging in business in this Municipality an excise tax equal
to one-eighth of one percent (1/8%) of the gross receipts reported or required
to be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico Gross Receipts and
Compensating Tax Act as it now exists or as it may be amended. The tax imposed
under this Chapter is pursuant to the Municipal Local Option Gross Receipts
Taxes Act as it now exists or as it may be amended and shall be known as the
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE GROSS RECEIPTS TAX. (Ord. 292, 12-28-1999, eff. 7-1-
2000)
3-3-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS; ACT ADOPTED:
This Chapter hereby adopts by reference all definitions, exemptions and
deductions contained in the New Mexico Gross Receipts and Compensating Tax Act
as it now exists or as it may be amended. (Ord. 292, 12-28-1999, eff. 7-1-2000)
3-3-3: SPECIFIC EXEMPTIONS:
No municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax shall be imposed on the gross
receipts arising from:
   A.   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor vehicle,
air transportation or any other means from one point within the Municipality to
another point outside the Municipality;
   B.   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that Municipality for which a state gross receipts tax distribution is
made pursuant to subsection C of section 7-1-6.4 NMSA 1978; or
   C.   Direct broadcast satellite services. (Ord. 292, 12-28-1999, eff. 7-1-
2000)
3-3-4: DEDICATION:
Revenue from the Municipal Infrastructure Gross Receipts Tax will be used for
any purpose authorized by the State law authorizing the imposition of a
municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax. (Ord. 292, 12-28-1999, eff. 7-1-
2000)
CHAPTER 4
LODGERS TAX 1
SECTION:
3-4-1: Title
3-4-2: Purpose
3-4-3: Definitions
3-4-4: Enforcement
3-4-5: Imposition Of Tax
3-4-6: Licensing
3-4-7: Exemptions To Tax
3-4-8: Collection Of Tax And Reporting Procedures
3-4-9: Administration Of Monies Collected
3-4-10: Eligible Uses Of Proceeds
3-4-11: Financial Reporting
3-4-12: Vendor Duties
3-4-13: Vendor Audits
3-4-14: Confidentiality Of Return And Audit
3-4-15: Refunds And Credits
3-4-16: Failure To Make Return
3-4-17: Criminal Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-38-13 et seq.
3-4-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as and cited as the LODGERS TAX ORDINANCE. (Ord.
274, 7-9-1996)
3-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to impose a tax which will be borne by persons
using commercial lodging accommodations, which tax will provide revenues for
the purpose of advertising, publicizing and promoting tourist related
attractions, facilities and events, and acquiring, establishing and operating
tourist related facilities, attractions or transportation systems, as
authorized in Section
3-4-10 of this Chapter. (Ord. 274, 7-9-1996)
3-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
   BOARD: The Advisory Board established herein to make recommendations to the
Board of Trustees, keep minutes of its proceedings and submit its
recommendations, correspondence and other pertinent documents to the Board of
Trustees.
   GROSS TAXABLE RENT: The total amount of rent paid for lodging, not including
the State gross receipts tax or local sales taxes.
   LODGING: The transaction of furnishing rooms or other accommodations by a
vendor to a vendee who for rent, uses, possesses or has the right to use or
possess any room or rooms or other units of accommodations in or at a taxable
premises.
   LODGINGS: The rooms or other accommodations furnished by a vendor to a
vendee by a taxable service of lodgings.
   OCCUPANCY TAX: The tax on lodging authorized by the Lodgers Tax Act.
   PERSON: A corporation, firm, other body corporate, partnership, association
or individual; person includes an executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or
other representative appointed according to law and acting in a representative
capacity, but does not include the United States of America, the State of New
Mexico or any corporation, department, instrumentality or agency of the Federal
government or the State government, or any political subdivision of the State.
   RENT: The consideration received by a vendor in money, credits, property or
other consideration valued in money for lodgings, subject to an occupancy tax
authorized in the Lodgers Tax Act.
   TAXABLE PREMISES: A hotel, apartment, apartment hotel, apartment house,
lodge, lodging house, rooming house, motor hotel, guest house, guest ranch,
ranch resort, guest resort, mobile home, motor court, auto court, auto camp,
trailer court, trailer camp, trailer park, tourist camp, cabin or other
premises for lodging.
   TOURIST: A person who travels for the purpose of business, pleasure or
culture to a municipality or county imposing an occupancy tax.
   TOURIST RELATED EVENTS: Events that are planned for, promoted to and
attended by tourists.
   TOURIST RELATED FACILITIES AND ATTRACTIONS: Facilities and attractions that
are intended to be used by or visited by tourists.
   TOURIST RELATED TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS: Transportation systems that provide
transportation for tourists to and from tourist related facilities, attractions
and events.
   VENDEE: A natural person to whom lodgings are furnished in the exercise of
the taxable service of lodging.
   VENDOR: A person furnishing lodgings in the exercise of the taxable service
of lodging.
   VILLAGE CLERK/TREASURER: The village clerk/treasurer of Cloudcroft, New
Mexico. (Ord. 274, 7-9-1996)
3-4-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Authority: An action to enforce the lodgers tax act may be brought by:
      1.   Attorney General; District Attorney: The attorney general or the
district attorney in the county of jurisdiction; or
      2.   Vendor: A vendor who is collecting the proceeds of an occupancy tax
in the county of jurisdiction.
   B.   District Court: A district court may issue a writ of mandamus or order
an injunction or other appropriate remedy to enforce the provisions of the
lodgers tax act.
   C.   Costs And Attorney Fees: The court shall award costs and reasonable
attorney fees to the prevailing party in a court action to enforce the
provisions of the lodgers tax act. (Ord. 274, 7-9-1996)
3-4-5: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
Effective January 1, 2004, there is hereby imposed an occupancy tax of revenues
of five percent (5%) of gross taxable rent for lodging paid to vendors. (Ord.
319, 6-17-2003)
3-4-6: LICENSING:
   A.   Required: No vendor shall engage in the business of providing lodging
in the village who has not first obtained a license as provided in this
section.
   B.   Application; Information: Applicants for vendor's license shall submit
an application to the village clerk/treasurer stating:
      1.   The name of the vendor, including identification of any "person", as
defined in this chapter, who owns or operates, or both owns and operates a
place of lodging and the name or trade names under which the vendor proposes to
do business and the post office address thereof;
      2.   A description of the facilities, including the number of rooms and
the usual schedule of rates therefor;
      3.   A description of other facilities provided by vendor or others to
users of the lodgings such as restaurant, bar, cleaning, laundry, courtesy car
or others, and a statement identifying the license issued, to whom issued, the
authority issuing and the period for which issued. If applicable, also the
identification number provided by the bureau of revenue of the state;
      4.   The nature of the business of the vendor and to what extent, if any,
his business is exempt from the lodgers tax;
      5.   Other information reasonably necessary to effect a determination of
eligibility for such license.
   C.   Review; Grant Of License: The village clerk/treasurer shall review
applications for license within ten (10) days of receipt thereof and grant the
license in due course if the applicant is doing business subject to the lodgers
tax.
   D.   Appeal; Decision Final: An applicant who is dissatisfied with the
decision of the village clerk/treasurer may appeal the decision to the board of
trustees by written notice to the village clerk/treasurer of such appeal, to be
made within fifteen (15) days of the date of the decision of the village clerk/
treasurer on the application. The matter shall be referred to the board of
trustees for hearing at a regular or special meeting in the usual course of
business. The decision of the board of trustees made thereof shall be expressed
in writing and be communicated in the same manner as the decision of the
village clerk/treasurer is transmitted. The action of the board of trustees
shall be deemed final.
   E.   Findings In Favor Of Applicant: If the Board of Trustees finds for the
applicant, the Village Clerk/Treasurer shall issue the appropriate license or
other notice conforming to the decision made by the Board of Trustees. (Ord.
274, 7-9-1996)
3-4-7: EXEMPTIONS TO TAX:
The occupancy tax shall not apply:
   A.   Residency; Written Agreement: If a vendee:
      1.   Has been a permanent resident of the taxable premises for a period
of at least thirty (30) consecutive days; or
      2.   Enters into or has entered into a written agreement for lodgings at
the taxable premises for a period of at least thirty (30) days.
   B.   Rent Amount: If the rent paid by the vendee is less than two dollars
($2.00) a day.
   C.   Political Subdivision Institutions: To lodging accommodations at
institutions of the Federal government, the State or any political subdivision
thereof.
   D.   Religious, Charitable Institutions: To lodging accommodations at
religious, charitable, educational or philanthropic institutions, including
without limitation, such accommodations at summer camps operated by such
institutions.
   E.   Medical Facilities: To clinics, hospitals or other medical facilities.
   F.   Privately-Owned Facilities: To privately-owned and operated
convalescent homes or homes for the aged, infirm, indigent or chronically ill.
(Ord. 274, 7-9-1996; amd. Ord. 384, 1-14-2020)
3-4-8: COLLECTION OF TAX AND REPORTING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Required: Every vendor providing lodgings shall collect the tax thereon
on behalf of the Village and shall act as a trustee therefor.
   B.   Separate Charge From Rent: The tax shall be collected from vendees and
shall be charged separately from the rent fixed by the vendor for the lodgings.
   C.   Liability Of Vendor: Each vendor licensed under this Chapter shall be
liable to the Village for the tax provided herein on the rent paid for lodging
at his respective place of business.
   D.   Report To Village: Each vendor shall make a report by the twenty fifth
day of each month, on forms provided by the Village Clerk/Treasurer, of the
receipts for lodging in the preceding calendar month, and shall submit the
proceeds of the lodgers tax to the Village and include sufficient information
to enable the Village to audit the reports and shall be verified on oath by the
vendor. (Ord. 274, 7-9-1996)
3-4-9: ADMINISTRATION OF MONIES COLLECTED:
The Board of Trustees shall administer the lodgers tax monies collected. The
Mayor shall appoint a five (5) member Advisory Board that consists of two (2)
members who are owners or operators of lodgings subject to the occupancy tax
within the Village, two (2) members who are owners or operators of industries
located within the Village that primarily provide services or products to
tourists and one member who is a resident of the Village and represents the
general public. The Board shall advise the Board of Trustees on expenditure of
funds authorized under Section
3-4-10 of this Chapter for advertising, publicizing and promoting tourist
attractions and facilities in the Village and surrounding area. (Ord. 274, 7-9-
1996)
3-4-10: ELIGIBLE USES OF PROCEEDS:
The Village may use the proceeds from the tax to defray the costs of:
   A.   Administration: Collecting and otherwise administering the tax,
including the performance of audits required by the Lodgers Tax Act pursuant to
guidelines issued by the State Department of Finance and Administration.
   B.   Real Property Acquisition: Establishing, operating, purchasing,
constructing, otherwise acquiring, reconstructing, extending, improving,
equipping, furnishing or acquiring real property or any interest in real
property for the site or grounds for tourist related facilities, attractions or
transportation systems of the Village, the county in which the Village is
located or the County.
   C.   Revenue Bond Premiums: The principal of and interest on any prior
redemption premiums due in connection with and any other charge pertaining to
revenue bonds authorized by section 3-38-23 or 3-38-24, New Mexico Statutes
Annotated.
   D.   Advertising And Promoting: Advertising, publicizing and promoting
tourist related attractions, facilities and events of the Village or County and
tourist facilities or attractions within the area.
   E.   Police And Fire Protection: Providing police and fire protection and
sanitation service for tourist related events, facilities and attractions
located in the Village.
   F.   Combination; Limitation: Any combination of the foregoing purposes or
transactions stated in this Section, but for no other Village purpose. (Ord.
274, 7-9-1996)
3-4-11: FINANCIAL REPORTING:
   A.   Advisory Board: The Board of Trustees shall furnish to the Advisory
Board that portion of any proposed budget, report or audit filed or received by
the Board of Trustees pursuant to either chapter 6, article 6, New Mexico
Statutes Annotated or the Audit Act that relates to expenditure of occupancy
tax funds within ten (10) days of the filing or receipt of such proposed
budget, report or audit by the Board of Trustees.
   B.   State Division: The Board of Trustees shall report to the Local
Government Division of the State Department of Finance and Administration on a
quarterly basis any expenditure of occupancy tax funds pursuant to sections 3-
38-15 and 3-38-21, New Mexico Statutes Annotated and shall furnish a copy of
this report to the Advisory Board when it is filed with the Division. (Ord.
274, 7-9-1996)
3-4-12: VENDOR DUTIES:
The vendor shall maintain adequate records of facilities subject to the tax and
of proceeds received for the use thereof. Such records shall be maintained in
Cloudcroft, New Mexico, and shall be open to the inspection of the Village
during reasonable hours and shall be retained for three (3) years. (Ord. 274,
7-9-1996)
3-4-13: VENDOR AUDITS:
   A.   Required: The Board of Trustees shall conduct random audits to verify
full payment of occupancy tax receipts.
   B.   Number Of Vendors Determined: The Board of Trustees shall determine
each year the number of vendors within the Village to audit.
   C.   Performed By; File With State: The audits may be performed by the
Village Clerk/Treasurer or by any other designee of the Board of Trustees. A
copy of the audits shall be filed annually with the Local Government Division
of the State Department of Finance and Administration. (Ord. 274, 7-9-1996)
3-4-14: CONFIDENTIALITY OF RETURN AND AUDIT:
It is unlawful for any employee of the Village to reveal to any individual,
other than another employee of the Village, any information contained in the
return or audit of any taxpayer, including vendors subject to the Lodgers Tax
Act, except to a court of competent jurisdiction in response to an order
thereof in an action relating to taxes to which the Village is a party, and in
which information sought is material to the inquiry; to the taxpayer himself or
to his authorized representative; and in such manner, for statistical purposes,
the information revealed is not identified as applicable to any individual
taxpayer. (Ord. 274, 7-9-1996)
3-4-15: REFUNDS AND CREDITS:
If any person believes he has made payment of any lodgers tax in excess of that
for which he was liable, he may claim a refund thereof by directing to the
Village Clerk/Treasurer, no later than ninety (90) days from the date of
payment was made, a written claim for refund. Every claim for refund shall
state the nature of the person's complaint and the affirmative relief
requested. The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall allow the claim in whole or in
part or may deny it. Refunds of tax and interest erroneously paid and amounting
to one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more may be made only with the approval of
the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 274, 7-9-1996)
3-4-16: FAILURE TO MAKE RETURN:
   A.   Notice Of Delinquency; Civil Penalty: Every vendor is liable for the
payment of the proceeds of any occupancy tax that the vendor failed to remit to
the Village, whether due to his failure to collect the tax or otherwise. He
shall be liable for the tax, plus a civil penalty equal to the greater of ten
percent (10%) of the amount not remitted or one hundred dollars ($100.00). The
Village Clerk/Treasurer shall give the delinquent vendor written notice of the
delinquency, which notice shall be mailed to the vendor's local address.
   B.   District Court Action: If payments are not received within fifteen (15)
days of the mailing of the notice, the Village may bring an action in law or
equity in the District Court for the collection of any amounts due, including,
without limitation, penalties thereon, interest on the unpaid principal at a
rate not exceeding one percent (1%) a month. If the Village attempts collection
through an attorney or the Village Attorney for any purpose with regard to this
Chapter, the vendor shall be liable to the Village for all costs and fees paid
to the attorney or Village Attorney, and all other expenses incurred in
connection therewith.
   C.   Lien: The occupancy tax imposed by a Village constitutes a lien in
favor of the Village upon the personal and real property of the vendor
providing lodgings. The lien may be enforced as provided in section 3-36-
1 through 3-36-7, New Mexico Statutes Annotated. Priority of the lien shall be
determined from the date of filing.
   D.   Sale Of Vendor Property: Under process or order of court, no person
shall sell the property of a vendor without first ascertaining from the Village
Clerk/Treasurer the amount of any occupancy tax due the Village. Any occupancy
tax due the Village shall be paid from the proceeds of the sale before payment
is made to the judgment creditor or any other person with a claim on the
proceeds of the sale. (Ord. 274, 7-9-1996)
3-4-17: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
Any person who violates the provisions of this Chapter for a failure to pay the
tax, to remit proceeds thereof to the Village, to properly account for any
lodging and tax proceeds pertaining thereto, or for violating the
confidentiality provisions of Section
3-4-14 of this Chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 274, 7-9-1996; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 5
GASOLINE TAX 1
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Enforcement
3-5-3: Applicability
3-5-4: Tax Levied
3-5-5: Exceptions; Application
3-5-6: Posting; Collection
3-5-7: Reporting Requirements
3-5-8: Audit
3-5-9: Special Street Improvement Fund
3-5-10: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 7-26A-1 et seq.
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall be construed as follows:
   DISTRIBUTOR OF GASOLINE: A person engaged in the business of selling
gasoline or motor fuel in the Village of Cloudcroft from refineries, tank
farms, tank cars, receiving tanks or stations, or in or from tanks, barrels,
drums or other containers, in quantities exceeding fifty six (56) gallons in
any one sale and delivery, except persons engaged in selling exclusively in
interstate commerce.
   DYED GASOLINE: Gasoline or motor fuel, chemically treated with dye for the
purpose of identification, used in stationary internal combustion engines.
   GASOLINE: A. The volatile substance produced from petroleum, natural gas,
oil shales or coal, heretofore sold under the name of gasoline.
   B.   Any volatile substance of not less than forty six degrees (46°)
Tagliaubes (Tagliabue) Baume Test, derived wholly or in part from petroleum,
natural gas, oil shales or coal.
   C.   Any volatile substance of not less than forty six degrees (46°)
Tagliaubes (Tagliabue) Baume Test, sold or used for generating power in
internal combustion engines; provided however, that the term "gasoline", as
defined herein, shall not be construed to include any petroleum, natural gas,
oil shales or coal derivative which must be further refined or processed before
it can be used in internal combustion engines.
   MOTOR FUEL: Any volatile substance, derived or compounded wholly or in part
from gasoline, petroleum, natural gas, oil shales, coal, alcohol or other
elements or substances, which is practically or commercially usable in internal
combustion engines for generating power. It does not include kerosene oil or
distillates, except if and when so refined or mixed with other volatile liquid
or substances that the refined product or resultant mixture of compound is
practically and commercially usable for generating power for propelling motor
vehicles.
   RETAIL DEALER IN GASOLINE: A person other than a distributor of gasoline who
sells gasoline or motor fuel in the Village of Cloudcroft in quantities less
than fifty six (56) gallons. (Ord. 19, 9-3-1952, eff. 10-1-1952)
3-5-2: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Collector; Appointment, Duties: The Mayor, with the approval of the
Board of Trustees, may appoint some person to be designated as gasoline tax
collector or may designate some official or employee of the Village to act in
such capacity. Such gasoline tax collector shall perform such duties as may be
designated by the Board of Trustees; he shall receive such salary as may be
fixed by the Board of Trustees and shall file a good and sufficient bond
conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his duties in such sum as may be
fixed by the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Village Clerk/Treasurer; Duties: The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall be
empowered to prepare all forms of permits, exemptions, applications and returns
necessary for the performance and enforcement of the terms of this Chapter,
subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 19, 9-3-1952, eff. 10-
1-1952)
3-5-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Taxable: Where gasoline or motor fuel is sold within the Village by a
distributor of gasoline to a retail dealer in gasoline and subsequently sold
within the Village by the retail dealer in gasoline to the consumer, the sale
by the distributor of gasoline shall be construed as the taxable sale for the
purposes of this Chapter, and the subsequent sale by the retail dealer in
gasoline shall not be taxed. Provided, that where the sale from the distributor
of gasoline to the retail dealer in gasoline takes place outside the limits of
the Village and the sale from the retail dealer in gasoline to the consumer
takes place within the limits of the Village, the sale by the retail dealer
within the limits of the Village shall be construed as the taxable sale for the
purpose of this Chapter. (Ord. 19, 9-3-1952, eff. 10-1-1952)
   B.   Nontaxable: Where the sale from the distributor of gasoline to the
retail dealer in gasoline takes place within the limits of the Village and the
sale from the retail dealer in gasoline to the consumer takes place outside the
limits of the Village, the sale by the retail dealer outside the limits of the
Village shall be construed as a taxable sale for the purposes of this Chapter
and such sale by the distributor of gasoline shall not be taxed by the Village.
   C.   Exemption: Where the sale or consumption of gasoline, dyed gasoline or
motor fuel is for use in a stationary internal combustion engine, not operated
on the streets, roads or highways of the Village, such sale or consumption
shall be entitled to an exemption as a taxable sale. (Ord. 19, 9-3-1952, eff.
10-1-1952; amd. 2000 Code)
3-5-4: TAX LEVIED:
There is hereby levied and imposed and there shall be collected from and paid
by every distributor of gasoline and every retail dealer in gasoline a license
tax of one cent ($0.01) per gallon on each gallon of gasoline and motor fuel
sold within the Village. (Ord. 19, 9-3-1952, eff. 10-1-1952)
3-5-5: EXCEPTIONS; APPLICATION:
Consumers of gasoline, dyed gasoline or motor fuel, excepted under this Chapter
as a taxable sale, shall apply to the Village Clerk/Treasurer for an exemption
as provided by this Chapter. No consumer shall be entitled to an exemption of
this Chapter until his application therefor is approved by the tax collector
designated by the Board of Trustees. Upon the approval of such exemption, the
Village Clerk/Treasurer shall provide exemption forms to be furnished by the
Village; such forms duly executed shall be presented to the distributor of
gasoline or retail dealer of gasoline from whom such purchase is made. The
distributor of gasoline or the retail dealer of gasoline shall deduct the tax
as specified in this Chapter. The exemption forms duly indorsed by the
distributor of gasoline or the retail dealer of gasoline shall be attached to
the monthly report herein mentioned. (Ord. 19, 9-3-1952, eff. 10-1-1952)
3-5-6: POSTING; COLLECTION:
The tax herein levied shall be by the distributor or retail dealer publicly
posted as such tax, shall be added to the price of the motor fuel taxed and
shall be collected from the purchaser in addition to the price received for the
sale of such motor fuels. (Ord. 19, 9-3-1952, eff. 10-1-1952)
3-5-7: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
Every distributor of gasoline and retail dealer of gasoline within the Village
shall, on or before the tenth day of each month, make a complete report to the
Village Clerk/Treasurer upon forms to be furnished by the Village of all
gasoline sold during the preceding month either to consumers or retail dealers
within the Village and shall remit to the Village Clerk/Treasurer, with such
report, payment to cover the tax upon the basis as specified in this Chapter.
(Ord. 19, 9-3-1952, eff. 10-1-1952)
3-5-8: AUDIT:
The person designated as gasoline tax collector shall be authorized to audit
the books and records of the various distributors of gasoline and the various
retail dealers of gasoline who are subject to the license tax herein provided
for. (Ord. 19, 9-3-1952, eff. 10-1-1952)
3-5-9: SPECIAL STREET IMPROVEMENT FUND:
There is hereby created a special fund to be known as the Special Street
Improvement Fund and the Village Clerk/Treasurer shall credit all tax collected
under the provisions of this Chapter to such special Fund, to be expended as
directed by the Board of Trustees for the improvement of streets of the
Village. (Ord. 19, 9-3-1952, eff. 10-1-1952)
3-5-10: PENALTY:
Any person failing to make reports and remittances as provided in this Chapter
or knowingly selling or distributing gasoline without paying the tax thereon as
specified in this Chapter shall upon conviction be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code; and each sale or failure to make such report shall
constitute a separate offense punishable as herein provided. (Ord. 19, 9-3-
1952, eff. 10-1-1952; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 6
SIDEWALK, GARAGE AND YARD SALES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Location; Days Of Sales
3-6-2: Garage And Yard Sales
3-6-1: LOCATION; DAYS OF SALES:
The village of Cloudcroft hereby authorizes those duly licensed and registered
businesses which are located along Burro Avenue and Little Glorietta Avenue and
have an exit onto village right of way, heretofore known as the boardwalk, to
hold sidewalk sales of the merchant's own goods, provided the merchant has a
business registration, in front of their respective businesses on the following
weekends or holidays:
   MayFair
   Western Roundup
   July 4
   July Jamboree
   Labor Day weekend
   October Fest weekend
On holidays which do not fall on a Monday or a Friday, sidewalk sales may be
permitted on the weekend closest to the holiday. (Ord. 308, 2-12-2002)
3-6-2: GARAGE AND YARD SALES:
   A.   Exempt From Licensing, Registration: Garage and yard sales need not be
licensed or registered under the provisions of this title, but shall be subject
to all enforcement provisions of this title.
   B.   Definition; Conduct Of Sales: "Garage or yard sales" are sales in which
personal property and/or used merchandise is offered for sale, which are
conducted on residential premises zoned R-1, R-2, R-3 or T-1, by one or more
members of the family or families who live there, and to which the public is
invited. Garage and yard sales are permitted within the village provided that:
      1.   Garage and yard sales shall only be held between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and shall not exceed three
(3) consecutive days' duration. No more than four (4) sales shall be held at a
given residence in any twelve (12) month period. No more than one garage or
yard sale shall be conducted at the same location within ninety (90) days of
another such sale at such location by the same person(s).
      2.   Garage and yard sales are intended for the sale of items normally
accumulated by a household. No items shall be sold at a garage or yard sale
which were specifically purchased for the purpose of resale.
      3.   Signs may be erected no earlier than six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the
first day of the sale and shall be removed by nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on the
last day upon which the sale is held. Signs may not be placed in the village's
right of way or attached to utility poles.
      4.   No garage or yard sale shall be conducted in such a manner as to
create a nuisance or hazard.
   C.   Exemptions: These provisions shall not apply to or affect the
following:
      1.   Persons acting pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
      2.   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials.
   D.   Commercial Garage Sales: Commercial garage sales may be held on the
dates allowed for Burro Avenue sidewalk sales permitted under section
 3-6-1 of this chapter with the written consent of a property owner holding a
current village business registration or license for the sale of goods by a
noncommercial entity on property zoned commercial. (Ord. 308, 2-12-2002)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
SECTION:
3-7-1: Imposition Of Tax
3-7-2: General Provisions
3-7-3: Specific Exemptions
3-7-4: Dedication
3-7-1: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
   A.   There is imposed on any person engaging in business in this
municipality an excise tax equal to one-fourth of one percent of the gross
receipts reported or required to be reported by the person pursuant to the New
Mexico gross receipts and compensating tax act and this chapter is pursuant to
the municipal local option gross receipt taxes act as it now exists or as it
may be amended and shall be known as the MUNICIPAL GROSS RECEIPTS TAX.
   B.   There is imposed on any person engaging in business in this
municipality an additional excise tax equal to .1250% of the gross receipt
reported or required to be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico
Gross Receipts and Compensation Tax Act and is in addition to any amounts
adopted by previous ordinances. This ordinance is pursuant to the Municipal
Local Option Gross Receipt Taxes Act as it now exists or as it may be amended
and shall be know as the MUNICIPAL GROSS RECEIPTS TAX.
(Ord. 345, 8-11-2008, eff. 1-1-2009; amd. Ord. 400, 1-10-2023)
3-7-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
This chapter hereby adopts by reference all definitions, exemptions and
deductions contained in the gross receipts and compensation tax act as it now
exists or as it may be amended.
(Ord. 345, 8-11-2008, eff. 1-1-2009; amd. Ord. 400, 1-10-2023)
3-7-3: SPECIFIC EXEMPTIONS:
   No municipal gross receipts tax shall be imposed on the gross receipts
arising from:
   A.   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor vehicle,
air transportation or any other means from one point in the municipality to
another point outside the municipality.
   B.   A business located outside the boundaries of the municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a state gross receipts tax distribution is
made pursuant to subsection C of section 7-1-6.4 New Mexico Statutes Annotated,
1978.
   C.   Direct broadcast satellite services.
(Ord. 345, 8-11-2008, eff. 1-1-2009; amd. Ord. 400, 1-10-2023)
3-7-4: DEDICATION:
   A.   Revenue will be undedicated.
   B.   Revenue generated by this incremental increase of .1250% of the
Municipal Gross Receipts Tax will be dedicated to the improvement of streets
and roads in the Village of Cloudcroft.
(Ord. 345, 8-11-2008, eff. 1-1-2009; amd. Ord. 400, 1-10-2023)
CHAPTER 8
CANNABIS CONTROL
SECTION:
3-8-1: Scope And Purpose
3-8-2: Construction
3-8-3: Definitions
3-8-4: Cannabis Establishment Permit
3-8-5: Prohibition Of Cannabis Use On Public Property
3-8-6: Land Use Controls
3-8-7: Repeal Of Inconsistent Provisions
3-8-8: Severability
3-8-1: SCOPE AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect and enhance the health, safety and
welfare of the community. This chapter is enacted to provide for the licensure
and reasonable regulation of facilities engaged in the cultivation, production,
manufacture, and distribution of cannabis and cannabis products, consistent
with the Cannabis Regulation Act, Chapter 2, Law of New Mexico 2021, the Lynn
and Erin Compassionate Use Act (Chapter 26, Article 2B, NMSA 1978), and the Dee
Johnson Clean Indoor Air Act, Sections 24-16-1 et seq., NMSA 1978. Nothing in
this chapter is intended nor shall be deemed to promote or condone the
cultivation, production, manufacture, transportation, distribution, sale,
possession, or use of cannabis or cannabis products in violation of any law,
whether federal, state or local. (Ord. 394, 10-12-2021)
3-8-2: CONSTRUCTION:
This Ordinance shall be construed in accordance with the definitions,
authority, restrictions, and substantive provisions of the Cannabis Regulation
Act and the Dee Johnson Clean Indoor Air Act. (Ord. 394, 10-12-2021)
3-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this chapter shall have the meanings stated,
unless a different meaning is clearly required by context:
 
CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT:             Has the meaning set forth in Section 2.E of
                                    the Cannabis Regulation Act.
                                    The act of ingesting, inhaling, or
CONSUME, CONSUMING, OR CONSUMPTION: otherwise introducing cannabis or cannabis
                                    product into the human body.
                                    The same meaning as prescribed in the Dee
INDOOR PUBLIC PLACE:                Johnson Clean Indoor Air Act, Section 24-
                                    16-3 NMSA 1978.
OPEN SPACE:                         Any public park, public sidewalk, public
                                    walkway, or public pedestrian thoroughfare.
                                    Any location within the Village or its
                                    extraterritorial jurisdiction that is open
SCHOOL OR DAYCARE CENTER:           to the public and provides educational,
                                    daycare or supervised youth services to
                                    anyone under the age or twenty-one (21).
                                    The act of inhaling from, exhaling from,
                                    carrying or holding any lighted or heated
SMOKE OR SMOKING:                   cannabis or cannabis product, whether
                                    natural or synthetic. (Ord. 394, 10-12-
                                    2021)
 
3-8-4: CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT:
   A.   A cannabis establishment, before occupying any premises, shall obtain
from the Village a cannabis establishment permit for the specific use requested
and a business license. An amended cannabis establishment permit, by separate
application, shall be required for any change in use related to the
cultivation, production, manufacture, distribution, sale, possession, or use of
cannabis or cannabis products on the premises. This cannabis establishment
permit shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any and all licenses and
permits required for such establishment by the State.
   B.   Each applicant seeking a cannabis establishment permit shall submit an
application to the Village Clerks office. The application fee for an initial
cannabis establishment permit shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), which
shall not be refundable.
   C.   The Village Clerk shall require the following information from each
applicant:
      1.   The name, address, and business organization (if any) of the
applicant, the location where the proposed cannabis establishment will be
located, and the specific cannabis-related use or uses to be transacted.
      2.   If the applicant is an individual, the residence address of the
applicant and the applicant's birth date and social security number.
      3.   If the applicant is a partnership, the names, residence addresses,
birth dates and social security numbers of all partners.
      4.   If the applicant is a limited liability company, the state of
organization, the address of a resident agent in New Mexico sufficient for
service of process, the name of the managing member with his or her residence
address, birth date and social security number, and the name, residence
address, birth date and social security number of each member of the company.
      5.   If the applicant is a corporation, the state of incorporation, the
address of a resident agent in New Mexico sufficient for service of process,
and the name, residence address, birth date, and social security number of each
officer or director of the corporation.
      6.   Prior to the issuance of a cannabis establishment permit, any
limited liability company or corporation shall provide to the Village Clerk a
current certificate of good standing.
      7.   The applicant shall provide Federal and State tax identification
numbers.
   D.   The Village Clerk shall issue the requested cannabis establishment
permit and business license upon the applicant's compliance with all provisions
of the Cloudcroft Code including notice from the Village Planning and Zoning
Commission that the applicant has complied with all land use requirements for
the proposed use including signage and building permit, if applicable, and
further subject to approval of the Board of Trustees that all applicable
provisions of the Cloudcroft Code have been met.
   E.   If any person is found to be engaging in the creation or operation of a
cannabis establishment in violation of the Cloudcroft Code, the cannabis
establishment shall be immediately closed upon order of the Mayor or the Police
Chief and shall not be reopened until it has been duly permitted in accordance
with all Village ordinances and regulations. If such cannabis establishment was
created or operated without any cannabis establishment permit from the Village,
or in violation of any other provision of this Section 4, then the fee for any
permit or permits necessary to bring the cannabis establishment into compliance
shall be double the amount of the fee otherwise applicable under this Section.
   F.   A cannabis establishment permit shall be issued for a period of one (1)
calendar year from the date of issuance. A cannabis establishment permit shall
be renewable for additional periods of no greater than one (1) year each upon
application to the Village Clerk's office no more than thirty (30) days before
the expiration date of the permit, and no later than the expiration date. The
renewal application shall be accompanied by payment of a renewal fee in the
amount of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) subject to amendment of this
provision as to renewal fees from time to time.
   G.    Upon termination for any reason, of any license issued by the State,
the Village establishment permit, and business license shall be automatically
and immediately terminated.
   H.   The Village establishment permit, and business license shall not be
transferable or assignable from the permittee to any other person or entity.
(Ord. 394, 10-12-2021)
3-8-5: PROHIBITION OF CANNABIS USE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   1.   The cultivation, production, manufacture, storage, distribution or
use of cannabis or cannabis products is prohibited on all property that is
owned, occupied, controlled, or operated by the Village of Cloudcroft, except
residential units; provided, however, that this prohibition shall not be
construed to prevent the transportation of cannabis or cannabis products along
or over public rights of way in accordance with the provision of the Cannabis
Regulation Act.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to smoke or consume cannabis or
cannabis products, on any property that is owned, occupied, controlled or
operated by the Village of Cloudcroft or in any open space in the Village of
Cloudcroft, except residential units.
      3.   Residents and occupants of residential units owned or controlled by
the Village of Cloudcroft, and visitors to such units with the permission of
the residents or occupants, shall have the same rights to the possession,
smoking, ingestion, and other use of cannabis or cannabis products within the
units as are permitted in Residential zones of the Village, limited to personal
consumption and use in accordance with the Cannabis Regulation Act and the Lynn
and Erin Compassionate Use Act.
   B.   Any person violating any provision of this Section, upon conviction,
shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and, upon conviction for a first
offense, shall be punishable by a fine of no less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
and no more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or imprisonment for not greater
than fifteen (15) days. Any person engaged in such activity in violation of
this section, upon conviction for a second offense, shall be punishable by a
fine of no less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment for up to ninety (90) days, or
both. (Ord. 394, 10-12-2021)
3-8-6: LAND USE CONTROLS:
   A.   General Restrictions:
      1.   No cannabis establishment activity shall be allowed in any
residential zone, including all zones defined in Title 9, Chapter 4 of the
Village Code, unless such property is also zoned properly for such activity as
provided in Title 3, Chapter 8 of the Village Code.
      2.   Every cannabis establishment shall be constructed and operated in
such manner as to prevent the escape of smoke into any indoor public space, any
public property of the Village, and any open space, and to prevent the visible
smoking, ingestion, or consumption of cannabis from any such public space,
public property of the Village, or open space.
      3.   A variance for land use as specified in this Section shall be
considered when a variance is requested. The Planning and Zoning Commission
shall set a date and conduct a public hearing within the time prescribed by law
to adopt Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law for consideration by the Board
of Trustees at its next scheduled meeting. Where, by reason of exceptional
narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific piece of property at the time of
the original adoption of the regulations or exceptional topographical
conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional situation or condition of a
specific piece of property where the strict application of this title would
result in peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties or exception and
undue hardship upon the owner of the property, the Commission may make such
recommendations as may be appropriate following such hearing to the Board of
Trustees by proposed Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law; provided,
however, that the owners of all lots within one hundred feet (100'), excluding
public rights of way shall be notified by certified mail, return receipt
requested, of any requests for variance and of the hearing on a request at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing on the request for variance by the
commission. Such notice shall include information that the hearing shall
include the Commission acting in its capacity as to recommendations to the
Board of Trustees making the final determination and that evidence may be
submitted at either stage. For purposes of notification under this section,
state statutes shall be followed. The Board of Trustees may then act upon such
recommendations in any manner in which the Board of Trustees may deem
appropriate and lawful. Any person or entity making a formal appearance at the
Public Hearing before the Commission shall be informed at that Public Hearing
that the recommendations of the Commission in the matter shall be considered at
the next regular meeting of the Board of Trustees and that the Board of
Trustees may consider additional evidence as a part of its deliberations.
   B.   Cannabis Cultivation, Manufacture, and Production:
      1.   The cultivation, manufacture, or production of cannabis and cannabis
products shall be considered an allowable use only in Zone C-4.
      2.   The cultivation, manufacture, or production of cannabis and cannabis
products in excess of the amounts permitted for individual personal use by the
Cannabis Regulation Act and the Lynn and Erin Compassionate Use Act is
prohibited in all other zones.
      3.   No water sourced from the Village may be used for growth or
cultivation of cannabis in conjunction with any cannabis establishment,
cannabis manufacturer, cannabis producer, cannabis producer microbusiness,
commercial cannabis activity, integrated cannabis microbusiness, cannabis
research laboratory or vertically integrated cannabis establishment.
   C.   Distribution of Cannabis:
      1.   The sale or distribution of cannabis or cannabis products from a
cannabis retail establishment shall be considered an allowable use only in
Zones C-2 and C-4.
      2.   The facility upon which the cannabis retail establishment is located
shall be a minimum of one hundred (100) feet from any property with a school or
daycare, as measured in a direct line from property line to property line that
is in existence when the cannabis retail establishment is first licensed.
      3.   The property upon which the cannabis retail establishment is located
shall be a minimum of one hundred (100) feet from any facility with another
cannabis retail establishment, as measured in a direct line from property line
to property line, that is in existence when the cannabis retail establishment
is first permitted and licensed.
   D.   Cannabis Training and Education Programs: Cannabis training and
education programs shall be considered an allowable use only in Zones C-1, C-2,
C-3, C-4, C-5, C-6, C-7, C-8, C-9, C-10, and T-1.
   E.   Cannabis Consumption Areas:
      1.   Cannabis consumption areas shall be considered an allowable use only
in Zones C-8 and C-10.
      2.   The facility upon which the cannabis consumption area is located
shall be a minimum of one hundred (100) feet from any property with a school or
daycare, as measured in a direct line from property line to property line that
is in existence when the cannabis establishment is first permitted and
licensed.
      3.   The facility at which the cannabis consumption area is located shall
be a minimum of one hundred (100) feet from any facility with another cannabis
consumption area, as measured in a direct line from property line to property
line that is in existence when the cannabis establishment is first permitted
and licensed.
   F.   Cannabis Research and Testing Activities: Cannabis research and testing
activities shall be considered an allowable use only in Zone C-4.
   G.   Facility Construction: Every cannabis establishment shall be
constructed and operated in such manner as to prevent the escape of smoke into
any indoor public space, any public property of the Village, and any open
space, and to prevent the visible smoking, ingestion or consumption of cannabis
from any such public space, public property of the Village, or open space.
   H.   Signage: Any sign advertising a cannabis establishment shall be
permitted and erected in accordance with Title 9, Chapter 10 of the Cloudcroft
Code. Buildings in which a cannabis establishment is located shall have an
appearance as provided in Title 8, Chapter 2 of the Cloudcroft Code.
   I.   Hours of Operation: Retail sale, distribution, and consumption of
cannabis products in cannabis establishments shall be limited to those hours
allowed by state law or regulation for the operation of a licensed package
liquor establishment.
   J.   Use in Residential Zones: Cannabis establishments are prohibited in all
residential zones of the Village, including planned unit developments. The
possession, smoking, ingestion, and other use of cannabis, and cannabis
products in such residential zones shall be limited to personal consumption and
use in accordance with the Cannabis Regulation Act and the Lynn and Erin
Compassionate Use Act. (Ord. 394, 10-12-2021; amd. Ord. 397, 12-14-2021)
3-8-7: REPEAL OF INCONSISTENT PROVISIONS:
All ordinances and sections or parts of ordinances in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed only to the extent of such
conflict. (Ord. 394, 10-12-2021)
3-8-8: SEVERABILITY:
In the event that any clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or other portion of
this chapter is found by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not impair the
validity and enforceability of the remainder of this chapter, which shall
continue with full force and effect. The Governing Body hereby declares that it
would have adopted each clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or other portion
of this chapter independently and separately in the absence of any portion of
this chapter found to be invalid or unenforceable. (Ord. 394, 10-12-2021)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH
CHAPTER 1
GARBAGE AND REFUSE 1
SECTION:
4-1-1: System Established
4-1-2: Classifications
4-1-3: Receptacles
4-1-4: Collection
4-1-5: Garbage Collection Rates
4-1-6: Use Of Revenue
4-1-7: Noncompliance With Regulations
4-1-8: Construction Sites And Transportation Of Materials
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-48-2 et seq.
4-1-1: SYSTEM ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Necessity: In the interest of the health and welfare of the inhabitants
of the village, it is necessary that there be established a general system for
the collection and disposal of garbage and trash accumulated within the
corporate limits of the village.
   B.   Included Garbage: The word "garbage" shall include any and all rejected
or waste food, offal, swill, carrion, ashes, dirt, slops, wastepaper, rubbish
and waste or unwholesome materials of every kind.
   C.   Excluded Garbage:
      1.   Defined: The word "garbage" shall not include:
         a.   Construction materials of any kind.
         b.   Any solid or bulky items not compressible in garbage collection
equipment.
         c.   Anything larger than four and seven-tenths (4.7) cubic feet in
size or weighing over thirty five (35) pounds.
         d.   Abandoned appliances such as stoves, refrigerators, iceboxes,
freezers, etc.
         e.   Tree limbs, branches that are over twenty two inches (22") in
length or two and one-half inches (21/2") in diameter.
         f.   Cardboard boxes that have not been flattened with bottoms knocked
out.
         g.   Trash, garbage or litter that is scattered and not in acceptable
containers and placed for availability under the terms of this chapter.
         h.   Any container or receptacles containing water or any other liquid
substances that cause the total of receptacles, liquid and other trash or
garbage to exceed a weight of thirty five (35) pounds. (1976 Code § 6-3-1)
      2.   Special Arrangements: Any person may make special arrangements with
the village for picking up any of the above listed items. A separate charge or
fee shall be made for each pick up with the amount of the fee to be determined
by the amount of time and the necessary miles of haulage required for the
collection of the garbage. The mileage and time fee shall be as negotiated with
the contract waste hauler. (1976 Code § 6-3-1; amd. 2000 Code)
4-1-2: CLASSIFICATIONS:
For the purpose of setting and establishing fees for collection of garbage
within the corporate limits of the village, there are hereby established the
following classification levels:
   A.   Classification I shall include "residences", including those used as
home occupations as defined in section
9-1-3 of this code, which are hereby defined to mean and include all premises
on which persons reside for more than a temporary period, and therefore,
excluding premises operating for the housing of transient persons. (Ord. 325,
4-13-2004)
   B.   Classification II shall include single offices, banks, clinics, a
single retail or wholesale business, apartments or tourist lodging facilities
with ten (10) or less rooms or spaces, and churches.
   C.   Classification III shall include apartments or tourist lodging
facilities with eleven (11) through twenty (20) rooms or spaces, multiple
retail or wholesale businesses, restaurants only open for one or two (2) meals
per day, and multiple offices, clinics, and banks. (Ord. 330, 11-9-2004)
   D.   Classification IV shall include apartments or tourist lodging
facilities with over twenty (20) rooms or spaces, restaurants open for three
(3) meals per day, and businesses selling perishable food products.
   E.   Classification V shall include schools, any business having more than
one classification IV component, industrial, and any entity in one physical
location with a square footage of more than ten thousand (10,000).
If a physical address has two (2) classifications on the property, the rate
shall be for the next higher classification or a sum of the pertinent
classification rates, whichever is less. If a physical address has three (3) or
more businesses on the property, the classification shall be IV or V to be
determined by the property owner and administrator, and such determination
shall be submitted in writing to the utility billing clerk. Any property owner
who is aggrieved, may appeal to the board of trustees.
If a property has the water meter disconnected, then the property may be
assessed based on classification I until such time as the water meter is
reconnected and the classification will then be determined based on the use at
the time of the reconnection. (Ord. 325, 4-13-2004)
4-1-3: RECEPTACLES:
All garbage of any nature that accumulates on the premises of any person shall
be placed in the receptacles provided for by the contract waste hauler at the
place designated by the contractor and the village. Receptacles are the
property of the contractor, leased to the village for public use and may not be
locked. (Ord. 325, 4-13-2004)
4-1-4: COLLECTION:
   A.   Collector Established: The village board of trustees shall engage a
private contractor to provide refuse collector services to the village under
the provisions of the ordinances of the village, its resolutions and the refuse
contract, a copy of which is attached to the ordinance codified herein, marked
exhibit A, and made a part hereof as though fully set forth herein. (Ord. 108,
1982)
   B.   Frequency: Collection of garbage and trash shall be made at times and
intervals as the board of trustees determines as to best accomplish the
purposes of the garbage collection system. (1976 Code § 6-3-5)
4-1-5: GARBAGE COLLECTION RATES:
   A.   Rates: Each person or property served by a garbage collection system
and each person or property located on the garbage collection route for whom
the service is available shall pay a garbage collection fee based upon each
property's particular classification, together with such other additional
garbage collection fees and charges as may be provided in this code, as
follows:
 
Classification I   $10.24 plus tax per month
Classification II  $19.89 plus tax per month
Classification III $49.70 plus tax per month
Classification IV  $79.51 plus tax per month
                   $124.26 per container plus tax per month based on an
Classification V   assessment of the number of containers needed by the
                   property owner and the village administrator. Any property
                   owner who is aggrieved may appeal to the board of trustees.
 
It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to notify the village in
writing of any change in classification.
These rates shall be effective July 1, 2010.
Effective each year beginning July 1, 2011, the monthly garbage collections are
authorized to increase based on the annual average change in the U.S. consumer
price index-all urban consumers (CPI-U) figures as compiled by the bureau of
business and economic research, University of New Mexico, and published in
March of each year.
   B.   Failure To Pay: All garbage collection bills shall be due and payable
on or before the next fifteenth day of each month which immediately follows the
mailing of the statement therefor. If not paid by the twenty fifth of the month
immediately after the due date, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of
the bill shall be added thereto and paid by the property owner in addition to
the monthly charge. The delinquent customer shall be liable for reasonable
attorney fees and costs incurred by the village in securing payment on
delinquent accounts in addition to the other remedies of the village provided
in this code.
   C.   Liens; Filing, Enforcement: The village shall place a lien on each lot
or parcel of land served by the garbage collection service for which there are
unpaid charges. Notices of a lien shall be filed and recorded in the office of
the county clerk of Otero County and shall be enforced as provided in section
3-36-1, New Mexico Statutes Annotated, and all other applicable laws. (Ord.
355, 6-8-2010)
4-1-6: USE OF REVENUE:
All revenue collected by virtue of the garbage collection charge shall be used
to defray the expense of maintaining the collection system and any surplus
revenue may be placed in the general revenue fund of the village. (1976 Code §
6-3-8)
4-1-7: NONCOMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
   A.   Removal By Village: Whenever any person owning or controlling any
house, shop, residence, establishment or place of business within the corporate
limits of the village shall fail or refuse to pay the garbage collection charge
herein provided for, or if any person shall allow garbage to be deposited in or
upon the premises under his control other than in the proper receptacle as
herein provided for and fails to remove the refuse or to place the refuse in
the proper receptacle within forty eight (48) hours after the garbage is
deposited on the real property, the village shall be authorized, at its own
expense, to remove the same from the premises, and is hereby authorized to
charge the costs of removal to the property specifically benefited by the
removal, and an assessment charge shall be made against the property for the
costs of removal of garbage as set forth herein. (Ord. 325, 4-13-2004)
   B.   Assessment Of Additional Fees: The assessments provided for in
subsection A of this section shall be made by the board of trustees, from data
furnished by the chief of police, and the board of trustees shall prepare an
assessment roll containing the name of the owner of each lot or parcel of land
separately assessed (if known), a description of each lot or parcel of land,
the amount assessed separately against each lot or parcel of land and a general
description of the removal and what was removed from the real estate being
assessed. (1976 Code § 6-3-10)
   C.   Appeal:
      1.   Permitted: After the assessment roll provided for in subsection B of
this section is prepared and filed with the village clerk-treasurer, the
village clerk-treasurer shall give not less than ten (10) nor more than twenty
(20) days' notice by one publication, accomplished by posting in the same
places in which ordinances are posted, that the assessment roll is on file in
the village clerk-treasurer's office. The notice shall describe the removal and
what was removed, and shall state a time at which the board of trustees will
meet to hear the appeals or protests of the parties aggrieved by the
assessment. If the address of the owner of the real property is known, a copy
of the notice shall be mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the known address of the owner. (1976 Code § 6-3-11)
      2.   Procedure: At the time fixed for the appeal or protest meeting, the
board of trustees shall meet and hear and determine upon all appeals, protests
and objections which may be made by any party interested in the regularity of
the proceedings or to the correctness of the amount of the assessment, or of
the amount levied upon any particular lot or parcel of land, and if the
proceedings are found to be irregular, the board of trustees shall correct any
errors which may have been found in the assessment and shall thereupon, by
resolution, direct the confirmation of such proceedings, and the proceedings
and assessments as so confirmed shall thereafter be deemed the final
determination of the regularity, validity and correctness of the assessment and
the amount thereof. (1976 Code § 6-3-12)
   D.   Certification Of Assessments: On or before October 1 of each year, or
at another time as the board of trustees may in its discretion so request, the
village clerk-treasurer shall certify to the board of trustees a statement of
all assessments delinquent under this chapter, describing the land affected and
setting out the amount of the assessment with penalty added at the rate of one
percent (1%) per month commencing with the date that the assessment was first
imposed, and the assessment shall be a lien upon the lot or parcel of land
described in the confirmed assessment roll, and it shall be the duty of the
village clerk/treasurer to prepare, sign, attest with the seal of the village
and file and record in the office of the county clerk of Otero County claim of
lien therefor; and all subsequent purchases, mortgages or encumbrances of the
lot or parcel of land shall take the same, subject to such lien. (1976 Code §
6-3-13)
   E.   Lien; Interest: The lien shall bear interest at the rate of twelve
percent (12%) per annum from the date of filing thereof until paid, and after
recording may be sold and assigned to any person for its face value, with
interest, and may be foreclosed at any time after recording in the same manner
as by law provided for the foreclosing of mortgages on real estate. (1976 Code
§ 6-3-13; amd. 2000 Code)
4-1-8: CONSTRUCTION SITES AND TRANSPORTATION OF MATERIALS:
   A.   All persons who have secured a building permit from the village or
state shall, before the start of any construction activity, furnish or place on
those premises a container or fenced area of suitable size and design to
contain all refuse including refuse specifically described in subsection
4-1-1C of this chapter which may be disturbed or removed from the premises by
the wind or elements. Within five (5) days of completion, all solid waste and
containers shall be removed from the premises.
   B.   No person shall allow solid waste of any kind to be blown or to be
carried by the elements from the premises for which the building permit was
secured.
   C.   Persons engaged in demolition, who have obtained a permit from the
village or state, must remove the debris and structural parts and contain their
elements from scattering in the same manner as set out above. Demolition solid
waste shall be removed and disposed of within five (5) days of completion in
the designated manner as prescribed by the mayor or his designee.
   D.   Persons engaged in demolition must take steps to ensure the public
welfare during the course of the demolition work. All structure demolition
sites upon which work is not completed within seventy two (72) hours of the
commencement of said demolition shall be provided with a fence no less than six
feet (6') in height which adequately prohibits the access of unauthorized
personnel on the site.
   E.   Any user seeking additional services for construction solid waste under
subsection
4-1-1C2 of this chapter, for remodeling solid waste, for solid waste not
routinely generated, or for solid waste which is otherwise prohibited to be
disposed of under this code shall contract with and pay directly to the
contractor or a hauler for the hauling of solid waste at a rate mutually
negotiated. (Ord. 297, 7-11-2000)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES 1
SECTION:
4-2-1: Nuisance Declared
4-2-2: Notice Of Nuisance
4-2-3: Complaint
4-2-4: Removal Of Nuisance
4-2-5: Open Burning
4-2-6: Injunctions
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-18-17.
4-2-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
In the interest of the inhabitants of the Village, it is necessary to prohibit
the accumulation of junk, trash and refuse on property within the corporate
limits of the Village by declaring such accumulation a nuisance.
   A.   Junk, Trash And Refuse: Junk, trash and refuse and any and all waste
matter, whether reusable or not, which is offensive to the public health,
safety or to the aesthetics of the Village, and is specifically intended to
include, but not limited to, worn out, wrecked, inoperative, damaged or
abandoned automobiles, motorcycles, trucks, tractors, machinery of any kind or
any parts thereof, old ice boxes, refrigerators, stoves, furniture, mechanical
equipment, construction materials, tree trimmings or any other matter produced
during land clearing, but shall not include firewood cut into lengths not in
excess of three feet (3') and stacked for storage.
   B.   Storage Of Junk, Trash And Refuse: The storing of junk, trash, refuse
or the storing or parking of inoperative automobiles, or trucks on private
property within the corporate limits of the Village, except upon application in
writing to the Board of Trustees for an exemption in areas specifically
designated by the Board of Trustees in writing for a period not to exceed one
year, renewable from year to year at the discretion of a majority of the Board
of Trustees, is hereby declared a nuisance. Any exemption so granted shall be
nontransferable, except upon written application to the Board of Trustees and
approved by a majority of the Board of Trustees in writing, upon terms and
conditions as the Board of Trustees may decide. (1976 Code § 6-4-1)
4-2-2: NOTICE OF NUISANCE:
Any Village Public Safety Officer, Mayor or Trustee, upon observing any
violation of this Chapter, shall issue a notice directed to the owner of record
of the property on which the nuisance occurs, or to the occupant or tenant of
the property, or both. The notice shall describe the violation and shall
establish a reasonable time limit for abatement thereof by the owner or
occupant or tenants, which limit shall be not less than two (2) days, nor more
than thirty (30) days after service of the notice. The notice may be served
either personally or by registered mail at the owner's or occupant's last known
address upon deposit in the postal registry. (1976 Code § 6-4-2)
4-2-3: COMPLAINT:
In the event the owner or occupant of the property where the nuisance violation
of this Chapter exists, has failed, within the prescribed time, to abate the
nuisance, then any Village Public Safety Officer, Mayor or Trustee who served
the notice shall file a complaint charging violation of this Chapter with the
Municipal Court, demanding that the owner of the property, or the occupant
thereof, or both, be held to answer to the Court for the violation of this
Chapter. (1976 Code § 6-4-3)
4-2-4: REMOVAL OF NUISANCE:
In the event that a person is convicted of violating this Chapter and still
refuses to remove the junk, trash or refuse, the Village may enforce this
Chapter in any manner consistent with law. Should the person refuse or fail to
pay the assessment, the Village shall collect such assessment as provided by
law. (1976 Code § 6-4-4)
4-2-5: OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Prohibited; Exception: The open or outside burning of any materials,
including plastic coated or treated paper or paper materials, within the
corporate limits of the Village is expressly prohibited, except in accordance
with regulations of the State Department of Environment and the Village. (1976
Code § 6-4-5; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Permit Required; Appeal: Any person who desires to burn any materials
in the open, shall receive approval from an officer of the Fire Department to
obtain a permit, which shall designate the time and place of the open burning.
(1976 Code § 6-4-6; amd. 2000 Code)
4-2-6: INJUNCTIONS:
The Village Attorney, police officers, Fire Department personnel or any other
citizen of the Village, when a nuisance exists as set forth in this Chapter,
may maintain a complaint in the name of the Village, perpetually, to enjoin all
persons from maintaining or permitting the nuisance and to abate the same. In
addition, the Mayor, Trustee or Village employee, upon observing any violation
of Section
 4-2-5 of this Chapter, may enter upon private property and summarily abate any
fire or burning that is in violation of this Chapter. (1976 Code § 6-4-7; amd.
2000 Code)
ARTICLE A. CHIMNEYS AND STOVEPIPES
SECTION:
4-2A-1: Necessity
4-2A-2: Definitions
4-2A-3: Nuisances Declared
4-2A-4: Notice Of Nuisance
4-2A-5: Complaint
4-2A-6: Injunction
4-2A-7: Penalty
4-2A-1: NECESSITY:
It is necessary for the public health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of
the village to regulate the proximity of natural growth to structures and to
require spark arrestor screens on chimneys and stovepipes, require
noncombustible materials for new and replacement roofs and to require the
enclosure of eaves for new construction. (Ord. 298, 10-10-2000)
4-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
   CHIMNEY OR STOVEPIPE: A smoke outlet for any fireplace, stove or other
device that burns any solid fuel.
   NONCOMBUSTIBLE: Shall include any material defined as a fire retardant
material in the uniform building code.
   PERSON: Shall include every person, firm or corporation owning, controlling
or occupying any "structure", defined as a house, residence, shop
establishment, hotel, restaurant, market, apartment or tenement house, trailer
or any place of business within the village of Cloudcroft. (Ord. 298, 10-10-
2000)
4-2A-3: NUISANCES DECLARED:
   A.   Natural Growth: It shall be a violation of this article for any person
within the village to allow natural growth within ten (10) vertical feet and
five (5) horizontal feet of the outlet of any chimney or stovepipe and is
hereby declared a nuisance.
   B.   Insufficient Screening: It shall be a violation of this article for any
person to ignite a fire within the village in any device that burns solid fuel
with a chimney or stovepipe outlet unless such chimney or stovepipe has a
screen constructed of nonflammable material with openings of not more than one-
half inch (1/2") in size and is hereby declared a nuisance.
   C.   Accumulation Upon Roof: It shall be a violation of this article for any
person to allow the accumulation of leaves, needles or other dead vegetative
growth upon the roof of any structure within the village and is hereby declared
a nuisance.
   D.   Fire Hazards:
      1.   Roofs: It shall be a violation of this article for any person to
install a new or replacement roof on any structure within the village of
Cloudcroft that is not rated as class A noncombustible and is hereby declared a
nuisance.
      2.   Eaves: It shall be a violation of this article for any person to
build any structure within the village of Cloudcroft whereon the eaves are not
enclosed and is hereby declared a nuisance. (Ord. 298, 10-10-2000)
4-2A-4: NOTICE OF NUISANCE:
Any village police officer, firefighter, mayor or trustee upon observing any
violation of this article shall issue a notice directed to the owner of record
of the property on which a nuisance occurs, or to the occupant or tenant of
said property, or both, which said notice shall describe the violation and
shall establish a reasonable time limit for abatement thereof by such owner or
occupant or tenant, which limit shall be not less than two (2) days, nor more
than thirty (30) days after service of such notice. Such notice may be served
either personally or by first-class registered mail at the owner's or
occupant's last known address upon deposit in the postal registry. (Ord. 68,
11-2-1974)
4-2A-5: COMPLAINT:
In the event the owner or occupant of the property where such a nuisance
violation of this article exists, has failed, within the prescribed time, to
abate such nuisance, then any village police officer, firefighter, mayor or
trustee who served such notice shall file a complaint charging violation of
this article with the municipal court demanding that the owner of the property,
or the occupant thereof, or both, be held to answer to the court for the
violation of this article. (Ord. 68, 11-2-1974)
4-2A-6: INJUNCTION:
The village attorney, chief of police or any other citizen of the village, when
such a nuisance exists as set forth in this article, may maintain a complaint
in the name of the village, perpetually, to enjoin all persons from maintaining
or permitting such nuisance and to abate the same. In addition, any village
police officer, firefighter, mayor, trustee or employee, upon observing any
violation of subsection
4-2A-3B of this article may enter upon private property and summarily abate any
fires or burning that is in violation of this article. (Ord. 68, 11-2-1974)
4-2A-7: PENALTY:
Any property owner or occupant or tenant of property who allows such a nuisance
on the property owned or occupied by him shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 68, 11-2-1974; amd. 2000 Code)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL 1
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definitions
5-1-2: Administration And Enforcement
5-1-3: Licensing Of Dogs And Cats
5-1-4: Kennels
5-1-5: Wild And Exotic Animals
5-1-6: Domestic Livestock
5-1-7: Rabies Control
5-1-8: Disposition Of Dead Animals
5-1-9: Prohibited Activities
5-1-10: Impoundment
5-1-11: Records Maintenance
5-1-12: Exemptions To Regulations
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-18-3.
5-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall, unless the
context indicates a different meaning, have the meaning given herein:
   ANIMAL: Any vertebrate, excluding man.
   ANIMAL SHELTER: Any establishment authorized by the Village of Cloudcroft
for the care and custody of impounded animals.
   BITE: A puncture or tear of the skin inflicted by the teeth of an animal.
   CHIEF OF POLICE: Chief of Police of the Village of Cloudcroft.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL: An animal which is rare or different from ordinary
domesticated animals and is not indigenous to the State of New Mexico.
   KEEPER: Any person who owns, harbors, keeps, or has control or custody of an
animal for more than six (6) days; provided, that this term shall not apply to
veterinarians or kennel owners temporarily maintaining on their premises
animals owned by others.
   KENNEL: Any establishment or premises where dogs or cats are boarded or
kept.
   MAYOR: The Mayor of the Village of Cloudcroft or his or her designated
representative.
   NUISANCE: Means, but is not limited to, disturbing the peace, emitting
noxious or offensive odors, or otherwise endangering or offensive to the
environment of the Village of Cloudcroft.
   PERSON: Any individual, household, firm, partnership, corporation, society,
association and every agent and employee thereof.
   QUARANTINE: To detain or isolate an animal suspected of being infected with
rabies.
   RUNNING AT LARGE: An animal off the premises of the keeper and not under the
direct control of a competent person. Direct control means connected by a
secure leash not over six feet (6') in length or some other equivalent means of
direct control.
   STRAY OR ESTRAY: Any animal where there is no identifiable keeper.
   VACCINATION: The vaccination of an animal with an anti-rabies vaccine
approved by the State Veterinarian and administered by and under the
supervision of a veterinarian.
   VETERINARIAN: Any veterinarian licensed in the State of New Mexico.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any animal which commits an unprovoked attack upon a person
on private property, or which terrorizes or attacks a person on public property
or in a public place.
   VILLAGE: That area lying within the corporate boundaries of the Village of
Cloudcroft.
   WILD ANIMAL: Any animal which is wild by nature and cannot normally be
domesticated or controlled. (Ord. 85, 5-9-1978; amd. 2000 Code)
5-1-2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Responsibility: The Chief of Police is responsible for the
administration of this Chapter. Reasonable rules and regulations may be
prescribed by the Chief of Police to carry out the intent and purpose of this
Chapter.
   B.   Enforcement: The Chief of Police or his or her designated
representative shall have the authority to issue citations for violation of
this Chapter and to perform such other duties as are prescribed herein.
   C.   Investigation: For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by
this Chapter and to enforce its provision, the Chief of Police or any
designated representative is hereby authorized to enter upon any premises upon
which an animal is kept or harbored during the daylight hours, and to demand
the exhibition, by the owner of such animal, of the license and vaccination
certificate for such animal, and further to investigate and file a complaint
against the owner of any animal for violation of any of the provisions of this
Chapter; provided however, that in the event any dog, cat or animal has been
exposed to rabies, or when any person has been bitten by any dog, cat or other
animal, the Chief of Police or any designated representative is hereby
authorized to enter upon any premises upon which such dog, cat or other animal
is kept or harbored, during the daylight hours, for the purpose of
investigating and enforcing the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 85, 5-9-1978;
amd. 2000 Code)
5-1-3: LICENSING OF DOGS AND CATS:
   A.   Required: Every keeper of any dog or cat three (3) months of age or
older shall procure a license. License fees shall be paid annually and the full
amount shall be paid for any fraction of the licensing year. Upon collection of
the license fee by the Village, a dated and numbered certificate shall be
issued stating the name and address of the owner, rabies tag number and the
animal's description. (Ord. 85, 5-9-1978; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Proof Of Rabies Vaccination: No dog or cat shall be licensed without
proof of rabies vaccination as provided in this Chapter. (Ord. 85, 5-9-1978)
   C.   Certificates And Tags: The current Village license and rabies tags
shall be affixed to the licensed dog or cat at all times, except when the dog
is being kept in an approved kennel, veterinary hospital or training class. The
original license and tag and the rabies certificate and tag of all dogs and
cats shall be retained by the owner and shall be available for inspection by
any person charged with the enforcement of this Chapter. (Ord. 85, 5-9-1978;
amd. 2000 Code)
   D.   Loss Of License Tag: In the event the original license tag is lost, the
keeper shall obtain a duplicate tag from the Village at a cost of one dollar
($1.00). (Ord. 85, 5-9-1978)
   E.   Fee: The annual license fee shall be five dollars ($5.00) for a
neutered dog or cat, and shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) for an
unneutered dog or cat. (Ord. 85, 5-9-1978; amd. 2000 Code)
5-1-4: KENNELS:
   A.   Restrictions: No person, group of persons, or business entity in the
Village may own, keep or harbor five (5) or more dogs or cats four (4) months
of age or older; or where the business of buying, selling, breeding, grooming,
training or boarding of dogs or cats is conducted, without obtaining a kennel
license. (Ord. 85, 5-9-1978; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   License Required: Persons desiring to operate a kennel, which must be
located in an appropriately-zoned location, must obtain a nontransferable
kennel license, provided it can be appropriately zoned, which shall be posted
in a conspicuous place in the kennel. A kennel license shall expire on December
31 of each year and shall be renewed by February 1 of the following year. No
kennel license may be issued without an inspection certificate issued by the
Village Clerk/Treasurer or a duly appointed law enforcement officer of the
Village. The annual kennel license fee shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00).
(Ord. 240, 12-10-1991; amd. 2000 Code)
   C.   Facilities And Care: Animal housing facilities must be structurally
sound and shall be constructed of nontoxic materials. The facility shall be
maintained in good repair and kept clean and sanitary at all times, so as to
protect animals from disease and injury. Animals maintained in pens, cages or
runs for periods exceeding twenty four (24) hours must be provided with
adequate space to prevent overcrowding and to permit adequate exercise
according to the requirements of the species. Indoor housing shall be provided
with adequate ventilation and temperature control to provide for the animals'
comfort and health. Sufficient lighting shall be provided by either natural or
artificial means. If outside housing is provided, it must be sufficient to
protect the animal from sunlight, rain, snow or cold weather detrimental to the
animal's health. Provisions shall be made for the removal and proper disposal
of animal and food waste, bedding, dead animals and debris. Disposal facilities
shall be provided and operated so as to minimize vermin infestation, odors and
disease hazards. Except where indicated for health, animals shall be provided
with clean, fresh, sufficient and wholesome food and water. Food and water
containers must be kept clean. Every animal kept in a kennel must be observed
daily and diseased or injured animals must be provided with veterinary care.
(Ord. 85, 5-9-1978)
   D.   Inspection: Any duly appointed law enforcement officer of the Village
shall be permitted to enter, at any reasonable time, for the purpose of
inspecting or reinspecting any kennel or pet shop to determine compliance with
this Chapter. (Ord. 240, 12-10-1991)
   E.   Violations; Suspension And Revocation; Hearing: A kennel license may be
denied, suspended or revoked by the Board of Trustees upon a determination that
the operator of the kennel or pet store is in violation of this Chapter. An
opportunity for a hearing on any denial, suspension or revocation shall be
provided at a time and place determined by the Board of Trustees. Based upon
the record of such hearing, the Board of Trustees shall make a finding and
shall sustain, modify or rescind the action considered at the hearing. Any
owner of a kennel or pet store whose license has been suspended or revoked may
make application for reinstatement of the license. If, following inspection,
the applicant has complied with the requirements of this Chapter, the license
shall be reinstated. (Ord. 85, 5-9-1978)
   F.   Exceptions: This Section shall not be construed to require a kennel
license for: (Ord. 85, 5-9-1978; amd. 2000 Code)
      1.   A veterinary hospital or clinic operated by a licensed veterinarian.
      2.   A bona fide research institution using animals for scientific
research.
      3.   A publicly owned animal control center or shelter.
      4.   A bona fide animal shelter operated by an organized humane society.
(Ord. 85, 5-9-1978)
5-1-5: WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibited Animals Specified:
      1.   Wild animals kept in such numbers or in such a manner as to
constitute a likelihood of harm to the animals themselves or to other animals,
or to human beings, or to the property of human beings, or which constitute a
public or private nuisance.
      2.   Exotic or wild animals prohibited by Federal or State law or
regulation.
      3.   Bats.
      4.   Skunks. (Ord. 85, 5-9-1978)
   B.   Permit Required: No person shall receive, purchase, own or keep wild or
exotic animals without first applying for and receiving from the Board of
Trustees and from the State Department of Game and Fish a permit to do so. The
applicant must provide evidence of knowledge and facilities for the care and
feeding of the animals involved. The Chief of Police or his designated
representative is permitted to enter the premises of any permittee hereunder at
any reasonable time for the purpose of inspection or reinspection to determine
compliance with this Chapter. The Chief of Police or his designated
representative or the Department of Game and Fish may deny, revoke or suspend a
permit for failure to comply with this Chapter. The fee for such a permit shall
be twenty five dollars ($25.00) and shall be renewed annually. A separate
permit shall be required for each species of wild or exotic animal. (Ord. 85,
5-9-1978; amd. 2000 Code)
5-1-6: DOMESTIC LIVESTOCK:
   A.   Restrictions:
      1.   Except in an appropriately-zoned district where a stockyard or
stable is permitted, no owner may keep any domestic livestock, including, but
not limited to, horses, cattle, goats, sheep and swine, including Chinese or
Vietnamese miniature pot bellied pigs, within the Village without first
applying for and receiving from the Board of Trustees a permit to do so.
      2.   No owner shall, keep any equine or bovine over six (6) months of age
on any premises, the overall area of which is less than one-half (1/2) of an
acre for each equine or bovine. (Ord. 247, 6-9-1992; amd. 2000 Code)
      3.   All domestic livestock shall be cared for according to accepted
livestock management practice and in such manner as to not create a public
nuisance.
      4.   All domestic livestock, except Chinese or Vietnamese miniature pot
bellied pigs, shall be kept in a secure pen or enclosure which shall not be
less than one hundred feet (100') from any inhabited dwelling, or currently
used church or school.
      5.   The owner or person in possession of a pen or enclosure for domestic
livestock shall keep it in such a manner as to control offensive odors, insect
breeding and other conditions effecting public health.
      6.   Chinese or Vietnamese miniature pot bellied pigs may be kept at a
residence in the same manner as a dog or a cat; provided, that no more than two
(2) such miniature animals may be kept at a residence.
   B.   Permit Required: No person shall own or keep any domestic livestock
without first applying for and receiving from the Village Clerk/Treasurer a
permit to do so. The Village or its representatives shall be permitted at any
reasonable time to enter the premises for the purpose of inspection or
reinspection to determine compliance with this Chapter. After reasonable notice
and opportunity to be heard, the Board of Trustees may deny, suspend or revoke
the permit for any violation of this Chapter. The fee for such a permit shall
be twenty five dollars ($25.00) and shall be renewed annually. Each species of
domestic livestock shall require a separate permit. (Ord. 247, 6-9-1992)
5-1-7: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Annual Vaccination: It is the duty of every person keeping a dog or cat
over the age of three (3) months to have such animal vaccinated against rabies.
All dogs and cats must be revaccinated annually. Every veterinarian who
vaccinates a dog or cat hereunder shall issue to the owner or keeper of the
animal a numbered vaccination certificate and tag. The certificate shall
contain the name and address of the owner or keeper of the animal, a
description of the animal vaccinated, the type of vaccine used, the date of
vaccination and the expiration date of the period of immunity.
   B.   Certificate Of Vaccination: Every person who keeps a vaccinated dog or
cat must exhibit his copy of the certificate of vaccination upon the demand of
any person charged with the enforcement of this Chapter.
   C.   Harboring Unvaccinated Animals: It is unlawful for any person to keep a
dog or cat which has not been vaccinated against rabies as provided herein.
   D.   Reporting Rabies Suspects: Every veterinarian who makes a clinical
diagnosis of rabies and every person who suspects rabies in a domestic or wild
animal shall immediately report same to the local District Health Office of the
Health Services Division of the Health and Environmental Department stating
precisely when and where such animal was seen and if possible where it may be
found.
   E.   Human Exposure To Rabies: Any person with knowledge that an animal has
bitten a human being shall immediately report the incident to the animal
shelter and to the local District Health Office. Every physician or other
health care professional who treats a person for such bite shall report such
treatment to the local District Health Office within twelve (12) hours of such
treatment. Such treatment must specify the name and precise location of the
person bitten.
   F.   Quarantine Of Rabies Suspects: Any dog or cat which has bitten a person
shall be confined and observed for a period of ten (10) days from the date of
the bite at the animal shelter, a veterinary hospital or an approved kennel;
provided however, that if the animal has a current vaccination for rabies and
the area involved is not under quarantine for rabies, the animal control office
may permit quarantine of such animal at the owner's home. Home confinement
shall not be permitted unless the premises have been inspected and approved for
such purpose by the law enforcement officer.
   G.   Enforcement Of Quarantine: It is unlawful to remove any dog or cat from
enforced quarantine during the period of confinement without consent of the
responsible law enforcement officer.
   H.   Wild Animal Bites: Bites inflicted by animals other than dogs and cats
must be reported to and discussed with the local District Health Office for
proper disposition. (Ord. 85, 5-9-1978)
5-1-8: DISPOSITION OF DEAD ANIMALS:
The carcass of any animal that shall die within the Village shall, within
twenty four (24) hours, be removed at least two (2) miles beyond the Village
limits by the owner of the animal, unless such owner shall bury the animal in
some place outside the limits of the Village at a depth of not less than six
feet (6'). In no case shall any carcass be buried within the Village limits nor
shall such owner permit such carcass to remain in the open air in the Village
until it becomes offensive in smell. (Ord. 85, 5-9-1978)
5-1-9: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   False And Stolen Documents: It shall be unlawful for any person to
transfer any license or rabies tag from one animal to another or to make use of
a stolen, counterfeit or forged license, certificate or tag.
   B.   Animals Running At Large: It shall be unlawful for any keeper of a dog
or cat or other pet animal to permit such animal to run at large.
   C.   Nuisance: It is unlawful for a keeper to allow any animal to
persistently bark, howl or make noise or to be kept or maintained in such a
manner as to disturb or otherwise endanger the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the neighborhood.
   D.   Confinement During Estrus: Any female dog or cat in the stage of estrus
(heat) shall be confined to a building or other secure enclosure so that
contact with a male animal of the same species will be prevented, except for
intentional breeding purposes. Keepers who do not comply with this subsection
may be required to place such animal in a boarding kennel or veterinary
hospital at the keeper's expense.
   E.   Physical Abuse: It is unlawful for any person to maliciously kill,
maim, torture, mutilate, burn or to cruelly drive or work any animal.
   F.   Abandonment Of Animals: It is unlawful to abandon any animal within the
Village.
   G.   Poisoning: It is unlawful to poison a domestic animal or to distribute
poison or toxicants in any manner with the intent of so poisoning.
   H.   Care And Maintenance: It is unlawful for any keeper to fail to provide
an animal with proper food, drink and shelter, or to carry an animal in or upon
any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner.
   I.   Animal Fights: It is unlawful to cause, instigate or promote any fight
in which two (2) or more animals are engaged for the purpose of injuring,
maiming or destroying themselves or another animal.
   J.   Premiums And Novelties: It is unlawful to sell, offer for sale, barter
or give away any live animal as a premium, prize, award, novelty or incentive
to purchase merchandise; it is unlawful to color, stain or dye any chicken,
duckling or fowl.
   K.   Turtles: It is unlawful to offer for sale, sell, barter or give away
turtles, except in conformance with appropriate Federal regulations.
   L.   
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, owning, possessing or keeping
any animal within the Village which is known to be vicious or dangerous to
persons, to permit it to run loose in such manner as to endanger life or limb
of any person or other domestic animal in apparent readiness and attitude of
attack.
      2.   Animal control officers or police officers shall cause vicious
animal to be impounded. In the event a vicious animal cannot be impounded
without danger of personal injury from such animal, the impounding officer may
destroy the animal without notice to the owner, possessor or keeper thereof.
      3.   Vicious animals shall be released only upon the order of the court.
The court may order the owner to pay for the animal's impoundment in addition
to any fines, penalties or fees imposed. All fines, penalties and fees shall be
paid by the owner prior to the time the animal is released.
      4.   Upon notice and opportunity to be heard to any known owner of an
impounded animal, the Court shall consider whether the animal may be destroyed.
If no owner is known, there shall be a publication in the Village by posting in
the six public places normally used by the Village to give public notice of
such hearing before the Court. If the Court finds, by clear and convincing
evidence that the vicious animal has caused serious injury to a person or
domestic animal and poses an imminent threat to public safety or will
potentially cause serious injury to a person or domestic animal and poses a
threat to public safety, the Court may order the dog to be humanely destroyed
by Animal Control.
   M.   Interference With Officer: No person shall interfere with, hinder or
molest the Chief of Police or any designated representative in the performance
of any duty required by this Chapter. (Ord. 85, 5-9-1978; amd. 2000 Code; Ord.
393, 8-10-2021)
5-1-10: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Animal Shelter: A suitable animal shelter shall be provided for the
purpose of boarding and caring for animals impounded under the provision of
this Chapter.
   B.   Impounding Animals: Animals kept in violation of this Chapter and stray
animals shall be taken into custody by a law enforcement officer or other
designated official and thereupon impounded.
   C.   Right Of Entry: Law enforcement officers, in performance of their
duties, may enter upon unenclosed portions of private property, for the purpose
of apprehending animals running at large and stray animals.
   D.   Register: The law enforcement officer, upon impounding or receiving any
animal, shall register such animal by entering the breed, color and sex of the
animal and the time and place such animal was apprehended into the registry
kept for this purpose.
   E.   Notice To Owner: If the keeper of an impounded animal is known, he or
she must immediately be notified. If the keeper of the animal is not known,
notice of the impoundment shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the Village
offices for a period of one day.
   F.   Right To Redeem: The keeper of any animal which has been impounded
under the provisions of this Chapter shall have the right to redeem the animal
upon payment of the impounding fees, care and feeding charges, veterinary
charges and such other costs as set by the Board of Trustees.
   G.   Time For Redemption: All impounded animals shall be redeemed within
three (3) days after impoundment. Any animal not redeemed within the required
period shall become the property of the animal shelter and may be placed for
adoption upon payment of the license fee, impoundment fees, care and feeding
charges, veterinary charges and such other costs as set by the Board of
Trustees, or the animal may be humanely destroyed.
   H.   Disposition Of Impounded Animals Held On Complaint: If a complaint has
been filed in the Municipal Court of the Village against the keeper of an
impounded animal for a violation of this Chapter, the animal shall not be
released except upon order of the court which also may direct the owner to pay
any penalties for violation of this Chapter in addition to all impounding fees,
care and feeding charges and veterinary fees. (Ord. 85, 5-9-1978)
   I.   Fees And Charges: The impoundment fees, care and feeding charges, and
veterinary charges referred to herein shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) for the
first redemption of an animal, one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the second
redemption of the same animal and two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each
succeeding redemption of the same animal, which shall be paid to the Village or
the Village designee, in which case, fees shall be determined by the designee.
(Ord. 95, 7-8-1980; amd. 2000 Code)
5-1-11: RECORDS MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Vaccination, Licensing And Impoundment: It shall be the duty of the
Village Clerk to keep or cause to be kept accurate and detailed records of the
vaccination, licensing and impoundment of animals. The Chief of Police shall
give impoundment records to the Village Clerk.
   B.   Bite Cases: It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to keep or
cause to be kept accurate and detailed records of all bite cases reported to
him, and of his investigation of the same. Should the report of a bite involve
a rabid dog or animal it shall be immediately transmitted to the District
Health Office. (Ord. 85, 5-9-1978; amd. 2000 Code)
   C.   Audit: The aforesaid records shall be audited annually in the same
manner as other Village records are audited and shall be open to inspection as
public records at all reasonable times. (Ord. 85, 5-9-1978)
5-1-12: EXEMPTIONS TO REGULATIONS:
   A.   Hospitals And Clinics: Hospitals, clinics and other premises operated
by licensed veterinarians for the care and treatment of animals are exempt from
the provisions of this Chapter, except the duty to report rabies cases and to
comply with the provisions specifically naming duties and responsibilities of
licensed veterinarians in relations to animal regulation and rabies control.
(Ord. 85, 5-9-1978)
   B.   Nonresidents: The licensing and vaccination requirements of this
Chapter shall not apply to any animal belonging to a nonresident of the Village
and kept within the Village for not longer than thirty (30) days, provided all
such animals shall at all times while in the Village be confined within a
building, enclosure or vehicle, or be under restraint by the owner. However,
animals belonging to nonresidents must display a current license and rabies tag
or their equivalent from the nonresident's place of residence. (Ord. 85, 5-9-
1978; amd. 2000 Code)
ARTICLE A. USE OF LIVESTOCK
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Horses, Mules Or Burros
5-1A-1: HORSES, MULES OR BURROS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, cause or permit to be kept, or to
confine one or more horses, mules, burros, cows, goats, sheep, swine or other
livestock at any place within the corporate limits of the village provided that
horses, mules or burros may be ridden within the village as follows:
   A.   For a period not to exceed twelve (12) consecutive hours during
daylight between sunrise and sunset; and
   B.   In the interest of public health and safety, the owner/rider of a
horse, mule or burro shall be responsible for the cleanup of solid waste
deposited on the ground by such horse, mule or burro within twelve (12) hours.
   C.   Any unattended horse, mule or burro shall be securely tethered to a
fixed object in a manner so as not to interfere with foot or vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 364, 10-9-2012)
CHAPTER 2
OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Offenses Declared Unlawful
5-2-2: Assault
5-2-3: Battery
5-2-4: Criminal Trespass
5-2-5: Disorderly Conduct
5-2-6: Unlawful Assembly
5-2-7: Obstructing Movement
5-2-8: Weapons
5-2-9: Missiles And Fireworks
5-2-10: Removal Of Barricades
5-2-11: Wrongful Entry Of Public Facility
5-2-12: False Reports
5-2-13: Concealing Identity
5-2-14: False Alarms
5-2-15: Impersonating Public Safety Officer
5-2-16: Resisting, Obstructing Or Refusing To Obey Officer
5-2-17: Public Nuisances
5-2-18: Escape
5-2-19: Property
5-2-20: Drinking In Public Places
5-2-21: Aiding An Illegal Activity
5-2-22: Larceny; Shoplifting
5-2-23: Recreation In Right Of Way
5-2-24: Snowmobile Operation
5-2-25: Furnishing Drugs Or Liquor To Prisoner
5-2-26: Obscene Conduct
5-2-27: Cruelty To Animals
5-2-28: Bicycle Operation
5-2-29: Interference With Communications
5-2-30: Interference At Fires
5-2-31: Marijuana Possession
5-2-32: Falsely Obtaining Services Or Accommodations
5-2-33: Issuing Worthless Checks
5-2-34: Unreasonable Noise
5-2-35: Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
5-2-36: Littering
5-2-37: Tampering With Or Damaging Public Utilities
5-2-1: OFFENSES DECLARED UNLAWFUL:
The acts described in this Chapter and Article A of this Chapter are hereby
declared to be unlawful within the Village limits. (1976 Code § 5-1-1)
5-2-2: ASSAULT:
Assault consists of either:
   A.   An attempt to commit a battery upon the person of another; or
   B.   Any unlawful act, threat or menacing conduct which causes another
person to reasonably believe that he is in danger of receiving an immediate
battery; or
   C.   The use of fighting words which by their very utterance are likely to
cause an average addressee to fight. (1976 Code § 5-1-2)
5-2-3: BATTERY:
Battery is the unlawful, intentional touching or application of force to the
person of another when done in a rude, insolent or angry manner. (1976 Code §
5-1-3)
5-2-4: CRIMINAL TRESPASS:
Criminal trespass consists of unlawfully and with malicious intent entering or
remaining upon the lands or property of another knowing that any consent to
enter or remain has been denied or withdrawn by the person lawfully in
possession of the premises. (1976 Code § 5-1-4)
5-2-5: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
Disorderly conduct consists of either:
   A.   Engaging in any public place in a violent, abusive, indecent or
otherwise disorderly conduct which creates a clear and present danger of
violence; or
   B.   Maliciously making a telephone call with an intent to annoy or threaten
another, whether or not conversation ensues; or
   C.   Maliciously disturbing, threatening or, in an insolent manner,
intentionally touching any house or vehicle occupied by any person; or
   D.   Inciting, causing, aiding, abetting or assisting in creating any riot,
affray or disturbance at or within any dwelling or building, whether public or
private, or at any other public place in the Village; or
   E.   Using in any public place fighting words which by their very utterance
are likely to provoke a violent reaction in an average person to whom such
words are addressed. (1976 Code § 5-1-5)
5-2-6: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY:
Unlawful assembly consists of the gathering together or assemblage of three (3)
or more persons for a common purpose which either:
   A.   Creates a clear and present danger or an immediate threat of
substantial harm to persons and/or property.
      1.   When an "unlawful assembly" occurs, as defined in this Section, an
order to disperse shall be given by a police officer in such manner as can
reasonably be expected to give actual notice of the order to persons either
directly or indirectly involved in such unlawful assembly.
      2.   Refusal to obey an order to disperse within such time as is
reasonably required for the assemblage to physically disperse after such order
is given or wilful and open resistance to the order shall constitute a
violation of this Code.
   B.   Manifests a common intent to do any unlawful act or acts by force or
violence against the person and/or property of another. Participation in an
unlawful assembly to further such unlawful purpose shall constitute a violation
of this Code. (1976 Code § 5-1-6)
5-2-7: OBSTRUCTING MOVEMENT:
Obstructing movement consists of either:
   A.   Hindering, annoying or molesting persons passing along any street,
sidewalk, crosswalk or other public way; or
   B.   Loitering, sitting or standing around at the entrance of any church,
public hall, theater, public building or other place of public assemblage in
any manner so as to unreasonably obstruct such entrance. (1976 Code § 5-1-7)
5-2-8: WEAPONS:
   A.   Carrying Deadly Weapon:
      1.   Unlawfully carrying a deadly weapon consists of carrying a deadly
weapon concealed in a manner making it not readily visible on the person or in
close proximity thereto, so that the weapon is readily accessible for use;
except:
         a.   In the person's residence or on real property belonging to him as
owner, lessee, tenant or licensee;
         b.   In a private automobile or other private means of conveyance for
the lawful protection of his person or property, or the person or property of
another while traveling intercity;
         c.   By a peace officer in the lawful discharge of his duties; or
         d.   On a target range, as authorized by law.
      2.   "Deadly weapon", as used in this subsection, means any firearm or
any weapon which is capable of producing death or great bodily harm, including
but not restricted to, any type of dagger, metallic knuckles, switchblade
knife, poniard, dirk knife, sword cane, sharp pointed cane or rod, slingshot or
bludgeon.
      3.   Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prevent the
carrying of any unloaded firearm. (1976 Code § 5-1-8)
   B.   Negligent Use Of Weapons:
      1.   Specified: Negligent use of a weapon consists of either:
         a.   Discharging a weapon within the Village limits without legal
justification;
         b.   Carrying a weapon while under the influence of an intoxicating
liquor or a narcotic;
         c.   Endangering the safety of another or his property by handling or
using a firearm or other deadly weapon in a negligent manner;
         d.   Selling, loaning or furnishing any deadly weapon to a person with
knowledge that the person is under the influence of any intoxicant or narcotic
or that the person is incompetent;
         e.   Discharging a weapon within or without the Village limits in such
a manner that the missile or round so discharged strikes a person or property
within the Village limits or endangers persons or property within the Village
limits as the missile or round passes through Village limits.
      2.   Exception For Peace Officers: The provisions set forth in subsection
B1 of this Section shall not be construed to forbid peace officers from
carrying, wearing or discharging such weapons as shall be necessary in the
proper discharge of their duties. (1976 Code § 5-1-9)
   C.   Possession, Transfer Or Sale:
      1.   Unlawful possession or transfer of certain weapons consists of
possessing, selling, lending, giving away or purchasing any form of metallic
knuckles, any form of bludgeon or any knife which has a blade which opens
automatically by hand pressure to a button, spring or other device in the
handle of the knife, or which opens or falls or is ejected into position by the
force of gravity or by an outward, downward or centrifugal thrust or movement.
      2.   Unlawful sale of a deadly weapon consists of giving, selling,
trading, bartering or exchanging for anything of value any deadly weapon or
ammunition for his child or ward. (1976 Code § 5-1-10)
5-2-9: MISSILES AND FIREWORKS:
   A.   Propulsion Of Missiles: Propulsion of missiles consists of shooting,
slinging or throwing snowballs, stones, rocks, pellets, BB shot or any kind of
missile, object or substance whatsoever in any manner as to be reasonably
likely to cause injury to any person or property within the Village. This
provision shall not be construed to prohibit target firing when conducted so as
to secure safety of the inhabitants of the Village. Target firing may be
permitted when conducted on ranges meeting the specifications of the National
Rifle Association or its equivalent upon submitting proof that such range meets
such specifications and upon obtaining a permit from the Village Clerk/
Treasurer based on such proof. (1976 Code § 5-1-11)
   B.   Possession Of Fireworks:
      1.   Possession of fireworks consists of either selling offering to sell,
owning, possessing, manufacturing, transporting or discharging any firecracker,
roman candle, skyrocket, torpedo, bomb, blank cartridge (except when used in
connection with athletic or racing activities), or any type or form of
explosive commonly known as "fireworks", unless such item has been declared as
not dangerous to persons or property.
      2.   The term fireworks shall not include toy pistols, toy canes, toy
guns or other devices in which paper caps containing twenty five hundredths
(0.25) grains or less of explosive compound are used, providing they are so
constructed that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for
use, and toy pistol paper caps which contain less than twenty hundredths (0.20)
grains of explosive mixture, the sale and use of which shall be permitted at
all times.
      3.   Any device which propels any portion, part or projectile more than
ten feet (10') in the air or has a report louder than the paper caps described
above are not considered safe and sane.
      4.   Nothing herein contained shall be held to apply to or prohibit any
employee of the State Game and Fish Department or the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service from possessing fireworks for control of game birds and
animals or to prohibit the Village or any civic organization therein from
sponsoring and conducting, in connection with any public celebration, an
officially supervised and controlled fireworks display. (1976 Code § 5-1-12)
5-2-10: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
Removal of barricades consists of knowingly or wilfully removing, destroying or
interfering with any barrier, guard or light placed before or at any dangerous
place in or near the street, sidewalks or ways of the Village for the purpose
of warning or protecting travelers from injury or damage; provided, that
removal after the danger has ceased and temporary removal to allow the passage
of a vehicle with immediate subsequent replacement shall not be considered
unlawful. (1976 Code § 5-1-13)
5-2-11: WRONGFUL ENTRY OF PUBLIC FACILITY:
Wrongful entry of a public facility consists of knowingly entering any public
facility without permission of the lawful custodian when the facility is not
open to the public. As used in this Code, "public facility" means any building,
structure, or enclosure used for a public purpose or as a place of public
gathering owned or under the control of the State or one of its political
subdivisions or a religious, charitable, educational or recreational
association. (1976 Code § 5-1-14)
5-2-12: FALSE REPORTS:
It is unlawful for any person to intentionally make or file with the Department
of Public Safety, any false, misleading or unfounded report or statement
concerning the commission or alleged commission of any crime which hinders or
interrupts any public officer, police officer or any other person in the legal
performance of his duty or in the exercise of his rights under the laws of the
United States or of this State or Village. (1976 Code § 5-1-15)
5-2-13: CONCEALING IDENTITY:
It is unlawful for anyone to conceal one's true name or identity or disguise
oneself with the intent to obstruct due execution of the law or with the intent
to intimidate, hinder or interrupt any public officer, police officer or any
other person in the legal performance of his or her duties. (1976 Code § 5-1-
16)
5-2-14: FALSE ALARMS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Give a false fire alarm to any Village, County or State official or
employee, whether by means of a fire alarm box or otherwise; or
   B.   Knowingly give a false alarm of need for rescue squad, police or
ambulance assistance; or
   C.   Interfere with the proper function of a fire alarm system. (1976 Code §
5-1-17)
5-2-15: IMPERSONATING PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER:
Impersonating a public safety officer consists of the wearing of or carrying of
the uniform, apparel, badge, identification card or other insignia of office,
or an imitation thereof, adopted for the exclusive use of duly commissioned
public safety officers, unless authorized to do so by law. (1976 Code § 5-1-18)
5-2-16: RESISTING, OBSTRUCTING OR REFUSING TO OBEY OFFICER:
Resisting, obstructing or refusing to obey an officer consists of either:
   A.   Knowingly obstructing, resisting or opposing any officer of this State
or any other duly authorized person serving or attempting to serve or execute
any process or any rule or order of any of the courts of this State or any
other judicial writ or process; or
   B.   Resisting or abusing any judge, magistrate or peace officer in the
lawful discharge of his duties; or
   C.   Refusing to obey or comply with any lawful process or order given by
any police officer acting in the lawful discharge of his duties; or
   D.   Interfering with, obstructing or opposing any officer in the lawful
discharge of his regular and affixed duties. (1976 Code § 5-1-19)
5-2-17: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
The following acts are hereby declared a public nuisance:
   A.   Being concealed upon any property of another without lawful business
with the person in lawful possession of the premises.
   B.   Entering upon any private property and looking into any occupied
dwelling without the consent of the occupant or owner of the dwelling.
   C.   Entering or remaining in or upon the buildings or grounds of any
public, private, parochial school or preschool, with the intention, as
evidenced by some overt act, of interfering with the activities on the premises
of teachers, pupils or children. (1976 Code § 5-1-20)
5-2-18: ESCAPE:
   A.   Jail: Escape from jail consists of any person who shall have been
lawfully committed to any jail, escaping or attempting to escape from such jail
or from a work detail to which such person is assigned. (1976 Code § 5-1-21)
   B.   Custody:
      1.   Public Safety Officer: Escape from the custody of a public safety
officer consists of any person who shall have been placed under lawful arrest
for the commission of any misdemeanor or petty misdemeanor, or violation of
ordinance, escaping or attempting to escape from the lawful custody or control
of a public safety officer.
      2.   Hospital: Escape from the custody of a hospital consists of any
person who shall have been placed under lawful arrest for the commission of any
misdemeanor or petty misdemeanor, or violation of an ordinance, escaping or
attempting to escape from lawful custody or control of a hospital to which the
person has been assigned. (1976 Code § 5-1-22)
   C.   Assisting: Assisting escape consists of either:
      1.   Intentionally aiding any person confined or held in lawful custody
or confinement to escape; or
      2.   Any officer, jailer or other employee intentionally permitting any
prisoner in his custody to escape. (1976 Code § 5-1-23)
5-2-19: PROPERTY:
   A.   Criminal Damage:
      1.   Private Property: Criminal damage to private property consists of
intentionally damaging to a value of less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
any real or personal property of another without the consent of the person
lawfully in possession of the property.
      2.   Public Property: Criminal damage to public property consists of
intentionally damaging to a value of less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
any real or personal property of the Village, County, State or United States
government, without the consent of the owner thereof. (1976 Code § 5-1-24)
   B.   Destruction, Defacing And Injury: It shall be unlawful to wilfully
injure, deface or destroy any building or fixture thereof; to injure, destroy
or secrete any goods, chattels or valuable papers of another; to prepare any
deadfall or dig any pit, or arrange any trap to injure another's person or
property; to take down, injure or remove any monument, street sign; to injure
or destroy any fence or any shade or fruit tree, or any kind of public or
private property; to deface any sidewalk. (1976 Code § 5-1-30)
5-2-20: DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   Drinking in public places consists of drinking or consuming alcoholic
beverages or beer (as the terms are defined in section 60-3A-3, New Mexico
Statutes Annotated, as amended) in or on any public place, private club, key
club, whether operated for profit or not, or on a parking lot adjacent to an
establishment licensed to dispense alcoholic liquors; provided, that this
Section shall not apply to establishments having a license to dispense
alcoholic liquors nor to any public event on village property as authorized by
the Board of Trustees of the Village of Cloudcroft.
(1976 Code § 5-1-25; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 401, 2-14-2023)
5-2-21: AIDING AN ILLEGAL ACTIVITY:
Aiding an illegal activity consists of either:
   A.   Being found in any place where gambling or prostitution is being
conducted, with knowledge of such activity; or
   B.   Giving or attempting to give any signal intended to or calculated to
warn or give warning of the approach of any public safety officer to any person
in or about any building, trailer, motor vehicle, premises or establishment
used for any illegal activity or where any illegal activity is being conducted.
(1976 Code § 5-1-26)
5-2-22: LARCENY; SHOPLIFTING:
   A.   Definitions:
   MERCHANDISE: Chattels of any type or description of the value of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) or less offered for sale in or about a store.
   MERCHANT: Any owner or proprietor of any store or any agent, servant or
employee of the owner or proprietor.
   STORE: A place where merchandise is sold or offered to the public for sale
at retail.
   B.   Petty Larceny: Petty larceny consists of the stealing of anything of
value of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or less which belongs to another.
   C.   Shoplifting: Shoplifting consists of any one or combination of the
following acts:
      1.   Wilfully taking possession of any merchandise with the intention of
converting it without paying for it.
      2.   Wilfully concealing any merchandise with the intention of converting
it without paying for it.
      3.   Wilfully altering any label, price tag or marking upon any
merchandise with the intention of depriving the merchant of all or some part of
the value of it.
      4.   Wilfully transferring any merchandise from the container in or on
which it is displayed to any other container with the intention of depriving
the merchant of all or some part of the value of it.
   D.   Presumption Created: Any person who wilfully conceals merchandise on
his person or on the person of another or among his belongings or the
belongings of another or on or outside the premises of the store shall be prima
facie presumed to have concealed the merchandise with the intention of
converting it without paying for it. If any merchandise is found concealed upon
any person or among his belongings it shall be prima facie evidence of wilful
concealment.
   E.   Reasonable Detention: If any public safety officer, special officer or
merchant has probable cause for believing that a person has wilfully taken
possession of any merchandise with the intention of converting it without
paying for it, or has wilfully concealed merchandise and that he can recover
the merchandise by detaining the person or taking him into custody, public
safety officers, special officers or merchants may for the purpose of
attempting to effect a recovery of the merchandise take a person into custody
and detain him in a reasonable manner for a reasonable time. (1976 Code § 5-1-
27)
5-2-23: RECREATION IN RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Recreation Equipment: It is unlawful to sled, ski or toboggan, or
operate a snowmobile on, over or across the streets, alleys, and rights of way
of the village, except as may be provided in this code. Every person who rents
sleds, skis, toboggans or snowmobiles within the village shall inform all
persons renting the equipment that sledding, skiing or tobogganing on, over or
across village streets, alleys and rights of way is prohibited.
   B.   Horses: No person shall ride a horse, except on designated bridle
trails or designated trails to and from rental stables to the approved bridle
paths. Such trails will be clearly marked and a map of approved bridle trails
shall be maintained in the village clerk-treasurer's office and it shall be
available for public inspection during the normal workweek. Where permitted,
horses shall be thoroughly broken and properly restrained and ridden with due
care, and shall not be allowed to graze or go unattended, nor shall they be
hitched to any rock, tree or shrub.
   C.   Motorcycles: No person shall operate a motorcycle in the village unless
such person is riding on a highway, street or upon a private roadway or
driveway. No person shall operate a motorcycle on any trail unless such trail
has been designated by the board of trustees as an approved motorcycle trail.
An approved motorcycle trail will be marked as to its boundaries. A map of
approved motorcycle trails shall be maintained by the village clerk-treasurer
and shall be available for inspection by the public during normal work hours.
(1976 Code § 5-1-29)
5-2-24: SNOWMOBILE OPERATION:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section:
   DIRECT SUPERVISION: Having immediate physical and verbal control of the
minor operating the snowmobile.
   OPERATOR: Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER: Any person, other than a lienholder holding title by a bill of sale
or other proof of ownership of a snowmobile or person having a leasehold
interest in any snowmobile.
   SNOWMOBILE: Every motorized vehicle designed for operation on snow or ice,
principally for recreational purposes, which uses sled type runners or skis and
an endless belt tract, or a similar means of contact with the surface upon
which it is operated, but does not include any farm implement or any military,
law enforcement or emergency vehicle.
   B.   Operation Upon Streets:
      1.   Limited Areas: It shall be unlawful to operate a snowmobile on Burro
Avenue between Glorietta Avenue and Swallow Place, in the village parks and on
any street posted "no snowmobiles permitted".
      2.   Right Shoulder Of Road: Where permitted, snowmobiles must operate on
the extreme right shoulder of the road in the direction of travel of the
vehicle and in single file with other snowmobiles traveling in the same
direction, and in such a manner as to not obstruct traffic; provided however,
that such operation shall not be permitted on any road which is posted "no
snowmobiles permitted".
   C.   Crossing Streets: Snowmobiles may cross streets and highways only if
such crossing is made after coming to a complete stop prior to entering the
roadway and after yielding the right of way to oncoming traffic, and only when
such a crossing can be made in a safe manner and then only in the most direct
manner as close to a perpendicular angle to the usual direction of traffic as
possible.
   D.   Speed Limit: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
snowmobile in excess of the posted speed limit any place within the corporate
limits of the village.
   E.   Traffic Regulations Applicable: All traffic regulations contained in
the motor vehicles and traffic title 1  of this code not inconsistent with the
provisions of this section are hereby declared to be applicable to the
operation of snowmobiles within the corporate limits of the village.
   F.   Yield Right Of Way: Operators of snowmobiles shall in all cases yield
the right of way to all other vehicles and pedestrians.
   G.   Towing: It shall be unlawful to tow any object or persons with a
snowmobile except a rigidly attached accessory specifically designed for towing
by a snowmobile.
   H.   Licensing; Age Limit: Operators of snowmobiles shall be required to
have a valid motor vehicle operator's license in their possession. Operators of
snowmobiles shall be at least fifteen (15) years of age; provided, that any
operator under the age of eighteen (18) must be directly supervised by an
adult.
   I.   Renting: All persons who rent snowmobiles in the village which are
intended to be operated in the village shall, prior to such rental, deliver a
copy of this section to the person renting the machine.
   J.   Registration; Insurance Required: All snowmobiles operating in the
corporate limits of the village must be registered in some state if required by
the state where the owner resides and have liability insurance which meets the
requirements for "motor vehicles" within the state.
   K.   Operation Regulations: No person shall operate a snowmobile:
      1.   In a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the person or
property of another, or to cause injury or damage to either, including a guest
or passenger.
      2.   Without a lighted headlamp and a red or amber taillight that shall
be lighted at all times during such operation.
      3.   Without a suitable braking device which may be operated by either
hand or foot.
      4.   So that the exhaust of the motor makes an excessive or unusual noise
or annoying smoke, except while participating in a sanctioned racing event.
      5.   In pursuit of any species of animal or bird protected by law.
      6.   During the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. to seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. unless by special event permit.
      7.   On all state and federal highways except as allowed in subsection C
of this section.
      8.   On private property without the permission of the owner or on
sidewalks or posted areas.
   L.   Helmets: All operators or passengers under eighteen (18) years of age
shall wear a safety helmet securely fastened to the head.
   M.   Parental Authorization: The parent or guardian of any child shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child to violate any of the provisions
of this section.
   N.   Rental Of Snowmobiles: No dealer or person who leases or rents
snowmobiles shall lease or rent a snowmobile to a person unless the lessee or
renter is in possession of a valid motor vehicle operator's license. If lessee
or renter or any passenger is under the age of eighteen (18) the dealer shall
provide a required safety helmet.
   O.   Misdemeanor For Violation: Every operator, owner or other person
violating any provision of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 321, 1-13-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6 of this code.
5-2-25: FURNISHING DRUGS OR LIQUOR TO PRISONER:
Furnishing drugs or liquor to a prisoner consists of directly or indirectly
furnishing any narcotic drug or intoxicating liquor to any person held in
lawful custody or pursuant to the direction or prescription of a regularly
licensed physician attending such person or penal facility. (1976 Code § 5-1-
31)
5-2-26: OBSCENE CONDUCT:
   A.   Defined: "Obscene", as used in this section, shall mean:
      1.   The average person, applying contemporary community standards would
find that the act or matter involved, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient
interest;
      2.   The work or act depicts or describes actual or simulated acts of
human sexual intercourse, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, masturbation,
excretory functions or lewd exhibition of the genitals; and
      3.   The work or act, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
   B.   Unlawful Acts: It shall be unlawful for a person to:
      1.   Appear in a public place naked or in an indecent or lewd form of
dress;
      2.   Make any indecent exposure of his or her person, or urinate or stool
in any place open to public view;
      3.   Be guilty of prostitution or any lewd conduct;
      4.   Utter or speak any obscene language;
      5.   Exhibit or perform any obscene play or other representation. (1976
Code § 5-1-32)
5-2-27: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
Cruelty to animals consists of torturing, tormenting, depriving of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beating, mutilating, cruelly driving or killing any animal,
unnecessarily failing to provide an animal with proper food or drink or cruelly
driving or working an animal when unfit for labor or known to be diseased.
(1976 Code § 5-1-33)
5-2-28: BICYCLE OPERATION:
   A.   Compliance Required: It is unlawful for any person to do any act
forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this Section.
   B.   Parent And Guardian Responsibility: The parent of any child and the
guardian of any ward shall not authorize or permit any such child or ward to
violate any of the provisions of this Section.
   C.   Rights And Duties Applicable: Every person riding a bicycle upon a
roadway within the Village limits shall be granted all of the rights and shall
be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this
Code, except as to special regulations in this Section and except as to those
provisions of this Code which by their nature can have no application to
bicycles.
      1.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
      2.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
      3.   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or
toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway
within the Village limits.
   D.   Operation Upon Roadway:
      1.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway within the Village
limits shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable,
exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the
same direction.
      2.   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway within the Village limits
shall not ride more than two (2) abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways
set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   E.   Carrying Packages: No person operating a bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article which prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handle bars.
   F.   Equipment Required:
      1.   Night Lights: Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type approved by the Motor Vehicle Division which
shall be visible from all distances from fifty feet (50') to three hundred feet
(300') to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of head lamps
on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
      2.   Bell: No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a
bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at
least one hundred feet (100'), except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with
nor shall any person use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
      3.   Brakes: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will
enable the operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean
pavement. (1976 Code § 5-1-34)
5-2-29: INTERFERENCE WITH COMMUNICATIONS:
   A.   Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with
communications within the Village.
   B.   Defined: As used in this Section, interference with communications
consists of knowingly:
      1.   Displacing, removing, injuring or destroying any radio station, TV
tower, antenna or cable, telegraph or telephone line, wire, cable, pole or
conduit belonging to another, or the material or property appurtenant thereto;
      2.   Cutting, breaking, tapping or making any connection with any
telegraph or telephone line, wire, cable or instrument belonging to another;
      3.   Reading, hearing, interrupting, taking or copying any message,
communication or report intended for another by telegraph or telephone without
his consent;
      4.   Preventing, obstructing or delaying the sending, transmitting,
conveying or delivering in this State of any message, communication or report
by or through telegraph or telephone; or
      5.   Using any apparatus to do or cause to be done, any of the acts
hereinbefore mentioned or to aid, agree with, comply or conspire with any
person to do, or permit to cause to be done any of the acts hereinbefore
mentioned. (1976 Code § 5-1-35)
5-2-30: INTERFERENCE AT FIRES:
Any person who shall at any fire wilfully resist, hinder or obstruct any
officer or any person in the discharge of his duties at a fire or who shall
wilfully injure any hose or apparatus belonging to the Fire Department shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, and shall be arrested and detained in the custody of the
Sheriff or any of his deputies, or the Village peace officers, until such fire
is extinguished; and any such person shall for such offense, upon affidavit
signed by any member of the Fire Department or other person in the manner
provided for by law, be brought up to trial before the Municipal Judge of the
Village. (1976 Code § 5-1-36; amd. 2000 Code)
5-2-31: MARIJUANA POSSESSION:
   A.   Definition: Marijuana includes all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa
L., whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; and every compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant or its seeds. It does not
include the mature stalks of the plant, hashish, tetrahydro-cannabinols
extracted or isolated from marijuana, fiber produced from the stalk, oil or
cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of the mature stocks (except the resin
extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake or the sterilized seed of the plant
which is capable of germination.
   B.   Unlawful Possession: Unlawful possession of marijuana consists of the
possession of marijuana which was not obtained directly from, or pursuant to, a
valid prescription, or order of a doctor of medicine while acting in the course
of his professional practice, or as otherwise authorized by law.
   C.   Penalties: Whoever unlawfully possesses marijuana shall for the first
offense be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00), nor more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and/or by imprisonment for not more than
fifteen (15) days; and for the second offense and subsequent offenses, shall be
punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more
than three hundred dollars ($300.00) and/or by imprisonment for not more than
ninety (90) days. (Ord. 110, 1982)
5-2-32: FALSELY OBTAINING SERVICES OR ACCOMMODATIONS:
Falsely obtaining services or accommodations shall be unlawful for any person
within the Village, which consists of any person obtaining any service, food,
entertainment or accommodations without paying therefor, and with the intent to
cheat or defraud the owner or persons applying such service, food,
entertainment or accommodation. (Ord. 111, 8-10-1982)
5-2-33: ISSUING WORTHLESS CHECKS:
   A.   Unlawful: It is unlawful for a person to issue in exchange for anything
of value, with intent to defraud, any check, draft or order for payment of
money upon any bank or other depository, knowing at the time of the issuing
that the offender has insufficient funds in or credit to the bank or depository
for the payment of such check, draft or order in full upon its presentation.
   B.   Exception: This Section does not apply to:
      1.   Any check where the payee or holder knows or has been expressly
notified prior to the drawing of the check or has reason to believe that the
drawer did not have on deposit or to his credit with the drawee sufficient
funds to ensure payment on its presentation; or
      2.   Any post-dated check.
   C.   Prosection; Rules Of Evidence: In the prosecution of offenses under
this Section, the following rules of evidence shall govern:
      1.   If the maker or drawer of a check, payment of which is refused by
the bank or depository upon which it is drawn because of no account in the name
of the maker or drawer in the bank, proof of the fact that the maker or drawer
had no account in the bank or depository upon which the check is drawn shall be
prima facie evidence of an intent to defraud and of knowledge of insufficient
funds in or credit with the bank or depository with which to pay the draft;
      2.   If the maker or drawer of a check, payment of which is refused by
the bank or depository upon which it is drawn because of insufficient funds or
credit in the account of the maker or drawer in the bank or depository, fails,
within three (3) business days after notice to him that the check was not
honored by the bank or depository, to pay the check in full, together with any
protest fees or costs thereon, such failure shall constitute prima facie
evidence of a knowledge of the insufficiency of funds in the bank or depository
at the time of the making or drawing of the check and of an intent to defraud.
   D.   Notice:
      1.   Notice, as used in this section, shall consist of either notice
given to the person entitled thereto in person or notice given to such person
in writing.
      2.   The notice in writing is presumed to have been given when deposited
as certified matter in the United States mail, addressed to the person at his
address as it appears on the check. (Ord. 114, 1983)
5-2-34: UNREASONABLE NOISE:
Unreasonable noise consists of creating any unreasonably loud, disturbing or
unnecessary noise of such character, intensity or duration as to be detrimental
to the repose, life or health of others, including, but not limited to, the
following specific noises if created in violation of this section:
   A.   The sounding of any horn or signaling device of any automobile,
motorcycle, truck or other vehicle on any street or public place, except as a
danger warning, which creates an unreasonable, loud or harsh sound or which
occurs for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time. This is not to
include noise caused by accident or mechanical, electrical or other difficulty
or failure;
   B.   The playing of any radio, television, phonograph, musical instrument or
other sound producing machine in such a manner or with such an unreasonable
volume as to disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any dwelling,
motel, hotel, hospital or sanatorium;
   C.   The use of any automobile, truck, bus or motorcycle so out of repair or
so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
   D.   The use of any loudspeaker, drum, whistle, bell or other instrument or
device for the purpose of attracting attention by the creation of sound to any
performance, show, sale, display of merchandise or political candidate, party
or platform without first obtaining a written permit from the mayor and chief
of police. The mayor and chief of police shall issue such permit, subject only
to such reasonable standards of noise volume and hours of operation as he or
his representative may adopt;
   E.   The creating of any excessive noise on any street which disrupts or
annoys occupants of buildings;
   F.   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, air compressor equipment, dynamic
braking device, motor vehicle, or other power device, which is not equipped
with an adequate muffler in constant operation and properly maintained to
prevent any unnecessary noise, and no such muffler or exhaust system shall be
modified or used with a cutoff, bypass, or similar device;
   G.   The use, between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. in the evening
until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following morning, of any loudspeaker or
sound amplifier connected with any radio, phonograph, microphone, or other
device by which sounds are magnified with the exception that such devices may
be permitted in connection with authorized public activities including, but not
limited to, those activities sponsored by governmental entities and public
schools and those activities permitted by the mayor and chief of police. The
mayor and chief of police shall issue a written permit subject only to such
reasonable standards of noise volume and of hours of operation as the mayor or
chief of police may require;
   H.   Operating or permitting the operation of any tools or equipment used in
construction, drilling, or demolition work between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day on weekdays or
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. the
following day on weekends or holidays, such that the sound therefrom creates a
sound which travels from one residential property to another, except for
emergency work of public service utilities or by special permit issued by the
mayor and chief of police; and
   I.   Repairing, rebuilding, modifying or testing any motor vehicle,
motorcycle or motorboat in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance across
a residential real property boundary between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day on weekdays or between the
hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. the following
day on weekends or holidays, such that the sound therefrom creates a sound
across a residential real property boundary.
   J.   For purposes of this section, "plainly audible" means any sound which
clearly can be heard, by unimpaired auditory senses based on a direct line of
sight of fifty feet (50') or more, however, words or phrases need not be
discernible and sound shall include bass reverberation.
   K.   This section shall not prohibit the normal operation of a business
located in an appropriate zone as defined in this code. (Ord. 356, 8-10-2010)
5-2-35: POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person within the village to use or possess with
intent to use drug paraphernalia, as defined in New Mexico Statutes Annotated
section 30-31-2, as amended, to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce
into the human body any controlled substance as defined in the controlled
substances act, being New Mexico Statutes Annotated chapter 30, article 31,
hereinafter referred to as the controlled substances act.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person within the village to deliver, possess
with intent to deliver or manufacture with the intent to deliver drug
paraphernalia with knowledge, or under circumstances where one reasonably
should know, that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow,
harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or
otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in violation of
the controlled substances act. (Ord. 282, 1-13-1998)
5-2-36: LITTERING:
   A.   "Refuse" means any article or substance:
      1.   Which is commonly discarded as waste; or
      2.   Which, if discarded on the ground, will create or contribute to an
unsanitary, offensive or unsightly condition.
      3.   Refuse includes, but is not limited to, the following items or
classes of items: waste food, wastepaper and paper products; cans, bottles or
other containers; junked household furnishings and equipment; junked parts or
bodies of automobiles and other metallic junk or scrap; portions or carcasses
of dead animals; and collections of ashes, dirt, yard trimmings or other
rubbish.
   B.   Littering consists of discarding or placing refuse:
      1.   On public property in any manner other than by placing the refuse in
a receptacle provided for the purpose by the responsible governmental
authorities, or otherwise in accordance with lawful direction; or
      2.   On private property not owned or lawfully occupied or controlled by
the person, except with the consent of the owner, lessee or occupant thereof.
   C.   Whoever commits littering is guilty of a petty misdemeanor. The use of
uniform traffic citations is authorized for the enforcement of this section.
The court may to the extent permitted by law, as a condition to suspension of
any other penalty provided by law, require a person who commits littering to
pick up and remove from any public place or any private property, with prior
permission of the legal owner, any litter deposited thereon.
   D.   Any jail sentence imposed pursuant to subsection C of this section may
be suspended, in the discretion of the judge, upon conditions that the offender
assist in litter cleanup in the jurisdiction for a period not to exceed the
length of the suspended sentence. (Ord. 296, 7-11-2000)
5-2-37: TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   Tampering with or damaging public utilities consists of any of the
following acts:
      1.   Connecting or attaching any kind of pipe, wire or other contrivance
to any pipe, hydrant, line, wire or other conductor carrying gas, water,
electricity, or other conveyances belonging to any such utility (whether
publicly or privately owned) in such a manner as to enable any person to
consume or use the product or services of such utility without the same passing
through a meter, without obtaining the proper permit or paying the required
fee, or in any other way so as to evade payment for such utility service;
      2.   Damaging, tampering with, adjusting, resetting or otherwise
impairing the operation of a meter for the measurement of utility service, as
described above, with intent to evade payment for such service.
      3.   Damaging, molesting, tampering with or destroying any pipe, line,
wire, meter or any other part of any utility, as described above, without
obtaining the proper permit or paying the required fee; or
      4.   Intentionally reinstating or turning on any such utility service
that has been turned off or discontinued by the utility, without obtaining the
proper permit or paying the required fee.
   B.   It is unlawful to commit the offense described in this section.
   C.   If any meter, pipe, line, wire, fixture, or other installation provided
by a particular utility primarily for the purpose of serving a particular
account is found to have been tampered with or damaged in violation of this
section, the person, corporation or other customer whose name appears in the
records of the utility affected as having applied for service or being
otherwise responsible for such account, shall be held prima facie responsible
for such violation. (Ord. 361, 2-2-2011; amd. Ord. 361-Amended, 8-11-2020)
ARTICLE A. MINORS
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Curfew
5-2A-2: Abandonment Of Children
5-2A-3: Cruelty To Children
5-2A-4: Contributing To Delinquency Of Child
5-2A-5: Tobacco Products
5-2A-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or any
other person having care or custody of a child under the age of eighteen (18)
years to permit or allow such child to be upon any public thoroughfare or any
public place without adequate supervision, on weekdays (Sunday through
Thursday) from eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and on
weekends from twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight to six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   B.   Exceptions: The restrictions contained in Subsection A of this Section
shall not apply to any child who shall be accompanied by a parent, guardian or
adult acting with the authority of the parent or any child upon any errand of
necessity or in the performance of duty directed by any parent or guardian or
other person acting with the authority of the parent or to any child attending
any school or church sponsored event or to any child coming from or going to
work.
   C.   Liability Of Parent Or Guardian: It shall be the duty of peace officers
to apprehend and take into custody any child found in violation of this
Section. Such officers shall thereupon notify the parent or guardian and such
parent or guardian shall be deemed guilty of permitting a violation of this
Section.
   D.   Procedure When Parent Or Guardian Unlocated: In the event that the
parent or guardian cannot be located, the child shall be remanded to the
custody of the proper juvenile authorities.
   E.   Violation; Penalty: For the violation of this Section, the child shall
be released to the custody of his parent or guardian or other person having
care or custody of the child, upon written promise that such parent or guardian
will assume the responsibility that said child will comply with the provisions
of this Section. The juvenile authorities shall make a written report and keep
a record of each such violation. Any parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of a child violating this Section shall be punished
in accordance with Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 276, 2-11-1997)
5-2A-2: ABANDONMENT OF CHILDREN:
   A.   Defined: Abandonment of a child under the age of eighteen (18) years
consists of the parent, guardian or custodian of a child, intentionally leaving
the child or abandoning the child under circumstances whereby the child may or
does suffer neglect, but which does not result in the death of or great bodily
harm to the child.
   B.   Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit the offense
defined in this Section. (Ord. 276, 2-11-1997)
5-2A-3: CRUELTY TO CHILDREN:
   A.   Defined: Cruelty to children consists of any parent, guardian or other
person having care or custody of any child under the age of eighteen (18)
years:
      1.   Intentionally causing or permitting:
         a.   The life of such child to be endangered; or
         b.   The health of such child to be injured; or
         c.   The morals of such child to be impaired.
      2.   Intentionally placing such child in a situation where:
         a.   The life of such child is endangered; or
         b.   The health of such child is injured; or
         c.   The morals of such child is impaired.
      3.   Wilfully torturing, tormenting or cruelly punishing or injuring such
child; or
      4.   Wilfully or negligently depriving such child of necessary food,
clothing or shelter.
   B.   Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit the offense
defined in this Section. (Ord. 276, 2-11-1997)
5-2A-4: CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF CHILD:
   A.   Defined: Contributing to the delinquency of a child consists of any
person eighteen (18) years and over committing any act, or omitting the
performance of any duty, which act or omission causes or tends to cause or
encourage the delinquency of any child under the age of eighteen (18) years.
Delinquency, as used in this Section, includes the doing of any act or the
failure to do any act which any child under the age of eighteen (18) is
required by law to do or not do.
   B.   Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit the offense
defined in this Section. (Ord. 276, 2-11-1997)
5-2A-5: TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
   A.   Child Defined: As used in this Section, child means an individual who
is less than eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   Prohibited Sales:
      1.   No person shall knowingly sell, offer to sell, barter or give any
tobacco product to any child.
      2.   No child shall procure or attempt to procure any tobacco products
for his own use or for use by any other child.
      3.   No person shall sell, offer to sell or deliver a tobacco product in
a form other than an original factory-sealed package.
   C.   Documentary Evidence Of Age And Identity: Evidence of the age and
identity of the person may be shown by any document that contains a picture of
the person issued by a Federal, state, county or municipal government,
including a motor vehicle driver's license or an identification card issued to
a member of the armed forces.
   D.   Refusal To Sell If Unable To Produce Identity Card: Any person selling
goods at retail or wholesale may refuse to sell tobacco products to any person
who is unable to produce an identity card as evidence that he is eighteen (18)
years of age or over.
   E.   Presenting False Evidence Of Age Or Identity: No child shall present
any written, printed or photostatic evidence of age or identity that is false
for the purpose of procuring or attempting to procure any tobacco products.
   F.   Vending Machines; Restrictions On Sales: Tobacco products may be sold
by vending machines in the following locations only:
      1.   In locations not held open to the public, including controlled areas
within factories, businesses and offices;
      2.   In age-controlled locations where children are not permitted until
accompanied by a parent or guardian; or
      3.   In locations where alcoholic beverages are offered for sale for the
purpose of consumption on the premises.
   G.   Distribution As Free Samples Prohibited; Exception: A person who sells,
distributes, promotes or advertises tobacco products shall not provide free
samples of tobacco products to a child; provided however, that this subsection
shall not apply to an individual who provides free samples of tobacco products
to a family member or to an acquaintance on private property not held open to
the public.
   H.   Signs; Point Of Sale: A person engaged in the sale at retail of tobacco
products shall prominently display in the place where tobacco products are sold
and where a tobacco product vending machine is located, a printed sign or decal
that reads as follows:
      A person less than 18 years of age who purchases a tobacco product is
subject to a fine of up to $1,000.00.
      A person who sells a tobacco product to a person less than 18 years of
age is subject to a fine of up to $1,000.00.
   I.   Penalty:
      1.   Adult: Any adult or corporate entity who violates any provision of
this Section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be sentenced pursuant to the
provisions of Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each violation is a separate and distinct offense.
      2.   Child: Any child who violates any provision of this Section shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) or forty eight
(48) hours of community service. (Ord. 276, 2-11-1997)
CHAPTER 3
FAIR HOUSING AND NONDISCRIMINATION
SECTION:
5-3-1: Policy
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Administration
5-3-4: Enforcement
5-3-5: Unlawful Practice
5-3-6: Sale Or Rental Of Housing
5-3-7: Residential Real Estate Related Transactions
5-3-8: Brokerage Services
5-3-9: Exemptions
5-3-10: Education And Conciliation
5-3-11: Investigations; Subpoenas, Giving Of Evidence
5-3-12: Interference, Coercion Or Intimidation
5-3-13: Intimidation In Fair Housing
5-3-14: Separability Of Provisions
5-3-1: POLICY:
It is the policy of the village of Cloudcroft to provide, within constitution
limitations, for fair housing throughout the village of Cloudcroft. (Ord. 326,
4-13-2004)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   AGGRIEVED PERSON: Includes any person who:
   A.   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice; or
   B.   Believes that they will be injured by a discriminatory housing practice
that is about to occur.
   CHIEF ELECTED OFFICIAL: The person who holds the highest elected position of
the local unit of government and who is signatory to the small cities community
development block grant agreement with the local government division.
   COMPLAINANT: The person (including the chief elected official) who files a
complaint under section
5-3-4 of this chapter.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: An act that is unlawful under section
 5-3-6,
5-3-7 or
5-3-8 of this chapter.
   DWELLING: Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILIAL STATUS: One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of
18 years) being domiciled with:
   A.   A parent or another person having legal custody of such individual or
individuals; or
   B.   The designee of such parent or other person having such custody, with
the written permission of such parent or other person.
The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status
shall apply to any person who is pregnant, or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of eighteen (18)
years.
   FAMILY: Includes a single individual.
   HANDICAP: With respect to a person:
   A.   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or more
of such person's major life activities;
   B.   A record of having such an impairment; or
   C.   Being regarded as having such an impairment, but such term does not
include current, illegal use of or addiction to, a controlled substance (as
defined in section 102 of the controlled substances act [21 USC 802]).
   PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   RESPONDENT: A. The person or other entity accused in a complaint of an
unfair housing practice; and
   B.   Any other person or entity identified in the course of investigation
and notified as required with respect to respondents so identified under
section
5-3-4 of this chapter.
TO RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant. (Ord. 326, 4-
13-2004)
5-3-3: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the chief elected official of the village of Cloudcroft.
   B.   The chief elected official may delegate any of these functions, duties
and powers to employees of the village of Cloudcroft or to boards of such
employees, including functions, duties and powers with respect to
investigating, conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying,
reporting or otherwise acting as to any work, business or matter under this
chapter. The chief elected official shall by rule prescribe such rights of
appeal from the decisions of their hearing examiners, to other hearing
examiners or to other officers in the village of Cloudcroft, to boards of
officers or to themselves, as shall be appropriate and in accordance with law.
   C.   All village of Cloudcroft departments and agencies shall administer
their programs and activities relating to housing and community development in
a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall
cooperate with the chief elected official to further such purposes. (Ord. 326,
4-13-2004)
5-3-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Village:
      1.   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory
housing practice or who believes that they will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereinafter "aggrieved
person") may file a complaint with the chief elected official. Complaints shall
be in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as the
chief elected official requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the chief
elected official shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or persons who
have committed, or are about to commit, the alleged discriminatory housing
practice. Within thirty (30) days after receiving a complaint or within thirty
(30) days after the expiration of any period of reference under subsection A3
of this section, the chief elected official shall investigate the complaint and
give notice in writing to the aggrieved person whether they intend to resolve
it. If the chief elected official decides to resolve the complaints, they shall
proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing
practice by informal methods of conference, conciliation and persuasion.
Nothing said or done in the course of such informal endeavors may be made
public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this chapter
without the written consent of the persons concerned. Any employee of the chief
elected official who shall make public any information in violation of this
provision shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned for
not more than one year.
      2.   A complaint under subsection A1 of this section shall be filed
within one hundred eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing
practice occurred. Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts
upon which the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based.
Complaints may be reasonably and fairly amended at any time. A respondent may
file an answer to the complaint against him and with the leave of the chief
elected official, which shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and
fair to do so, may amend his answer at any time. Both complaints and answers
shall be verified.
      3.   If within thirty (30) days after a complaint is filed with the chief
elected official, the chief elected official has been unable to obtain
voluntary compliance with this chapter, the aggrieved person may, within thirty
(30) days thereafter, file a complaint with the secretary of the department of
housing and urban development. The chief elected official will assist in this
filing.
      4.   If the chief elected official has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within thirty (30) days of the complaint, the aggrieved person may,
within thirty (30) days thereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate
court, against the respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights
granted or protected by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the
subject of the complaint. If the court finds that a discriminatory housing
practice has occurred or is about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent
from engaging in such practice or order such affirmative action as may be
appropriate.
      5.   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
      6.   Whenever an action filed by an individual comes to trial, the chief
elected official shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary
compliance.
   B.   Private Persons:
      1.   The rights granted by sections
5-3-5 through
5-3-8 of this chapter may be enforced by civil actions in the appropriate
United States district, state or local court. A civil action shall be commenced
within one hundred eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing
practice occurred; provided, however, that the court shall continue such civil
case brought pursuant to this section or subsection A4 of this section from
time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes that the
conciliation efforts of the chief elected official are likely to result in
satisfactory settlement of the alleged discriminatory housing practice
complained of in the complaint made to the chief elected official and which
practice forms the basis for the action in court; and provided, however, that
any sale, encumbrance or rental consummated prior to the issuance of any court
order issued under the authority of this chapter and involving a bona fide
purchaser, encumbrancer or tenant without actual notice of the filing of a
complaint or civil action under the provisions of this chapter shall not be
affected.
      2.   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any
permanent or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order
and may award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) punitive damages, together with court costs and reasonable
attorney fees in the case of a prevailing plaintiff; provided, that the said
plaintiff in the opinion of the court is not financially able to assume said
attorney fees. (Ord. 326, 4-13-2004)
5-3-5: UNLAWFUL PRACTICE:
Subject to the provisions of subsection B of this section and section
 5-3-9 of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in section
5-3-6 of this chapter shall apply to:
   A.   All dwellings except as exempted by subsection B of this section.
   B.   Nothing in section
5-3-6 of this chapter shall apply to:
      1.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three (3) such single-
family houses at any one time; provided, further, that in the case of the sale
of any such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in
such house at the time of such sale, or who was not the most recent resident of
such house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this subsection shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any twenty four (24) month
period. Provided, further, that such bona fide private individual owner does
not own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under
any express or voluntary agreement, title to, or any right to all or a portion
of the proceeds from the sale or right to all or a portion of the proceeds from
the sale or rental of, more than three (3) such single-family houses at any one
time. Provided, further, that the sale or rental of any such single-family
house shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only if such house
is sold or rented:
         a.   Without the use in any manner of the sale or rental facilities or
the sale or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or
of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent,
salesperson or person; and
         b.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of subsection
5-3-6C of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      2.   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as their residence.
   C.   For the purposes of subsection B of this section, a person shall be
deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      1.   They have, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      2.   They have, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of their own personal residence, in providing
sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      3.   They are the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five (5) or more families. (Ord. 326, 4-13-2004)
5-3-6: SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING:
As made applicable by section
5-3-5 of this chapter and except as exempted by subsection
5-3-5B and section
5-3-9 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   A.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   B.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   C.   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published,
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   D.   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   E.   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin. (Ord. 326, 4-13-2004)
5-3-7: RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE RELATED TRANSACTIONS:
   A.   In General: It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose
business includes engaging in residential real estate related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   B.   Definition: As used in this section, the term "residential real estate
related transaction" means any of the following:
      1.   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         a.   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining
a dwelling; or
         b.   Secured by residential real estate.
      2.   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   C.   Appraisal Exemption: Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged
in the business of furnishing appraisals of real property to take into
consideration factors other than race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial
status or national origin. (Ord. 326, 4-13-2004)
5-3-8: BROKERAGE SERVICES:
It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against them in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin. (Ord. 326, 4-13-
2004)
5-3-9: EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association or
society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised or
controlled by, or in conjunction with, a religious organization, association or
society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, color, national origin or handicap.
Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to
the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members. (Ord. 326, 4-13-2004)
5-3-10: EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION:
Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the chief elected official
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this chapter. They shall call conferences of persons in the housing
industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of
this chapter and the suggested means of implementing it and shall endeavor with
their advice to work out programs of voluntary compliance and enforcement.
(Ord. 326, 4-13-2004)
5-3-11: INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS, GIVING OF EVIDENCE:
   A.   In conducting an investigation, the chief elected official shall have
access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and
other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and copy
such materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such persons
as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided,
however, that the chief elected official first complies with the provisions of
the fourth amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The chief
elected official may issue subpoenas to compel their access to, or the
production of, such material, or the appearance of such persons and may issue
interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject to the same
limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or
served in aid of a civil action in the United States district court for the
district in which the investigation is taking place. The chief elected official
may administer oaths.
   B.   Upon written application to the chief elected official, a respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in
the name of the chief elected official to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued by the chief elected official. Subpoenas
issued at the request of a respondent shall show on their face the name and
address of such respondent and shall state that they were issued at their
request.
   C.   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the chief elected official shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States district court. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by the respondent.
   D.   Within five (5) days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the chief elected official to revoke or modify the
subpoena. The chief elected official shall grant the petition if they find that
the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at any unreasonable time or
place, that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to any
matter under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient
particularity the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly
onerous, or for other good reason.
   E.   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena the chief elected
official, or other person at whose request it was issued, may petition for its
enforcement in the municipal or state court for the district in which the
person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served or transacts
business.
   F.   Any person who wilfully fails or neglects to attend and testify, or to
answer any lawful inquiry, or to produce records, documents or other evidence,
if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order of the
chief elected official shall be fined not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both. Any person who,
with intent thereby to mislead the chief elected official, shall make or cause
to be made any false entry or statement of fact in any report, account, record
or other document submitted to the chief elected official pursuant to his
subpoena or other order, or shall wilfully neglect or fail to make or cause to
be made full, true and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records or
other documents, or shall wilfully mutilate, alter or by any other means
falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
   G.   The village of Cloudcroft attorney shall conduct all litigation in
which the chief elected official participates as a party or as amicus pursuant
to this chapter. (Ord. 326, 4-13-2004)
5-3-12: INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION:
It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by sections
5-3-5 through
5-3-8 of this chapter. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action. (Ord. 326, 4-13-2004)
5-3-13: INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING:
Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of force
wilfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   A.   Any person because of their race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because they are or have been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or negotiating for the
sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or applying
for or participating in any service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   B.   Any person because they are or have been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      1.   Participating, without discrimination because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection A of
this section; or
      2.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so as to participate; or
   C.   Any citizen because they are or have been, or in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection A of
this section, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to so participate, shall be fined not more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not more than one year or
both; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00), or imprisoned for not more than ten (10) years or both;
and if death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or
for life and/or to other applicable local/state/federal laws. (Ord. 326, 4-13-
2004)
5-3-14: SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the chapter and the application
of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other
circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 326, 4-13-2004)
CHAPTER 4
FIRE AND SMOKING RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Declaration Of Conditions
5-4-2: Conditions Specified
5-4-3: Posting Of Resolution And Level In Effect
5-4-4: Exemptions
5-4-5: Penalty
5-4-1: DECLARATION OF CONDITIONS:
The village board of trustees, during certain periods of time when varying
conditions of fire hazard exist, may declare by resolution the existence of a
specific condition level of fire hazard as set forth herein and in such
resolution may authorize the adjustment of levels by the mayor as conditions
warrant by subsequent posting pursuant to section
5-4-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 350, 5-12-2009)
5-4-2: CONDITIONS SPECIFIED:
   A.   Level One Condition: It shall be unlawful during a level one condition
outside of a fully enclosed permanent structure, camp trailer or mobile home,
to build, maintain, attend or use a fire, campfire, charcoal broiler or grill
producing an open flame.
   B.   Level Two Condition:
      1.   It shall be unlawful during a level two condition outside of a fully
enclosed permanent structure, camp trailer or mobile home, to build, maintain,
attend or use a fire, campfire, charcoal broiler or grill producing an open
flame.
      2.   It shall be unlawful during a level two condition to smoke outdoors
in any area that is not entirely free of combustible materials for a three foot
(3') radius from the person smoking.
      3.   It shall be unlawful during a level two condition to operate a two
(2) cycle internal combustion engine which is not equipped with a USDA approved
spark arrestor or fire mesh.
   C.   Level Three Condition:
      1.   It shall be unlawful during a level three condition outside of a
fully enclosed permanent structure, camp trailer or mobile home, to build,
maintain, attend or use a fire, campfire, charcoal broiler or grill producing
an open flame.
      2.   It shall be unlawful during a level three condition outside of a
fully enclosed permanent structure, camp trailer or mobile home, to build,
maintain, attend or use any grill or stove producing an open flame using
propane and petroleum fuels or coal or wood stove, or maintain any lighting
device using propane or petroleum fuel.
      3.   It shall be unlawful during a level three condition to smoke except
in a vehicle or fully enclosed building.
      4.   It shall be unlawful during a level three condition to operate a two
(2) cycle internal combustion engine which is not equipped with a USDA approved
spark arrestor or fire mesh.
   D.   Level Four Condition:
      1.   It shall be unlawful during a level four condition outside of a
fully enclosed permanent structure, camp trailer or mobile home to build,
maintain, attend or use a fire, campfire, charcoal broiler or grill producing
an open flame.
      2.   It shall be unlawful during a level four condition outside of a
fully enclosed permanent structure, camp trailer or mobile home, to build,
maintain, attend or use any grill or stove producing an open flame using
propane and petroleum fuels or coal or wood stove, or maintain any lighting
device using propane or petroleum fuel.
      3.   It shall be unlawful during a level four condition to smoke except
in a vehicle or fully enclosed building.
      4.   It shall be unlawful during a level four condition to operate a two
(2) cycle internal combustion engine (e.g., chain saw, lawn mower, line
trimmer, leaf blower). (Ord. 350, 5-12-2009)
5-4-3: POSTING OF RESOLUTION AND LEVEL IN EFFECT:
Such resolution, when adopted, shall be posted in at least six (6) public
places in the village of Cloudcroft and shall be effective immediately upon
such posting, and shall remain in effect until such resolution is either
rescinded or superseded by another resolution of the board of trustees or
posting of an adjustment of the level by the mayor. No further notice shall be
required to charge a violation of this chapter. The notice provisions of
section
4-2A-4 of this code do not apply to the enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 350,
5-12-2009)
5-4-4: EXEMPTIONS:
Exempt from this chapter is any federal, state or local officer or member of an
organization or firefighting force doing any act prohibited herein in the
performance of an official duty. (Ord. 272, 6-6-1996, eff. 6-6-1996)
5-4-5: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any provisions of this chapter may be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 272, 6-6-1996, eff. 6-6-1996; amd. 2000 Code)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Code Adopted By Reference
6-1-2: Penalty Assessment Program
6-1-3: Penalty Assessment Misdemeanors; Option; Effect
6-1-4: Traffic Control Devices
6-1-5: Ordinance Available For Inspection
6-1-6: Copies Of Ordinances
6-1-1: CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the 2010 New Mexico
Uniform Traffic Ordinance, being a traffic code, together with all of the
amendments and revisions thereto through July 2019 is adopted by reference
pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978, section 3-17-6.
   B.   The following sections of the 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance
are amended or adopted to read as follows:
Section 12-1-2.1 is amended to read as follows:
12-1-2.1 Access Aisle.
"Access aisle" means a space designed to allow a person with a significant
mobility limitation to safely exit and enter a motor vehicle that is
immediately adjacent to a designated parking space for persons with significant
mobility limitations and that may be common to two such parking spaces of at
least sixty inches in width or, if the parking space is designed for van
accessibility, ninety-six inches in width and clearly marked and maintained
with blue striping, and after January 1, 2011 the words "NO PARKING" in capital
letters, each of which shall be at least one foot high and at least two inches
wide, placed at the rear of the access aisle so as to be close to where an
adjacent vehicle's rear tires would be placed (66-1-4.1 NMSA 1978).
Section 12-6-1.2 A. (2) is amended to read as follows:
      (2)   20 mph in any business or residential district, or
Section 12-6-6.1A is amended by adding a new subpart (17) as follows:
12-6-6.1 Stopping, Standing Or Parking Prohibited In Specific Places.
   A.   (17) at any place which obstructs entrance into the garage doors of the
fire station.
Section 12-6-15 is hereby amended to read as follows:
12-6-15 Preference To Vehicles Upon Streets.
   A.   The provisions of article VI of the 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic
ordinance relating to the operation of vehicles, refer exclusively to the
operation of vehicles upon the streets or highways, except where a different
place is specifically referred to in a given section.
   B.   The provisions of article IV of the 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic
ordinance, section 12-6-12.1 thru 12-6-12.3, section 12-6-4, section 12-6-5.7,
section 12-6-12.4, section 12-6-12.9, section 12-6-13.8, section 12-9-9 and
section 12-6-12.7 of the 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance shall apply
upon the streets and highways and in privately owned parking lots throughout
this municipality which are open to the public as a matter of course as
business invitees.
Section 12-8-5 is amended to read as follows:
12-8-5 Riding On Streets And Bicycle Paths.
   A.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a street shall ride as near to
the right side of the street as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction (66-3-705 NMSA 1978).
It shall not be considered practicable to ride as near to the right side of the
street under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding
in the same direction;
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or roadway;
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions including, but not
limited to, fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, bicycles,
pedestrians, animals, surface hazards, or substandard width lanes that make it
unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge. For purposes of this
section, a "substandard width lane" is a lane that is too narrow for a bicycle
and vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane;
      (4)   When operating a bicycle or a moped upon a one-way highway with two
or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-hand curb or edge of
such roadway as practicable.
   B.   Persons riding bicycles upon a street shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of streets set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles (66-3-705 NMSA).
Section 12-12-1.1 is amended to read as follows:
12-12-1.1 Maximum Penalty.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided in the 2010 New Mexico uniform
traffic ordinance or as otherwise provided by state law, every person convicted
of a violation of any provision of the 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic
ordinance shall be punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) or by imprisonment for not more than ninety days or by both such fine
and imprisonment.
   C.   The following 2013 amendments to sections of the 2010 New Mexico
uniform traffic ordinance are amended or adopted to read as follows:
Section 12-6-12.6 is amended to read as follows:
12-6-12.6 Unlawful Use Of License; Driving When Privilege To Do So Has Been
Suspended Or Revoked.
No person shall:
   A.   (1) Display or cause or permit to be displayed or have in his
possession any canceled, revoked or suspended driver's license or permit;
      (2)   Lend his driver's license or permit to any other person or
knowingly permit the use thereof by another;
      (3)   Display or represent as one's own any driver's license or permit
not issued to him;
      (4)   Fail or refuse to surrender to the court upon its lawful demand any
driver's license or permit which has been suspended, revoked or canceled;
      (5)   Permit any unlawful use of driver's license or permit issued to him
(66-5-37 NMSA 1978);
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle on any public street or highway at a time
when his privilege to do so is suspended and who knows or should have known
that his license was suspended. Upon conviction, the person shall be punished
by imprisonment for not less than four days nor more than ninety days or
participation for an equivalent period of time in a certified alternative
sentencing program, and there may be imposed in addition a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). When a person pays any or all of the cost
of participating in a certified alternative sentencing program, the court may
apply that payment as a deduction to any fine imposed by the court (66-5-39
NMSA 1978).
      (7)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway of this state at a time when the
person's privilege to do so is revoked and who knows or should have known that
the person's license was revoked is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
charged with a violation of this section. Upon conviction, the person shall be
punished, notwithstanding the provisions of sec. 31-18-13 NMSA 1978, by
imprisonment for not less than four days or more than ninety days or by
participation for an equivalent period of time in a certified alternative
sentencing program, and there may be imposed in addition a fine of not more
than $500. When a person pays any or all of the cost of participating in a
certified alternative sentencing program, the court may apply that payment as a
deduction to any fine imposed by the court; and
      (8)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law for suspension or
deferment of execution of a sentence, if the person's privilege to drive was
revoked for driving under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs or a
violation of the implied consent act, upon conviction shall be punished by
imprisonment for not less than seven consecutive days and shall be fined not
less than three hundred dollars ($300) and not more than five hundred dollars
($500) and the fine and imprisonment shall not be suspended, deferred or taken
under advisement. No other disposition by plea of guilty to any other charge in
satisfaction of a charge under this section shall be authorized if the person's
privilege to drive was revoked for driving under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or drugs or a violation of the implied consent act (66-5-39.1 NMSA
1978).
   B.   In addition to any other penalties imposed pursuant to the provisions
of this section, when a person is convicted pursuant to the provisions of this
section, the motor vehicle the person was driving shall be immobilized by an
immobilization device for thirty days, unless immobilization of the motor
vehicle poses an imminent danger to the health, safety or employment of the
convicted person's immediate family or the family of the owner of the motor
vehicle. The convicted person shall bear the cost of immobilizing the motor
vehicle (66-5-39.1 NMSA 1978).
Section 12-12-3 is amended to read as follows:
12-12-3 Conduct Of Arresting Officer--Notices By Citation.
   A.   Except as provided in section 12-12-5, unless a penalty assessment or
warning notice is given, whenever a person is arrested for any violation of
this ordinance or other law relating to motor vehicles punishable as a
misdemeanor, the arresting officer, using the uniform traffic citation in paper
or electronic form, shall complete the information section and prepare a notice
to appear in court, specifying the time and place to appear, have the arrested
person sign the agreement to appear as specified, give a copy of the citation
to the arrested person and release him from custody.
   B.   Whenever a person is arrested for violation of a penalty assessment
misdemeanor and elects to pay the penalty assessment, the arresting officer,
using the uniform traffic citation in paper or electronic form, shall complete
the information section and prepare the penalty assessment notice indicating
the amount of the penalty assessment, have the arrested person sign the
agreement to pay the amount prescribed, give a copy of the citation along with
a business reply envelope addressed to the municipal court with jurisdiction
and release him from custody. No officer shall accept custody or payment of any
penalty assessment. If the arrested person declines to accept a penalty
assessment notice, the officer shall issue a notice to appear (66-8-123B NMSA
1978).
   C.   The arresting officer may issue a warning notice, but shall fill in the
information section of the uniform traffic citation in paper or electronic form
and give a copy to the arrested person after requiring his signature on the
warning notice as an acknowledgment of receipt. No warning notice issued under
this section shall be used as evidence of conviction for purposes of suspension
or revocation of license under section 66-5-30 NMSA 1978.
   D.   In order to secure his release, the arrested person must give his
written promise to appear in court, or to pay the penalty assessment prescribed
or acknowledge receipt of a warning notice.
   E.   Any officer violating this section is guilty of misconduct in office
and is subject to removal (66-8-123 NMSA 1978).
   F.   An electronic traffic citation, prescribed by sec. 12-12-3.1, is an
electronic version of the uniform traffic citation. For the purposes of this
section, an electronic citation may be completed instead of a uniform traffic
citation; provided, however, that where this section requires a copy of a
citation to be given to an arrested person, a physical copy of the citation
shall be provided whether a uniform traffic citation or an electronic form of
the uniform traffic citation was used. An electronic form of the uniform
traffic citation may be signed electronically.
A new section 12-12-3.1 is adopted to read as follows:
12-12-3.1 Electronic Uniform Traffic Citation.
   A.   An electronic version of a uniform traffic citation shall include the
same information required to be included in a uniform traffic citation. An
electronic version of a uniform traffic citation may be signed electronically
and a law enforcement officer may submit or file with a court an electronic
version of a uniform traffic citation if prior permission of the department has
been secured. Where the law requires a law enforcement officer to provide a
copy of a citation to a person cited or arrested, a physical copy of the
citation shall be provided regardless of whether a paper uniform traffic
citation or an electronic version of a uniform traffic citation was used (66-8-
128 NMSA 1978).
A new section 12-12-11 is adopted to read as follows:
12-12-11 Abstract Of Traffic Cases-Report On Convictions.
   A.   Every municipal judge shall keep a record of every traffic complaint,
uniform traffic citation and other form of traffic charge filed in the judge's
court or its traffic violations bureau and every official action and
disposition of the charge by that court. The court shall notify the department
if a defendant fails to appear on a charge of violating the motor vehicle code
or other law or ordinance relating to motor vehicles.
   B.   Within ten days of the later of entry of a final disposition on a
conviction for violation of this ordinance or other law or ordinance relating
to motor vehicles or the final decision of any higher court that reviews the
matter and from which no appeal or review is successfully taken, every
municipal judge, including children's court judges, or the clerk of the court
in which the entry of the final disposition occurred shall prepare and forward
to the department an abstract of the record containing the name and address of
the defendant; the specific section number and common name of the provision of
the local law, ordinance or regulation under which the defendant was tried; the
plea, finding of the court and disposition of the charge, including fine or
jail sentence or both; total costs assessed to the defendant; the date of the
hearing; the court's name and address; whether defendant was a first or
subsequent offender; and whether the defendant was represented by counsel or
waived his right to counsel and, if represented, the name and address of
counsel.
   C.   The abstract of record prepared and forwarded under subsection B of
this section shall be certified as correct by the person required to prepare
it. With the prior approval of the department, the information required in
subsection B of this section may be transmitted electronically to the
department. Report need not be made of any disposition of a charge of illegal
parking or standing of a vehicle except when the uniform traffic citation is
used.
   D.   When the uniform traffic citation is used, the court shall provide the
information required in subsection B of this section in the manner prescribed
by the director. A copy of each penalty assessment processed shall be forwarded
to the division within ten (10) days of completion of local processing for
posting to the driver's record. With the prior approval of the director, the
required information may be submitted to the division by electronic means in
lieu of forwarding copies of the penalty assessments.
   E.   The willful failure or refusal of any judicial officer to comply with
this section is misconduct in office and grounds for removal (66-8-135 NMSA
1978).
   D.   Section 12-6-18 of the 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance is
adopted to read as follows:
12-6-18 Texting While Driving.
   A.   A person shall not read or view a text message or manually type on a
handheld mobile communication device for any purpose while driving a motor
vehicle, except to summon medical or other emergency help or unless that device
is an amateur radio and the driver holds a valid amateur radio operator license
issued by the federal communications commission.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall not be construed as authorizing
the seizure or forfeiture of a handheld mobile communications device. Unless
otherwise provided by law, the handheld mobile communication device used in the
violation of the provisions of this section is not subject to search by a law
enforcement officer during a traffic stop made pursuant to the provisions of
this section.
   C.   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Driving" means being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
on a highway or street and includes being temporarily stopped because of
traffic, a traffic light or stop sign or otherwise, but "driving" excludes
operating a motor vehicle when the vehicle has pulled over to the side of or
off an active roadway and has stopped at a location in which it can remain
safely stationary;
      (2)   "Handheld mobile communication device" means a wireless
communications device that is designed to receive and transmit text or image
messages, but "handheld mobile communications device" excludes global
positioning or navigation systems, devices that are physically or
electronically integrated into a motor vehicle and voice-operated or hands-free
devices that allow the user to compose, send or read a text message without the
use of a hand except to activate, deactivate or initiate a feature or function;
and
      (3)   "Text message" means a digital communication transmitted or
intended to be transmitted between communication devices and includes
electronic mail, an instant message, a text or image communication and a
command or request to an internet site; but "text message" excludes
communications through the use of a computer-aided dispatch service by law
enforcement or rescue personnel.
   D.   A violation of provisions of this section is punishable by a fine of
$25 for a first violation and $50 for a second or subsequent violation.
   E.   The following 2015 amendments to sections of the New Mexico uniform
traffic ordinance are amended or adopted to read as follows: (Ord. 368, 12-8-
2015)
A new section 12-1-5.1 of the 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance is
adopted and has been amended as stated in subsection F of this section.
Section 12-1-37 of the 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance is amended to
read as follows:
12-1-37 Motorcycles.
"Motorcycle" means every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of
the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with
the ground, including autocycles and excluding a tractor (66-1-4.11 NMSA 1978).
Section 12-7-6 of the 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance is amended to
read as follows:
12-7-6 Mandatory Use Of Protective Helmet.
   A.   No person under the age of eighteen shall operate a motorcycle unless
he is wearing a safety helmet securely fastened on his head in a normal manner
as headgear and meeting the standards authorized by 66-7-356 NMSA 1978. No
dealer or person who leases or rents motorcycles shall lease or rent a
motorcycle to a person under the age of eighteen unless the lessee or renter
shows such person a valid operator's license or permit and possesses the safety
equipment required of an operator who is under the age of eighteen. No person
shall carry any passenger under the age of eighteen on any motorcycle unless
the passenger is wearing a securely fastened safety helmet, as specified in
this section, meeting the standards specified by the director.
   B.   Failure to wear a safety helmet as required in this section shall not
constitute contributory negligence.
   C.   Autocycles are exempted from the helmet provisions of this section (66-
7-356 NMSA 1978).
A new section 12-7-8.1 of the 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance is
adopted to read as follows:
12-7-8.1 Motorcycle Endorsement Not Required For Autocycle Operation.
Autocycles shall be registered as motorcycles and proof of financial
responsibility may characterize them as motorcycles, but a driver shall not be
required to have a motorcycle endorsement to operate an autocycle (66-3-1.4
NMSA 1978).
   F.   The following 2017 amendments to sections of the New Mexico uniform
traffic ordinance are amended or adopted to read as follows:
Section 12-1-5.1 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended to
read as follows:
12-1-5.1 Autocycle.
"Autocycle" means a three-wheeled motorcycle on which the driver and all
passengers ride in a completely or partially enclosed, seating area and is
manufactured to comply with all applicable federal standards, regulations and
laws and is equipped with:
      (1)   non-straddle seating;
      (2)   rollover protection;
      (3)   safety belts for all occupants;
      (4)   antilock brakes;
      (5)   a steering wheel; and
      (6)   pedals. (66-1-4.1 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-1-67 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended to
read as follows:
12-1-67 School Bus.
"School Bus" means any motor vehicle operating under the jurisdiction of the
state board of education or private school or parochial school interests which
is used to transport children, students or teachers to and from schools or to
and from any school activity, but not including any vehicle:
      (1)   operated by a common carrier, subject to and meeting all
requirements of the state corporation commission but not used exclusively for
the transportation of students;
      (2)   operated solely by a government-owned transit authority, if the
transit authority meets all safety requirements of the state corporation
commission but is not used exclusively for transportation of students; or
      (3)   operated as a per capita feeder as defined in Section 22-16-6 NMSA
1978; or
      (4)   that is a minimum six-passenger, full-size, extended-length, sport
utility vehicle operated by a school district employee pursuant to Subsection D
of Section 22-16-4 NMSA 1978. (66-1-4.16 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-6-7.4 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended to
read as follows:
12-6-7.4 Operation Of Vehicle On Approach Of Moving Authorized Emergency
Vehicle; Of Oncoming Vehicle-- Yield Right Of Way.
   A.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
displaying flashing emergency lights or when the driver is giving audible
signal by siren, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of way
and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible
to, the right- hand edge or curb of the street clear of any intersection and
shall stop and remain in that position, until the authorized emergency vehicle
has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer. (66-7-332 NMSA
1978)
   B.   Upon approaching a stationary authorized emergency vehicle or a
recovery or repair vehicle displaying flashing emergency or hazard lights,
unless otherwise directed, the driver of the vehicle shall:
      (1)   if reasonably safe to do so, drive in a lane not adjacent to the
stationary vehicle, decrease the speed of the vehicle to a speed that is
reasonable and prudent under the circumstances and proceed with caution; or
      (2)   if it is not reasonably safe to drive in a lane not adjacent to the
stationary vehicle [is stopped], decrease the speed of the vehicle to a speed
that is reasonable and prudent under the circumstances, proceed with caution
and be prepared to stop. (66-7-332 NMSA 1978)
   C.   Upon the immediate approach of an oncoming vehicle overtaking or
attempting to overtake a vehicle proceeding in the same direction, the driver
of that vehicle shall yield the right of way and shall drive to a position to
and as close as possible to the right hand edge or curb of the roadway and
shall remain as close as possible to the right hand edge or curb of the roadway
until the oncoming vehicle has passed. (66-7-332.1 NMSA 1978)
   D.   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle or the driver of any other vehicle from the duty to drive
with due regard for the safety of all persons using the highway. (66-7-322 and
66-7-332.1 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-7-9.2 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended to
read as follows:
12-7-9.2 Operation Of Off-Highway Motor Vehicles On Streets Or Highways -
- Prohibited Areas.
   A.   No person shall operate an off-highway motor vehicle on any limited
access street at any time or any paved street or highway except as provided in
Subsection B, C, D or E of this section.
   B.   Off-highway motor vehicles may cross streets or highways, except
limited access highways or freeways, if the crossings are made after coming to
a complete stop prior to entering the street. Off-highway motor vehicles shall
yield the right of way to oncoming traffic and shall begin a crossing only when
it can be executed safely and then crossing in the most direct manner, as close
to a perpendicular angle as possible.
   C.   If authorized by ordinance or resolution of a local authority or the
State Transportation Commission, a recreational off-highway vehicle or an all-
terrain vehicle may be operated on a paved street or highway owned and
controlled by the authorizing authority if:
      (1)   the vehicle has one or more headlights and one or more taillights
that comply with the Off-Highway Motor Vehicle Act;
      (2)   the vehicle has brakes, mirrors and mufflers;
      (3)   the operator has valid driver's licenses or permits as required
under the Motor Vehicle Code and off- highway motor vehicle safety permits as
required under the Off-Highway Motor Vehicle Act;
      (4)   the operator is insured in compliance with the provisions of the
Mandatory Financial Responsibility Act; and
      (5)   the operator of the vehicle is using eye protection that comply
with the Off-Highway Motor Vehicle Act; and
      (6)   if the operator is under eighteen years of age, the operator is
wearing a safety helmet that complies with the Off-Highway Motor Vehicle Act.
   D.   Except for sections of the Motor Vehicle Code that are in conflict with
the licensing and equipment requirements of the Off-Highway Motor Vehicle Act,
any operator using an off-highway motor vehicle on a paved street or highway
shall be subject to the requirements and penalties for operators of moving or
parked vehicles under the Motor Vehicle Code.
   E.   By ordinance or resolution, a local authority or the State
Transportation Commission may establish separate speed limits and operating
restrictions for off-highway vehicles where they are authorized to operate on
paved streets or highways pursuant to Subsection C of this section.
   F.   A person shall not operate an off-highway motor vehicle on state game
commission-owned, -controlled or -administered land except as specifically
allowed pursuant to Chapter 17, Article 6 NMSA 1978.
   G.   A person shall not operate an off-highway motor vehicle on land owned,
controlled or administered by the state parks division of the Energy, Minerals
and Natural Resources Department, pursuant to Chapter 16, Article 2 NMSA 1978,
except in areas designated by and permitted by rules adopted by the secretary
of Energy, Minerals and Natural Resources.
   H.   Unless authorized, a person shall not:
      (1)   remove, deface or destroy any official sign installed by a state,
federal, local or private land management agency; or
      (2)   install any off-highway motor vehicle-related sign. (66-3-1011
NMSA)
Section 12-7-9.9 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended to
read as follows:
12-7-9.9 Operation And Equipment - Safety Requirements
   A.   A person shall not operate an off-highway motor vehicle:
      (1)   in a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
person or property of another;
      (2)   while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs as
provided by Section 66-8-102 NMSA 1978;
      (3)   while in pursuit of and with intent to hunt or take a species of
animal or bird protected by law unless otherwise authorized by the state game
commission;
      (4)   in pursuit of or harassment of livestock in any manner that
negatively affects the livestock's condition;
      (5)   on or within an earthen tank or other structure meant to water
livestock or wildlife, unless the off- highway motor vehicle is on a route
designated by the landowner or land management agency as an off-highway motor
vehicle route:
      (6)   in a manner that has a direct negative effect on or interferes with
persons engaged in agricultural practices;
      (7)   in excess of ten miles per hour within two hundred feet of a
business, animal shelter, horseback rider, bicyclist, pedestrian or occupied
dwelling, unless the person operates the vehicle on a closed course or track or
a public roadway;
      (8)   unless in possession of the person's registration certificate or
nonresident permit;
      (9)   unless the vehicle is equipped with a spark arrester approved by
the United States forest service; provided that a snowmobile is exempt from
this provision;
      (10)   when conditions such as darkness limit visibility to five hundred
fee or less, unless the vehicle is equipped with:
         (a)   one or more headlights of sufficient candlepower to light
objects at a distance of one hundred fifty feet; and
         (b)   at least one taillight of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red
or amber light at a distance of two hundred feet under normal atmospheric
conditions; or
      (11)   that produces noise that exceeds ninety-six decibels when measured
using test procedures established by the society of automotive engineers
pursuant to standard J-1287; or
      (12)   where off-highway motor vehicle traffic is prohibited under local,
state or federal rules or regulations.
   B.   A person under the age of eighteen shall not operate an off-highway
motor vehicle:
      (1)   or ride upon an off-highway motor vehicle without wearing eye
protection and a safety helmet that is securely fastened in a normal manner as
headgear and that meets the standards established by the department;
      (2)   without an off-highway motor vehicle safety permit; or
      (3)   while carrying a passenger.
   C.   A person under the age of eighteen but at least ten years of age shall
not operate an off-highway motor vehicle unless the person is visually
supervised at all times by a parent, legal guardian or a person over the age of
eighteen who has a valid driver's license. This subsection shall not apply to a
person who is at least:
      (1)   thirteen years of age and has a valid motorcycle license and off-
highway motor vehicle safety permit; or
      (2)   fifteen years of age and has a valid driver's license,
instructional permit or provisional license and off-highway motor vehicle
safety permit.
   D.   A person under the age of ten shall not operate an off-highway motor
vehicle unless:
      (1)   the all-terrain vehicle or recreational off-highway vehicle is an
age-appropriate size-fit vehicle established by rule of the department; and
      (2)   the person is visually supervised at all times by a parent, legal
guardian or instructor of a safety training course certified by the department.
   E.   An off-highway motor vehicle may not be sold or offered for sale if the
vehicle produces noise that exceeds ninety-six decibels when measured using
test procedures established by the society of automotive engineers pursuant to
standard J-1287. This subsection shall not apply to an off-highway motor
vehicle that is sold or offered for sale only for organized competition. (66-3-
1010.3 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-10-1.44 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows:
12-10-1.44 Special Restrictions On Lamps.
   A.   Lighted lamps or illuminating devices upon a motor vehicle other than
headlamps, spot lamps, auxiliary lamps, flashing turn signals, emergency
vehicle warning lamps and school bus warning lamps, that project a beam of
light of an intensity greater than three hundred candle power shall be directed
so that no part of the high-intensity portion of the beam strikes the level of
the street on which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than seventy-five
feet from the vehicle.
   B.   A person shall drive or move upon a highway a vehicle or equipment with
a lamp or device displaying a red light visible from directly in front of the
center of the vehicle or equipment, except as expressly authorized or required
by the New Mexico Motor Vehicle Code.
   C.   Flashing lights are prohibited except as provided in this section and
except on authorized emergency vehicles, school buses, snow-removal equipment
and highway-marking equipment. Flashing red lights may be used as warning
lights on disabled or parked vehicles and on any vehicle as a means of
indicating turn.
   D.   A recovery or repair vehicle standing on a highway for the purpose of
removing, and actually engaged in removing, a disabled vehicle, and while
engaged in towing any disabled vehicle, may display flashing lights in any
color except red. This provision shall not be construed as permitting the use
of flashing lights by recovery or repair vehicles in going to or returning from
the location of disabled vehicles unless actually engaged in towing a disabled
vehicle.
   E.   Only fire department vehicles, law enforcement agency vehicles,
ambulances and school buses may display flashing red lights visible from the
front of the vehicle. All other vehicles authorized by the New Mexico Vehicle
Code to display flashing lights visible from the front of the vehicle may use
any other color of light that is visible. (66-3-835 NMSA 1978)
   G.   2018 amendments to the Uniform Traffic Ordinance are as follows:
Section 12-5-7 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended to
read as follows:
12-5-7 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   A.   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words "walk"
or "don't walk" are in place:
      (1)   "walk" indicates that pedestrians facing the signal may proceed
across the street in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right
of way by drivers of all vehicles; and
      (2)   "don't walk" indicates that no pedestrian shall start to cross the
street in the direction of the signal, but any pedestrian who has partially
completed the pedestrian's crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a
sidewalk or safety island while the "don't walk" signal is showing.
   B.   A person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of
penalty assessment misdemeanor. (66-7-106 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-5-8 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended to
read as follows:
12-5-8 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   A.   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows:
      (1)   flashing red (stop signal)--when a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign; or
      (2)   flashing yellow (caution signal)--when a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   B.   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
the rules as set forth in Sections 12-6-7.5 - 12-6-7.8 of the Uniform traffic
Ordinance as adopted by the Village of Cloudcroft.
   C.   A person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a
penalty assessment misdemeanor. (66-7-107 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-5-10 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended to
read as follows:
12-5-10 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   A.   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or
is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or railroad
sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movements of traffic, or which
hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-
control device or any railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or
maintain nor shall any public authority permit upon any highway any traffic
sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
   B.   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance and the administrator is hereby empowered to remove the sign,
signal, marking or device or cause it to be removed without notice.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not prohibit the erection of signs
upon private property adjacent to streets if the signs give useful directional
information and are of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   D.   A person who violates provisions of this section is guilty of a penalty
assessment misdemeanor. (66-7-108 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-6-12.11 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows:
12-6-12.11 RESTRICTION ON USE OF VIDEO IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   A.   It is unlawful to operate in this municipality any motor vehicle
equipped with a video screen, of whatever type, upon which images may be
projected or shown, if the screen is within the normal view of the driver of
the motor vehicle unless the video screen is solely used as an aid to the
driver in the operation of the vehicle.
   B.   A person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a
Penalty assessment misdemeanor.
   C.   As used in this section "video screen" does not include closed circuit
monitors or computer terminal monitors used by law enforcement agencies in law
enforcement motor vehicles. (66-7-358 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-6-12.12 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows:
12-6-12.12 COASTING PROHIBITED.
   A.   The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the clutch disengaged.
   B.   A person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a
penalty assessment misdemeanor. (66-7-360 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-6-13.10 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows:
12-6-13.10 ANIMALS ON STREET.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, during the hours of darkness to ride a
horse or other animal upon the traveled portion of any street which is normally
used by motor vehicles.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person negligently to permit livestock to wander
or graze upon any fenced street at any time or, during the hours of darkness,
to drive livestock along or upon any street which is normally used by motor
vehicles.
   C.   Owners of livestock ranging in pastures through which unfenced roadways
pass shall not be liable for damages by reason of injury or damage to persons
or property occasioned by collisions of vehicles using said roadways and
livestock or animals ranging in said pastures unless such owner of livestock is
guilty of specific negligence other than allowing livestock to range in said
pasture.
   D.   A person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a
penalty assessment misdemeanor. (66-7-363 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-6-13.11 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows:
12-6-13.11 DRIVING ON MOUNTAIN STREETS.
   A.   The driver of a motor vehicle traveling through defiles or canyons or
on mountain streets shall hold such motor vehicle under control and as near the
right- hand edge of the street as reasonably possible.
   B.   A person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a
penalty assessment misdemeanor. (66-7-359 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-6-13.15 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows:
12-6-13.15 LITTERING.
   A.   Littering consists of discarding refuse:
      (1)   on public property in any manner other than by placing the refuse
in a receptacle provided for the purpose by the responsible governmental
authorities, or otherwise in accordance with lawful direction; or
      (2)   on private property not owned or lawfully occupied or controlled by
the person, except with the consent of the owner, lessee or occupant thereof.
(30-8-1 NMSA 4-9-78)
   B.   Whoever commits littering is guilty of a petty misdemeanor, and
notwithstanding the provisions of Section 31-9-1 NMSA 1978 shall be punished by
a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00). The use of uniform traffic citations is
authorized for the enforcement of this section. The court may to the extent
permitted by law, as a condition to suspension of any other penalty provided by
law, require a person who commits littering to pick up and remove from any
public place or any private property, with prior permission of the legal owner,
any litter deposited thereon. (30-8-4 NMSA 1978)
12 6-13.16 DOUBLE FINES.
   A.   Fines will be doubled as posted for any violation occurring in a Safety
Zone or School Zone as defined in Section 12-1-66 and Subsections 12-6-1.3 I
and J of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance and as provided in
Section 12-6-1.2 A. (4) of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Code.
   B.   Penalty Assessments under Section 12-12-1.2 of the 2010 New Mexico
Uniform Traffic Ordinance will be doubled as posted for any violation occurring
in a Safety Zone or School Zone as defined in Section 12-1-66 and Subsections
12-6-1.3 I and J of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance and as
provided in Section 12-6-1.2 A. (4) of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic
Code.
Section 12-6-14.2 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows:
12-6-14.2 PEDESTRIANS RIGHT OF WAY IN CROSSWALKS.
   A.   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the street within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is in the crosswalk.
   B.   A pedestrian shall not suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety
and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is
impossible for the driver to yield.
   C.   Subsection A shall not apply under the conditions stated in Section 12-
6-14.4. Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
street, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
   D.   A person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a
penalty assessment misdemeanor (66-7-334 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-6-14.3 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows:
12-6-14.3 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   A.   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   B.   A person who violates provisions of this section is guilty of a penalty
assessment misdemeanor. (66-7-338 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-6-14.4 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows:
12-6-14.4 CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS.
   A.   A pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles upon the street.
   B.   Any pedestrian crossing a street at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right of way
to all vehicles upon the street.
   C.   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic- control signals are in
operation pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   D.   No pedestrian shall cross a street intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic- control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   E.   A person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a
penalty assessment misdemeanor. (66-7-335 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-6-14.5 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows:
12-6-14.5 PEDESTRIANS ON STREETS.
   A.   Where sidewalks are provided it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to
walk along and upon an adjacent street.
   B.   Where sidewalks are not provided any pedestrian walking along and upon
a street shall when practicable walk only on the left side of the street or its
shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction.
   C.   A person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a
penalty assessment misdemeanor. (66-7-339 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-8-1 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended to
read as follows:
12-8-1 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   A.   It is a penalty assessment misdemeanor for a person to do any act
forbidden or fail to perform any act required by Sections 12-8-1 through 23 of
the Uniform Traffic Ordinance.
   B.   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this ordinance.
   C.   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle
is operated upon any street or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein. (66-3-701 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-10-1.1 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows:
12-10-1.1 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is a penalty
assessment misdemeanor for any person to drive or move, or for the owner to
cause or permit to be driven or moved, on any street, any vehicle, or
combination of vehicles, which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person, or which does not contain those parts, or is not at all times equipped
with such lamps and other equipment, in proper condition and adjustment, as is
required by Sections 12-10-1.1 through 12-10-1.51, or which is equipped in any
manner that is in violation of those sections, or for any person to do any act
forbidden, or fail to perform any act required under those sections.
   B.   Nothing contained in Sections 12-10-1.1 through 12-10-1.51 shall be
construed to prohibit the use of additional parts and accessories on any
vehicle which are not inconsistent with the provisions of such sections.
   C.   The provisions of Sections 12-10-1.1 through 12-10-1.51, with respect
to equipment on vehicles, shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road
machinery, road rollers or farm tractors, except as made applicable in those
sections. (66-3-801 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-10-1.3 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows:
12-10-1.3 WHEN LIGHTED LAMPS ARE REQUIRED.
   A.   Every vehicle upon a street within this municipality at any time from a
half-hour after sunset to a half-hour before sunrise and at any other time when
there is not sufficient light to render clearly discernible persons and
vehicles on the street at a distance of five hundred feet ahead shall display
lighted lamps and illuminating devices as hereinafter respectively required for
different classes of vehicles, subject to exceptions with respect to parked
vehicles as hereinafter stated.
   B.   A person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a
penalty assessment misdemeanor (66-3-802 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-10-1.5 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows:
12-10-1.5 HEAD LAMPS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   A.   Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle or motor-driven cycle shall
be equipped with at least two headlamps with at least one on each side of the
front of the motor vehicle, which headlamps shall comply with the requirements
and limitations set forth in this ordinance.
   B.   Every motorcycle and every motor-driven cycle shall be equipped with at
least one and not more than two headlamps which shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of this ordinance.
   C.   Every headlamp upon every motor vehicle, including every motorcycle and
motor-driven cycle, shall be located at a height measured from the center of
the headlamp of not more than fifty-four inches nor less than twenty inches to
be measured as set forth in Section 12-10-1.4B. The provisions of this
paragraph shall apply only to new motor vehicles sold after July 1, 1953. (66-
3-804 NMSA 1978)
   D.   For the purposes of Sections 12-10-1.1 through 12-10-1.5 parking lamps
shall not be used in lieu of head lamps.
   E.   No headlight shall emit a glaring or dazzling light. (66-3-828 NMSA
1978)
   F.   A person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a
penalty assessment misdemeanor. (66-3-804 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-10-1.7 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows:
12-10-1.7 TAIL LAMPS.
   A.   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semi-trailer, and pole trailer, and any
other vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles, shall be
equipped with at least one tail lamp mounted on the rear, which, when lighted
as hereinbefore required, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a
distance of five hundred feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train
of vehicles only the tail lamp on the rearmost vehicle need actually be seen
from the distance specified. And further, every such above mentioned vehicle,
other than a truck tractor, registered in this state and manufactured or
assembled after July 1, 1953, shall be equipped with at least two tail lamps
mounted on the rear, which when lighted as herein required shall comply with
the provisions of this section.
   B.   Every tail lamp upon every vehicle shall be located at a height of not
more than seventy-two inches nor less than twenty inches.
   C.   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate and
render it clearly legible from a distance of fifty feet to the rear. Any tail
lamp or tail lamps, together with any separate lamp for illuminating the rear
registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted whenever the headlamps
or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted. (66-3-805 NMSA 1978)
   D.   No tail lamp shall emit a glaring or dazzling light. (66-3-828 NMSA
1978)
   E.   A person who violates the provisions of this section is Guilty of a
penalty assessment misdemeanor. (66-3-805 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-10-1.8 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows:
12-10-1.8 VEHICLES TO BE EQUIPPED WITH REFLECTORS.
   A.   Every new motor vehicle hereafter sold and operated upon a street,
other than a truck tractor, shall carry on the rear, either as a part of the
tail lamps or separately, two red reflectors, except that every motorcycle and
every motor-driven cycle shall carry at least one reflector, meeting the
requirements of this section.
   B.   Every such reflector shall be mounted on the vehicle at a height not
less than twenty inches nor more than sixty inches measured as set forth in
Section 12-10-1.4B, and shall be of such size and characteristics and so
mounted as to be visible at night from all distances within three hundred feet
to fifty feet from such vehicle when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
headlamps.
   C.   A person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a
penalty assessment misdemeanor. (66-3-806 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-10-1.12 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows:
12-10-1.12 WINDSHIELD MUST BE UNOBSTRUCTED AND EQUIPPED WITH WIPERS; WINDOWS
MUST BE TRANSPARENT, EXCEPTIONS.
   A.   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster or other
nontransparent material upon or in the front windshield, windows to the
immediate right and left of the driver or in the rear-most window if the latter
is used for driving visibility except as provided in Section 12-10-1.12A. The
rear-most window is not necessary for driving visibility where outside rear-
view mirrors are attached to the vehicle.
   B.   The windshield on every motor vehicle, except a motorcycle, shall be
equipped with a device for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the
windshield, which device shall be so constructed as to be controlled or
operated by the driver of the vehicle.
   C.   Every windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle shall be maintained in good
working order.
   D.   A person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a
penalty assessment misdemeanor. (66-3-846 NMSA 1978)
Section 12-10-1.12A of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows:
12-10-1.12A SUN SCREENING MATERIAL ON WINDSHIELDS AND WINDOWS; REQUIREMENTS;
VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   A.   A person shall not operate on any street or highway a motor vehicle
that is registered or required to be registered in this state if that motor
vehicle has a sun screening material on the windshield or any window that does
not comply with the requirements of this section.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a sun screening material:
      (1)   when used in conjunction with the windshield, shall be
nonreflective, shall not be red, yellow or amber in color and shall be used
only along the top of the windshield, not extending downward beyond the ASI
line or more than five inches from the top of the windshield, whichever is
closer to the top of the windshield; and
      (2)   when used in conjunction with the safety glazing materials of the
side wings or the side windows located at the immediate right and left of the
driver, the side windows behind the driver and the rearmost window shall be
nonreflective, shall have a light transmission of not less than twenty percent
and shall be used only on the windows of a motor vehicle equipped with one
right and one left outside rearview mirror.
   C.   Each manufacturer shall:
      (1)   certify to the division that a sun screening material used by that
manufacturer is in compliance with the nonreflectivity and light transmission
requirements of this section;
      (2)   provide a label not to exceed one and one-half square inches in
size that:
         (a)   is installed permanently and legibly between the sun screening
material and each glazing surface to which it is applied;
         (b)   contains the manufacturer's name, the date the sun screening
material was manufactured and the percentage of light transmission; and
         (c)   is placed in the left lower corner of each glazing surface when
facing the motor vehicle from the outside; and
      (3)   include instructions with the sun screening material for proper
installation, including the affixing of the label specified in this subsection.
   D.   No person shall:
      (1)   offer for sale or for use any sun screening material for motor
vehicle use not in compliance with this section; or
      (2)   install any sun screening material on motor vehicles intended for
operation on any street or highway without permanently affixing the label
specified in subsection C of this section.
   E.   The provisions of this section do not apply to a motor vehicle
registered in this state in the name of a person, or the person's legal
guardian, who has an affidavit signed by a physician or an optometrist licensed
to practice in this state that states that the person has a physical condition
that makes it necessary to equip the motor vehicle with sun screening material
that is in violation of this section. The affidavit shall be in the possession
of the person with such a physical condition, or the person's legal guardian,
at all times while being transported in the motor vehicle.
   F.   The light transmission requirement of this section does not apply to
windows behind the driver on truck tractors, buses, recreational vehicles,
multipurpose passenger vehicles and motor homes. The provisions of this section
shall not apply to motor vehicle glazing which complies with federal motor
vehicle standards.
   G.   The provisions of this section do not apply to motor vehicles that have
sun screening material on the windshield or any window prior to July 1, 1997.
   H.   As used in this section:
      (1)   "light transmission" means the ratio of the amount of total light
that passes through a product or material, expressed in percentages, to the
amount of total light falling on the product or material;
      (2)   "manufacturer" means any person engaged in the manufacturing or
assembling of sun screening products or materials designed to be used in
conjunction with motor vehicle glazing materials for the purpose of reducing
the effects of the sun;
      (3)   "nonreflective" means designed to absorb light rather than to
reflect it; and
      (4)   sun screening material means any film material, substance, device
or product that is designed to be used in conjunction with motor vehicle safety
glazing materials for reducing the effects of the sun.
   I.   A person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a
penalty assessment misdemeanor. (66-3-846.1 NMSA 1978)
(Ord. 357, 8-10-2010; amd. Ord. 363, 7-10-2012; Ord. 366, 11-12-2013; Ord. 367,
11-10-2014; Ord. 368, 12-8-2015; Ord. 377, 11-21-2017; Ord. 379, 9-11-2018;
Ord. 392, 8-10-2021; Ord. 403, 12-17-2024)
6-1-2: PENALTY ASSESSMENT PROGRAM:
Pursuant to section 12-12-1.2 of the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance,
a penalty assessment program is adopted as follows:
   A.   As used in the New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance adopted by the
Village of Cloudcroft, New Mexico, "penalty assessment misdemeanor" means
violation of the following listed sections of the New Mexico Uniform Traffic
Ordinance, for which the listed penalty assessment is established:
   PENALTY
Common Name Of Offense Section Violated Assessment
Common Name Of Offense                                                 Section      Assessment
                                                                       Violated
Pedestrian control signals                                                12-5-7 $ 25.00
Flashing signals                                                          12-5-8 70.00
Display of unauthorized signs, signals or markings                        12-5-1050.00
Speed regulations:                                                        12-6-1  
   Up to and including 10 miles an hour over speed limit                        50.00
   From 11 up to and including 15 miles an hour over speed limit                60.00
   From 16 up to and including 20 miles an hour over speed limit                90.00
   From 21 up to and including 25 miles an hour over speed limit                140.00
   From 26 up to and including 30 miles an hour over the speed limit            170.00
   From 31 up to and including 35 miles an hour over the speed limit            190.00
   More than 35 miles an hour over the speed limit (mandatory court              
appearance)
Minimum speed regulations                                                 12-6-1.45.00
Overtaking a vehicle on the left                                          12-6-2.45.00
Limitations on overtaking on the left                                     12-6-2.45.00
No passing zones and restrictions on passing                              12-6-2.45.00
Following too closely                                                     12-6-2.45.00
Driving on divided streets                                                12-6-2.45.00
Vehicle approaching or entering intersection                              12-6-4.45.00
Vehicles turning left at intersection                                     12-6-4.45.00
Vehicle entering stop or yield intersection                               12-6-4.45.00
Limitations on turning around                                             12-6-5.45.00
Starting parked vehicle                                                   12-6-5.45.00
Turning and stopping movements and required signals                       12-6-5.45.00
Stopping, standing and parking                                            12-6-6 45.00
Special stops required                                                    12-6-7 45.00
Stopping for school bus                                                   12-6-7.120.00
Railroad-highway grade crossing violation                                 12-6-7.45.00
Failure to stop at railroad-highway grade crossing                        12-6-7.45.00
Operators and chauffeurs must be licensed                                 12-6-12125.00
Limitations on backing                                                    12-6-1245.00
Restrictions on use of video in motor vehicles                            12-6-  45.00
                                                                       12.11
Coasting prohibited                                                       12-6-  45.00
                                                                       12.12
Destructive or injurious                                                  12-6-13120.00
material on roadway
Animals on street                                                         12-6-  45.00
                                                                       13.10
Driving on mountain streets                                               12-6-  45.00
                                                                       13.11
Child not in restraint device or safety belt                              12-6-  70.00
                                                                       13.12
Mandatory use of seat belts                                               12-6-  70.00
                                                                       13.13
Possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages in open containers -     12-6-  70.00
first offense                                                          13.14
Littering                                                                 12-6-  320.00
                                                                       13.15
Pedestrian violation                                                      12-6-1445.00
Pedestrians right-of-way in crosswalks                                    12-6-1445.00
Pedestrians to use right half of sidewalk                                 12-6-1445.00
Crossing at other than crosswalks                                         12-6-1445.00
Pedestrians on streets                                                    12-6-1445.00
Drivers to exercise due care                                              12-6-1445.00
Texting while driving (first offense)                                     12-6-1825.00
Texting while driving (second offense)                                    12-6-1850.00
Parking in designated disabled parking spaces                             12-9-9 $270.00 -
                                                                                    $520.00
Prohibited acts                                                           12-10-1$45.00
When lighted lamps are required                                           12-10-145.00
Headlamps on vehicles                                                     12-10-145.00
Dimming of lights                                                         12-10-145.00
Tail lamps                                                                12-10-145.00
Vehicles to be equipped with reflectors                                   12-10-145.00
Mufflers, prevention of noise                                             12-10- 45.00
                                                                       1.10
Lamp or flag on projecting load                                           12-10- 45.00
                                                                       1.11
Windshield must be unobstructed and equipped with wipers; windows must    12-10- 45.00
be transparent; exceptions                                             1.12
Sun screening materials on windshields and windows; requirements;         12-10- 45.00
violations; penalty                                                    1.12A
Display of current valid registration plate                               12-10-445.00
Evidence of registration to be signed and exhibited on demand             12-10-545.00
 
   B.   The term "penalty assessment misdemeanor" does not include any
violation which has caused or contributed to the cause of an accident resulting
in injury or death to any person.
   C.   When an alleged violator of a penalty assessment misdemeanor elects to
accept a notice to appear in lieu of a notice of penalty assessment, no fine
imposed upon later conviction shall exceed the penalty assessment established
for the particular penalty assessment misdemeanor and no probation imposed upon
a suspended or deferred sentence shall exceed ninety (90) days.
   D.   The penalty assessment for speeding in violation of section 12-6-1.2(4)
of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is twice the penalty assessment established in
subsection A of this section for the equivalent miles per hour over the speed
limit.
   E.   Section 12-12-1.3 of the New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance regarding
various added fees is repealed effective July 1, 2024. (Ord. 379, 9-11-2018;
amd. Ord. 404, 12-17-2024)
6-1-3: PENALTY ASSESSMENT MISDEMEANORS; OPTION; EFFECT:
   A.   Unless a warning notice is given at the time of making an arrest for
any penalty assessment misdemeanor, the arresting officer shall offer the
alleged violator the option of accepting a penalty assessment. The violator's
signature on the penalty assessment notice constitutes an acknowledgment of
guilt of the offense stated in the notice, and payment of the prescribed
penalty assessment is a complete satisfaction of the violation.
   B.   Payment of any penalty assessment must be made by mail to the municipal
court, village of Cloudcroft, New Mexico, within thirty (30) days from the date
of arrest. Payments of penalty assessments are timely if postmarked within the
time limits set from the date of the arrest. The court clerk shall issue a
receipt when a penalty assessment is paid by currency, but checks tendered by
the violator upon which payment is received are sufficient receipt.
   C.   No record of any penalty assessment payment is admissible as evidence
in any court in any civil action.
   D.   If a penalty assessment is not paid within thirty (30) days from date
of arrest, the violator may be prosecuted for the violation charged on the
penalty assessment notice in a manner as if a penalty assessment notice had not
been issued. Upon conviction in such prosecution, the court may impose
penalties as provided by the 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance (section
12-12-1.1) or other law relating to motor vehicles for the particular offense
charged, and the schedule of penalty assessments may not apply.
   E.   In addition to the prosecution provided for in subsection D of this
section, it is a misdemeanor for any person who has elected to pay a penalty
assessment to fail to do so within thirty (30) days from the date of arrest.
   F.   The office of the municipal court shall notify the division of motor
vehicles of the state of New Mexico when a person fails to pay a penalty
assessment within the required period of time. The department of motor vehicles
shall report the notice upon the driver's record and shall not renew the
person's license to drive until the office of the municipal court notifies the
department of motor vehicles that the penalty assessment, or its equivalent, as
well as any additional penalties imposed are properly disposed of. (Ord. 357,
8-10-2010)
6-1-4: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Permitted Traffic Control Devices:
      1.   Private parties and commercial entities constructing streets,
alleys, and rights of way within the village of Cloudcroft shall place and
maintain traffic control devices necessary to regulate, warn, and guide traffic
on those streets, alleys, and rights of way. Such traffic control devices shall
conform to standards and conventions provided by article V of the 2010 New
Mexico uniform traffic ordinance. The village of Cloudcroft shall have
jurisdiction to approve all traffic control devices placed and maintained by
those private parties, contractors, or developers. When such streets, alleys,
and rights of way are ceded to the village of Cloudcroft and accepted by the
village of Cloudcroft as public rights of way for public use, the village of
Cloudcroft assumes responsibility for the placement and maintenance of
necessary traffic control devices.
      2.   Construction contractors and public utilities are permitted to erect
temporary traffic control devices to protect the public, workers, and equipment
during short term projects. Such devices shall conform to the provisions of
article V of the 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance, and the chief of
police or his designated representative shall be notified at least twenty four
(24) hours prior to the initiation of planned projects and the location of such
projects. In the event of an emergency project, the police department shall be
notified as soon as possible concerning the project location. A short term
project for the purpose of this section is a project that may be completed in
less than eight (8) hours but shall not take more than five (5) consecutive
days to complete.
      3.   Parties or entities required to place and maintain traffic control
devices in their construction areas or on their projects shall review the
current edition of the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" on file at
the village office or consult the New Mexico state highway and transportation
department to obtain its guidance on standards and conventions provided by
article V of the 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance.
   B.   Prohibited Signage:
      1.   No traffic control device or its support shall bear any advertising
or commercial message, or any other message that is not essential to traffic
control. Traffic control devices erected and placed by a private party or
commercial entity shall not identify the party or entity placing the device.
      2.   No sign bearing a commercial or advertising message shall contain a
traffic control device as a component of that sign.
      3.   Any unauthorized traffic control device placed on a village right of
way by a private individual or organization, or commercial entity shall
constitute a public nuisance and such unofficial and nonessential devices shall
be removed upon instruction by the chief of police.
      4.   It shall be unlawful to maintain any such prohibited signage.
   C.   Administrative Designation:
      1.   Responsibility: The chief of police is responsible for the
administration of the article and reasonable rules and regulations may be
prescribed by the chief of police to carry out the intent and purpose of the
article.
      2.   Investigation: The chief of police or his or her designated
representative shall have the authority to investigate any complaint concerning
violations of this chapter.
      3.   Enforcement: The chief of police or his or her designated
representative shall have the authority to issue citations for violation of
this chapter and to perform such other duties as are prescribed herein.
      4.   Traffic Control Devices And Signage Authority: The chief of police
is responsible for identifying, selecting and approving locations and types of
all traffic control devices located on all streets, alleys, and rights of way.
The chief of police is responsible for approving or disapproving requests for
the placements and types of traffic control devices by private parties,
commercial entities, contractors, or developers under the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 357, 8-10-2010)
6-1-5: ORDINANCE AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION:
A copy of the 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance is available for
inspection during the municipal clerk's normal and regular business hours at
the village offices, Burro Avenue, Cloudcroft, New Mexico. (Ord. 357, 8-10-
2010)
6-1-6: COPIES OF ORDINANCES:
A copy of the Cloudcroft 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance may be
purchased from the municipal clerk at a cost of publication. (Ord. 357, 8-10-
2010)
CHAPTER 2
WARNING SIGNS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Purpose
6-2-2: Definitions
6-2-3: General Provisions
6-2-4: Authority And Responsibilities
6-2-5: Unlawful Acts And Penalty
6-2-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter regulates the use of warning signs concerning hazards within the
village of Cloudcroft. It specifies enforcement authority and responsibilities
for posting warning signs. This chapter does not address traffic-control
devices or the issue of trespass on private property. (Ord. 302, 4-10-2001)
6-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall, unless the
context indicates a different meaning, have the following meanings given
herein:
   HAZARD: A condition of risk, peril, danger, or jeopardy condition created by
man or by nature that may result in lethal or nonlethal injury to humans or
damage to property. Hazards in the context of this ordinance are those
typically associated with construction and manufacturing sites, sources of
electrical shock, petroleum products, hazardous materials, junkyards, water and
flooding, storage sites, timbering operations, falling objects, automotive
repair activities, public utilities repair and maintenance operations, street
and road repair, security systems, chemical wastes, radioactivity,
electromagnetic radiation, landfills, organic and inorganic waste products, and
other known and suspected sources of hazards.
   MUTCD: "Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices"; Standards for Streets
and Highways", a United States department of transportation publication used by
the New Mexico state highway and transportation department to standardize
traffic-control devices.
   SIGNAL WORD: The first word on a warning sign that alerts the public to the
presence of a hazard and to the level of the hazard. Normally, these words are
"DANGER", "WARNING", or "CAUTION".
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES: All signs and signals, markings, and devices placed
on, over, or adjacent to a street or highway by authority of a public body or
official having jurisdiction to regulate, warn, or guide traffic.
   VILLAGE: Village of Cloudcroft.
   WARNING SIGN: A publicly displayed board, placard, illuminated display, or
other visual display bearing wording or symbolic information warning the public
of a hazardous condition that may be encountered in the vicinity of the sign or
after passing beyond the sign. (Ord. 302, 4-10-2001)
6-2-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Warning or hazard signs shall be placed and prominently displayed at
any site within the village where hazardous conditions are reasonably deemed to
exist. Such signs shall be appropriate to the hazard.
   B.   Parties responsible for creating or maintaining hazardous conditions
shall post or erect appropriate warning signs. Responsible parties may be a
governmental entity, private party, commercial entity, public utility
organizations, contractors, or developer.
   C.   Warning signs shall be displayed at a distance well in advance of the
hazard or hazards to be encountered. The distance established shall be such
that the public viewing the sign can reasonably respond and take appropriate
action to avoid the hazard.
   D.   Warning signs may be permanent or temporary. Permanent signs shall
remain in place indefinitely or until competent authority determines they are
no longer required. Temporary signs shall be removed when the hazardous
condition no longer exists.
   E.   No warning or hazard sign shall contain an advertising, political or
promotional message for any private party or commercial entity. Such signs
shall contain information directly relevant to the hazard. The entity posting
the sign may be stated in small letters to include a contact telephone number.
   F.   No warning or hazard sign or message shall be displayed as a component
of any sign advertising a private party political candidate, or commercial
entity.
   G.   A warning sign shall contain only information pertaining to the subject
hazard; shall state the level of hazard; shall state the nature of the hazard;
and, state the consequences of ignoring the warning sign.
   H.   Warning signs shall be highly visible; shall be painted or printed in
highly visible letter/background color combinations, and shall use a letter or
number size that is easily readable from a distance of thirty feet (30'), if
mounted on a building or fence.
   I.   Signal words used on warning signs shall be "DANGER", "WARNING",
"CAUTION", or "NOTICE", unless accepted documented government or industrial
standards for certain hazards prescribe other signal words.
   J.   Where known hazards exist on a government entity controlled property,
private property and other locations falling under this chapter, warning signs
shall be placed at all anticipated entrances to those sites.
   K.   Warning signs shall be highly visible and highly readable. Commercially
available signs are acceptable if they are appropriate to the existing hazard
or hazards and if they are the accepted industrial or governmental standard for
that hazard.
   L.   Custom-made or "home-made" warning signs used in the absence of
commercial signs shall comply with the following guidelines with respect to
color combinations: black characters on a white background; black characters on
a yellow background; white characters on a black background; dark blue
characters on a white background; white characters on a dark red, dark green,
or dark brown background; dark green or dark red characters on a white
background; black characters on an orange background; white characters on a
dark gray background; or, black characters on a light gray background. Red
characters on a yellow background are not acceptable for warning signs.
   M.   Warning signs at the entrance to construction sites shall be black
characters on an orange background. The MUTCD shall be consulted for general
guidance for such signs.
   N.   Warning signs shall be maintained so that they are easily readable.
   O.   Barricades shall be used to supplement warning signs, where it is
judged prudent to deny the public entry to a hazardous site due to its level of
danger. (Ord. 302, 4-10-2001)
6-2-4: AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Responsibility: The chief of police is responsible for the
administration of this chapter. Reasonable rules and regulations may be
prescribed by the chief of police to carry out the intent and purpose of this
chapter.
   B.   Investigation: The chief of police or his or her designated
representative shall have the authority to investigate any complaint concerning
violations of this chapter.
   C.   Enforcement: The chief of police or his or her designated
representative shall have the authority to issue warnings and citations for
violation of this chapter and to perform such other duties as are prescribed
herein. (Ord. 302, 4-10-2001)
6-2-5: UNLAWFUL ACTS AND PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Fail to post or erect a warning sign where a hazardous condition
exists.
   B.   Post or display an illegal warning sign.
   C.   Fail to remove an illegal warning sign after being instructed to do so
by a law enforcement officer.
   D.   Fail to remove a temporary warning sign after being instructed to do so
by a law enforcement officer.
   E.   Fail to maintain a readable warning sign.
   F.   Upon a conviction of any subsection of this section, a violator shall
be punished in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code provided that a minimum penalty of one hundred dollars
($100.00) shall be imposed upon conviction. (Ord. 302, 4-10-2001)
TITLE 7
UTILITIES, PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
WATER AND SEWER SERVICE AND REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
7-1-1: Creation Of Joint System
7-1-2: Administration
7-1-3: Inspection Of Premises; Authority
7-1-4: Disposition And Use Of Funds
7-1-5: Liens; Filing, Enforcement
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA §§ 3-18-25, 3-26-3, 3-27-1 and 3-53-2.
7-1-1: CREATION OF JOINT SYSTEM:
Creation and establishment by the Village of a joint water and sewer system is
hereby declared for the purpose of the management, maintenance, care and
operation of the water and sewer system of the Village as a joint operation.
(1976 Code § 6-1-1)
7-1-2: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Control And Management: The Mayor or his designee shall have the
overall control and management of all matters pertaining to the Village water
system, and shall perform all acts that may be necessary for the prudent,
efficient and economical management and protection of the waterworks, subject
to the approval and confirmation of the Board of Trustees. The Board of
Trustees may prescribe user service rates and other rules and regulations as it
may deem necessary. (1976 Code § 6-1-2; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Receipts And Deposits: The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall keep a correct
account of all receipts, make out all bills for water rents and materials
furnished to consumers, collect the same, and deposit the proceeds as collected
to the account of the water system fund of the Village, and in accordance with
the direction of the Board of Trustees. (1976 Code § 6-1-3)
7-1-3: INSPECTION OF PREMISES; AUTHORITY:
Whenever he deems it necessary for the protection of the public health or
safety, the Mayor or his designee may inspect the exterior of buildings of any
water consumer for the purpose of examining the condition of all pipes, motor,
meters and water fixtures, or the manner in which the water is used. He shall
be vigilant to protect and remedy all abuses, whether from waste or other
improper use of water. (1976 Code § 6-1-4; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 398, 4-12-2022)
7-1-4: DISPOSITION AND USE OF FUNDS:
The collection of charges and rentals authorized by this Chapter shall be
deposited, paid out and applied only to the following purposes:
   A.   Operation And Maintenance Costs: The cost of operating and maintaining
the water and sewer facilities as a part of the joint utility operation of the
Village;
   B.   Extending System: For extending or improving the Village's joint water
and sewer system;
   C.   Refunding and Paying Bonds: For the purposes of refunding and paying
outstanding joint water and sewer bonds or loans of the Village incurred for
utility system improvements and providing reserve funds therefor.
   D.   Bond Funds: To other purposes as the Board of Trustees may determine,
the funds to be known and established as the Joint Water and Sewer Refunding
and Improvement Bond Funds, but nothing contained in this Section shall be
construed to prevent the Village Board of Trustees from applying and crediting
available money derived from any other source. (1976 Code § 6-1-41; amd. Ord.
398, 4-12-2022)
7-1-5: LIENS; FILING, ENFORCEMENT:
The Village shall have a lien on each lot or parcel of land served by the joint
system for charges imposed for service rendered by the joint system. Notices of
a lien shall be filed, and liens shall be filed and shall be enforced as
provided in section 3-36-1, New Mexico Statutes Annotated, and all other
applicable laws. At the time of filing a lien, a Fifty Dollar ($50.00) charge
will be assessed to the account and a Fifty Dollar ($50.00) charge for release
of the lien shall be assessed to the account. In addition, no water service
will be provided to the property until all outstanding charges and fee
assessments have been paid in full. (1976 Code § 6-1-42; amd. Ord. 398, 4-12-
2022)
ARTICLE A. WATER SERVICE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1A-1: Application For Service And Transfer
7-1A-2: Water Rates
7-1A-3: Turning Water On And Off; Charges
7-1A-4: Tap And Service Connection
7-1A-5: Service Line Regulations
7-1A-6: Metering Of Water
7-1A-7: Waste Of Water Prohibited
7-1A-8: Unusual Conditions
7-1A-9: Water Conservation
7-1A-10: Regulations Part Of Contract
7-1A-11: Bulk Water
7-1A-1: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE AND TRANSFER:
Application for the use of water shall be made to the village clerk/treasurer
by the owner or agent of the property to be benefited, designating the location
of the property and stating the purpose for which the water may be required.
Such application shall be accompanied by the tapping charge as hereinafter
provided for new services. Application for a transfer of water service from one
location to another existing meter shall be made to the village clerk/treasurer
by the owner or agent of the property to be benefited, designating the location
of the property from which the water service is being transferred and the
property to which the water service is being transferred and shall be
accompanied by a transfer fee of Seventy-Five Dollars ($75.00). Application to
transfer a water service from one owner to another owner shall be made to the
village clerk/treasurer by the owner or agent of the property to be benefited
and shall be accompanied by a transfer fee of Seventy-Five Dollars ($75.00).
(Ord. 107, 1-12-1982; amd. Ord. 398, 4-12-2022)
7-1A-2: WATER RATES:
   A.   Established: All water sold by the village shall be sold at the
following rates:
      1.   A minimum fee of Forty-Five Dollars and Twenty Cents ($45.20) plus
tax per month for each water meter.
      2.   An additional fee of Six Dollars and Twenty-Seven Cents ($6.27) plus
tax for each one thousand (1,000) gallons usage, or fraction thereof, of
monthly metered water use from four thousand one (4,001) gallons to ten
thousand (10,000) gallons, inclusive; and an additional Seven Dollars and
Eighty-Six cents ($7.86) plus tax for each one thousand (1,000) gallons usage,
or fraction thereof, of monthly metered water use greater than ten thousand
(10,000) gallons.
      3.   In the event that water service has been turned off pursuant to
section
7-1A-3 of this article, the minimum fee of Ten Dollars and Sixteen Cents
($10.16) plus tax per month for each water meter shall be charged in lieu of
the rates set forth in subsections A1 and A2 of this section.
      4.   Effective each year on July 1, the water rates are authorized to
increase based on the annual average change in the U.S. consumer price index-
all urban consumers (CPI-U) as compiled by the bureau of business and economic
research, University of New Mexico and published in March of each year.
   B.   Surcharge: Effective for bills based on April 2022 meter readings, a
surcharge of Fifteen Dollars ($15.00) per ¾" meter shall be due each month; a
surcharge of Twenty Dollars ($20.00) per 1" to 2.9" meter shall be due each
month; a surcharge of Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00) per 3" or larger meter shall
be due each month. All surcharge revenue shall be divided evenly between water
distribution improvements/maintenance and right of way improvements/maintenance
and shall not be used for operating costs.
   C.   Billings: Penalty: Water meters shall be read monthly subject to
Section
7-1A-8 of this article and, if need be, statements for service may be billed in
prearranged monthly customer cycles to expedite billing and payment. All water
bills shall be due and payable on or before the next fifteenth (15th) day of
each month which immediately follows the mailing of the statement, therefore.
If not paid by the twenty fifth (25th) day of the month immediately after the
due date, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of only that month's
charges shall be added thereto and paid by the water user in addition to the
basic charge. The delinquent customer shall be liable for reasonable attorney
fees and costs incurred by the Village in securing payment on delinquent
accounts in addition to the other remedies of the Village provided in this
Code.
   D.   Discontinuance Of Service: In case there shall be any water charge
delinquent and the supply has been turned off, the water shall not be turned on
again until all water charges, plus a turn on fee have been paid in full. If
payment of any price, fee or other charge for water, sewer service, refuse
collection, or street maintenance is not made within thirty (30) days from the
date when written notice that payment is due is mailed, the water service may
be discontinued and shall not be again supplied to the person liable for the
payment until the arrears with late fees have been fully paid.
   E.   Liability For Payment: The charges established by this article shall be
payable by the owner of the premises served, unless the owner notifies the
Village in writing prior to the initiation of the debt that utility charges
incurred by a renter will not be the responsibility of the owner. Such
notification shall include the location of the rental property. (Ord. 347, 11-
12-2008; amd. Ord. 391, 7-13-2021; Ord. 398, 4-12-2022)
7-1A-3: TURNING WATER ON AND OFF; CHARGES:
   A.   Generally: If the water supply to any property is turned off for
failure to pay service charges, a charge of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) shall be
made for turning the water back on.
   B.   Request Of Property Owner: Turnoff of water service at the request of
the property owner will be done by the village only at the water meter for a
charge of Twenty Five Dollars ($25.00) and water service will again be turned
on by the village at the request of the property owner for a charge of Twenty
Five Dollars ($25.00) if such request is made during normal business hours on a
normal workday and such turn on service is to be performed during normal
business hours. A charge of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) will be made if the
water turn off or on is to be performed during hours in which the village will
be required to pay overtime to a village employee to provide this service.
   C.   Once a meter is turned off by the Village, for any reason, it shall be
locked so that it may only be turned on by the Village. Any cut lock or meter
tamper will be considered vandalism and theft and will be prosecuted
accordingly as a violation of Village Code or a violation of State Statutes.
      1.   Temporary: Turnoff of water service on a temporary basis not to
exceed one week shall be done at the request of the property owner by the
village only at the water meter for a charge of Fifteen Dollars ($15.00) for
turning the water off and Fifteen Dollars ($15.00) for turning the water on
during normal business hours.
      2.   Meter Removal: Water meters will be removed by the village at the
request of the owner for a fee of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00); a water meter
so removed will be reinstalled for the normal installation fee as provided in
the village Code.
      3.   Long Term Standby: With a One Hundred Dollar ($100.00) charge an
owner may request putting their meter on long term standby as opposed to
removal of the meter. This will stop all billing (water, sewer and garbage)
associated with that meter for five years from the date the meter is locked.
Meter may be turned back on at the normal connect charge after five years. If
water needs to be reconnected before the five-year standby time, there will be
a Seven Hundred-Fifty Dollar ($750.00) per year charge for the time the meter
was off, not to exceed the cost of a new meter. (Ord. 323, 12-9-2003; Ord. 398,
4-12-2022)
7-1A-4: TAP AND SERVICE CONNECTION:
Upon the application for a new tap and service connection by any consumer
within the corporate limits of the village, the applicant shall pay to the
village clerk/treasurer an amount set by the Board of Trustees to be effective
for the budget year beginning July 1 and ending June 30. Such amount shall be
adopted by resolution taking into account the actual costs associated with a
new tap and service connection plus 10%. In the event that a resolution is not
adopted, the amount shall be the same as the previous budget year to cover the
cost of the corporation cock, fittings, meter, installation of the tap and the
necessary pipe from the main to the curb box for the meter can, so long as the
service line shall not exceed fifty feet (50') and if any service connection
shall require a service line in excess of fifty feet (50'), the consumer shall
pay for the installation and pipe for all of the service line in excess of
fifty feet (50'). The Village shall own and maintain the water line from the
main to the curb box or meter can (including meter) and the property owner
shall own and maintain the service line from the curb box or meter can to the
premises served. Service taps shall be three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter;
provided that the Village Board of Trustees may, by resolution, provide for
larger taps where the water supply and service facilities are sufficient to
permit such taps. Where a larger tap is permitted, the cost of the tap may be
fixed by the board of trustees by resolution as set forth herein. It shall be
unlawful for any person to cover a connection with a water main or line in the
village without first having such connection visually inspected by the
Village's authorized representative. All work to fill trench and repair road or
alley surface shall be done in accordance with applicable building code
standards to include compaction to 95% in the presence of a Village
representative to insure proper compaction and repair of road surface to the
then existing road conditions at the site of such repair. Failure to properly
compact soil and repair road surface shall be cause to revoke the permit to
connect to the Village water system. Any work that must be done by the Village
or contracted out by the Village shall be paid for, plus 10%, by the property
owner. (Ord. 347, 11-12-2008; amd. Ord. 386, 2-18-2020; Ord. 398, 4-12-2022)
7-1A-5: SERVICE LINE REGULATIONS:
No more than one building shall be permitted to use a water service line and
water service to each building shall be metered separately from any other
building. All service lines shall be installed at a depth below the surface of
the ground sufficient to prevent freezing and to a depth of at least thirty
inches (30") or wrapped and covered with equivalent insulation, as deemed
adequate by the Village based on the Uniform Plumbing Code then in effect in
the state of New Mexico. Each service line shall contain a stop and waste cock
where the water may be turned off on the water user's side of the curb box or
meter can. (Ord. 221, 9-13-1988; Ord. 398, 4-12-2022)
7-1A-6: METERING OF WATER:
   A.   Installation; Ownership: All water sold by the village shall be metered
by meters which may be installed either in a curb box or meter can or inside of
the building at the option of the village. All water meters shall be owned and
kept in repair by the village.
   B.   Deposit: Meter deposits shall be determined by the board of trustees as
may be required from time to time so as to ensure that charges are secured by
the lien process or secured by the occupant of a property who does not own the
property.
   C.   Restrictions On Opening: It shall be unlawful for anyone other than the
designated village employees or a duly licensed New Mexico plumber to open a
meter box or meter can to turn the water on or off to any building, cabin or
premises. (1976 Code §§ 6-1-7, 6-1-14, and 6-1-20; amd. Ord. 398, 4-12-2022)
7-1A-7: WASTE OF WATER PROHIBITED:
Consumers shall prevent unnecessary waste of water and keep all water outlets
closed when not in actual use. Hydrants, urinals, water closets, bathtubs and
other fixtures shall not be left running for any purpose other than the use for
which they were intended. In addition to the penalty provided herein for
violations, the water supply may be turned off where any such waste occurs.
(1976 Code § 6-1-9)
7-1A-8: UNUSUAL CONDITIONS:
   A.   Responsibility Of Owners: Each property owner and water user shall be
solely responsible for turning the water off at his respective premises to
avoid winter freezing on cabins, buildings and premises not used for a year
round residence. The village shall not be liable for any damage done to a
building, cabin or residence, or on any premises, by reason of failure of the
occupant to turn off his water and prevent winter freezing and damage.
   B.   Meter Reading: Each water meter shall be read monthly during a normal
billing cycle provided that during unusual conditions of snow or ice or other
unusual conditions that exist beyond the control of the village which prevents
the monthly reading of water meters, the village clerk/treasurer shall estimate
monthly water bills by using the prior average bills for each such meter unable
to be read. If estimates are necessary, no meter shall go unread for more than
one (1) month without the specific written approval of the mayor. (1976 Code §
6-1-18; amd. Ord. 329, 11-9-2004; Ord. 398, 4-12-2022)
7-1A-9: WATER CONSERVATION:
   A.   Definitions:
   ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION: The code enforcement officer shall be responsible
for preparing the form of the citation.
   EATING ESTABLISHMENTS: A facility that serves meals to customers, including
those facilities located in schools, drive-ins, and excluding health and frail
elderly care facilities.
   FUGITIVE WATER: Water that has escaped from one property onto adjacent
property or onto the public right of way. (This does not include stormwater
runoff or flow resulting from municipal emergencies.)
   HAND WATERING: The use of a handheld watering device such as a bucket or a
hose with an attached positive shutoff nozzle.
   HOSPITALITY BUSINESSES: Licensed eating or lodging establishments.
   LODGING ESTABLISHMENT: A licensed motel, hotel or bed and breakfast
establishment, that provides private rooms for overnight stay and provides
towels, sheets and/or other linens for its guests to use during their stay.
   NONBENEFICIAL USES OF WATER: A. Landscape water applied in such a manner,
rate or quantity that it overflows the area being watered and runs onto
adjacent property or public right of way;
   B.   Landscape water that leaves a sprinkler or other application device in
such a manner as to spray onto adjacent property or public right of way;
   C.   Water used to wash down vehicles, or hard surfaces such as parking
lots, aprons, pads, driveways or other surfaced areas so as to flow from that
surface onto adjacent property or the public right of way;
   D.   Other uses as may be determined by the governing body by resolution.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY: The person who is personally liable for the water charges
to a property served by the municipal water system.
   WATER WASTE: The nonbeneficial use of water.
   B.   Emergency Control: The mayor or authorized representative is hereby
authorized to control, limit or cut off the constant flow of water supplying an
area or areas of the village as may be warranted and reasonably calculated to
maintain adequate water pressure in distribution pipelines to fight, control or
prevent the spread of fire or to control any emergency inimical to the public
welfare, health and safety.
   C.   Declaration Of Water Emergencies: Whenever an emergency exists by
reason of a shortage of water, due to inadequate supply or failure of equipment
or materials, such that the village water system is unable or will within the
near future become unable to supply the full commercial and domestic needs of
the users thereof, including adequate fire protection as determined by the fire
chief, the governing body is authorized to restrict or prohibit, by emergency
proclamation, the use of water from the village water system as set forth
herein designating the level of emergency. Said proclamation shall be posted in
three (3) prominent places within the village and shall take effect
immediately.
   D.   Restrictions: When the governing body has declared a level one water
emergency, the following restrictions apply to all properties served by the
village of Cloudcroft water system, including those properties outside the
village limits. Additional restrictions, as enumerated below, may apply when
the governing body has declared a level two or level three water emergency.
      1.   Prohibited Acts:
         a.   Water Waste: No entity or operation served by the village water
system shall waste, cause, or permit to be wasted or applied to nonbeneficial
uses, as defined in this section, any water furnished by the village of
Cloudcroft.
         b.   Fugitive Water Flow: No entity or operation shall cause or permit
the flow of excess fugitive water onto adjacent property or public right of
way.
      2.   Exceptions:
         a.   Flow resulting from firefighting and training, or routine
inspections of fire hydrants, or from other necessary municipal uses.
         b.   Water applied to prevent or abate health, safety and accident
hazards; and in construction work.
         c.   Water that flows onto adjacent property or public rights of way
as the result of an act of nature.
      3.   Outdoor Watering Restrictions:
         a.   Spray irrigation is allowed from six o'clock (6:00) P.M. to ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M.
         b.   If level two restrictions are in effect, said watering shall be
additionally restricted to even calendar days for property with even addresses,
and to odd calendar days for property with odd addresses. When a property has
more than one address, the address of the water meter shall determine the
address for watering. No watering shall be allowed on the thirty first day of
any month.
         c.   If level three restrictions are in effect, the only watering
permitted will be by hand watering or automatic controlled irrigation for no
more than fifteen (15) minutes per zone program on the hours and days specified
for levels one and two, except under conditions outlined in special written
permits approved by the governing body.
         d.   Personal vehicles may be washed only during the watering hours
allowed above, and only with a bucket or with a handheld hose with an attached
positive shutoff nozzle. If level two restrictions are in effect, personal
vehicles may be washed only during the assigned watering days. Personal
vehicles shall not be washed when level three restrictions are in effect.
         e.   The above restrictions do not apply if a permit has been granted
by the village clerk so that the applicant may repair or maintain an irrigation
system or apply chemicals to a landscape.
         f.   Collected rain water and gray water may be used without
restriction except that gray water shall be used only in accordance with
regulations set by the state of New Mexico.
         g.   When level three restrictions are in effect there shall be no
operation of outdoor fountains and/or waterfalls, nor draining and refilling of
ornamental ponds, swimming pools and hot tubs.
      4.   Indoor Water Conservation: Private line leaks shall be repaired by
the owner and proof of repair shall be submitted to the village within fifteen
(15) days of notification by the village. Anyone wanting to detect possible
leaks by checking a water meter may ask the village for a courtesy check; the
village shall make every attempt to comply with this request no later than the
next working day.
      5.   Hospitality Businesses: In declared level two and three water
emergencies, all lodging establishments shall encourage their customers to
agree not to have their sheets and towels changed during a stay of three (3)
days or less. Such establishments shall post in every guest room signs
informing customers of the water shortage, and instructing them on how to
decline replacement linen service.
   E.   Enforcement And Fees:
      1.   Authority: Members of the village police department shall have the
authority to issue an administrative citation to the responsible party
violating the provisions of this section and any emergency proclamation issued
hereunder.
      2.   Enforcement: Any person who causes, permits, facilitates, violation
of the provisions of this section shall be subject to enforcement as stated
herein.
      3.   Schedule Of Surcharge Fees:
         a.   First violation: Warning notice issued to responsible party;
         b.   Second violation for the same offense: Fifty dollar ($50.00)
penalty fee assessed to the property served which shall be the personal
liability of the person responsible for the payment of water charges to the
property served by the municipal water system;
         c.   Third violation for the same offense: One hundred dollar
($100.00) penalty fee assessed to the property served which shall be the
personal liability of the person responsible for the payment of water charges
to the property served by the municipal water system;
         d.   Subsequent violations for the same offense: Five hundred dollar
($500.00) penalty fee assessed to the property served which shall be the
personal liability of the person responsible for the payment of water charges
to the property served by the municipal water system.
The responsible party shall have twenty four (24) hours after receipt of a
warning notice to cure the violation. Subsequent citations for the same offense
may be issued twenty four (24) hours after the previous citation and each
twenty four (24) hour period thereafter of a continuous violation. Egregious
violations, as determined by majority vote of the governing body, after notice
and opportunity to be heard, may result in cut off of water at the meters
serving the premises on which the violations occur. (For the purpose of
assessing fees, previous violations shall not be considered if a period of 1
year has elapsed since the last violation, or if a new owner, not related to
the previous owner, has taken possession of the property.)
      4.   Fee Assessment: Fees shall be assessed on the village water and
sewer bills for the responsible party's account. Responsible parties shall be
notified of the fee by certified mail, return receipt requested, within fifteen
(15) days of being cited during which time the responsible party may request a
hearing before the code enforcement officer. Once final, fees shall be listed
as a separate line item on the bill, must be paid within the normal payment
period allowed by the village, and are subject to the same collection fees and
protocols as other fees on the water and sewer bills.
      5.   Collection: All fees collected for violations of this section shall
be deposited to the village water and sewer operating fund.
   F.   Variances: In cases of practical difficulties or extreme hardship, the
mayor or his designee may grant variances from the provisions of this section
for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) days. Such variances shall stipulate
corrective measures to be taken. In the event more time is needed, the
responsible party shall apply for a special permit from the governing body.
   G.   Appeals: Enforcement actions on administrative citations shall be heard
by the code enforcement officer and his decision may be appealed de novo within
thirty (30) days to the governing body and thereafter to the district court
pursuant to the rules of civil procedure.
   H.   Additional Restrictions: The governing body may, by majority vote,
impose additional restrictions during water emergencies by resolution. (Ord.
314, 4-8-2003)
7-1A-10: REGULATIONS PART OF CONTRACT:
All regulations contained in this article shall be considered a part of the
contract of every person taking water from the water system of the village, and
every person taking water shall be considered as having expressly consented to
be bound thereby. (1976 Code § 6-1-21)
7-1A-11: BULK WATER:
   A.   Responsibility of users: Any person desiring to purchase bulk water
from the Village shall set up a bulk water account with the Village Clerks
office or conduct a single use as provided herein. The user shall be afforded a
key to the bulk delivery location and provide such information in signing out
the key to include name, date and meter readings before and after delivery of
water. The application to set up a bulk water account shall include the payment
of a seventy-five dollars ($75.00) set up fee.
   B.   The bulk water account user or single user shall pay a monthly minimum
charge of thirty-eight dollars and fifty cents ($38.50) plus applicable gross
receipts tax.
   C.   Fees for the delivery of water shall be as follows: thirty dollars
($30.00) per month for up to one thousand (1,000) gallons; thirty dollars
($30.00) per each one thousand (1,000) gallons or part thereof above the
minimum; seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) system improvement fee per month
included in the minimum as set forth above and a one dollar ($1.00) convenience
fee together with applicable gross receipt tax on the total monthly bill or
single use event.
   D.   A singe use bulk water sale shall pay the monthly minimum plus any
overage charges immediately upon checking out a key and returning the key with
the starting and ending meter readings
   E.   Any person who fails to pay the appropriate charges shall have violated
this section and shall be subject to a general penalty as provided in the
Cloudcroft Code of Ordinances. (Ord. 399, 6-13-2022)
ARTICLE B. SEWER SERVICE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1B-1: Sewage Defined
7-1B-2: Rules And Regulations Adopted
7-1B-3: Connection To System Required
7-1B-4: Permit For Connection
7-1B-5: Construction Of Sewers
7-1B-6: Rates And Charges For The Use Of Sewers
7-1B-7: Tapping Fee
7-1B-8: Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors
7-1B-9: Manhole For Industrial Waste
7-1B-10: Prohibited Acts
7-1B-11: Abandonment Of Connection
7-1B-12: Sewer Discharge Rate
7-1B-1: SEWAGE DEFINED:
   A.   Acceptable: The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bathtubs, showers, household laundries, cellar floor drains, bars, soda
fountains, cuspidors, refrigeration drips, drinking fountains and any other
waterborne waste not constituting an industrial waste are acceptable wastes for
the purpose of this article.
   B.   Not Acceptable: The following wastes are not acceptable, except as may
be provided for in
chapter 2 of this title:
      1.   Liquid Or Vapor: Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher
than one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F);
      2.   Biological Oxygen Demand: Any water or waste having a five (5) day
biological oxygen demand which may contain more than one thousand (1,000) parts
per million by weight as averaged during any twelve (12) hour period;
      3.   Flammable Or Explosive Liquids: Any gasoline, benzine, naphtha, fuel
oil or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      4.   Unshredded Garbage: Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      5.   Interfering Substances: Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw,
shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, woods, paunch, manure,
grit, brick, cement, onyx, carbide or any other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works;
      6.   Corrosive Water Or Waste: Any water or waste having a pH lower than
5.5 or higher than 9, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing
damage or hazard to structure, equipment or personnel of the sewage works;
      7.   Toxic Or Poisonous Substances: Any water or waste containing a toxic
or poisonous substance in sufficient quantities to injure or interfere with
sewage process, constituting a hazard to humans or animals, or creating any
hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      8.   Suspended Solids: Any water or wastes containing suspended solids of
such character or quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to
handle such materials at the sewage treatment plant;
      9.   Noxious Gas: Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of
creating a public nuisance;
      10.   Other Prohibited Substances: Any other substances, matter or
material expressly prohibited by chapter 2 of this title. (1976 Code § 6-1-22)
7-1B-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The board of trustees shall make and enforce rules and regulations as it may
deem necessary for the safe, efficient and economical management of the village
sewer system. The rules and regulations, when not repugnant to this code or any
other ordinances of the village and laws of the state, shall have the same
force and effect as ordinances of the village. (1976 Code § 6-1-40)
7-1B-3: CONNECTION TO SYSTEM REQUIRED:
Except where otherwise provided, no person shall maintain within the village
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended for
use for the disposal of sewage. Where a public sanitary sewer is not available
within the village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, the
building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying
with the provisions and recommendation of the New Mexico department of health
and social services. A private sewage disposal system shall be constructed,
maintained and operated at all times in a sanitary manner. At the time a public
sanitary sewer is, or becomes available within one hundred fifty feet (150') of
the property served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection
shall be made to the public sanitary sewer in accordance with the provisions of
this section and any septic tank, cesspool or similar sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material. (1976 Code §
6-1-23)
7-1B-4: PERMIT FOR CONNECTION:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to open, uncover or in
any manner make connection with any sewer main or line in the village, or to
lay drain or sewer pipes on any premises or in any street or alley in the
village, without first obtaining a written permit therefore from the Village
Clerk/Treasurer or their authorized representative. It shall be unlawful for
any person to cover a connection with a sewer main or line in the village
without first having such connection visually inspected by the village clerk/
treasurer or his authorized representative. All work to fill trench and repair
road or alley surface shall be done in accordance with applicable building code
standards to include compaction to 95% in the presence of a Village
representative to insure proper compaction and repair of road surface to the
then existing road conditions at the site of such repair. Failure to properly
compact soil and repair road surface shall be cause to revoke the permit to
connect to the Village sewer system.
   B.   Application: The application for a permit shall be in writing and shall
contain the following information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant;
      2.   Name and address of owner of the premises where said connection is
to be made; drain or line is to be laid;
      3.   Location of the proposed connection, drain or sewer pipes;
      4.   Statement as to the type of connection and type of materials to be
discharged into the sewer;
      5.   Statement as to whether said connection is to be made to the storm
sewer or the sanitary sewer.
   C.   Issuance: If the proposed connection does not violate any provision
herein and does not violate any other ordinances of the village, the village
clerk/treasurer shall issue a permit for a connection. The permit shall contain
all information contained in the application and shall specify the type and
kind of grease and sand traps to be used. (1976 Code §§ 6-1-25, 6-1-26; amd.
Ord. 81, 9-13-1976, Ord. 386, 2-18-2020)
7-1B-5: CONSTRUCTION OF SEWERS:
Any user of the sewer system, either inside or outside of the village limits,
must furnish his own sewer service line. If there is no sewer main line
available for him to connect with, then a main line will be constructed by the
village in accordance with a duly adopted extension policy. All connections to
the village sewer system must be made by a licensed plumber, subject to the
supervision and inspection of the state plumbing inspector and in compliance
with the state plumbing code and requirements of the village. (1976 Code § 6-1-
28)
7-1B-6: RATES AND CHARGES FOR THE USE OF SEWERS:
   A.   Enumerated: There is hereby levied and charged to each lot, parcel of
land and premises served by or having sewer connections with the sanitary sewer
system of the village, or otherwise discharging sanitary sewage, industrial
wastewater or other liquids either directly or indirectly into the village
sanitary sewer system, the following rates and charges:
      1.   Sixteen dollars fifty six cents ($16.56) per month for each water
meter serving the premises;
      2.   An additional sixty four cents ($0.64) for each one thousand (1,000)
gallons, or fraction thereof, of monthly metered water use from four thousand
one (4,001) to ten thousand (10,000) gallons, inclusive;
      3.   An additional one dollar twenty nine cents ($1.29) for each one
thousand (1,000) gallons, or fraction thereof, of the monthly metered water use
greater than ten thousand (10,000) gallons;
      4.   These rates will become effective for bills beginning in October
2008;
      5.   Effective each July 1, beginning 2009, the sewer rates and charges
are authorized to increase based on the annual average change in the consumer
price index-all urban consumers (CPI-U) as compiled by the bureau of business
and economic research, University of New Mexico, and published in March of each
year.
   B.   Billings; Penalty: The sewer charges levied pursuant to this article
shall be payable monthly and shall be added to and made a part of the monthly
water bill of the various properties in the village. All sewer bills inside or
outside the village shall be due and payable on or before the next fifteenth
day of the month which immediately follows the mailing of the statement
thereof, and if not paid by the twenty fifth day of the month immediately after
the due date, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of only that month's
charges shall be added thereto and paid by the sewer user.
   C.   Discontinuance of Service: In addition to the remedies provided in this
code, the village shall, without notice, discontinue sanitary sewer service or
water service to any premises for which the sanitary sewer system charges are
delinquent for a period if not made within fifteen (15) days after the twenty
fifth (25th) day of the month immediately after the due date as set forth above
in Section
7-1A-2 C. and Section
7-1B-6 B. In case there shall be any sewer charge delinquent and the supply has
been disconnected, the sewer shall not be connected again until all charges
charges, plus a reconnect fee have been paid in full. The village may, without
notice, discontinue the sanitary sewer service to any premises discharging
nonacceptable wastes into the sanitary sewer system. (Ord. 347, 11-12-2008;
amd. Ord. 391, 7-13-2021)
7-1B-7: TAPPING FEE:
At the time of filing the application, the applicant shall pay a tapping fee of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the connection to the sewer of any property
within the village limits, and an amount to be determined by the village for
the connection to the sewer of any property located outside of the village
limits. (Ord. 273, 7-9-1996)
7-1B-8: GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Conditions Requiring: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
provided when in the opinion of the mayor or designee they are necessary for
the proper handling of any liquid containing grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand or harmful ingredients; and the village clerk/treasurer
shall maintain in the office of the village clerk/treasurer a list of all those
accounts that are required to use grease, oil and sand interceptors and shall
provide notice by regular mail to such accounts of the requirement of this
section. (Ord. 230, 7-10-1990; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Exception: A grease, oil and sand interceptor shall not be required for
any private living quarters of a dwelling unit. (Ord. 230, 7-10-1990)
   C.   Type; Capacity: Interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved
by the mayor or designee and shall be located to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. (Ord. 230, 7-10-1990; amd. 2000 Code)
   D.   Records Maintenance; Inspection: Each user of the village sewer system
required to maintain a grease, oil and sand interceptor shall maintain records
which shall be available for inspection by the village upon demand during
normal business hours, which records shall reflect the date of periodic
cleaning of the grease, oil and sand in interceptors as may be appropriate for
that particular user of the sewer system, and the name of the person who
actually provided the cleaning service. (Ord. 230, 7-10-1990)
7-1B-9: MANHOLE FOR INDUSTRIAL WASTE:
When required by the mayor or designee, the owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial waste shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation and sampling of the
waste. The manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with
chapter 2 of this title. The manholes shall be installed by the owner at his
expense and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all
times. (1976 Code § 6-1-31; amd. 2000 Code)
7-1B-10: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Discharge Of Nonacceptable Wastes: The discharge of nonacceptable
wastes into the village sewer system, whether directly or indirectly, is
prohibited; nonacceptable wastes being defined as stated herein or stated in
chapter 2 of this title. Where an investigation reveals the presence in the
system of nonacceptable wastes emanating from any lot, land, building or
premises, the owner, lessor, renter or occupant of such lot, land, building or
premises shall be at his own expense required to treat, neutralize or in other
ways prepare the noxious substance therein to the satisfaction of the mayor or
designee in order to convert the same into acceptable wastes. (1976 Code § 6-1-
29; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Interference With Employees: No person shall in any way interfere with
the employees of the village in any discharge of their duties either in the
tapping of any sewer pipe, main or lateral. No person shall dig up or cause to
be dug up any street or alley in the village for the purpose of connecting with
the sewer system of the village without first obtaining a permit, and no person
having a permit shall dig up any portion of any street or alley of the village
for the purpose of connecting with the sewer system of the village and fail to
neglect to place the street or alley in its original condition. (1976 Code § 6-
1-33)
   C.   Deposit Of Unsanitary Wastes On Property: No person shall deposit or
permit to be deposited any human excrement or animal excrement wastes in any
unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the village or within
any area within the jurisdiction of the village. (1976 Code § 6-1-34)
   D.   Untreated Industrial Waste Into Natural Outlets: No persons shall
discharge into any natural outlet within the village, or any area within the
jurisdiction of the village, or into the village sewer system, any sanitary
sewer or industrial waste, except as may be permitted and provided for and with
full compliance with
chapter 2 of this title. (1976 Code § 6-1-35; amd. 2000 Code)
   E.   Damage, Tampering: No person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently
break, damage or destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the village sanitary sewer system.
(1976 Code § 6-1-36)
7-1B-11: ABANDONMENT OF CONNECTION:
No person shall abandon any building connection without first obtaining a
written permit therefor. The building connection shall be effectively sealed
with a vitrified clay stopper inserted in the bell of the sewer extending to
the property line, which stopper shall be jointed as directed by the mayor or
designee. (1976 Code § 6-1-32; amd. 2000 Code)
7-1B-12: SEWER DISCHARGE RATE:
Any new well or existing well furnishing domestic water to premises within the
village limits which is connected to the village sewer system shall either: a)
provide an accurate meter reading of the private well water introduced into the
premises, shall pay the appropriate sewer discharge rate based on such metered
water disclosed each month to the village clerk and the village shall have the
right to inspect such meter records and the meter, or b) meter effluent as it
is discharged into the village sewer system in which case the owners of the
private well from which water is discharged into the sewer system shall pay to
the village the cost, including parts and labor, of installing such a meter,
plus twenty percent (20%). Said owner shall also reimburse the village for the
cost of maintaining and replacing the meter, plus twenty percent (20%). Charges
for sewer use shall be the same as those authorized in section
7-1B-6 of this article from time to time as amended, except that the number
used to determine charges shall be the actual metered effluent discharge in
lieu of a water meter reading. (Ord. 295, 7-11-2000)
CHAPTER 2
INDUSTRIAL WASTES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permitted Discharges
7-2-2: Rates And Fees
7-2-3: Standards
7-2-4: Maintenance Of Facilities
7-2-5: Testing Effluent
7-2-6: Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors
7-2-7: Manholes; Installation, Maintenance
7-2-8: Special Considerations
7-2-9: Prohibited Discharges
7-2-10: Suspect Waste Materials
7-2-11: Disposal Alternatives
7-2-1: PERMITTED DISCHARGES:
Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to sewers
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Village. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged on approval of the Village to a storm sewer, combined
sewer or natural outlet. (1976 Code § 6-2-2)
7-2-2: RATES AND FEES:
   A.   Schedule: The Board of Trustees shall take necessary steps to establish
a rate schedule for sewer service that assures an equitable system of cost
recovery. The purpose hereof is that the industrial users shall pay for the
costs incurred by the Village in the construction, operation and maintenance of
that portion of the wastewater treatment facilities related to industrial
wastes. (1976 Code § 6-2-13)
   B.   Basis Of Rates: The following cost recovery system is hereby adopted.
The system is based on a basic rate for wastes, which do not exceed the
concentration of "normal" domestic sewage (with respect to BOD and SS), plus a
surcharge for wastes which exceed the concentration of "normal" sewage: (1976
Code § 6-2-15)
   C.   Cost Recovery System: The cost recovery system shall satisfy the
following conditions:
      1.   The apportionment of costs must take into consideration the
individual industrial user's contribution as related to the total waste load,
taking into account the volume and strength of all discharges.
      2.   The costs to be considered should include:
         a.   Amortization of the applicant's indebtedness for the cost of the
treatment facilities (plant and interceptors).
         b.   Operation and maintenance of the treatment facilities.
         c.   Any additional costs which are necessary to assure adequate
treatment on a continuous basis.
      3.   Substantial prepayment of the capital investment or other financial
commitments will be required from each industry that contributes thirty percent
(30%) or more of the total volume or strength of the waste load to be treated
by the project. (1976 Code § 6-2-14)
   D.   Formula: The industrial charge will be calculated with the following
formula:
   IC = $60 + $403
    10 gallons
   (V) a (BOD-200) + b (SS - 5) + c (COD-300)
    ( 200) ( 5 ) ( 300)
 
Where:
IC = Industrial charge, dollars per year.
V = Volume discharged, gallons.
BOD = Five days, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand of a given industrial
discharge, mg/l.
SS = Settleable solids of a given industrial waste, mg/l.
COD = Chemical oxygen demand of a given industrial waste, mg/l.
a = 0.4, b = 0.1, c = 0.5.
a = That fraction of the total cost which is attributable to BOD removal.
b = That fraction of the total cost which is attributable to suspended solids
removal.
c = That fraction of the total cost which is attributable to chemical oxygen
demand removal.
   (1976 Code § 6-2-16)
   E.   Additional Payment: The Village will require payment by users covered
by this Chapter to make additional payments to cover the added cost of handling
and treating the waste not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the
provisions of subsection
7-1B-6B of this Title. (1976 Code § 6-2-6)
   F.   Disconnection Of Service: In the event any industrial concern governed
by this Chapter that is discharging waste into the Village sewer facility shall
fail to make all payments within thirty (30) days of the date when written
notice that payment is due is mailed, the Village will disconnect the
industrial concern and charge a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) in
addition to all past due payments; the one hundred dollars ($100.00) additional
fee shall be for the cost of reconnection. (1976 Code § 6-2-17)
7-2-3: STANDARDS:
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this Chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analysis
involved will be determined whether a twenty four (24) hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs
are determined from periodic grab samples. (1976 Code § 6-2-11)
7-2-4: MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES:
Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense. (1976 Code § 6-2-9)
7-2-5: TESTING EFFLUENT:
Testing of the industrial waste will be performed once a year by the Village.
If either the Village or the industry requires more frequent tests, then those
tests will be paid for by the party requesting the analysis. (1976 Code § 6-2-
7)
7-2-6: GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
Village, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing
grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients; except that interceptors shall not be required for private living
quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the Village and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. (1976 Code § 6-2-8)
7-2-7: MANHOLES; INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE:
When required by the Village, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole,
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. The
manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, constructed in
such a manner as to prevent infiltration of ground and surface waters, and
should be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Village. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall be maintained
by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (1976 Code § 6-2-10)
7-2-8: SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS:
No statement contained in this Chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the Village and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the Village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the industrial
concern. (1976 Code § 6-2-12)
7-2-9: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   Water: No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm
water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer. (1976 Code § 6-2-1)
   B.   Wastes: No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Flammable Liquids: Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or
other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Toxic Water Or Waste: Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interacting with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including, but not limited to, cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter
(2 mg/l) as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
      3.   Pesticides: Any herbicides and pesticides.
      4.   Corrosive Property: Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
      5.   Interfering Substances: Solid or viscous substances in quantities or
of a size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch, manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
      6.   Heavy Metals: Any amount of the following heavy metals:
         Antimony   Lead
         Arsenic   Manganese
         Barium    Mercury
         Beryllium   Molybdenum
         Bismuth   Nickel
         Boron   Rhenium
         Cadmium   Selenium
         Chromium (Hexa)   Silver
         Chromium (Tri)   Strontium
         Cobalt   Tellurium
         Copper   Tin
         Iron Zinc   Uranium
(1976 Code § 6-2-3)
7-2-10: SUSPECT WASTE MATERIALS:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Village that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In
forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the Village will
give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relations to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant
and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
   A.   High Temperature Liquid Or Vapor: Any liquid or vapor having a
temperature higher than one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (0 and 64°
C).
   B.   Unshredded Garbage: Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
The installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of
three-fourths (3/4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to
the review and approval of the Village.
   C.   Acid Iron: Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
   D.   Objectionable Or Toxic Substances: Any waters or wastes containing
iron, chromium, copper, zinc and similar objectionable or toxic substances or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Village for such materials.
   E.   Phenols: Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Village as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the State, Federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for discharge to the receiving waters.
   F.   Radioactive Wastes: Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of half-life or
concentrations that may exceed limits established by the Village in compliance
with applicable State or Federal regulations.
   G.   Excessive pH: Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
   H.   Materials; Specifically: Materials which exert or cause:
      1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
      2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
      3.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      4.   Slugs or shocks constituting an unusual volume of flow or
concentration of wastes which will disturb the normal functioning of either the
sewage treatment plant or collection system.
   I.   Untreatable Substances: Waters or wastes containing substances which
are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment process
employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage
treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters. (1976 Code § 6-2-4)
7-2-11: DISPOSAL ALTERNATIVES:
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or posses the
characteristics enumerated in Section
7-2-10 of this Chapter, and which in the judgment of the Village may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Village may:
   A.   Reject the wastes.
   B.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers.
   C.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge. If the
Village permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and
installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Village and subject to the requirements of all applicable
codes, ordinances and laws. (1976 Code § 6-2-5)
CHAPTER 3
WATER SUPPLY FACILITY PROTECTION
SECTION:
7-3-1: Application Of Ordinances, Rules And Regulations
7-3-2: Enforcement
7-3-3: Prohibited Acts And Activities
7-3-4: Declaration Of Nuisance
7-3-5: Penalty
7-3-1: APPLICATION OF ORDINANCES, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
All the provisions of this Code and all of the ordinances, rules and
regulations adopted by the Village are hereby applicable to the Village water
supply in James Canyon and its tributaries, including all Village owned
property immediately adjacent thereto and within a five (5) mile area above the
Village water intakes at Lot 14, Section 3, T16S R12E, N.M.P.M., hereinafter
referred to as "Pumphouse Canyon". (Ord. 213, 9-10-1985)
7-3-2: ENFORCEMENT:
All peace officers employed by the Village, State health officers and State
Fish and Game officials, and any other Village employee whose duties include
the enforcement of the ordinances of the Village, are hereby authorized and
empowered to exercise jurisdiction over the enforcement of this Chapter. (Ord.
213, 9-10-1985)
7-3-3: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Picnicking: Picnicking, eating or drinking on or littering of the
stream bed within the banks of the Pumphouse Canyon watercourse is hereby
prohibited.
   B.   Swimming: No washing, wading, swimming, bathing or polluting of the
waters of the Pumphouse Canyon watercourse in any manner whatsoever shall be
permitted.
   C.   Pollution: The construction or keeping of any barn, corral, poultry or
turkey yard, pasture or pig sty on any place or premises of whatsoever kind,
the drainage from which is capable of polluting, contaminating or rendering the
water impure or unwholesome, is hereby prohibited in the Pumphouse Canyon
watercourse or its tributaries, and upon or adjacent to the banks thereof, from
the points of intake of the Village water supply and service lines to the
distance of five (5) miles above and upstream in the said Pumphouse Canyon
watercourse.
   D.   Soil Erosion; Permit Required: It is prohibited to operate a motor
vehicle of any kind within the banks or waters of the Pumphouse Canyon
watercourse. "Motor vehicle" means every vehicle which is self-propelled or is
pulled or pushed by a self-propelled vehicle. It is prohibited for any person
to alter or otherwise disturb the natural contours of the banks of the
Pumphouse Canyon watercourse without having first obtained the written consent
of the Board of Trustees. Such consent may be obtained by application to the
Board of Trustees. Such application shall include complete engineering plans
prepared by a licensed engineer of the State for the alteration of the contours
of the banks of the Pumphouse Canyon watercourse and such consent may be given
only after adequate assurance is provided that the alteration shall not cause
the water to be polluted or increase the possibility of the water being
polluted or the turbidity of the water of the Pumphouse Canyon watercourse to
be increased.
   E.   Livestock Watering: It shall be prohibited to water livestock directly
from the waters of the Pumphouse Canyon watercourse. Livestock may be watered
only after removal of such water from the Pumphouse Canyon watercourse and
placement in a separate container located outside the banks of the Pumphouse
Canyon watercourse. (Ord. 213, 9-10-1985)
7-3-4: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
The keeping, establishing or maintaining of any place or premises or the doing
of any act prohibited by this Chapter is hereby declared a nuisance and such
nuisance may be abated by the Village in accordance with the law. (Ord. 213, 9-
10-1985)
7-3-5: PENALTY:
The keeping, establishing or maintaining of any place or premises or the doing
of any act prohibited in this Chapter is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor
and is subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 213, 9-10-1985; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC LIBRARY
SECTION:
7-4-1: Established
7-4-2: Library Director
7-4-3: Library Board
7-4-4: Unlawful Acts
7-4-5: Property Acquisition And Disposal
7-4-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a library in the Village, a free public library to
be known as the Michael Nivison Public Library. Such library is a proper and
legitimate object of expenditure and operation of the Village. The library is a
department of and shall be administered by the Village. (Ord. 289, 4-14-1999)
7-4-2: LIBRARY DIRECTOR:
Pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-11-6, the Mayor shall
appoint a Library Director over any staff for the public library system who
shall be the administrative officer of the library pursuant to New Mexico
Statutes Annotated section 3-11-6. The Mayor shall consult with the Library
Board on selection of the Library Director. (Ord. 289, 4-14-1999)
7-4-3: LIBRARY BOARD:
   A.   Created; Duties: The Library Board is created as an advisory board to
the Village. The Library Board shall advise and assist the Board of Trustees to
ensure the efficient and economical management and operation of the Michael
Nivison Public Library.
   B.   Purposes: The Library Board is created as a liaison between the
community and the Board of Trustees for the following purposes:
      1.   To keep itself informed of library needs and to serve as a forum for
discussion.
      2.   To recommend to the Board of Trustees policies for overall
development, including plans for additional library facilities and programs.
      3.   To encourage the greatest use of library facilities and programs.
      4.   To recommend to the Board of Trustees in a timely manner the fiscal
year operating budget and to recommend budget adjustments if needed.
   C.   Composition: The Library Board shall consist of six (6) members. The
members shall include, as far as possible, representatives of various
geographic, ethnic, socio economic, professional and business interests of the
community.
   D.   Terms Of Office:
      1.   The members of the Library Board shall hold terms of office as
follows: appointments for terms commencing July 1, 1999, and thereafter, shall
be for a term of two (2) years, ending on June 30 at the end of term of office.
Appointments to unexpired terms will be for the remainder of the term.
      2.   Terms of office shall be staggered so that terms of office of three
(3) members expire every two (2) years.
      3.   At initial activation of the Library Board, three (3) members shall
be appointed to serve a two (2) year term of office and three members shall be
appointed to serve a one-year term of office. Thereafter, all appointments to
the Library Board shall be for two (2) years.
   E.   Nomination, Appointment And Removal Procedures For Members:
      1.   At least two (2) months before a term of a library board member
expires, the Mayor shall notify the members of the Board of Trustees of the
pending vacancy and the name of the incumbent board member. The Mayor may
request a library board recommendation for filling the vacancy. The Mayor may
seek other candidates for the vacancy. Persons appointed to board membership
will be notified of their appointment in writing asking for acceptance or
rejection of the position in writing. If a vacancy occurs for reasons other
than expiration of a term, the same procedure will be followed.
      2.   The Mayor may remove any board member who misses more than one (1)
quarterly meeting in a term year. The chairman of the library board shall
report such absences to the Mayor. The Mayor will investigate the circumstances
of the absences and report thereon to the Board of Trustees at their next
regularly scheduled meeting.
   F.   Members To Serve Without Compensation: All members of the Board created
by this Chapter shall serve without compensation.
   G.   Conflict Of Interest: Members of the Board having a private interest in
matters before the Board shall disqualify themselves from discussion and voting
on that matter.
   H.   Officers: The Library Board shall elect a minimum of three (3)
officers; those being chairman, vice chairman and secretary- treasurer. The
Board may elect such other officers as the Board deems necessary. Each officer
shall be elected by the members of the Board for a term of one year and shall
be elected at the first meeting of the fiscal year. No officers shall serve
more than two (2) consecutive terms in the same office.
   I.   Meetings:
      1.   A quorum of four (4) members is required for the conduct of board
business. A motion shall carry upon the affirmative vote of the majority of the
members present at any meeting. The board shall adopt additional rules to
govern its proceedings.
      2.   All meetings shall be open to the public and insofar as possible
shall be held at public-owned facilities. The board shall meet at least
quarterly and may hold additional meetings at its discretion. Notice of the
time, place and agenda meetings must be published as prescribed by the
library's public meetings resolution.
      3.   The Library Director is an ex officio member of the board without
vote, being responsible for administration of library facilities.
      4.   Board minutes shall be brief and include date and place of meeting,
attendance, items discussed, and action recommended. Minutes shall be filed
with the Village Clerk and sufficient copies forwarded to the Mayor for
distribution as prescribed.
      5.   Minutes of the last quarterly meeting each term year (July 1 to June
30) shall contain a summary of recommendations and record of attendance of
members for the term year.
   J.   Reports: The Library Board shall submit a monthly status report to the
Mayor and Board of Trustees identifying timely library operations issues the
Mayor and Board of Trustees should be made aware of. This report is due to the
Village Clerk/Treasurer the Friday before the regular monthly meeting of the
Board of Trustees. (Ord. 289, 4-14-1999; amd. Ord. 388, 3-9-2021)
7-4-4: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Damage: Any person, carrying away without authority, misusing, cutting,
writing upon, damaging, defacing, tearing, or destroying any book, periodical,
map, newspaper or any property devoted to the public library shall be subject
to punishment as provided in Section
 1-4-1 of this Code, and shall be ordered to replace or pay for the repair of
the material destroyed.
   B.   Failure To Pay Fine; Return: Any person who fails to pay fines, pay for
or return any book, periodical, map, newspaper, computer equipment, software,
computer programs, or any property belonging to the public library within
fifteen (15) days after written notice by the Village Attorney's office shall
be subject to punishment as provided in Section
 1-4-1 of this Code and shall be ordered to pay the library overdue fine and to
replace the material if it has been lost or damaged.
   C.   Notice Defined: Notice, as used in subsection B of this Section, is
presumed to have been given when deposited as certified matter in the United
States mail, addressed to the person at the address as it appears on his
library card. (Ord. 289, 4-14-1999)
7-4-5: PROPERTY ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL:
The Board shall develop policies covering the acceptance of books, media,
equipment and other property donated to the library by members of the public
and the disposal of surplus library books, media, equipment and property.
   A.   Donations: As a general guideline, policies on the acceptance of books,
media, equipment and other property donated by members of the public, the Board
shall consider library needs and requirements and providing acknowledgment of
the generosity of the donators of books and media.
   B.   Surplus Material: On a schedule developed by the Library Director,
library material (books, media, equipment and property) shall be evaluated to
identify books and media that are damaged, unserviceable and are duplicates;
books and media demonstrating no interest to patrons; and, unserviceable
equipment and other property. Such books, media, equipment and property shall
be declared candidates for disposal by the library.
   C.   Disposal Of Surplus Material: The Library Board shall approve or
disapprove the list of proposed surplus library material. Surplus library
material (books, media, equipment and other property) shall be disposed of in
accordance with applicable Village ordinances, applicable State laws, and
accepted standard library property disposal practices in this State. Monies
derived from the sale of surplus library property shall be deposited in the
Village Library Fund for library operations. (Ord. 289, 4-14-1999)
CHAPTER 5
DOMESTIC WATER WELLS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Restriction
7-5-2: Application
7-5-3: Denial
7-5-4: Connection Prohibited
7-5-5: Meter Required
7-5-1: RESTRICTION:
No person may drill a new domestic water well, except for property zoned
agricultural, within the village limits if the property line of the applicant
is within three hundred feet (300') of the municipal water distribution lines
and is located within the exterior boundaries of the village of Cloudcroft. In
the event the total cost, to the person desiring to drill such a well, of
extending the municipal water distribution lines, meter and hook-up fee to the
property to be served by the well exceeds the cost of drilling a new domestic
water well, then authorization will be given by the village upon such a
showing. (Ord. 306, 9-11-2001)
7-5-2: APPLICATION:
Any person who applies to the village for authority to drill a new domestic
well shall have their application acted upon within thirty (30) days of receipt
of the request if the New Mexico state engineer has approved the application
made to the state engineer's office. (Ord. 306, 9-11-2001)
7-5-3: DENIAL:
If the application is denied, the village shall notify the state engineer and
then shall provide water to the applicant in accordance with this title. (Ord.
306, 9-11-2001)
7-5-4: CONNECTION PROHIBITED:
No new well or existing well shall be connected in any way to the village of
Cloudcroft municipal water system. (Ord. 306, 9-11-2001)
7-5-5: METER REQUIRED:
Any new well or existing well furnishing domestic water to premises within the
village limits which previously is connected to the village sewer system shall
provide an accurate meter reading of the private well water introduced into the
premises, and shall pay the appropriate sewer discharge rate based on such
metered water disclosed each month to the village clerk. The village shall have
the right to inspect such meter records and the meter. (Ord. 306, 9-11-2001)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
CODES ADOPTED 1
SECTION:
8-1-1: Building Code
8-1-2: Plumbing And Mechanical Codes
8-1-3: Electrical Code
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA §§ 3-17-6, 3-18-6.
8-1-1: BUILDING CODE:
For the purpose of prescribing minimum standards regulating construction and
maintenance of buildings and structures within the village, the village adopts
the code and standards adopted under section 60-13-44, New Mexico Statutes
Annotated 1978 comp. as amended and as adopted under title 14 of the New Mexico
administration code. (Ord. 328, 8-10-2004)
8-1-2: PLUMBING AND MECHANICAL CODES:
   A.   Adoption: For the purposes of prescribing minimum standards regulating
installation and maintenance of plumbing and gas facilities in the village, the
village adopts the code and standards adopted under section 60-13-44, New
Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978 comp. as amended and as adopted under title 14
of the New Mexico administration code.
   B.   Backflow Valve: The backflow valve regulations in this subsection were
originally enacted by ordinance 88, passed July 10, 1979.
      1.   In addition to the other requirement specifications in the code and
statutes adopted under section 60-13-44, New Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978
comp. as amended and as adopted under title 14 of the New Mexico administration
code, a backflow valve shall be installed in every sewer connection of all new
construction within the village limits, dwellings, buildings and other
structures which are connected to the village sewer system for all such
connections which may be made subsequent to the date of the enactment of the
ordinance codified herein.
      2.   The backflow valve shall be covered and enclosed in a valve box
constructed of either concrete, redwood, or similar material.
      3.   No building permit shall be issued by the village unless the owner
or contractor of such new construction agrees to install such backflow valve in
a proper and efficient manner. (Ord. 334, 7-12-2005)
8-1-3: ELECTRICAL CODE:
For the purpose of prescribing minimum standards regulating the installation
and maintenance of electrical facilities in the village, the village adopts the
code and standards adopted under section 60-13-44, New Mexico Statutes
Annotated 1978 comp. as amended and as adopted under title 14 of the New Mexico
administration code. (Ord. 328, 8-10-2004)
CHAPTER 2
BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES;
CONSTRUCTION AND APPEARANCE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Applicability
8-2-2: Enforcement
8-2-3: Architectural Style
8-2-4: Lighting
8-2-5: Sidewalks
8-2-6: Signs
8-2-7: Antennas
8-2-8: Waiver Of Requirements
8-2-9: Penalty
8-2-1: APPLICABILITY:
The terms, provisions and requirements of this chapter shall be in addition to
and not in lieu of the requirements as set forth in the village, or in any
other ordinance or state statute governing construction, building, zoning or
similar activities. (Ord. 237, 9-11-1990)
8-2-2: ENFORCEMENT:
In any action brought by the village to enforce this chapter or in any action
brought by any other person in which the village is joined as a party
challenging this chapter, in the event the village is a prevailing party, then
the nonprevailing party challenging the provisions of this chapter or the party
against whom this chapter is enforced in such action, shall pay in addition to
the village's costs, the village's reasonable attorney fees at trial and in any
appeal thereof. (Ord. 237, 9-11-1990)
8-2-3: ARCHITECTURAL STYLE:
From and after the effective date of the ordinance codified herein, any
business or commercial structure constructed, replaced, remodeled or moved
within the corporate limits of the village or any residence or other dwelling
converted to a commercial structure within the corporate limits of the village,
shall conform to the western/railroad motif according to the architectural
styles utilized between 1850 and 1920 in the western United States, examples of
which are attached to the ordinance codified herein, marked exhibit A and
incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 237, 9-11-1990)
8-2-4: LIGHTING:
All street facing exterior lighting of any business or commercial structure
constructed, replaced, remodeled, converted or moved within the village shall
be approved by the planning and zoning commission and board of trustees.
Exterior illumination shall be kept to a minimum and shall be placed so as not
to interfere with safe vision upon the public roadways. (Ord. 237, 9-11-1990)
8-2-5: SIDEWALKS:
All sidewalks and exterior walkways built, constructed or replaced on the
public streets in the village shall be covered with an overhang, and shall
follow the approval process as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 237, 9-11-1990)
8-2-6: SIGNS:
All nonexempt signs erected, constructed, replaced, redone or added on business
or commercial structures within the corporate limits of the village shall
conform to the western/railroad motif of the village as set forth, and shall
have prior approval of the village clerk/treasurer or his designee. Sizes of
all commercial signs shall be regulated by the zoning title of the village and
any amendments thereto. (Ord. 322, 10-14-2003)
8-2-7: ANTENNAS:
All antennas to be erected, placed or moved upon any business or commercial
structure or property within the corporate limits of the village shall be
erected, placed or moved so as to minimize their visibility from the exterior
of the buildings or street. (Ord. 237, 9-11-1990)
8-2-8: WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS:
The board of trustees may, under appropriate circumstances, waive a portion or
all of the requirements of this chapter when in the opinion of the board of
trustees the nature or location of the proposed structure does not detract from
the stated purpose of this chapter. (Ord. 237, 9-11-1990)
8-2-9: PENALTY:
Violation of any of the terms and provisions of the chapter is hereby deemed to
be a civil infraction. Written notice shall be provided to the violator by the
board of trustees or their designated agent, which written notice shall set
forth the alleged violation and shall allow a reasonable time for the
correction of such alleged violation. For the purposes of this section,
"reasonable time" for any nonstructural violation shall be not less than five
(5) days and "reasonable time" for any structural violation or violations
involving extensive remodeling shall be not less than twenty (20) days. If said
violation is not corrected within the time limit as set forth in the notice,
then thereafter each day on which such violation exists shall be deemed to be a
separate infraction. Any infraction under this chapter shall be punishable by
civil penalty in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each such
infraction and any offending structure shall be removed at the owner's expense.
Violations of this chapter shall also be subject to civil injunction
proceedings. (Ord. 237, 9-11-1990)
CHAPTER 3
OUTDOOR LIGHTING
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose And Applicability; Definitions
8-3-2: Conformance Required
8-3-3: Shielding
8-3-4: Light Pollution And Light Trespass
8-3-5: General Requirements
8-3-6: Nonconforming Fixtures; Grandfather Provision
8-3-7: Special Exemptions
8-3-8: Effect On Other Codes; Conflicts
8-3-9: Penalty
8-3-10: Outdoor Lighting Advisory Committee Established
8-3-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY; DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Specified: Derived from a consensus of community values and interests,
the purpose of this chapter is to improve nighttime public safety, utility,
security and energy conservation by restricting the nighttime emission of light
rays which are the source of light trespass and/or glare, and/or are
detrimental to the safety and/or security of persons, property or vehicular
traffic, and/or are detrimental to the traditional aesthetic values of the
village, and/or unnecessarily restrict persons from the peaceful enjoyment of
their property, and/or are detrimental to astronomical observations. The
provisions of this chapter shall apply to all outdoor lighting devices for
illumination or advertisement.
   B.   Exceptions: The provisions of this chapter, except for subsections
 8-3-5A and B of this chapter, do not apply to glass tubes filled with neon,
argon or krypton, or to outdoor advertising signs constructed of translucent
material and wholly illuminated from within. Newly installed or replaced
outdoor advertising signs constructed of translucent material and illuminated
wholly from within shall be of the type having dark background with bright
colored characters. Such signs having bright background with dark or colored
characters shall not be installed.
   C.   Definitions: Specific terms and definitions used in this chapter
include:
   FULLY SHIELDED: A luminaire with light distribution such that no light is
emitted above the angle fifteen degrees (15°) below the horizontal plane, as
installed.
   GLARE: The sensation produced by a bright source within the visual field
that is sufficiently brighter than the level to which the eyes are adapted and
which causes annoyance, discomfort, or loss of visual performance and
visibility.
   IESNA: Illuminating Engineering Society of North America.
   LAMP: The bulb, tube, or other source of the light emanated from a
luminaire.
   LIGHT POLLUTION: Light emitted or reflected from surfaces that is not used
for visual purposes, e.g., light that goes into the skyward direction.
   LIGHT TRESPASS: Where unwanted light and/or glare shines from one property
to another.
   LUMINAIRE: The complete lighting assembly (including the lamp, housing,
reflectors, lenses and shields), less the support assembly (pole or mounting
bracket); a light fixture.
   SIGNIFICANT INTENSITY: Any light that reaches the eye either directly from
the luminaire lamp, or from specular reflection, or by less than two (2)
diffuse reflections shall be considered to have "significant intensity".
"Specular" means a mirror like reflection. "Diffuse" means a reflection off a
roughened surface. (Ord. 331, 3-8-2005)
8-3-2: CONFORMANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Fixtures: The use of any luminaire not in conformance with this chapter
is prohibited. This applies to both public and private outdoor luminaire
installation.
   B.   Mercury Vapor Lamp Or Luminaire: The outdoor installation or use of any
mercury vapor lamp or mercury vapor luminaire is prohibited.
   C.   Inspection: The village reserves the right to conduct a
postinstallation nighttime inspection to verify compliance with ordinance
requirements, and to require remedial action at no expense to the village, if
appropriate. (Ord. 331, 3-8-2005)
8-3-3: SHIELDING:
Except as otherwise provided, or in subsection
 8-3-1B of this chapter, all outdoor luminaires shall be shielded in such a
manner that light rays emitted by the luminaire, whether directly from the lamp
or indirectly from the luminaire, are restricted to regions below an angle
fifteen degrees (15°) beneath the horizontal plane running through the lowest
point on the luminaire where light is emitted. No significant intensity of
light shall be emitted from the luminaire horizontally, nor above the horizon,
nor above the region defined above. In general, all outdoor lighting shall be
downward directed, except where specified otherwise in this chapter. (Ord. 331,
3-8-2005)
8-3-4: LIGHT POLLUTION AND LIGHT TRESPASS:
   A.   Shielding Required: Following the effective date hereof, only shielded
outdoor luminaires which conform to the requirement of section
 8-3-3 of this chapter may be newly installed or modified, except for lamp
replacement but only of the same type and of the same or lesser wattage.
   B.   Installed Public Or Private Lighting: Only fully shielded, low pressure
sodium or fully shielded high pressure sodium outdoor luminaires may be newly
installed to provide illumination for public and private streets and for areas
designated for public and private parking. This includes both pole and wall
mounted luminaires.
   C.   Time Limits For Illumination; Exceptions: All outdoor luminaires
maintained on public or private property, whether installed before or after the
effective date hereof, shall be turned off between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
(local time) and sunrise, except when used for:
      1.   Commercial And Industrial Uses: Commercial and industrial uses (such
as sales, assembly and repair areas) where business is conducted after eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M., but only while the business is open to the public;
      2.   Advertising Signs: Illuminated advertising signs on the premises of
a business while it is open to the public;
      3.   Security Lighting: Per IESNA guidelines, lighting necessary for
security purposes or to illuminate walkways or roadways; or
      4.   Recreational Use: Recreational use that continues after eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M., but only for so long as such use continues.
   D.   High Intensity Beams: The outdoor operation of searchlights, lasers
with greater than five (5) milliwatts visible output power, or other high
intensity beams is prohibited.
   E.   Public Safety: For pedestrian and vehicular safety, glare shall not be
observable (outside the originating property limits for private installation)
at an angle greater than seventy five degrees (75°) from the nadir of the
vertical axis of the light source. The definition of "glare" in the context of
light trespass is more stringent, given below in subsection G of this section.
   F.   Maximum Luminance: No permanently mounted luminaire shall employ a lamp
rated greater than one hundred fifty (150) watts. Temporary use "task lighting"
luminaires may exceed these limits by a factor of four (4), but for no more
than thirty (30) days in a given calendar year. Also, no more than the
equivalent of two hundred fifty (250) watts per acre of illumination from
conforming luminaires may be employed on any property.
   G.   Light Trespass: All public and private lighting shall be shielded and/
or directed in such a manner that it does not spill over into neighboring
premises so as to interfere with the peaceful enjoyment of these premises.
Light trespass can only exist if there is a complaint. In cases of unresolved
disagreement, a formal complaint may be filed by the aggrieved party to the
village codes enforcement officials, who will then make a determination and
take appropriate actions.
Even though a luminaire may be legally installed and operated as given above,
it is possible for any luminaire to create a light trespass situation. For
purposes of evaluation, "light trespass" shall be defined as follows:
      1.   Light falling onto nearby residential property, bright enough to
create a shadow easily seen on a dark, moonless night; and/or
      2.   Nuisance glare, where the illuminating source lamp or its reflection
can be seen with significant intensity by a person standing off premises.
The provisions of this section apply to all luminaires. For the purposes of
light trespass, a luminaire is no longer considered newly installed after one
year from the date of installation or modification in the absence of complaint.
In the event of a formal complaint regarding an existing off street luminaire,
the complaining party(ies) shall be financially responsible for any
modifications found necessary to eliminate the light trespass. For newly
installed lighting, the owner may elect to obtain written agreement that the
lighting does not constitute light trespass from the owners of neighboring
properties. If such agreement is obtained, a later complaint cannot be filed by
these persons except as defined under the existing luminaires clause, or if the
luminaire fails to meet the requirements elsewhere in this chapter.
If a contractor or public utility installs an off street luminaire, they are
obliged to ensure that the owner warrants that the luminaire does not produce
light trespass, and/or that the owners of the neighboring properties have in
writing agreed to the installation of the luminaire. (Ord. 331, 3-8-2005)
8-3-5: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Flashing Lights: The use of flashing, rotating or pulsating lights in/
on any outdoor sign or other lighting device is prohibited. This provision
shall not apply to flashing, rotating or pulsating lights intended to warn of
hazards and danger, nor to decorator lights as given to subsection
8-3-7A of this chapter.
   B.   Operation: No luminaire may be operated in such manner as to constitute
a hazard or danger to persons, or to safe vehicular operation.
   C.   Signs And Billboards: Illuminating fixtures for advertising or other
signs shall be such that the illumination is confined to the area of the sign
or billboard. Under no conditions may signs or billboards be illuminated from
below. Any such illuminating fixture shall be placed above its respective sign
or billboard such that the secondary (specular) reflected light from the
surface of the sign or billboard is directed down toward the ground.
   D.   Motion Detector Security Lights: Motion detector security lights, which
are normally "off" and which are activated "on" for less than four (4) minutes
occasionally when motion is detected, are exempt from strict control of
emission angles as defined in section
8-3-3 of this chapter, but are not exempt from subsection B of this section,
and subsection
8-3-4G, "Light Trespass", of this chapter.
   E.   Outdoor Recreational Facilities: Outdoor recreational facilities
designed for specifically scheduled sporting events are exempt from the
specific shielding requirements of section
 8-3-3 of this chapter. In its place, lighting for outdoor recreational
facilities shall be so designed, installed and operated as to confine at least
ninety percent (90%) of the illumination to the recreational area. Recreational
facility fixtures shall be on elevated poles or structures so that illumination
is directed downward. No significant intensity of light may extend above a
horizontal plane from the lighting fixture. Illumination from recreational
facility fixtures shall be shielded to minimize glare extending toward roadways
or other places where impairment of motorists' vision might cause hazard. All
such recreational lighting shall be extinguished at the close of the
recreational activity.
   F.   U.S. Flags; Mounted Objects: In the case of pole mounted U.S. flags
that cannot be easily illuminated with down lighting, upward lighting may be
used only in the form of one narrow cone spotlight which confines the
illumination to the flag. (Ord. 331, 3-8-2005)
8-3-6: NONCONFORMING FIXTURES; GRANDFATHER PROVISION:
Outdoor lighting fixtures preexisting and legally installed and operative
before the effective date hereof are exempt from the requirements of this
chapter for the life of the preexisting fixture. This exemption does not apply
to the requirements of section
8-3-5 or subsection
8-3-4G of this chapter, which shall be binding on "grandfathered" fixtures
beginning one year from the effective date hereof. Whenever a preexisting
nonconforming luminaire is replaced or moved, the replacement thenceforth shall
meet the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 331, 3-8-2005)
8-3-7: SPECIAL EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Decorator Lights: Decorator lamps smaller than one-half (0.5) watt
rating may be used in any desired string length year round, but are still
subject to light trespass restrictions given in subsection
8-3-4G of this chapter.
   B.   Temporary Exemption Request: Request for temporary exemption from the
provisions of this chapter may be submitted to the village board of trustees in
written form describing the reason for the request and the nature of the
request. If approved and granted in writing by an authorized representative of
the village board of trustees, such exemption shall be in force for not more
than thirty (30) days. Request for a maximum of one 15-day renewal may be made
in similar manner. (Ord. 331, 3-8-2005)
8-3-8: EFFECT ON OTHER CODES; CONFLICTS:
The provisions of this chapter are intended to supplement other applicable
codes and requirements. Compliance with all applicable provisions of building,
electrical and other codes must be observed. In the event of a conflict between
the requirements of this chapter and other requirements, the more stringent
requirement shall apply. (Ord. 331, 3-8-2005)
8-3-9: PENALTY:
Violations of this chapter shall be subject to the general penalty provisions
contained in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 331, 3-8-2005)
8-3-10: OUTDOOR LIGHTING ADVISORY COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED:
In order to evaluate compliance in new installations and in cases of dispute,
there is hereby established an "outdoor lighting advisory committee" to be
appointed by the mayor with approval of a majority of all members of the
governing body to consist of not less than three (3) persons. At the request of
the village, this volunteer resource board will advise the village council, the
village manager, and/or the planning and zoning officer on questions of
interpretation of this chapter, provide guidelines for new construction and
installations. In addition, this advisory committee will provide outdoor
lighting resources and information materials to the village for distribution to
the community. (Ord. 331, 3-8-2005)
CHAPTER 4
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Fire Code Adopted
8-4-2: Fire Limits Established
8-4-3: Penalty
8-4-4: Life Safety Code
8-4-1: FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulation governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, the code,
standards and requirement adopted under chapter 59A, article 52 of the New
Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978 comp. as amended and title 10, chapter 25 of the
New Mexico administration code. (Ord. 328, 8-10-2004)
8-4-2: FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED:
The fire limits of the village shall hereafter be and include the following:
Within the village limits. (Ord. 328, 8-10-2004)
8-4-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code and each day that any building is in process of erection or
is allowed to stand after completion, shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense. (Ord. 328, 8-10-2004)
8-4-4: LIFE SAFETY CODE:
There is hereby adopted for purposes of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life the code and standards adopted under section 60-
13-44, New Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978 comp. as amended and as adopted under
title 14 of the New Mexico administration code. (Ord. 328, 8-10-2004)
CHAPTER 5
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
8-5-1: Statutory Authorization
8-5-2: Findings Of Fact
8-5-3: Statement Of Purpose
8-5-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
8-5-5: Definitions
8-5-6: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
8-5-7: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
8-5-8: Establishment Of Development Permit
8-5-9: Compliance
8-5-10: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
8-5-11: Interpretation
8-5-12: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
8-5-13: Designation Of Floodplain Administrator
8-5-14: Duties And Responsibilities Of Floodplain Administrator
8-5-15: Permit Procedures
8-5-16: Variance Procedures
8-5-17: General Standards For Flood Hazard Reduction
8-5-18: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
8-5-19: Severability
8-5-20: Penalties For Noncompliance
8-5-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of New Mexico has in chapter 3, articles 18 and 41
New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978 compilation, authorized local governmental
units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the
governing body of the village of Cloudcroft does ordain as follows. (Ord. 341,
11-27-2006)
8-5-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the village of Cloudcroft are subject to
periodic inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which
adversely affect the public's health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which causes an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 341, 11-27-2006)
8-5-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 341, 11-27-2006)
8-5-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 341, 11-27-2006)
8-5-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application:
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows, active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition
and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE: A structure which is on the same parcel of property
as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to
the use of the principal structure.
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD: The land area that would be
inundated by the one percent (1%) annual chance (100-year) flood based on
future conditions hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH or VO zone on a
community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or
greater annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3')
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community,
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR,
AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL: A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING: For insurance purposes, a nonbasement building, which has
its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): See definition of Flood Elevation Study.
   FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the area within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
   FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY: See definition of Regulatory Floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities and port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      2.   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
   LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement (an unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building's lowest floor), provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable
nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national flood insurance
program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929, or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is: a) built on a single chassis; b)
four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections; c) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and d) designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but
as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: See definition of Area Of Special Flood Hazard.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal barrier resources act (Pub. L. 97-348)),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the permit date. The "actual start" means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the "actual start of construction"
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE: For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally aboveground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of
construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either: a) any project for improvement of a
structure to correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary or
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions or b) any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure".
   VARIANCE: A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements see section 60.6 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.)
   VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10),
(d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) of the national flood insurance program
regulations is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (Ord. 341, 11-27-2006)
8-5-6: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
The chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the village of Cloudcroft. (Ord. 341, 11-27-2006)
8-5-7: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
Since areas of special flood hazard have not been identified, water surface
elevations have not been provided, nor has sufficient data identifying the
floodway or coastal high hazard area been provided by the federal emergency
management agency (FEMA), the community shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize data available from other federal, state or other sources. (Ord. 341,
11-27-2006)
8-5-8: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 341, 11-27-2006)
8-5-9: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 341, 11-27-2006)
8-5-10: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 341, 11-
27-2006)
8-5-11: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
a) considered as minimum requirements; b) liberally construed in favor of the
governing body; and c) deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers
granted under state statutes. (Ord. 341, 11-27-2006)
8-5-12: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 341, 11-
27-2006)
8-5-13: DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The floodplain administrator, as appointed by the mayor, will administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate sections of 44
CFR (emergency management and assistance - national flood insurance program
regulations) pertaining to floodplain management. (Ord. 341, 11-27-2006)
8-5-14: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter;
   B.   Review permit application to determine whether proposed construction or
other development, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
   C.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
   D.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 DSC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
   E.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. (Ord.
341, 11-27-2006)
8-5-15: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of this chapter;
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection
8-5-14A of this chapter.
   B.   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the floodplain
administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
executed at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable; and
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use. (Ord. 341, 11-27-2006)
8-5-16: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The appeal board as established by the community shall hear and render
judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   The appeal board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   C.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may
appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management agency upon request.
   E.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors of this chapter have been
fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   G.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter (section
8-5-3 of this chapter).
   H.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   I.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   J.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon: a) showing a good and
sufficient cause; b) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and c) a determination that
the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with
existing local laws or ordinances.
      3.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   K.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that: 1) the criteria outlined in
subsections A through I of this section are met, and 2) the structure or other
development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base
flood and create no additional threats to public safety. (Ord. 341, 11-27-2006)
8-5-17: GENERAL STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
   G.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 341, 11-27-2006)
8-5-18: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with this chapter.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of this chapter.
   C.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   D.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 341, 11-27-2006)
8-5-19: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, clause, sentence or phrase of this chapter is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding shall in no way affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter. (Ord. 341, 11-27-2006)
8-5-20: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter by
failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned for not more than ninety
(90) days, or both, for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
village of Cloudcroft from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 341, 11-27-2006)
TITLE 9
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Purposes Of Regulations
9-1-2: Conflicting Provisions
9-1-3: Definitions
9-1-1: PURPOSES OF REGULATIONS:
The zoning regulations and zones as herein established have been made in
accordance with a comprehensive plan for the purpose of promoting health,
safety, morals and the general welfare of the village. They have been designed
to lessen the congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic and
other danger; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of
land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate
provision of transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks and other public
requirements. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-1-2: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Any provision of United States or state law, which imposes a greater duty,
standard or requirement than those contained in this title, shall supersede the
provisions of this code. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this title, words, phrases and
terms shall be deemed to have the meaning ascribed to them in this section
covering definitions.
When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include
the future; in the plural number, include the singular. "Structure" includes
"building"; "shall" is mandatory and "may" is permissive; "used" includes
"arranged for, designed for, occupied or intended to be occupied for";
"council", the village council of the village of Cloudcroft; "commission", the
planning and zoning commission of the village of Cloudcroft.
   ACCESS OR ACCESSWAY: The place, means or way by which pedestrians and
vehicles shall have adequate and usable ingress and egress to property or use.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING: A detached subordinate building located on the same lot
with the main building, to include portable buildings.
   ACCESSORY USE: A use incidental or subordinate to the main use of the land
or building thereon.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT: See ordinance as adopted or as may be amended.
   ALLEY: A public way, not more than twenty feet (20') in width, intended for
secondary access and service to the rear or side of property.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL: See definition of Hospital, Animal.
   APARTMENT: See definition of Dwelling, Multiple.
   ARTERIAL: A street on the official major thoroughfare plan designated to
carry more traffic volume than the amount carried on a local street.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: See definition of Vehicle Fueling Station.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING: The wrecking or dismantling of used motor vehicles or
trailers, or the storage of, sale of or dumping of dismantled, partly
dismantled, obsolete or wrecked motor vehicles or their parts.
   AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR GARAGE: A building or premises used for repair of any
automotive vehicle.
   AUTOMOTIVE VEHICLE: Any motorized vehicle, including, but not limited to,
automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, ATVs, RVs, snowmobiles.
   BASEMENT: A space wholly or partly underground, with more than one-half (1/
2) of its height, measured from its floor to its ceiling, below the average
grade of the four (4) adjoining sides.
   BED AND BREAKFAST: A building within which temporary lodging with meals is
provided for compensation.
   BOARDING HOUSE OR ROOMING HOUSE: A building within which semipermanent
lodging with or without meals is provided for compensation; includes
residential fraternity and sorority houses and rest homes or homes for the
aged.
   BUILDABLE AREA: The portion of a lot remaining after required yards and open
spaces have been provided.
   BUILDING: See definition of Structure.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY: See definition of Accessory Building.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance, measured from the highest grade
to the highest point of the structure, exclusive of chimneys, ventilators, air
conditioners and ducts, elevator equipment, flagpoles and communication
antennas.
   BUILDING LINE: A line on private property established for the erection of a
structure by ordinances which regulate structure setbacks.
   BUILDING, MAIN: See definition of Structure, Main.
   BUILDING SITE: The ground area for a building or structure, together with
all yards and open space.
   CARPORT: Roofed structure possessing three (3) walls or less, located on the
same lot as a dwelling, for the storage of private motor vehicles, boats or
trailers of the occupants of the dwelling.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION: A document issued by the village of Cloudcroft
indicating that all required inspections have been completed, the project
conforms with applicable ordinances and the work is complete in accordance with
submitted documents.
   CHILDCARE FACILITY: The use of a structure or portion thereof for the care
of three (3) or more children for compensation. Includes nursery, daycare
center, kindergarten.
   CHURCH: A building where persons regularly assemble for religious worship,
and which building is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized
to sustain public worship.
   CLUB: A noncommercial association of persons organized for some common
purpose, whether or not incorporated. Includes civic, community and
noncommercial private clubs. Does not include church.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE: Private land owned in common by owners of residences in a
planned unit development, specifically developed for common recreational areas
or designated as open area for the use and enjoyment of all of the occupants of
the development; does not include streets and alleys, private yards and patios
of individual building sites or other areas designed primarily to serve other
functions.
   CONTINUING USE: Lawful nonconforming use of any premises existing on or
before the effective date hereof.
   CONTRACTOR: Person licensed by the state of New Mexico for construction
purposes.
   COTTAGE INDUSTRY: See definition of Home Occupation.
   DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: See definition of Standards, Development.
   DRIVEWAY: Vehicular access to property.
   DUPLEX: Structure containing two (2) dwelling units.
   DWELLING: A building, or portion thereof, used exclusively for residential
occupancy, including single and multiple dwellings, but not including hotels or
motels.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building, or portion thereof, designed or used for
occupancy by two (2) or more households, all living independently of each other
in separate dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: See definition of Single-Family Dwelling.
   DWELLING UNIT: One or more habitable rooms, including kitchen facilities,
designed for occupancy by a person or persons maintaining a household for
living and sleeping purposes. Same as housing unit. See definition of Single-
Family Dwelling.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION: A school offering graded academic or vocational
instruction meeting the requirements of state compulsory education laws, or a
college or university giving general instruction equivalent to the standards
prescribed by local and state public educational authorities. May be public or
private. Does not include trade schools, dance schools, karate schools, riding
academics, nursery schools and similar commercial operations.
   FENCE: A manmade, freestanding barrier.
   FLOOR: Any space with a height greater than six feet (6'). See definition of
Story.
   FLOOR AREA: See definitions of Gross Floor Area and Net Floor Area.
   FRONTAGE: The line where a property abuts a public street or an approved
private way.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or a portion of a main
building on the same lot as a dwelling, for the storage of private motor
vehicles, boats or trailers of the occupants of the dwelling.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC: See definition of Automotive Repair Garage.
   GARAGE, STORAGE: Any premises used exclusively for the storage of vehicles.
   GENERAL PLAN: See definition of Long Range Comprehensive Plan.
   GOLF COURSE: May include a driving range as accessory to the golf course
facility; does not include a miniature golf course.
   GOLF COURSE, MINIATURE: Reduced area golf course wherein the only club
required is a putter.
   GRADE: The finished level of the ground abutting the structure, or the
vertical extension of said structure, taken at the center of the exterior walls
of the structure.
   GRADING PLAN: Plan showing lot grades, relation of structure to grades,
proposed excavation or fill and/or proposed retaining walls.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA: The entire area within the walls of a building or complex.
   HEDGE: Any natural shrubbery planted in a compact line serving as a fence or
boundary.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING: See definition of Building, Height Of.
   HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation customarily performed at home that does not
involve a structural change in the building, employment of help, installation
of equipment or the display of a sign other than a nameplate.
   HOSPITAL, ANIMAL: A building where animals are given medical or surgical
treatment and are cared for within that building during the time of such
treatment and recovery thereof.
   HOSPITAL OR CLINIC: An institution which gives medical or surgical care or
treatment to sick, injured or infirm persons; includes clinics and sanitariums.
   HOTEL: A building other than a dwelling unit in which rooms are offered for
sleeping accommodations to transient persons for compensation. Includes motel.
   KENNEL: Any premises on which five (5) or more dogs or cats four (4) months
of age or older are kept; or where the business of buying, selling, breeding,
grooming, training or boarding of dogs or cats is conducted.
   KITCHEN: Any room or facility designed to be used or maintained for the
cooking or preparation of food.
   LOADING BERTH: An off street space on the same lot with a main building, or
contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of commercial
vehicles while loading or unloading.
   LODGING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House Or Rooming House.
   LONG RANGE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The plan for the development of the village,
reviewed by the village planning and zoning commission, and adopted by the
village board of trustees.
   LOT: A parcel of land recognized by the village as an acceptable site for
use or buildings.
   LOT AREA: The total area, measured in a horizontal plane, within the
boundary lines of a lot.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
   LOT DEPTH: The lot depth shall be the horizontal length of a straight line
connecting the bisecting points of the front and rear lot lines, or the two (2)
side lines. If the front or rear lot line should curve, the lot depth shall be
the horizontal length of a straight line connecting the bisecting point of the
chord of the front lot line and the bisecting point of the rear lot line.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: Any lot having frontage on two (2) streets which are
nonintersecting. See section
9-3-3 of this title.
   LOT, INTERIOR: Any lot having frontage on one side only.
   LOT LINE: Any line which is a legal boundary to a "lot", as herein defined.
   LOT LINE, COMMON: Any side or rear property line which adjoins or abuts
another side or rear property line, not including side or rear property lines
abutting a street.
   LOT, PANHANDLE: Any lot without street frontage along either its primary
width, depth or area, with access to the major area being provided by way of a
"neck" projection of the lot, extending between the major area of the lot and
the street frontage.
   LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
the required front setback line.
   MAIN BUILDING: See definition of Structure, Main.
   MOBILE HOME: A self-contained dwelling unit, factory built and assembled,
designed for conveyance, after fabrication, on its own wheels or on a flatbed
or other hauling device; designed and constructed specifically for long term
occupancy on an appropriately zoned lot, and which shall conform to state and
federal construction standards (HUD approved).
   MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel of ground providing site for the parking or
location of one or more mobile homes.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground or site within an approved mobile home
park designed for the accommodation of a mobile home unit.
   MODULAR HOME: A premanufactured structure as defined in New Mexico Statutes
Annotated section 3-21A-2, as amended from time to time. Modular homes must
meet UBC standards and be listed as approved by the New Mexico state
construction industries division (see list of current approved manufacturers in
the village office).
   MOTEL: See definition of Hotel.
   NET FLOOR AREA: The area accessible and intended for the use of customers,
patrons, members or visitors, not including storage or stockrooms, kitchens,
areas behind a bar or counter, restrooms, common hallways, and similar areas
that are not rentable.
   NONCONFORMING LOT, STRUCTURE OR USE: A legally nonconforming lot, structure
or use is one which, although not conforming to the zoning regulations for the
district in which it is located, is permitted to continue because it was
legally in existence at the time the zoning regulation or regulations in
question first took effect at that location.
   OPEN SPACE: Space not occupied in whole or in part by a building.
   OUTDOOR LIVING SPACE: Open space designed for the use of the occupants of a
residential unit which may include swimming pool, barbecue area and other open
recreational facilities.
   OVERLAY ZONE: See definition of Zone, Overlay.
   PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An area, other than a street, available for the
parking of vehicles and not for the general public use.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An area, other than a private parking area or street,
used for the parking of vehicles and available for public or quasi-public use,
either free or for remuneration.
   PARKING LOT: A parcel of land devoted to unenclosed parking spaces for
vehicles.
   PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE: Space exclusive of driveways, ramps and loading
areas for the parking of one automobile.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: See definition of Standards, Performance.
   PERMITTED USE: See definition of Use, Permitted.
   PET SHOP: An establishment for the retail sale of animals and pet supplies.
   PHILANTHROPIC INSTITUTION: An institution existing for the sole purpose of
promoting the welfare of mankind by works of charity as may be determined from
time to time by federal or state law.
   PROHIBITED USE: See definition of Use, Prohibited.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A site zoned to provide temporary parking for
recreational vehicles.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES (RVs): Self-contained dwelling units, factory built
and assembled, designed for conveyance on their own wheels, designed and
constructed especially for short term occupancy and including vehicles commonly
referred to as motor homes, pickup campers and small trailers, not to exceed
forty four feet (44') in length.
   REST HOME OR SANATORIUM: Premises used for the housing of and caring for the
ambulatory, aged or infirm, not including facilities for surgery.
   RETAINING WALL: Wall designed to resist the lateral displacement of soil or
other materials.
   ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House Or Rooming House.
   SCHOOL: See definition of Educational Institution.
   SERVICE STATION: See definition of Vehicle Fueling Station.
   SETBACK: Measurement from the lot line to the physical building and any
projection thereof, including any roof overhang which exceeds three feet (3')
provided that for multiple adjacent and contiguous lots owned by the same
person or entity, who have elected to treat the multiple adjacent lots as a
single lot, the setbacks shall be measured to the external lot lines without
regard to internal lot lines.
   SIGN: Any device, including banners and pennants, intended to direct or that
in fact does direct attention, whether by means of words, letters, numerals,
trademarks, pictures, designs, objects, logos or by any other means.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A house occupied for permanent residence purposes by
a person maintaining a household, or two (2) or more persons maintaining a
common household.
   SLEEPING UNIT: One or more rooms with sleeping facilities.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT: In extraordinary circumstances, temporarily permits an
otherwise prohibited use.
   STABLE: Any premises used for the purpose of buying, selling, renting,
feeding, breeding or boarding of large domestic animals.
   STANDARDS, DEVELOPMENT: Regulations pertaining to the physical development
of a site, including, but not limited to, requirements pertaining to yards,
height, lot area, fences, walls, landscaping, access, parking, signs, etc.
   STANDARDS, PERFORMANCE: Regulations pertaining to the operation of a
development or use, including, but not limited to, requirements pertaining to
fire and explosion hazards, radioactivity or electrical disturbance, noise,
vibration, smoke, emission of dust, heat, glare, odors and gases and lighting.
   STORY: Any floor aboveground, not including basements. Any floor with a
height greater than six feet (6') having more than fifty percent (50%) of its
total wall area above grade.
   STREET, CENTERLINE: The centerline of a street or right of way as
established by official surveys.
   STREET, PRIVATE: A street or vehicular accessway, the ownership and
maintenance responsibility for which is retained by private owners and does not
devolve upon the village.
   STREET, PUBLIC: A public thoroughfare or right of way recognized by the
village; does not include alley.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as in a bearing wall, column, beam or girder, floor or ceiling joists,
roof, rafters, foundations, piles or retaining walls or similar components, or
in any building line of the building.
   STRUCTURE: Any constructed edifice or building of any kind, or any piece of
work artificially built up or composed of parts assembled together in some
definite manner, which requires location on the ground or is attached to
something having a location on the ground.
   STRUCTURE, MAIN: A building within which is conducted the principal use of
the property.
   STRUCTURE, MAIN RESIDENTIAL: Residential use requires a main structure not
less than six hundred (600) square feet in area and containing restroom and
kitchen facilities.
   TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign not attached to a structure or to the ground, not
to be exhibited for more than thirty (30) days counting each day after the
first day of exhibition. Real estate signs are exempt. (See section
9-10-2 of this title.)
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE: Any structure not permanently attached to the ground,
such as, but not limited to, construction sheds, portable buildings, movable
buildings, seats, bleachers, canopies, tents, reviewing stands and fences used
in construction work. All temporary structures shall have a special use permit
and shall be completely removed when the temporary structure permit expires.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE PERMIT: Special use permit for temporary structures.
   TRAILERS, COMMERCIAL: A portable structure designed for commercial use only
as permitted under state or federal laws.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK OR TRAILER PARK: See definition of Recreational Vehicle
Park.
   USE, PERMITTED: A principal allowed use, an accessory use or a special use
specifically allowed.
   USE, PROHIBITED: A use which is not specifically allowed.
   VEHICLE FUELING STATION: Buildings and premises where gasoline, oil, grease
and customary automotive accessories and services are provided.
   WALL: Any vertical element forming a physical part of a structure.
   WRECKING YARD: See definition of Automobile Wrecking.
   YARD: Any open space on the same lot with a building or a building group.
   YARD, FRONT: A yard between the front line of a building and the front lot
line.
   YARD, INTERIOR: Any rear yard or side yard that does not abut a street.
   YARD, REAR: A yard between the extreme rear line of a building and the rear
lot line.
   YARD, SIDE: A yard extending between the side lot line and the nearest part
of the main building.
   YARD, SIDE STREET: A yard extending between the side lot line abutting a
street and the nearest part of the main building.
   ZONE: Fundamental site designations established by ordinance to regulate
densities, uses and basic development and performance standards.
   ZONE, OVERLAY: Supplementary site designations, superimposed on a map by
ordinance to highlight special areas such as historical districts or fire
zones. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997; amd. Ord. 322, 10-14-2003; Ord. 336, 8-9-2005;
Ord. 342, 6-13-2007)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-2-1: Planning And Zoning Code Enforcement Official
9-2-2: Planning And Zoning Commission
9-2-3: Permits
9-2-4: Fees
9-2-5: Amendments And Changes
9-2-6: Board Of Appeals
9-2-7: Penalty; Enforcement
9-2-1: PLANNING AND ZONING CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
There is hereby established the office of planning and zoning code enforcement
official, whose duties shall be to enforce the provisions of the zoning
regulations. He shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent of a majority
of all members of the board of trustees. He shall examine the premises for
which permits have been issued and shall make necessary inspections to see that
the provisions of the law are complied with. He shall enforce all village
ordinances relating to the construction, alteration, repair, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings
and structures and setting of trailers (mobile homes), except as may otherwise
be provided. He shall, when requested by the mayor or board of trustees, or the
planning and zoning commission, or where the interests of the village so
require, make investigations in connection with matters referred to in the
zoning regulations, and make reports thereon to the appropriate entity. He
shall communicate and cooperate with the state building inspectors. He shall
keep careful and comprehensive records of applications, of permits issued, of
inspections made, of reports rendered and of notices or orders issued, and make
reports to the planning and zoning commission as requested. If a violation
exists, he shall notify the responsible party or parties, by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of the nature of the violation and what procedures
shall be taken to correct same. Copies of the notice shall be distributed to
the mayor and to the members of the planning and zoning commission. If no
response is received in ten (10) days, or if immediate action is necessary, the
code enforcement official shall prepare an order, for the mayor's signature,
directing the police department to issue to the violator a nontraffic citation.
(Ord. 322, 10-14-2003)
9-2-2: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
The planning commission, established by ordinance 64, shall hereafter be known
as the planning and zoning commission. Duties of the planning and zoning
commission shall be those listed in ordinance 64 (see
title 2, chapter 1 of this code), this and other current ordinances, and as may
be directed by the board of trustees. (Ord. 277A, 8-10-1999)
9-2-3: PERMITS:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful to construct, alter, move or demolish a
structure (permanent or temporary), set a trailer (mobile home), erect a
nonexempt sign, or construct a fence, without first obtaining a village
building permit and a state building permit where applicable. (Ord. 322, 10-14-
2003)
   B.   Temporary Structure: It shall be unlawful to establish a temporary
structure without first obtaining a temporary structure permit.
   C.   Commercial Temporary Structure: No commercial temporary structures
shall be allowed. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
   D.   Expiration Of Permit: A permit under which work has not been completed
(issued a certificate of occupancy) within one year after issuance shall expire
by limitation. (Ord. 322, 10-14-2003)
   E.   Permit Applications:
      1.   An application for a permit shall be submitted in a form the
planning and zoning code enforcement official may subscribe. (Ord. 277, 10-29-
1997; amd. Ord. 322, 10-14-2003)
      2.   The application shall be made by the property owner or lessee, or
agent of either. If the application is made by a person other than the property
owner, it shall be accompanied by a duly verified affidavit from the property
owner or his agent, that the proposed work is authorized by the property owner,
and that the person making the application is authorized to make the
application. (Ord. 322, 10-14-2003)
      3.   The application shall contain the full names and addresses of the
applicant and the owner and, if the owner is a corporate body, of its
responsible officers. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
      4.   The application shall include a copy of the building plans. In cases
where a state building permit is required, said plans shall be identical to
those submitted to the state, and the application shall include a copy of the
state building permit. (Ord. 322, 10-14-2003)
      5.   The application shall include: a surveyed plot plan provided by a
licensed New Mexico surveyor showing the location of the proposed structure on
the lot, as well as the location of all existing structures, signs and fences
that will remain on the lot; setbacks; location of water, sewer and electrical
lines; location of streets and rights of way; off street parking; elevations
including height of the structure from grade on each elevation; a statement of
how construction materials will be disposed of; certification that the roofing
material is nonflammable and the eaves will be enclosed; and such other
information as may be required by the village. Applications for sign permits
shall include all dimensions of the sign and, where relevant, of the structure
to which it is attached; for freestanding signs, the applicant shall supply a
plot plan showing the location of the sign on the property, and of all other
signs and structures already existing on the property. The applicant shall also
list the materials of which the sign is to be constructed and, when applicable,
a description of how the sign is to be lighted. (Ord. 344, 7-10-2007)
      6.   All work performed under a permit shall conform to the approved
application and plans and any approved amendment thereof.
      7.   The location of all new construction as shown on the approved plot
diagram or an approved amendment thereof shall be strictly adhered to.
      8.   It shall be unlawful to reduce or diminish the area of a lot or plot
of which a plot diagram has been filed and approved; provided, this shall not
apply when the lot is reduced by reason of a street opening or widening or
other public improvement.
      9.   The permits (village and state) shall be posted on the premises in a
manner easily seen from the street until the completion of the work.
      10.   A certified copy of the approved plans shall be kept on the
premises at all times until the work is completed. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
   F.   Supplemental Permit: A supplemental permit is required if a project is
changed from the original permit in such a way as to increase height, decrease
a setback, or increase the dimension of a sign. A supplemental permit shall be
processed in the same manner as the original permit. (Ord. 322, 10-14-2003)
   G.   Prior Issued Permit: Nothing in this section shall require changes in
the plans, construction or designated use of a building for which a lawful
permit was issued prior to October 29, 1997 (effective date of ordinance 277),
or which has been otherwise lawfully authorized, and the construction of which
shall have been actually begun within ninety (90) days after the provisions of
the zoning regulations become effective.
   H.   Signature Of Authorized Official: Every permit issued by the village
under the provisions of the zoning regulations shall have the signature of the
village clerk/treasurer or other authorized representative affixed thereto.
   I.   Transferability: Permits are not transferable.
   J.   Revocation: The village may revoke a permit or approval issued under
the provisions of these regulations if there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to a material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
   K.   Special Use Permits: In extraordinary circumstances a special use
permit temporarily permitting a prohibited use may be granted by the board of
trustees. (Ord. 322, 10-14-2003)
   L.   Application, Documentation And Fees:
      1.   Applicant shall submit the completed application and all supporting
documentation (site plans, building plans, sketches, drawings, etc.) to the
village office at least twenty four (24) hours prior to a regular or special
planning and zoning commission meeting and pay the specified fee.
      2.   Applicant or applicant's authorized representative shall attend the
planning and zoning commission meeting at which his application appears on the
agenda. (Ord. 300, 4-10-2001)
   M.   Permit Approval: For buildings, fences, accessory buildings, signs, and
demolition permits that conform to all ordinances and codes, the Village Clerk-
Treasurer or his designee shall issue the appropriate permit within three (3)
working days of receiving the completed application and fee, except that the
Clerk- Treasurer or his designee shall delay issuing the Village permit until a
copy of the State permit, if one is required, is submitted. Permits approved by
the Clerk-Treasurer or his designee shall be summarized and included in the
minutes of the next meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission. (Ord. 322,
10-14-2003)
   N.   Appeals, Variances And Zone Changes:
      1.   An applicant for a permit that is not recommended for approval by
the Village Clerk-Treasurer or designee may modify the application, appeal to
the Planning and Zoning Commission, or request a variance or a zone change.
      2.   If applicant or applicant's authorized representative fails to
attend any Planning and Zoning Commission meeting or Board of Trustees meeting
at which his application appears on the agenda, the commission or Board of
Trustees may choose not to take action on the application.
      3.   For those applications appealed to the Planning and Zoning
Commission, and found to conform to all ordinances and codes, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall authorize the Village Clerk- Treasurer or designee to
issue the appropriate permit, subject to receipt of State permit, if required.
      4.   Those applications appealed to the Planning and Zoning Commission
and not conforming to all ordinances and codes, shall be disapproved by the
Planning and Zoning Commission; the applicant may then pursue a variance or a
rezone, or modify the plans to bring them into compliance and resubmit the
permit application.
      5.   The Village Clerk-Treasurer or designee shall inform the applicant
of the appropriate procedures and collect applicable fees and expenses.
      6.   If a variance is requested, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
set a date and conduct a public hearing within the time prescribed by law to
adopt findings of fact and conclusions of law for consideration by the Board of
Trustees at its next scheduled meeting. Where, by reason of exceptional
narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific piece of property at the time of
the original adoption of the regulations or exceptional topographical
conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional situation or condition of a
specific piece of property where the strict application of this title would
result in peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties or exception and
undue hardship upon the owner of the property, the commission may make such
recommendations as may be appropriate following such hearing to the Board of
Trustees by proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law; provided,
however, that the owners of all lots within one hundred feet (100'), excluding
public rights-of- way shall be notified by certified mail, return receipt
requested, of any requests for variance and of the hearing on a request at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing on the request for variance by the
commission. Such notice shall include information that the hearing shall
include the commission acting in its capacity as to recommendations to the
Board of Trustees making the final determination and that evidence may be
submitted at either stage. For purposes of notification under this section,
State Statutes shall be followed. The Board of Trustees may then act upon such
recommendations in any manner in which the Board of Trustees may deem
appropriate and lawful. Any person or entity making a formal appearance at the
public hearing before the commission shall be informed at that Public Hearing
that the recommendations of the commission in the matter shall be considered at
the next regular meeting of the Board of Trustees and that the Board of
Trustees may consider additional evidence as a part of its deliberations.
      7.   If a rezone is requested, the Board of Trustees shall set a date and
conduct a public hearing on the request within the time prescribed by law. If
approved and not appealed, the new zone designation becomes effective thirty
(30) days after the decision is filed with the Village Clerk-Treasurer.
      8.   Public hearings, held by the commission or Board of Trustees, shall
be conducted in accordance with applicable State law and procedures as
recommended by the New Mexico Municipal League ensuring compliance with
Battershell v. City of Albuquerque, 108 NM 658 (Ct. App. 1989) and an audio
record of the hearing shall be made. The commission and Board of Trustees shall
allow all amendments to any application which may be necessary in furtherance
of justice. Findings of fact and conclusions of law reflecting the final
decision of the Board of Trustees shall be filed with the Village Clerk-
Treasurer within thirty five (35) days of the conclusion of the hearing before
the Board of Trustees. Such findings shall be signed by all members of the
Board of Trustees in attendance at the hearing, or by the Mayor if so
authorized by all Trustees in attendance; dissenting Trustees must file a
written dissenting opinion. Aggrieved parties have thirty (30) days from the
filing to file a notice of appeal pursuant to State law, and mail a copy of the
notice of appeal to each interested party who appeared at or participated in
the hearing. Notice shall be given by U.S. mail, certified return receipt
requested. The costs of said notification shall be borne by the appellant.
      9.   If a Planning and Zoning Commission hearing, not involving a
variance, results in an appeal or, if a Planning and Zoning Commission finding,
not involving a variance, is appealed, The Village Board of Trustees shall set
a date for a public hearing on the appeal within the time prescribed by law.
Such appeal shall be de novo before the Board of Trustees conducted as set
forth above provided that evidence taken in a hearing before the Planning and
Zoning Commission may be considered as original evidence subject to a legal
objection, the same as if the evidence was originally offered in the hearing
before the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall allow all amendments
which may be necessary in furtherance of justice. Public hearings require a
minimum of fifteen (15) days notice.
      10.   If no appeal is filed pursuant to State law within the time
proscribed therein from the time the finding is filed with the Village Clerk-
Treasurer, the Village Clerk-Treasurer or his designee shall issue the
appropriate permit if an application has been filed and approved. (Ord. 378, 1-
9-2018)
   O.   Meeting Minutes: Minutes of each Planning and Zoning Commission
meeting, including results of any public hearings, shall be submitted to the
Board of Trustees at the next regular Village Council meeting. (Ord. 322, 10-
14-2003)
9-2-4: FEES:
   A.   Rezoning: A fee as set by the Board of Trustees plus required postage
for notification and publication costs shall be charged for filing application
for rezoning.
   B.   Variance: A fee as set by the Board of Trustees plus required postage
for notification and publication costs shall be charged for filing a request
for variance.
   C.   Building Site Permit: A fee of ten percent (10%) of the State building
permit fee, with a minimum fee set by the Board of Trustees, shall be charged
for a building site permit. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
   D.   Sign And Fence Permit: A fee as set by the Board of Trustees shall be
charged for sign and fence permits. (Ord. 277A, 8-10-1999)
   E.   Supplemental Permit: The fee for a supplemental permit shall be half of
that of the original permit. (Ord. 322, 10-14-2003)
9-2-5: AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES:
The Village Board of Trustees may, from time to time, on its own motion or on
petition, after public notice and hearing at which all parties in interest and
citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard, amend the regulations and zones
herein established. Notice of the proposed amendment shall be given at least
fifteen (15) days in advance of the time and place of the hearing, and shall be
published in the same manner within the limits of the Village as set forth by
statute for publication of ordinances. Such other notice as may be required by
State law shall also be given. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-2-6: BOARD OF APPEALS:
   A.   Established: The Board of Trustees is hereby constituted as a Board of
Appeals to hear any appeal made by a person aggrieved by a recommendation of
the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   B.   Powers: The Board of Appeals shall have the following powers:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in
any determination made in the enforcement of the zoning regulations.
      2.   Where, by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of
a specific piece of property at the time of the original adoption of the
regulations or exceptional topographical conditions or other extraordinary or
exceptional situation or condition of a specific piece of property, where the
strict application of this title would result in peculiar and exceptional
practical difficulties or exceptional and undue hardship upon the owner of the
property, the Board of Trustees is hereby empowered to authorize a variation
from strict application to relieve the difficulties or hardships; provided,
however, that the owners of all lots within one hundred feet (100'), excluding
public rights-of-way, shall be notified by certified mail, return receipt
requested, of any requests for variance and of the hearing on a request at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing on the request for variance by the
commission as set forth in this title. For purposes of notification under this
section, State Statutes shall be followed. (Ord. 378, 1-9-2018)
9-2-7: PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Penalty: Any person or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of this title or fail to comply therewith or with any of the
requirements thereof, or who shall build or alter any buildings in violation of
any detailed statement or plan submitted and approved hereunder, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be liable to a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and/or imprisonment for up to ninety (90) days. Each
day such violation shall be permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense. The owner of any building or premises or part thereof where anything
in violation of this title shall be placed or shall exist, and any architect,
building contractor, agent, person, or corporation employee in connection
therewith and who may have assisted in the commission of any such violation
shall be guilty of a separate offense and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined and/or imprisoned as hereinabove provided.
   B.   Enforcement Procedure: Any possible violation shall be reported to the
Village office. A representative of the Village shall determine if a violation
exists. The owner/contractor of the project shall be notified by certified
letter of the nature of the violation and what procedures shall be taken to
correct same. If no response is received within ten (10) days or if immediate
action is necessary, it shall be the responsibility of the Mayor or his
representative to enforce the ordinance. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
CHAPTER 3
ZONES
SECTION:
9-3-1: Established
9-3-2: Vacated Land
9-3-3: Double Frontage And Odd Shaped Lots
9-3-4: Recently Annexed Territory
9-3-5: Zoning History By Lot And Description
9-3-1: ESTABLISHED:
Zoning regulations as herein set forth are approved and established. The
village is hereby divided into zones, which zones were previously known by the
titles in parentheses below, except such zones as did not heretofore exist, and
shall now be known by the designations set opposite the previous titles as
follows:
   A.   Residential zones:
      R-1 (A) residential housing.
      R-2 (A-M) residential apartments, multiple dwellings.
      R-3 (A-T) residential mobile homes, permanently placed.
   B.   Commercial zones:
      C-1 (D) offices, banks, hospitals, clinics.
      C-2 (D) wholesale and retail.
      C-3 (D) automotive and trailer sales.
      C-4 (D) light manufacturing.
      C-5 car wash.
      C-6 automotive repair.
      C-7 vehicle fueling stations.
      C-8 facilities serving food and/or beverages.
      C-9 auto wrecking yards, kennels.
      C-10 recreation and amusement facilities.
   C.   Recreation and transit accommodation facilities zones:
      T-1 (T-1) (D) tourist lodging and eating facilities.
      T-2 (T-2) (E) recreational vehicle parks.
      T-3 (T-3) (D) stables.
      M-1 mobile home parks.
   D.   Greenbelt:
      G-1 open space, no structures.
      G-2 parks and recreation and related structures.
All of such are adopted by action of the board of trustees and filed in the
village clerk/treasurer's office. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997; amd. Ord. 333, 5-10-
2005; per correspondence dated 5-12-2009)
9-3-2: VACATED LAND:
Whenever any street, alley or any other public way is vacated by official
action of the village, the zones adjoining each side of the street, alley or
public way shall be automatically extended to the center of the vacated area,
and any area included in the vacation shall then and thenceforth be subject to
all appropriate regulations of the extended zones. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-3-3: DOUBLE FRONTAGE AND ODD SHAPED LOTS:
Where any lot abuts two (2) streets which either do not intersect or which
intersect at an angle of less than seventy degrees (70°) with reference to the
lot:
   A.   Permanent unobstructed open space equal to the zone front yard shall be
provided along any side of the lot which abuts a street.
   B.   Setbacks for all odd-shaped lots will be determined by the planning and
zoning commission in accordance with the most applicable rule. (Ord. 277, 10-
29-1997)
9-3-4: RECENTLY ANNEXED TERRITORY:
All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the village shall be subject to
all of the regulations of zone G-1 (open space, no structures), unless the
village board of trustees accepts a zoning plan with the annexation. (Ord. 277,
10-29-1997)
9-3-5: ZONING HISTORY BY LOT AND DESCRIPTION:
The boundaries of the zoning districts as described in section
 9-3-1 of this chapter shall be as set forth in the attachment hereto entitled
"Cloudcroft Zoning History By Lots", which attachment and all information
thereon are made a part of this title and have the force and effect as if the
attachment were fully set forth herein. The attachment, as it may be amended
from time to time to reflect zoning changes, shall be on file with the village
clerk/treasurer. Any property lying within the boundaries of the village which
is not specifically described in the attachment shall be presumed to be zoned
R-1. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
CHAPTER 4
RESIDENTIAL ZONES USE REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. R-1 ZONE
SECTION:
9-4A-1: Uses Permitted
9-4A-2: Structure Per Lot
9-4A-3: Area
9-4A-4: Setback, Height Restrictions
9-4A-1: USES PERMITTED:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Accessory buildings as provided in section
9-8-2 of this title.
Fences as provided in section
9-8-1 of this title.
Golf course.
Home occupations.
Nonprofit religious, educational and philanthropic institutions, with
exceptions of penal or mental institutions.
Off street parking as provided in chapter 9 of this title.
Preservation of historical sites as provided in ordinance to be adopted or as
may be amended.
Public park, playground, community building, library.
Retaining walls in accordance with the UBC (uniform building code).
School, church.
Signs as provided in chapter 10 of this title.
Single-family dwellings excluding mobile homes.
Nightly Rentals in single family dwellings provided the owner or vendor has
obtained a Lodger’s Tax License as provided in Section
3-4-6 of the Cloudcroft Village Code. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997; amd. Ord. 385, 1-
14-2020)
9-4A-2: STRUCTURE PER LOT:
There shall be only one main structure per lot provided that multiple adjacent
and contiguous lots owned by the same person or entity may be treated as one
lot provided further that setbacks are observed as set forth herein for
multiple adjacent and contiguous lots owned by the same person or entity. (Ord.
336, 8-9-2005)
9-4A-3: AREA:
Every lot shall have an area of not less than four thousand (4,000) square
feet, unless a lot having a lesser area than herein required was a lot of
record prior to May 5, 1966 (the effective date of ordinance 37). (Ord. 277,
10-29-1997)
9-4A-4: SETBACK, HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Setback requirements as specified below are the minimum measurement from the
lot line to the physical building and any projections thereof, including any
roof overhang that exceeds three feet (3'). Landings forty four inches (44")
long having a width not more than the width of the door served with stairs that
same width shall not be considered a projection.
   A.   Front Yard: A minimum front yard setback of twenty five feet (25') or
twenty five percent (25%) of the depth of the lot, whichever is smaller.
   B.   Side Yard: A minimum side yard setback of seven and one-half feet (7 1/
2') along each side lot line. Lots fifty feet (50') or less in width may have a
side yard setback of five feet (5'). The side yard on the street side of a
corner lot shall be not less than fifteen feet (15') in width.
   C.   Rear Yard: A minimum rear yard setback of thirty feet (30') or twenty
percent (20%) of the depth of the entire lot, whichever amount is smaller.
   D.   Height: No part of any building or structure shall exceed thirty five
feet (35') in height above grade. (See definition for "grade" set forth in
section
9-1-3 of this title.) (Ord. 344, 7-10-2007)
ARTICLE B. R-2 ZONE
SECTION:
9-4B-1: Uses Permitted
9-4B-2: Area
9-4B-3: Density
9-4B-4: Setback, Height Restrictions
9-4B-5: Refuse Area
9-4B-1: USES PERMITTED:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Accessory buildings as provided in Section
9-8-2 of this Title.
Any use allowed in Zone R-1.
Boarding houses.
Fences as provided in Section
9-8-1 of this Title.
Multiple dwellings, condominiums, apartments, multi-plexes.
Off-street parking as provided in
Chapter 9 of this Title.
Preservation of historical sites as provided in ordinance to be adopted or as
may be amended.
Retaining walls in accordance with the UBC (Uniform Building Code).
Row dwellings, townhouses.
Signs as provided in
Chapter 10 of this Title. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-4B-2: AREA:
There shall be at least one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet of land
area for each dwelling unit. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-4B-3: DENSITY:
If any project or complex intended for development under a common plan exceeds
forty five thousand (45,000) square feet of land area, exclusive of public
streets and rights of way, the maximum allowable number of dwelling units shall
be one per two thousand two hundred fifty (2,250) square feet of land area.
(Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-4B-4: SETBACK, HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Setback requirements as specified below are to be considered the minimum
measurement from the lot line to the physical building and any projections
thereof, including any roof overhang that exceeds three feet (3'). Landings
forty four inches (44") long having a width not more than the width of the door
served with stairs that same width shall not be considered a projection.
   A.   Front Yard: A minimum front yard setback of fifteen feet (15') for
standard buildings and for complexes where common open space or courtyards are
not provided. For projects or complexes in which not more than sixty percent
(60%) of the total land area is used for buildings, an eight foot (8') front
setback will be allowed. Under the sixty percent (60%) option, the open space
shall at no time be diminished.
   B.   Side Yard:
      1.   A minimum side yard setback of seven and one-half feet (71/2') along
each side lot line.
      2.   On any corner lot, the least width of any side yard along a side
street lot line shall be eight feet (8').
      3.   For projects or complexes in which not more than sixty percent (60%)
of the total land area is used for buildings, a zero side line or common wall
will be allowed; providing, however, that the side yard restrictions shall
apply to the extreme (end) units in respect to the adjacent street or lot line
of ownership other than the proposed project or complex.
   C.   Rear Yard: A minimum ten foot (10') rear yard setback on every lot.
   D.   Height: No part of any building or structure shall exceed thirty feet
(30') in height above grade. (See definition for "grade" as set forth in
Section
 9-1-3 of this Title.) (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-4B-5: REFUSE AREA:
An area for refuse containers shall be provided on the property. (Ord. 277, 10-
29-1997)
ARTICLE C. R-3 ZONE
SECTION:
9-4C-1: Uses Permitted
9-4C-2: Structure Per Lot
9-4C-1: USES PERMITTED:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Accessory buildings as provided in section
9-8-2 of this title.
Any use allowed in zone R-1.
Fences as provided in section
9-8-1 of this title.
Mobile homes, permanently placed, used as a single-family dwelling:
All mobile homes in this zone shall be connected to sewer, water and
electricity and be set up on a permanent foundation with axles and tongues
removed.
Only one mobile home shall occupy one lot.
Setback, height and lot size restrictions for zone R-3 shall be the same as
those for zone R-1, except that mobile homes are restricted to one story in
height. (See definitions for "basement", "grade" and "story", as provided in
section
9-1-3 of this title.)
Minimum floor space shall be six hundred (600) square feet.
Mobile homes must be completely skirted.
Off street parking as provided in
chapter 9 of this title.
Preservation of historical sites as provided in ordinance to be adopted or as
may be amended.
Retaining walls in accordance with the UBC (uniform building code).
Signs as provided in
chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997; amd. Ord. 322, 10-14-2003)
9-4C-2: STRUCTURE PER LOT:
There shall be only one main structure per lot. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
CHAPTER 5
COMMERCIAL ZONES USE REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. C-1 ZONE
SECTION:
9-5A-1: Uses Permitted
9-5A-2: Firewall
9-5A-3: Refuse Area
9-5A-4: Loading, Unloading Space
9-5A-5: Setback, Height Restrictions
9-5A-1: USES PERMITTED:
In zone C-1, a building or premises shall be used only for the following
purposes:
Accessory buildings as provided in section
9-8-2 of this title.
Any use allowed in zone R-1.
Architecture as required in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended.
Banks and financial offices.
Fences as provided in section
 9-8-1 of this title.
Hospitals, clinics.
Municipal, state and federal government offices.
Off street parking as provided in
chapter 9 of this title.
Preservation of historical sites as required in ordinance to be adopted or as
may be amended.
Professional offices, i.e., doctors, dentists, lawyers, accountants, etc.
Retaining walls in accordance with the UBC (uniform building code).
Signs as provided in
chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5A-2: FIREWALL:
A firewall is required where two (2) businesses or commercial enterprises share
a common wall. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5A-3: REFUSE AREA:
An area for refuse containers shall be provided on the property. (Ord. 277, 10-
29-1997)
9-5A-4: LOADING, UNLOADING SPACE:
Any commercial establishment shall provide a minimum of one off street loading
or unloading space. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5A-5: SETBACK, HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Setback requirements as specified below are to be considered the minimum
measurement from the lot line to the physical building and any projections
thereof, including any roof overhang that exceeds three feet (3'). Landings
forty four inches (44") long having a width not more than the width of the door
served with stairs that same width shall not be considered a projection. (Ord.
277, 10-29-1997)
   A.   All buildings or premises that front on Burro Avenue from Glorietta
Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place may be built to the front and side lot
lines if a covered sidewalk is included as specified in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended and in the event such a
covered sidewalk is not included then a minimum front yard setback of fifteen
feet (15') is required on all premises and no side yard setback is required on
all premises except that a minimum side yard setback of eight feet (8') is
required on the street side of a corner lot. Rear yard setbacks to all of these
buildings or premises, with or without a covered sidewalk, are as specified in
subsections B3, B4 and B5 of this section. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
   B.   For all buildings or premises that do not front on Burro Avenue from
Glorietta Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place:
      1.   A minimum front yard setback of fifteen feet (15') is required.
      2.   A minimum side yard setback of five feet (5') is required; a minimum
side yard setback of eight feet (8') is required on the street side of a corner
lot. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
      3.   A rear yard setback is not required if there is an alley along the
rear lot line, provided the required loading and unloading area and space for
refuse containers are located in a satisfactory manner elsewhere on the site
and there is no opening from the building into the alley. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
      4.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is an opening at the rear of the building.
      5.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is no alley along the rear lot line.
   C.   No part of any building or structure shall exceed thirty feet (30') in
height above grade. (See definition for "grade" provided in section
9-1-3 of this title.) (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
ARTICLE B. C-2 ZONE
SECTION:
9-5B-1: Uses Permitted
9-5B-2: Firewall
9-5B-3: Refuse Area
9-5B-4: Loading, Unloading Space
9-5B-5: Setback, Height Restrictions
9-5B-1: USES PERMITTED:
In zone C-2, a building or premises shall be used only for the following
purposes:
Accessory buildings as provided in section
9-8-2 of this title.
Any use allowed in zone C-1.
Architecture as required in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended.
Fences as provided in section
9-8-1 of this title.
Off street parking as provided in
chapter 9 of this title.
Preservation of historical sites as required in ordinance to be adopted or as
may be amended.
Retail and wholesale stores, i.e., any legal or licensed establishment engaged
in retail and wholesale sales and/or services, including laundromats and
storage units with the exception of those uses specified in zones C-3 through
M-1.
Retaining walls in accordance with the UBC (uniform building code).
Signs as provided in
chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5B-2: FIREWALL:
A firewall is required where two (2) businesses or commercial enterprises share
a common wall. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5B-3: REFUSE AREA:
An area for refuse containers shall be provided on the property. (Ord. 277, 10-
29-1997)
9-5B-4: LOADING, UNLOADING SPACE:
Any commercial establishment shall provide a minimum of one off street loading
or unloading space. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5B-5: SETBACK, HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Setback requirements as specified below are to be considered the minimum
measurement from the lot line to the physical building and any projections
thereof, including any roof overhang that exceeds three feet (3'). Landings
forty four inches (44") long having a width not more than the width of the door
served with stairs that same width shall not be considered a projection. (Ord.
277, 10-29-1997)
   A.   All buildings or premises that front on Burro Avenue from Glorietta
Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place may be built to the front and side lot
lines if a covered sidewalk is included as specified in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended and in the event such a
covered sidewalk is not included then a minimum front yard setback of fifteen
feet (15') is required on all premises and no side yard setback is required on
all premises except that a minimum side yard setback of eight feet (8') is
required on the street side of a corner lot. Rear yard setbacks to all of these
buildings or premises, with or without a covered sidewalk, are as specified in
subsections B3, B4 and B5 of this section. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
   B.   For all buildings or premises that do not front on Burro Avenue from
Glorietta Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place:
      1.   A minimum front yard setback of fifteen feet (15') is required.
      2.   A minimum side yard setback of five feet (5') is required; a minimum
side yard setback of eight feet (8') is required on the street side of a corner
lot. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
      3.   A rear yard setback is not required if there is an alley along the
rear lot line, provided the required loading and unloading area and space for
refuse containers are located in a satisfactory manner elsewhere on the site
and there is no opening from the building into the alley. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
      4.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
if there is an opening at the rear of the building.
      5.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is no alley along the rear lot line.
   C.   No part of any building or structure shall exceed thirty feet (30') in
height above grade. (See definition for "grade" as provided in section
9-1-3 of this title.) (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
ARTICLE C. C-3 ZONE
SECTION:
9-5C-1: Uses Permitted
9-5C-2: Firewall
9-5C-3: Refuse Area
9-5C-4: Loading, Unloading Space
9-5C-5: Setback, Height Restrictions
9-5C-1: USES PERMITTED:
In zone C-3, a building or premises shall be used only for the following
purposes:
Accessory buildings as provided in section
9-8-2 of this title.
Any use allowed in zone C-2.
Architecture as required in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended.
Automotive and trailer sales.
Fences as provided in section
 9-8-1 of this title.
Off street parking as provided in
chapter 9 of this title.
Preservation of historical sites as provided in ordinance to be adopted or as
may be amended.
Retaining walls in accordance with the UBC (uniform building code).
Signs as provided in
chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5C-2: FIREWALL:
A firewall is required where two (2) businesses or commercial enterprises share
a common wall. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5C-3: REFUSE AREA:
An area for refuse containers shall be provided on the property. (Ord. 277, 10-
29-1997)
9-5C-4: LOADING, UNLOADING SPACE:
Any commercial establishment shall provide a minimum of one off street loading
or unloading space. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5C-5: SETBACK, HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Setback requirements as specified below are to be considered the minimum
measurement from the lot line to the physical building and any projection
thereof, including any roof overhang that exceeds three feet (3'). Landings
forty four inches (44") long having a width not more than the width of the door
served with stairs that same width shall not be considered a projection. (Ord.
277, 10-29-1997)
   A.   All buildings or premises that front on Burro Avenue from Glorietta
Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place may be built to the front and side lot
lines if a covered sidewalk is included as specified in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended and in the event such a
covered sidewalk is not included then a minimum front yard setback of fifteen
feet (15') is required on all premises and no side yard setback is required on
all premises except that a minimum side yard setback of eight feet (8') is
required on the street side of a corner lot. Rear yard setbacks to all of these
buildings or premises, with or without a covered sidewalk, are as specified in
subsections B3, B4 and B5 of this section. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
   B.   For all buildings or premises that do not front on Burro Avenue from
Glorietta Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place:
      1.   A minimum front yard setback of fifteen feet (15') is required.
      2.   A minimum side yard setback of five feet (5') is required; a minimum
side yard setback of eight feet (8') is required on the street side of a corner
lot. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
      3.   A rear yard setback is not required if there is an alley along the
rear lot line, provided the required loading and unloading area and space for
refuse containers are located in a satisfactory manner elsewhere on the site
and there is no opening from the building into the alley. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
      4.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is an opening at the rear of the building.
      5.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is no alley along the rear lot line.
   C.   No part of any building or structure shall exceed thirty feet (30') in
height above grade. (See definition for "grade" as provided in section
9-1-3 of this title.) (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
ARTICLE D. C-4 ZONE
SECTION:
9-5D-1: Uses Permitted
9-5D-2: Firewall
9-5D-3: Refuse Area
9-5D-4: Loading, Unloading Space
9-5D-5: Setback, Height Restrictions
9-5D-1: USES PERMITTED:
In zone C-4, a building or premises shall be used only for the following
purposes:
Accessory buildings as provided in section
9-8-2 of this title.
Any use allowed in zones C-1, C-2 and C-3, except residential.
Architecture as required in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended.
Fences as provided in section
9-8-1 of this title.
Industrial, i.e., light manufacturing with no emissions, assembly of products,
etc.
Off street parking as provided in
chapter 9 of this title.
Preservation of historical sites as required in an ordinance to be adopted or
as may be amended.
Retaining walls in accordance with the UBC (uniform building code).
Signs as provided in
chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 307, 1-8-2002)
9-5D-2: FIREWALL:
A firewall is required where two (2) businesses or commercial enterprises share
a common wall. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5D-3: REFUSE AREA:
An area for refuse containers shall be provided on the property. (Ord. 277, 10-
29-1997)
9-5D-4: LOADING, UNLOADING SPACE:
Any commercial establishment shall provide a minimum of one off street loading
or unloading space. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5D-5: SETBACK, HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Setback requirements as specified below are to be considered the minimum
measurement from the lot line to the physical building and any projection
thereof, including any roof overhang that exceeds three feet (3'). Landings
forty four inches (44") long having a width not more than the width of the door
served with stairs that same width shall not be considered a projection. (Ord.
277, 10-29-1997)
   A.   All buildings or premises that front on Burro Avenue from Glorietta
Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place may be built to the front and side lot
lines if a covered sidewalk is included as specified in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended and in the event such a
covered sidewalk is not included then a minimum front yard setback of fifteen
feet (15') is required on all premises and no side yard setback is required on
all premises except that a minimum side yard setback of eight feet (8') is
required on the street side of a corner lot. Rear yard setbacks to all of these
buildings or premises, with or without a covered sidewalk, are as specified in
subsections B3, B4 and B5 of this section. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
   B.   For all buildings or premises that do not front on Burro Avenue from
Glorietta Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place:
      1.   A minimum front yard setback of fifteen feet (15') is required.
      2.   A minimum side yard setback of five feet (5') is required; a minimum
side yard setback of eight feet (8') is required on the street side of a corner
lot. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
      3.   A rear yard setback is not required if there is an alley along the
rear lot line, provided the required loading and unloading area and space for
refuse containers are located in a satisfactory manner elsewhere on the site
and there is no opening from the building into the alley. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
      4.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is an opening at the rear of the building.
      5.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is no alley along the rear lot line.
   C.   No part of any building or structure shall exceed thirty feet (30') in
height above grade. (See definition for "grade" as provided in section
9-1-3 of this title.) (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
ARTICLE E. C-5 ZONE
SECTION:
9-5E-1: Uses Permitted
9-5E-2: Firewall
9-5E-3: Refuse Area
9-5E-4: Loading, Unloading Space
9-5E-5: Setback, Height Restrictions
9-5E-1: USES PERMITTED:
In zone C-5, a building or premises shall be used only for the following
purposes:
Accessory buildings as provided in section
9-8-2 of this title.
Anything allowed in zone R-1, except for the property described in ordinance
248, section
7-3-4-K.
Architecture as required in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended.
Car wash.
Fences as provided in section
9-8-1 of this title.
Off street parking as provided in
chapter 9 of this title.
Preservation of historical sites as provided in ordinance to be adopted or as
may be amended.
Retaining walls in accordance with the UBC (uniform building code).
Signs as provided in
chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5E-2: FIREWALL:
A firewall is required where two (2) businesses or commercial enterprises share
a common wall. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5E-3: REFUSE AREA:
An area for refuse containers shall be provided on the property. (Ord. 277, 10-
29-1997)
9-5E-4: LOADING, UNLOADING SPACE:
Any commercial establishment shall provide a minimum of one off street loading
or unloading space. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5E-5: SETBACK, HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Setback requirements as specified below are to be considered the minimum
measurement from the lot line to the physical building and any projection
thereof, including any roof overhang that exceeds three feet (3'). Landings
forty four inches (44") long having a width not more than the width of the door
served with stairs that same width shall not be considered a projection. (Ord.
277, 10-29-1997)
   A.   All buildings or premises that front on Burro Avenue from Glorietta
Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place may be built to the front and side lot
lines if a covered sidewalk is included as specified in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended and in the event such a
covered sidewalk is not included then a minimum front yard setback of fifteen
feet (15') is required on all premises and no side yard setback is required on
all premises except that a minimum side yard setback of eight feet (8') is
required on the street side of a corner lot. Rear yard setbacks to all of these
buildings or premises, with or without a covered sidewalk, are as specified in
subsections B3, B4 and B5 of this section. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
   B.   For all buildings or premises that do not front on Burro Avenue from
Glorietta Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place:
      1.   A minimum front yard setback of fifteen feet (15') is required.
      2.   A minimum side yard setback of five feet (5') is required; a minimum
side yard setback of eight feet (8') is required on the street side of a corner
lot. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
      3.   A rear yard setback is not required if there is an alley along the
rear lot line, provided the required loading and unloading area and space for
refuse containers are located in a satisfactory manner elsewhere on the site
and there is no opening from the building into the alley. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
      4.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is an opening at the rear of the building.
      5.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is no alley along the rear lot line.
   C.   No part of any building or structure shall exceed thirty feet (30') in
height above grade. (See definition for "grade" as provided in section
9-1-3 of this title.) (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
ARTICLE F. C-6 ZONE
SECTION:
9-5F-1: Uses Permitted
9-5F-2: Refuse Area
9-5F-3: Vehicle Storage
9-5F-4: Firewall
9-5F-5: Loading, Unloading Space
9-5F-6: Setback, Height Restrictions
9-5F-1: USES PERMITTED:
In zone C-6, a building or premises shall be used only for the following
purposes:
Accessory buildings as provided in section
9-8-2 of this title.
Anything allowed in zone R-1.
Architecture as required in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended.
Automobiles waiting to be repaired shall be fenced so as to provide a solid
screen of not less than six feet (6') nor more than eight feet (8') in height.
Automotive repair shops for motorized vehicles, including, but not limited to,
automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, ATVs, RVs, snowmobiles.
Fences as provided in section
9-8-1 of this title; provided, that automobiles waiting to be repaired shall be
fenced so as to provide a solid screen of not less than six feet (6') nor more
than eight feet (8') in height.
Off street parking as provided in
chapter 9 of this title.
Preservation of historical sites as required in ordinance to be adopted or as
may be amended.
Retaining walls in accordance with the UBC (uniform building code).
Signs as provided in
chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5F-2: REFUSE AREA:
An area for refuse containers shall be provided on the property. (Ord. 277, 10-
29-1997)
9-5F-3: VEHICLE STORAGE:
All vehicles waiting to be repaired shall be parked inside the building or
inside a fenced area. The fenced area shall be a solid screen not less than six
feet (6') nor more than eight feet (8') in height. Any vehicle waiting to be
repaired shall not be stored inside the fenced area for more than three (3)
months nor shall a vehicle be stored for salvage purposes. (Ord. 277, 10-29-
1997)
9-5F-4: FIREWALL:
A firewall is required where two (2) businesses or commercial enterprises share
a common wall. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5F-5: LOADING, UNLOADING SPACE:
Any commercial establishment shall provide a minimum of one off street loading
or unloading space. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5F-6: SETBACK, HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Setback requirements as specified below are to be considered the minimum
measurement from the lot line to the physical building and any projection
thereof, including any roof overhang that exceeds three feet (3'). Landings
forty four inches (44") long having a width not more than the width of the door
served with stairs that same width shall not be considered a projection. (Ord.
277, 10-29-1997)
   A.   All buildings or premises that front on Burro Avenue from Glorietta
Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place may be built to the front and side lot
lines if a covered sidewalk is included as specified in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended and in the event such a
covered sidewalk is not included then a minimum front yard setback of fifteen
feet (15') is required on all premises and no side yard setback is required on
all premises except that a minimum side yard setback of eight feet (8') is
required on the street side of a corner lot. Rear yard setbacks to all of these
buildings or premises, with or without a covered sidewalk, are as specified in
subsections B3, B4 and B5 of this section. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
   B.   For all buildings or premises that do not front on Burro Avenue from
Glorietta Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place:
      1.   A minimum front yard setback of fifteen feet (15') is required.
      2.   A minimum side yard setback of five feet (5') is required; a minimum
side yard setback of eight feet (8') is required on the street side of a corner
lot. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
      3.   A rear yard setback is not required if there is an alley along the
rear lot line, provided the required loading and unloading area and space for
refuse containers are located in a satisfactory manner elsewhere on the site
and there is no opening from the building into the alley. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
      4.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is an opening at the rear of the building.
      5.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is no alley along the rear lot line.
   C.   No part of any building or structure shall exceed thirty feet (30') in
height above grade. (See definition for "grade" as provided in section
9-1-3 of this title.) (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
ARTICLE G. C-7 ZONE
SECTION:
9-5G-1: Uses Permitted
9-5G-2: Refuse Area
9-5G-3: Firewall
9-5G-4: Loading, Unloading Space
9-5G-5: Setback, Height Restrictions
9-5G-1: USES PERMITTED:
In zone C-7, a building or premises shall be used only for the following
purposes:
Accessory buildings as provided in section
9-8-2 of this title.
Architecture as required in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended.
Fences as provided in section
9-8-1 of this title.
Off street parking as provided in
chapter 9 of this title.
Preservation of historical sites as required in ordinance to be adopted or as
may be amended.
Retaining walls in accordance with the UBC (uniform building code).
Signs as provided in
chapter 10 of this title.
Vehicle fueling stations operated with or without an accessory convenience
store. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5G-2: REFUSE AREA:
An area for refuse containers shall be provided on the property. (Ord. 277, 10-
29-1997)
9-5G-3: FIREWALL:
A firewall is required where two (2) businesses or commercial enterprises share
a common wall. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5G-4: LOADING, UNLOADING SPACE:
Any commercial establishment shall provide a minimum of one off street loading
or unloading space. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5G-5: SETBACK, HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Setback requirements as specified below are to be considered the minimum
measurement from the lot line to the physical building and any projection
thereof, including any roof overhang that exceeds three feet (3'). Landings
forty four inches (44") long having a width not more than the width of the door
served with stairs that same width shall not be considered a projection. (Ord.
277, 10-29-1997)
   A.   All buildings or premises that front on Burro Avenue from Glorietta
Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place may be built to the front and side lot
lines if a covered sidewalk is included as specified in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended and in the event such a
covered sidewalk is not included then a minimum front yard setback of fifteen
feet (15') is required on all premises and no side yard setback is required on
all premises except that a minimum side yard setback of eight feet (8') is
required on the street side of a corner lot. Rear yard setbacks to all of these
buildings or premises, with or without a covered sidewalk, are as specified in
subsections B3, B4 and B5 of this section. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
   B.   For all buildings or premises except vehicle fueling pumps (see
subsection D of this section) that do not front on Burro Avenue from Glorietta
Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place:
      1.   A minimum front yard setback of fifteen feet (15') is required.
      2.   A minimum side yard setback of five feet (5') is required; a minimum
side yard setback of eight feet (8') is required on the street side of a corner
lot. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
      3.   A rear yard setback is not required if there is an alley along the
rear lot line, provided the required loading and unloading area and space for
refuse containers are located in a satisfactory manner elsewhere on the site
and there is no opening from the building into the alley. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
      4.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is an opening at the rear of the building.
      5.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is no alley along the rear lot line.
   C.   No part of any building or structure shall exceed thirty feet (30') in
height above grade. (See definition for "grade" as provided in section
9-1-3 of this title.)
   D.   Setbacks for vehicle fueling pumps:
      1.   Fuel pumps shall be located a minimum of fifteen feet (15') from any
street right of way or lot line and a minimum of twenty five feet (25') from
any structure.
      2.   Fuel storage facilities shall comply with state and federal
regulations. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
ARTICLE H. C-8 ZONE
SECTION:
9-5H-1: Uses Permitted
9-5H-2: Firewall
9-5H-3: Refuse Area
9-5H-4: Loading, Unloading Space
9-5H-5: Setback, Height Restrictions
9-5H-1: USES PERMITTED:
In zone C-8, a building or premises shall be used only for the following
purposes:
Accessory buildings as provided in section
9-8-2 of this title.
Any use allowed in zone C-1.
Architecture as required in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended.
Eating facilities, i.e., restaurants, cafes.
Facilities serving alcoholic beverages.
Fences as provided in section
9-8-1 of this title.
Off street parking as provided in
chapter 9 of this title.
Preservation of historical sites as provided in ordinance to be adopted or as
may be amended.
Retaining walls in accordance with the UBC (uniform building code).
Signs as provided in
chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5H-2: FIREWALL:
A firewall is required where two (2) businesses or commercial enterprises share
a common wall. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5H-3: REFUSE AREA:
An area for refuse containers shall be provided on the property. (Ord. 277, 10-
29-1997)
9-5H-4: LOADING, UNLOADING SPACE:
Any commercial establishment shall provide a minimum of one off street loading
or unloading space. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-5H-5: SETBACK, HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Setback requirements as specified below are to be considered the minimum
measurement from the lot line to the physical building and any projections
thereof, including any roof overhang that exceeds three feet (3'). Landings
forty four inches (44") long having a width not more than the width of the door
served with stairs that same width shall not be considered a projection. (Ord.
277, 10-29-1997)
   A.   All buildings or premises that front on Burro Avenue from Glorietta
Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place may be built to the front and side lot
lines if a covered sidewalk is included as specified in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended and in the event such a
covered sidewalk is not included then a minimum front yard setback of fifteen
feet (15') is required on all premises and no side yard setback is required on
all premises except that a minimum side yard setback of eight feet (8') is
required on the street side of a corner lot. Rear yard setbacks to all of these
buildings or premises, with or without a covered sidewalk, are as specified in
subsections B3, B4 and B5 of this section. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
   B.   For all buildings or premises that do not front on Burro Avenue from
Glorietta Avenue to Mescalero/Avenue Swallow Place:
      1.   A minimum front yard setback of fifteen feet (15') is required.
      2.   A minimum side yard setback of five feet (5') is required; a minimum
side yard setback of eight feet (8') is required on the street side of a corner
lot. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
      3.   A rear yard setback is not required if there is an alley along the
rear lot line, provided the required loading and unloading area and space for
refuse containers are located in a satisfactory manner elsewhere on the site
and there is no opening from the building into the alley. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
      4.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is an opening at the rear of the building.
      5.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is no alley along the rear lot line.
   C.   No part of any building or structure shall exceed thirty feet (30') in
height above grade. (See definition for "grade" as provided in section
9-1-3 of this title.) (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
ARTICLE I. C-9 ZONE
SECTION:
9-5I-1: Uses Permitted
9-5I-2: Firewall
9-5I-3: Refuse Area
9-5I-4: Loading, Unloading Space
9-5I-5: Setback, Height Restrictions
9-5I-1: USES PERMITTED:
In zone C-9, a building or premises shall be used only for the following
purposes:
Accessory buildings as provided in section
9-8-2 of this title.
Any use allowed in zones C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, C-5, C-6, C-7, and C-8, except
residential.
Architecture as required in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended.
Automobile wrecking yard (see definition of "automobile wrecking" as provided
in section
9-1-3 of this title); wrecked automobiles or other materials shall be fenced so
as to provide a solid screen of not less than six feet (6') nor more than eight
feet (8') in height.
Kennels.
Off street parking as provided in
chapter 9 of this title.
Preservation of historical sites as required in an ordinance to be adopted or
as may be amended.
Retaining walls in accordance with the UBC (uniform building code).
Signs as provided in
chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 307, 1-8-2002)
9-5I-2: FIREWALL:
A firewall is required where two (2) businesses or commercial enterprises share
a common wall. (Ord. 307, 1-8-2002)
9-5I-3: REFUSE AREA:
An area for refuse containers shall be provided on the property. (Ord. 307, 1-
8-2002)
9-5I-4: LOADING, UNLOADING SPACE:
Any commercial establishment shall provide a minimum of one off street loading
or unloading space. (Ord. 307, 1-8-2002)
9-5I-5: SETBACK, HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Setback requirements as specified below are to be considered the minimum
measurement from the lot line to the physical building and any projection
thereof, including any roof overhang that exceeds three feet (3'). Landings
forty four inches (44") long having a width not more than the width of the door
served with stairs that same width shall not be considered a projection. (Ord.
307, 1-8-2002)
   A.   All buildings or premises that front on Burro Avenue from Glorietta
Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place may be built to the front and side lot
lines if a covered sidewalk is included as specified in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended and in the event such a
covered sidewalk is not included then a minimum front yard setback of fifteen
feet (15') is required on all premises and no side yard setback is required on
all premises except that a minimum side yard setback of eight feet (8') is
required on the street side of a corner lot. Rear yard setbacks to all of these
buildings or premises, with or without a covered sidewalk, are as specified in
subsections B3, B4 and B5 of this section. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
   B.   For all buildings or premises that do not front on Burro Avenue from
Glorietta Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place:
      1.   A minimum front yard setback of fifteen feet (15') is required.
      2.   A minimum side yard setback of five feet (5') is required; a minimum
side yard setback of eight feet (8') is required on the street side of a corner
lot. (Ord. 307, 1-8-2002)
      3.   A rear yard setback is not required if there is an alley along the
rear lot line, provided the required loading and unloading area and space for
refuse containers are located in a satisfactory manner elsewhere on the side
and there is no opening from the building into the alley. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002)
      4.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is an opening at the rear of the building.
      5.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is no alley along the rear lot line.
   C.   No part of any building or structure shall exceed thirty feet (30') in
height above grade. (See definition for "grade" as provided in section
9-1-3 of this title.) (Ord. 307, 1-8-2002)
ARTICLE J. C-10 ZONE
SECTION:
9-5J-1: Uses Permitted
9-5J-2: Firewall
9-5J-3: Refuse Area
9-5J-4: Loading, Unloading Space
9-5J-5: Setback, Height Restrictions
9-5J-1: USES PERMITTED:
In zone C-10, a building or premises shall be used only for the following
purposes:
Accessory buildings as provided in section
9-8-2 of this title.
Architecture as required in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended.
Off street parking as provided in
chapter 9 of this title.
Preservation of historical sites as required in an ordinance to be adopted or
as may be amended.
Recreation and amusement facilities, such as theaters, bowling alleys, pool
halls, miniature golf.
Retaining walls in accordance with the IBC (international building code).
Signs as provided in
chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
9-5J-2: FIREWALL:
A firewall is required where two (2) businesses or commercial enterprises share
a common wall. (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
9-5J-3: REFUSE AREA:
An area for refuse containers shall be provided on the property. (Ord. 333, 5-
10-2005)
9-5J-4: LOADING, UNLOADING SPACE:
Any commercial establishment shall provide a minimum of one off street loading
or unloading space. (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
9-5J-5: SETBACK, HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Setback requirements as specified below are to be considered the minimum
measurement from the lot line to the physical building and any projection
thereof, including any roof overhang that exceeds three feet (3'). Landings
forty four inches (44") long having a width not more than the width of the door
served with stairs that same width shall not be considered a projection.
   A.   All buildings or premises that front on Burro Avenue from Glorietta
Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place may be built to the front and side lot
lines if a covered sidewalk is included as specified in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended and in the event such a
covered sidewalk is not included then a minimum front yard setback of fifteen
feet (15') is required on all premises and no side yard setback is required on
all premises except that a minimum side yard setback of eight feet (8') is
required on the street side of a corner lot. Rear yard setbacks to all of these
buildings or premises, with or without a covered sidewalk, are as specified in
subsections B3, B4 and B5 of this section.
   B.   For all buildings or premises that do not front on Burro Avenue from
Glorietta Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place:
      1.   A minimum front yard setback of fifteen feet (15') is required.
      2.   A minimum side yard setback of five feet (5') is required; a minimum
side yard setback of eight feet (8') is required on the street side of a corner
lot.
      3.   A rear yard setback is not required if there is an alley along the
rear lot line, provided the required loading and unloading area and space for
refuse containers are located in a satisfactory manner elsewhere on the site
and there is no opening from the building into the alley.
      4.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is an opening at the rear of the building.
      5.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is no alley along the rear lot line.
   C.   No part of any building or structure shall exceed thirty feet (30') in
height above grade. (See definition for "grade" as provided in section
9-1-3 of this title.) (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
CHAPTER 6
RECREATION AND TRANSIT ACCOMMODATION
FACILITIES ZONES USE REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. T-1 ZONE
SECTION:
9-6A-1: Uses Permitted
9-6A-2: Firewall
9-6A-3: Refuse Area
9-6A-4: Setback, Height Restrictions
9-6A-1: USES PERMITTED:
In zone T-1, a building or premises shall be used only for the following
purposes:
Accessory buildings as provided in section
 9-8-2 of this title.
Architecture as provided in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended.
Fences as provided in section
9-8-1 of this title.
Off street parking as provided in
chapter 9 of this title.
Preservation of historical sites as required in ordinance to be adopted or as
may be amended.
Retail facilities catering to transient customers when operated in conjunction
with and as an integral part of a hotel, motel or bed and breakfast. Such
retail facilities shall not have any signs visible from the outside of the
building, except that one unlighted nameplate not exceeding three (3) square
feet in area may be attached to the building.
Retaining walls in accordance with the IBC (international building code).
Signs as provided in
chapter 10 of this title.
Swimming pools, cabanas and recreational rooms when operated in conjunction
with and as an integral part of a hotel, motel or bed and breakfast.
Tourist lodging with or without eating facilities (bed and breakfasts, hotels,
motels). (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
9-6A-2: FIREWALL:
A firewall is required where two (2) businesses or commercial enterprises share
a common wall. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-6A-3: REFUSE AREA:
An area for refuse containers shall be provided on the property. This
requirement does not apply to facilities with fewer than six (6) rentable rooms
and no eating facilities. (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
9-6A-4: SETBACK, HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Setback requirements as specified below are to be considered the minimum
measurement from the lot line to the physical building and any projection
thereof, including any roof overhang that exceeds three feet (3'). Landings
forty four inches (44") long having a width not more than the width of the door
served with stairs that same width shall not be considered a projection. (Ord.
277, 10-29-1997; amd. Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
   A.   All buildings or premises that front on Burro Avenue from Glorietta
Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place may be built to the front and side lot
lines if a covered sidewalk is included as specified in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended and in the event such a
covered sidewalk is not included then a minimum front yard setback of fifteen
feet (15') is required on all premises and no side yard setback is required on
all premises except that a minimum side yard setback of eight feet (8') is
required on the street side of a corner lot. Rear yard setbacks to all of these
buildings or premises, with or without a covered sidewalk, are as specified in
subsections B3, B4 and B5 of this section. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002; amd. Ord. 333,
5-10-2005)
   B.   For all buildings or premises that do not front on Burro Avenue from
Glorietta Avenue to Mescalero Avenue/Swallow Place:
      1.   A minimum front yard setback of fifteen feet (15') is required.
      2.   A minimum side yard setback of five feet (5') is required; a minimum
side yard setback of eight feet (8') is required on the street side of a corner
lot. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997; amd. Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
      3.   A rear yard setback is not required if there is an alley along the
rear lot line, provided the required loading and unloading area and space for
refuse containers are located in a satisfactory manner elsewhere on the site
and there is no opening from the building into the alley. (Ord. 310, 10-8-2002;
amd. Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
      4.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is an opening at the rear of the building.
      5.   A minimum rear yard setback of ten feet (10') is required if there
is no alley along the rear lot line.
   C.   No part of any building or structure shall exceed thirty feet (30') in
height above grade. (See definition for "grade" as provided in section
9-1-3 of this title.) (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997; amd. Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
ARTICLE B. T-2 ZONE
SECTION:
9-6B-1: Permitted Uses
9-6B-2: Refuse Area
9-6B-3: Setbacks
9-6B-4: Height Restrictions
9-6B-5: Entrances, Exits Unobstructed
9-6B-6: Village Permit Required
9-6B-7: Environmental Compliance
9-6B-1: PERMITTED USES:
In zone T-2, the property shall be used only for a recreational vehicle park
suitable for temporary location of mobile units. Zone T-2 may include the
following:
Accessory buildings as provided in section
9-8-2 of this title except that one service building of no more than six
hundred (600) square feet of gross floor area may be constructed even though no
main building is located on the premises; such service building must comply
with subsections
9-8-2A1 and A3 of this title and shall be used only to accommodate sanitary
conveniences, storage facilities, laundry and utility rooms.
Architecture as required in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended.
Fences as provided in section
9-8-1 of this title. Note: There shall be a solid fence not less than four feet
(4') nor more than six feet (6') in height on any side of the park that abuts
property under other ownership, excepting public rights of way, and which shall
comply with the requirements for fences in section
9-8-1 of this title.
Motor homes.
Off street parking for RV spaces shall be considered included in the individual
RV spaces.
Office unit, one, serving the administrative function of the park which shall
comply with zone R-1 requirements and may include the residence of the manager
of the park.
Pickup campers.
Preservation of historical sites as required in ordinance to be adopted or as
may be amended.
Recreational vehicles (RVs).
Retaining walls in accordance with the IBC (international building code).
Signs; one sign not to exceed eight (8) square feet in area which shall comply
with the requirements for signs in
chapter 10 of this title.
Tents.
Trailers, including fifth wheels, pop-up campers. (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
9-6B-2: REFUSE AREA:
An area for refuse containers shall be provided on the property, except that a
recreational vehicle park with fewer than six (6) spaces shall be exempt from
this requirement. (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
9-6B-3: SETBACKS:
There shall be a minimum setback of ten feet (10') from a lot line to any RV
space or park building, except that the setback for any residence shall comply
with R-1 restrictions. The owner shall ensure that no RV, tent, trailer, pickup
camper or other occupant of the park encroaches on the area within the setback.
(Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
9-6B-4: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No part of any building or structure shall exceed one story or twenty
feet (20') above grade except for the office unit/residence of the manager as
provided in section
9-6B-1 of this article. (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
9-6B-5: ENTRANCES, EXITS UNOBSTRUCTED:
Entrances and/or exits from the recreational vehicle park shall be visually
unobstructed. (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
9-6B-6: VILLAGE PERMIT REQUIRED:
The owner of the proposed RV park shall submit, in addition to the requirements
of section
9-2-3 of this title, a plan showing RV spaces, fences and utilities (including
dump stations). (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
9-6B-7: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE:
Each recreational vehicle park shall comply with all rules and regulations of
the state of New Mexico environmental division. (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
ARTICLE C. M-1 ZONE
SECTION:
9-6C-1: Uses Permitted
9-6C-2: Refuse Area
9-6C-3: Loading, Unloading Space
9-6C-4: Density
9-6C-5: Setback, Height Restrictions
9-6C-6: Permit Required
9-6C-7: Entrances, Exits Unobstructed
9-6C-8: Register Maintained
9-6C-9: Fences
9-6C-10: Utility Connections
9-6C-1: USES PERMITTED:
In zone M-1, the property shall be used only for a mobile home park suitable
for the temporary or permanent location of mobile homes. Zone M-1 may include
the following:
Accessory buildings as provided in section
9-8-2 of this title.
Architecture as required in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended.
Fences as provided in section
9-8-1 of this title.
Mobile homes.
Off street parking: each mobile home lot shall have a minimum of two (2)
parking spaces.
Office unit, one, serving the administrative function of the park which shall
comply with zone R-1 requirements and may include the residence of the manager
of the mobile home park.
Preservation of historical sites as required in ordinance to be adopted or as
may be amended.
Retaining walls in accordance with the IBC (international building code).
Signs; one sign not to exceed eight (8) square feet in area which shall comply
with the requirements for signs as provided in
chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
9-6C-2: REFUSE AREA:
An area for refuse containers shall be provided on the property. (Ord. 277, 10-
29-1997)
9-6C-3: LOADING, UNLOADING SPACE:
Any commercial establishment shall provide a minimum of one off street loading
or unloading space. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-6C-4: DENSITY:
A mobile home park may have no more than one mobile home lot per each three
thousand seven hundred fifty (3,750) square feet of total park property,
excluding land used for purposes other than the mobile home lots. (Ord. 333, 5-
10-2005)
9-6C-5: SETBACK, HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   There shall be a minimum setback of ten feet (10') from any park lot
line to any mobile home lot or park building, except that the setback from any
residence shall comply with R-1 restrictions.
   B.   Setback requirements for mobile home lots as specified below are to be
considered the minimum measurement from the mobile home lot line to the
physical building and any projection thereof, including any roof overhang that
exceeds three feet (3'). Landings forty four inches (44") long having a width
not more than the width of the door served with stairs that same width shall
not be considered a projection.
      1.   A minimum front yard setback of not less than twenty five feet
(25').
      2.   A minimum side yard setback of not less than seven and one-half feet
(71/2'), except that no part of any mobile unit shall be less than fifteen feet
(15') from the park property line.
      3.   A minimum rear yard setback of twenty five feet (25').
      4.   No part of any building or structure shall exceed one story or
fifteen feet (15') above grade except for the office unit/residence of the
manager as provided in section
9-6C-1 of this article. (See definitions for "basement", "grade" and "story" as
provided in section
9-1-3 of this title.) (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
9-6C-6: PERMIT REQUIRED:
In addition to the requirements of section
9-2-3 of this title, a plan showing mobile home lots, fences and utilities
shall be submitted for the proposed mobile home parks. (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
9-6C-7: ENTRANCES, EXITS UNOBSTRUCTED:
Entrances and/or exits from the mobile home park shall be visually
unobstructed. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-6C-8: REGISTER MAINTAINED:
A register shall be kept and maintained consisting of the following
information:
   A.   Name and address of each occupant.
   B.   Make, model, year and license number of each mobile home and motor
vehicle.
   C.   State, county or territory issuing above licenses.
   D.   Date of arrival and departure of each mobile home. (Ord. 277, 10-29-
1997)
9-6C-9: FENCES:
There shall be a solid fence not less than four feet (4') nor more than six
feet (6') in height on any side of the park that abuts property under other
ownership, excepting public rights of way. (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
9-6C-10: UTILITY CONNECTIONS:
Utility connections for mobile homes shall comply with all village and state
requirements for utility connections to buildings. (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
CHAPTER 7
GREENBELT ZONES USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-7-1: G-1 Zone
9-7-2: G-2 Zone
9-7-1: G-1 ZONE:
   A.   The G-1 zone shall consist of open space. No structures or commercial
signs shall be allowed, except that communication sites with structure and
necessary accessory buildings may be allowed by the governing body on property
owned by the village of Cloudcroft. (Ord. 340, 2-13-2007)
   B.   There shall be no overnight parking or camping allowed. (Ord. 277A, 8-
10-1999)
9-7-2: G-2 ZONE:
   A.   Uses Permitted: Permissive uses shall be public parks, recreation areas
and permitted communication sites as provided in zone G-1. (Ord. 340, 2-13-
2007)
   B.   Setbacks: Any permanent structures shall comply with the setbacks of
zone R-1.
   C.   Refuse Area: An area for refuse collection shall be provided.
   D.   Signs: Concessionaire signs shall comply with section
9-10-5 of this title, commercial zone signs.
   E.   Parking: Parking as provided in
chapter 9 of this title.
   F.   Overnight Parking, Camping: There shall be no overnight parking or
camping allowed without a special use permit. (Ord. 277A, 8-10-1999)
CHAPTER 8
REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ZONES
SECTION:
9-8-1: Fences
9-8-2: Accessory Buildings
9-8-3: Public Health
9-8-4: Fire Stations
9-8-1: FENCES:
Fences shall be erected in compliance with the following requirements:
   A.   Height: Any fence located within the required front yard setback
established for each zone shall not be more than four feet (4') in height and
any other fence on the property shall not be more than six feet (6') in height,
except as follows:
      1.   Under automotive repair use in zone C-6, the vehicle storage area
shall be enclosed by a solid fence not less than six feet (6') nor more than
eight feet (8') in height. (See section
9-5F-1 of this title.) (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
      2.   Under automobile wrecking yard use in zone C-9, the storage area for
wrecked automobiles or other materials shall be enclosed by a solid fence not
less than six feet (6') nor more than eight feet (8') in height. (See section
9-5I-1 of this title.) (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997; amd. Ord. 307, 1-8-2002)
      3.   Under mobile home park use in zone M-1 and recreational vehicle park
use in zone T-2, there shall be a solid fence not less than four feet (4') nor
more than six feet (6') in height on all sides of the park. (See sections
 9-6C-1 and
9-6B-1, respectively, of this title.)
   B.   Visibility Intersecting Streets: To ensure proper visibility for
motorists, no solid fence may be located within fifteen feet (15') of the
intersecting street lot corner.
   C.   Parking Facility; Residential Zones: A parking facility adjacent to or
directly across the street from a residential zone shall be fenced with a solid
fence not less than four feet (4') nor more than six feet (6') in height. With
approval of the village, a hedge of suitable variety may be substituted for the
fence. (See subsection
9-9-4H of this title.)
   D.   Architecture: Architecture as required in ordinance 237 (see
title 8, chapter 2 of this code), or as may be amended for properties in zones
C-1 through M-1. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-8-2: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Conditions: With the exception of subsection A4 of this section,
accessory buildings and uses in any zone shall be permitted only on the same
lot as the main structure in accordance with the following conditions:
      1.   Any such building shall comply with the setback requirements of the
zone in which it is located, except that:
         a.   Where the rear lot line does not abut an alley or other public
right of way, the rear setback shall be five feet (5').
         b.   Where the side lot line does not abut an alley or other public
right of way, the side setback shall be five feet (5').
         c.   Where the rear lot line abuts an alley, and there is no entrance
to the accessory building from the alley, the accessory building may be on the
alley line; similarly, where a side lot line abuts an alley, and there is no
entrance to the accessory building from the alley, the accessory building may
be on the alley line.
      2.   The gross floor area of an accessory building, or of the total of
all accessory buildings on the same lot, shall not exceed forty percent (40%)
of the area between the back of the main structure and the back lot line.
      3.   No part of any accessory building shall exceed one story or twenty
feet (20') in height above grade. (See "grade" as defined in section
 9-1-3 of this title.)
      4.   Where one entity owns two (2) or more contiguous lots, and a main
building exists on one of the lots, accessory buildings shall also be permitted
on the contiguous lots under the following conditions: There shall be no more
than one accessory building per lot; no accessory building shall exceed seven
hundred fifty (750) square feet in area; the use of the accessory building
shall be one permitted by the zoning of the lot on which it is constructed. In
zones R-1, R-2, R-3, T-1, T-2, and M-1 such accessory buildings shall be
maintained solely for the personal use of the occupants of the qualifying main
building. ("Personal use" does not include an office for a home occupation.) At
such time as an accessory building no longer conforms to the code because its
ownership is no longer the same as that of a contiguous lot with a qualifying
structure, the owner of the lot with the accessory building shall within one
year remove the structure, or convert it to a structure that meets the code
requirements for its zoning.
   B.   Construction And Use Of Accessory Buildings: Such accessory buildings
shall be built concurrently with or after the construction of the main building
and shall not be used as a dwelling or sleeping units.
   C.   Vehicles And Garages: No vehicle over twenty six thousand (26,000)
pounds' gross vehicle weight shall be housed in zones R-1, R-2, R-3, T-1, T-2,
M-1, G-1 or G-2. (Ord. 333, 5-10-2005)
   D.   Portable Buildings: A portable building no larger than two hundred
(200) square feet used as an accessory building shall be exempt from the
village permit requirements provided that such portable buildings shall be
installed according to the manufacturer's recommended standards, so long as
such standards comply with the state building code, and shall be subject to all
setbacks. The gross floor area of portable buildings shall be included in a
total area described in subsection A2 of this section. (Ord. 342, 6-13-2007)
9-8-3: PUBLIC HEALTH:
   A.   Construction sites and transportation of materials, as required in
section
4-1-8 of this code.
   B.   Nuisances, as prohibited in
title 4, chapter 2 of this code.
   C.   Chimneys and stovepipes, screening of, as regulated in subsection
4-2A-3B of this code, and fire hazards, noncombustible roofs and enclosed
eaves, as regulated in subsection
4-2A-3D of this code. (Ord. 322, 10-14-2003)
9-8-4: FIRE STATIONS:
Fire stations shall be allowed in all zones. (Ord. 322, 10-14-2003)
CHAPTER 9
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
9-9-1: Size
9-9-2: Parking Spaces Required
9-9-3: Parking Requirements For Uses Not Specified
9-9-4: General Provisions
9-9-1: SIZE:
Each parking space shall have:
   A.   Area: Minimum area of one hundred eighty (180) square feet.
   B.   Width: Minimum width of nine feet (9').
   C.   Ingress, Egress: Adequate room for ingress and egress.
   D.   One-Half Units, Measurements: When units or measurements determining
the number of required off-street parking and off-street loading spaces result
in a number of one-half (1/2) or greater, an additional space shall be
required.
   E.   Exceed Twenty; Size Reduction: When the determined number of required
parking spaces exceeds twenty (20), ten percent (10%) of the required spaces
may measure eight feet by sixteen feet (8' x 16') and be one hundred twenty
eight (128) square feet in area for compact vehicles.
   F.   Handicapped Parking: All commercial zones shall provide handicapped
parking in compliance with the current UBC.
   G.   Snow Removal: Provision for snow removal is the responsibility of the
owner. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-9-2: PARKING SPACES REQUIRED:
Apartments, rooming houses, boarding
houses, lodging houses, club and        11/2 spaces for each dwelling unit
fraternity housing having sleeping
rooms, and other multiple dwellings
Automotive and machinery repair, sales  1 space for each 600 square feet of
or wholesaling                           gross floor area
Banks, businesses or professional       1 space for each 600 square feet of
offices                                  gross floor area
Bowling alleys                          4 spaces for each alley
Churches                                1 space for each 100 square feet of
                                         floor space used for assembly purposes
Hospitals                               1 space for each 600 square feet of
                                         gross floor area
                                         1 space for each dwelling unit or
Hotels, motels and bed and breakfasts   sleeping unit (see subsection
                                         9-9-4B of this Chapter)
Libraries                               1 space for each 600 square feet of
                                         gross floor area
                                         Not less than 1 space for each 800
Manufacturing                           square feet of gross floor area, plus
                                         1 space for each employee during the
                                         maximum shift
Medical and dental clinic               1 space for each 600 square feet of
                                         gross floor area
                                         2 spaces per mobile home lot, plus 1
                                         additional space (for guest parking)
Mobile home parks                       for every 3 mobile home lots or
                                         spaces, all to be provided within the
                                         mobile home park area
Motels (see hotels)                      
Museums and similar nonassembly          1 space for each 600 square feet of
cultural facilities                     gross floor area, or as determined by
                                         the Planning and Zoning Commission
Offices not providing customer          1 space for each 600 square feet of
services or sales on the premises        gross floor area
Residences (single-family dwellings     2 spaces for each unit
and permanently placed mobile homes)
Restaurants and bars                    1 space for each 100 square feet of
                                         gross floor area
Retail stores, except as otherwise      1 space for each 600 square feet of
specified herein                         gross floor area
Sanitariums, children's homes,          1 space for each 3 beds
asylums, nursing homes, etc.
Schools: private, vocational, etc.      1 space for each employee and 1 space
                                         for each 3 students of driving age
Stadiums, sports arenas, theaters,
auditoriums and other places of public   1 space for each 100 square feet of
assembly, including those on school     gross floor area used for assembly
property, and clubs and lodges having
no sleeping quarters
Swimming pools, commercial and public   1 space for each 10 persons based on
                                         capacity load
Theaters (see stadiums)                  
Transportation terminals and            Adequate number as determined by the
facilities                               Planning and Zoning Commission
Vehicle fueling stations                1 space for each 600 square feet of
                                         gross floor area
Warehouse and wholesale storage          1 space for each employee on the
buildings (dead storage of high volume  maximum shift, plus 1
distribution)
 
(Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-9-3: PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR USES NOT SPECIFIED:
The parking requirements for land uses which are not specified in this chapter
shall be determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Said determination
shall be based upon the requirements for the most comparable use specified
herein. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-9-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Location: Off street parking facilities shall be located as hereinafter
specified:
      1.   For single-family and duplex dwellings, required parking shall be
located on the same lot as the building which it is required to serve.
      2.   For all other uses, required parking shall be located on the same
lot or on an abutting lot. Required parking shall not be located across a
public street or with an intervening property, except by conditional use permit
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission. In the event a separately owned
lot is utilized, a lease shall be recorded with the Village Clerk- Treasurer.
      3.   In Commercial Zones C-1, C-2 and C-8, a variance from parking
requirements may only be obtained by paying to the Village a fee to be
determined by the Village Board of Trustees and based on the number of spaces
not provided. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
      4.   Burro Avenue retail parking from Glorietta Avenue to Mescalero
Avenue/Swallow Place and that fronting Lots 1 through 8 of Block 7 and Lots 1
through 3 of Block 1 of Skywater Subdivision on Village right-of-way, whether
acquired through plat dedication or conveyance, will be considered a single
parking lot (similar to a shopping mall) shared by all buildings and premises
that front these areas. Individual buildings and premises are not required to
provide additional off street parking. However, parking space requirements for
developments involving more than one lot as such may have been platted on the
effective date hereof, and fronting on the area of Burro Avenue from Glorietta
Avenue to Mescalero/Swallow Place will be the same as for developments not on
Burro Avenue. (Ord. 375, 6-13-2017)
   B.   Mixed Occupancies In Building: In the case of mixed uses in the
building or on a lot, the total requirements for off street parking facilities
shall be the sum of the requirements for the various uses computed separately.
Off street parking facilities for one use shall not be considered as providing
required parking facilities for any other use, except as hereinafter specified
for joint use.
   C.   Joint Use: The Planning and Zoning Commission may authorize joint use
of parking facilities when use of the facilities is primarily daytime for one
applicant and nighttime for the other, or weekdays for one applicant and
weekends for the other.
   D.   Submission Of Plans: The plans for any proposed commercial parking area
shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission at the time of the
application for a building permit for the building to which the parking area is
accessory. The plan shall clearly indicate the proposed development, including
location, size, shape, design, curb cuts, lighting, landscaping and other
features and appurtenances of the proposed parking lot.
   E.   Surface: All off street parking facilities shall be surfaced with base
course, concrete, asphaltic concrete, asphalt oil, or any other comparable
surfacing and shall be maintained in good condition, free of all weeds, trash
and other debris, and shall be properly drained, graded and cleared of snow.
   F.   Entrances And Exits: Entrances and/or exits shall be located at least
five feet (5') from any side lot line and at least twenty five feet (25') from
the side lot line on the street side of a corner lot.
   G.   Barriers: Wherever required to prevent vehicles using the parking
facility from encroaching upon the public streets, alleys or sidewalks, there
shall be provided a barrier not less than six inches (6") high.
   H.   Fences: Wherever a commercial parking facility abuts or is directly
across the street from any residence or residential zone, such parking facility
shall be isolated from such residence or residential zone by the construction
of a solid fence not less than four feet (4') nor more than six feet (6') in
height. With the approval of the Village, a hedge of suitable variety may be
substituted for such fence.
   I.   Lighting: Lighting shall comply with
title 8, chapter 3 of this Code.
   J.   Use Restrictions: The parking area shall only be used for passenger
vehicles and in no case shall be used for the commercial sale, repair work,
storage, dismantling or servicing of any vehicles, equipment, materials or
supplies. No vehicle over twenty thousand (20,000) pounds' gross vehicle weight
shall be housed in Zones R-1, R-2, R-3, T-1, T-2, M-1, G-1 or G-2.
   K.   Loading Berths: Any commercial establishment shall provide a minimum of
one off street loading or unloading space. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
CHAPTER 10
SIGNS
SECTION:
9-10-1: General Provisions
9-10-2: Exempt Signs Not Requiring Permit
9-10-3: Zones R-1 And R-3 Signs
9-10-4: Zone R-2 Signs
9-10-5: Commercial Zone Signs (C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, C-5, C-6, C-7, C-8, C-9, C-
10, G-2, T-1, T-2, M-1)
9-10-6: Fees
9-10-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: Any sign which is not exempt shall require a village
sign permit.
   B.   Illumination: Exempt signs shall not be illuminated.
   C.   Flashing, Moving Lights: Signs shall not contain, include or be
illuminated by any flashing, intermittent or moving lights.
   D.   Resembling Official Signs: Signs shall not imitate or resemble any
official traffic sign, signal or device.
   E.   Commercial Signs On Trees: Commercial signs shall not be erected or
maintained upon trees.
   F.   Painting Signs On Rocks: Signs shall not be painted or drawn upon rocks
or other natural features. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
   G.   Upon Village Property: No sign except temporary unlit exempt signs as
described in subsection
9-10-2E of this chapter shall be erected on village property without a license
issued by the board of trustees. (Ord. 322, 10-14-2003)
   H.   Attachment To Utility Poles: No signs shall be attached to utility
poles.
   I.   Obscuring Or Obstructing Traffic: Signs may not be located in such a
manner as to obscure or otherwise interfere with the effectiveness of an
official traffic sign, signal or device; or to obstruct, interfere with or
compromise the safety of vehicular or pedestrian traffic. (Ord. 277, 10-29-
1997)
   J.   Architecture: With the exception of temporary unlit exempt signs
described in subsections
9-10-2A, C, D, E, F and H of this chapter, all signs in zones C-1 through G-
2 shall comply with
title 8, chapter 2 of this code. (Ord. 322, 10-14-2003)
   K.   Lighting: All signs shall comply with
title 8, chapter 3 of this code.
   L.   Location Within Lot Line: All components of a sign shall be located
within the lot lines of the lot on which it is erected. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-10-2: EXEMPT SIGNS NOT REQUIRING PERMIT:
   A.   Real Estate Signs: Real estate signs not exceeding four (4) square feet
in area and four feet (4') in height which advertise the sale, rental or lease
of the premises upon which they are located. Such signs shall be removed within
seven (7) days of the sale, closing, rental or leasing of said property.
   B.   Residential Name And Street Address Signs: One residential name and
street address sign so long as said sign is no more than two (2) square feet in
area and is attached to a structure. Such sign shall not project more than one
inch (1") beyond the face of the building. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
   C.   Temporary Unlit Banners:
      1.   Banner like signs, including, but not limited to, pennants, pennant
flap, streamers and fliers advertising a business or other for profit entity,
if approved in writing by the village administrator, may be displayed for not
more than fourteen (14) days in a twelve (12) month period.
      2.   Application shall be made on forms provided by the village and
submitted to the village administrator who shall refer such application to the
planning and zoning commission for comment. Such application shall include a
drawing of the sign reflecting color, size, and appearance, as well as the
number and proposed location.
      3.   Such banner like signs shall conform as provided in section
9-10-5 of this chapter and must utilize a western/railroad motif as provided in
section
8-2-6 of this code.
      4.   The village administrator after consideration of the comments by the
planning and zoning commission may issue written approval with such conditions
as determined to comply with the intent of this exemption with a copy to be
kept by the village clerk for at least twenty four (24) months. (Ord. 349, 5-
12-2009)
   D.   Temporary Political Signs: Temporary unlit political signs shall be
permitted up to a total area of six (6) square feet for each premises. Such
signs may be erected no earlier than thirty (30) days prior to any primary,
general or special election. They shall be removed within three (3) days after
the election to which the sign pertains. The candidate portrayed on the sign or
for whom the sign advertises shall bear the responsibility for removal. These
signs may only be placed on private property and shall not be attached to
utility poles.
   E.   Advertising For Community Or Civic Events: Temporary unlit signs
advertising community or civic events, and public entertainments presented by,
or for the benefit of, nonprofit entities as defined by section 501C3 of the
internal revenue code: such signs, if approved in writing by the village
administrator, may be erected no earlier than fourteen (14) days prior to the
event and shall be removed within three (3) days after the event. Copies of
such approval shall be filed with the village clerk/treasurer. The
administrator shall regulate the size, number and location of such signs. (Ord.
322, 10-14-2003)
   F.   Construction Signs: One construction sign on the construction site
which does not exceed ten (10) square feet in area. Such signs shall be removed
upon completion of the project.
   G.   Memorial Signs Or Tablets: One memorial sign or tablet not exceeding
three (3) square feet in area and permanently attached to the building or
structure.
   H.   Directional And Informational Signs: Directional and informational
signs displaying such legends as "self-service", "parking", "open", "closed",
"exit", "entrance", "lounge", "coffee shop", "office", "men's and women's
restrooms", "inflammable", including arrows, menus, etc., shall be allowed.
Each such sign shall not exceed two (2) square feet. It shall not be
permissible for the name of the business to appear on directional signs. (Ord.
277, 10-29-1997)
   I.   G-2 Public Parks And Recreation Signs: G-2 public parks and recreation
signs erected by the village, unlit and not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet
in area. (Ord. 277A, 8-10-1999)
9-10-3: ZONES R-1 AND R-3 SIGNS:
Only the following exempt unlit signs shall be allowed in zones R-1 and R-3:
   A.   Real Estate Signs: Real estate signs not exceeding four (4) square feet
in area and four feet (4') in height which advertise the sale, rental or lease
of the premises upon which they are located. Such signs shall be removed within
seven (7) days of the sale, closing, rental or leasing of said property.
   B.   Residential Name And Street Address Signs: One residential name and
street address sign so long as said sign is no more than two (2) square feet in
area and is attached to a structure. Such sign shall not project more than one
inch (1") beyond the face of the building.
   C.   Temporary Political Signs: Temporary political signs shall be permitted
up to a total area of six (6) square feet for each premises. Such signs may be
erected no earlier than thirty (30) days prior to any primary, general or
special election. They shall be removed within three (3) days after the
election to which the sign pertains. The candidate portrayed on the sign or for
whom the sign advertises shall bear the responsibility for removal. These signs
may only be placed on private property and shall not be attached to utility
poles.
   D.   Construction Signs: One construction sign on the construction site
which does not exceed ten (10) square feet in area. Such signs shall be removed
upon completion of the project.
   E.   Memorial Signs Or Tablets: One memorial sign or tablet not exceeding
three (3) square feet in area and permanently attached to the building or
structure. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-10-4: ZONE R-2 SIGNS:
   A.   Allowable Signs: Only the following exempt unlit signs shall be allowed
in zone R-2:
      1.   Real Estate Signs: Real estate signs not exceeding four (4) square
feet in area and four feet (4') in height which advertise the sale, rental or
lease of the premises upon which they are located. Such signs shall be removed
within seven (7) days of the sale, closing, rental or leasing of said property.
      2.   Residential Name And Street Address Signs: One residential name and
street address sign so long as said sign is no more than two (2) square feet in
area and is attached to a structure. Such sign shall not project more than one
inch (1") beyond the face of the building.
      3.   Temporary Political Signs: Temporary political signs shall be
permitted up to a total area of six (6) square feet for each premises. Such
signs may be erected no earlier than thirty (30) days prior to any primary,
general or special election. They shall be removed within three (3) days after
the election to which the sign pertains. The candidate portrayed on the sign or
for whom the sign advertises shall bear the responsibility for removal. These
signs may only be placed on private property and shall not be attached to
utility poles.
      4.   Construction Signs: One construction sign on the construction site
which does not exceed ten (10) square feet in area. Such sign shall be removed
upon completion of the project.
      5.   Memorial Signs Or Tablets: One memorial sign or tablet not exceeding
three (3) square feet in area and permanently attached to the building or
structure.
   B.   Business Sign; Nameplate: One business sign or nameplate requiring a
village sign permit and not exceeding eight (8) square feet in area shall be
permitted listing the name of the structure. This sign may be either attached
to a structure or freestanding. The bottom of a freestanding sign shall be no
more than one foot (1') above the ground.
   C.   Obscuring Or Obstructing Traffic: Signs may not be located in such a
manner as to obscure or otherwise interfere with the effectiveness of an
official traffic sign, signal or device, or to obstruct or interfere with or
compromise the safety of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   D.   Illumination: Illuminated signs shall be lighted in such a way that the
light source cannot be seen from the street or adjoining property and shall
comply with
title 8, chapter 3 of this code.
   E.   Location Within Lot Lines: All components of a sign shall be located
within the lot lines of the lot on which it is erected. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-10-5: COMMERCIAL ZONE SIGNS (C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, C-5, C-6, C-7, C-8, C-9, C-
10, G-2, T-1, T-2, M-1):
   A.   Signs Attached To Structures:
      1.   The total signage on any single face of a structure shall not exceed
twenty percent (20%) of the area of that face.
      2.   No roof signs shall be allowed.
      3.   Illuminated signs shall be lighted in such a way that the light
source cannot be seen from the street or adjoining property and shall comply
with
title 8, chapter 3 of this code.
      4.   All signs shall comply with
title 8, chapter 2 of this code.
   B.   Freestanding Signs: Signs not attached to the face of a structure shall
be considered freestanding and shall comply with the following:
      1.   Only one freestanding sign shall be allowed on each lot.
      2.   Gasoline price signs; service stations shall be permitted one double
faced, on site sign not to exceed twelve (12) square feet per face and five
feet (5') in height advertising the price of gasoline. Such signs may be
freestanding so long as all of the criteria for a freestanding sign are met.
Such signs shall not contain any advertisement other than brand name. The
height limitation referred to above shall not apply to those gas price signs
which are mounted on a freestanding sign. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
      3.   The maximum area for any one freestanding sign shall be thirty two
(32) square feet where the height will not exceed the width of the actual sign,
with a maximum height of six feet (6'), including border and trim, whether on a
post or base from the ground elevation to its highest point. (Ord. 365, 9-10-
2013)
      4.   The area shall be measured by the smallest square, rectangle,
triangle, circle or combination thereof which will encompass the entire sign.
      5.   Freestanding signs may be placed back to back, side to side, stacked
or in V-type construction with not more than two (2) displays to each facing.
Such sign structure or structures shall be considered one sign.
      6.   Signs may not be located in such a manner as to obscure or otherwise
interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign, signal or device;
or to obstruct, interfere with or compromise the safety of vehicular or
pedestrian traffic.
      7.   All components of a sign shall be located within the lot lines of
the lot on which it is erected.
      8.   Illuminated signs shall comply with
title 8, chapter 3 of this code.
      9.   Commercial zone signs shall comply with
title 8, chapter 2 of this code. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
9-10-6: FEES:
The board of trustees may establish fees to be submitted with all applications
for signs submitted to the village in accordance with the building permit
provisions of this title. (Ord. 277, 10-29-1997)
CHAPTER 11
CONTINUING USES
SECTION:
9-11-1: Continuing Uses
9-11-1: CONTINUING USES:
The lawful use of any premises existing on the effective date of Ordinance 277
may be continued although the use does not conform with the provisions hereof.
However, if a nonconforming use has been changed to a more restricted use or a
conforming use, it shall not thereafter be returned to a less restricted use.
Additions or alterations may be added to such structures without a variance,
provided the original structure location on the ground is maintained and no
other setback requirement is violated. (Ord. 277A, 8-10-1999)
CHAPTER 12
VARIANCES
SECTION:
9-12-1: Procedure For Variance
9-12-1: PROCEDURE FOR VARIANCE:
When a variance from a zoning regulation is requested, notice of a public
hearing shall be both published and mailed by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the owners of all lots within one hundred feet (100'), excluding
public right-of-way, of the property requesting the variance and the notice
shall state that written protests will be reviewed and considered if received
in the Village offices by twelve o'clock (12:00) noon of the working day prior
to the scheduled public hearing. The notice shall also state that any public
hearing for a variance shall be conducted before the commission and the Board
of Trustees as set forth in this Code. This notice shall be published and
mailed at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the hearing. If the
owners of twenty percent (20%) or more of the area of those lots protest in
writing by twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the workday prior to the scheduled
hearing, the variance shall not become effective unless the variance is
approved by a majority vote of all the members of the Board of Trustees. (Ord.
378, 1-9-2018)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS 1
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Territorial Coverage
10-1-2: General Procedures
10-1-3: Compliance With State Law
10-1-4: Fees For Application
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-20-1 et seq.
10-1-1: TERRITORIAL COVERAGE:
These subdivision regulations shall apply to all subdivisions within the
subdivision and platting jurisdiction of the Village as provided by County and
State law. (Ord. 287, 3-9-1999)
10-1-2: GENERAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful for anyone to create a
subdivision within the territorial coverage of the Village unless by plat, plan
and contract in accordance with the laws of the State and this Title.
   B.   Steps: The subdivider will follow these steps (unless qualified and
granted permission to follow the alternate procedures listed in Section
10-3-4 of this Title):
      1.   Step 1: The subdivider shall provide preliminary data (Section
10-3-1 of this Title) and shall comply with the preliminary procedure (Section
10-3-2 of this Title);
      2.   Step 2: At its next meeting, the Planning and Zoning Commission will
review and examine the written, platted and oral information provided by the
subdivider and make a recommendation to the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 287, 3-9-
1999)
      3.   Step 3: The Board of Trustees will approve or disapprove the plan
and preliminary plat. (Ord. 287, 3-9-1999; amd. 2000 Code)
      4.   Step 4: If approval is given, the final plat (Section
10-3-3 of this Title) shall be submitted within six (6) months to the Planning
and Zoning Commission for its final approval and recommendation to the Board of
Trustees.
      5.   Step 5: The Board of Trustees will approve or disapprove the final
plat and plan. (With the approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission, the
subdivider may elect to combine the preliminary and final procedures, Steps 1
and 4.)
      6.   Step 6: Once the final plat has been approved by the Board, the
subdivider shall enter into a contract with the Village (Section
10-4-1 of this Title).
      7.   Step 7: Once the contract has been agreed to and signed by the
subdivider and the Village, the subdivider shall file and record the final plat
with the County Clerk. No construction, including excavation or earth work,
shall take place until the final plat has been filed and recorded with the
County Clerk. (Ord. 287, 3-9-1999)
10-1-3: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
The procedures established by State law for approval of subdivisions shall be
followed in all cases by the subdivider and the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 287,
3-9-1999)
10-1-4: FEES FOR APPLICATION:
Prior to the submission of a final plat to the Board of Trustees, the
subdivider shall pay to the Village a subdivision application fee to be
determined by the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 287, 3-9-1999)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
   AVAILABLE WASTEWATER TREATMENT CAPACITY: Current capacity of existing
wastewater treatment plant less the current average influent in gallons per day
as determined by averaging the measurements of daily influent over the month of
July for the previous two (2) years.
   CUL-DE-SAC: A street with only one outlet culminated by a turnaround.
   EASEMENT: A grant from the property owner for the use, for specific
purposes, of a strip of land by the general public, or a certain person or
persons, or a corporation.
   FULL PUMPING CAPACITY: Average the number of gallons that could be pumped
per day over the month of July for each July for the previous five (5) years
(all wells running at maximum sustainable flow for 24 hours per day and all
spring water continuously collected).
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER: Husband, wife, father, stepfather, mother,
stepmother, brother, stepbrother, sister, stepsister, son, stepson, daughter,
stepdaughter, grandson, stepgrandson, granddaughter, stepgrandaughter, nephew
and niece, whether related by natural birth or adoption.
   PERFORMANCE BOND: A surety bond made out to the Village of Cloudcroft in an
amount equal to the estimated full cost of the improvements; the cost being
estimated by a New Mexico licensed engineer retained by the subdivider and
under direction and control of the Village, with full approval of the Village,
and said surety bond being legally sufficient to secure to the Village of
Cloudcroft that the said improvements will be constructed accordance with
regulations as stated in the contract.
   PLAT OR REPLAT: A map, chart, survey or plan certified by a licensed
professional surveyor which contains a description of subdivided land with ties
to permanent survey monuments.
   SUBDIVIDER: Any person who creates or who has created a subdivision
individually or as part of a common promotional plan or any person engaged in
the sale, lease or other conveyance of subdivided land. However, "subdivider"
does not include licensed real estate brokers acting on another's account.
   SUBDIVISION: The division of a surface area of land, including land within a
previously approved subdivision, into two (2) or more parcels by platting or by
metes and bounds for the purpose of sale, lease or other conveyance or for
building development. However, "subdivision" does not include:
   A.   Division of land created by court order where the order creates no more
that one parcel per party;
   B.   Division of land resulting only in the alteration of parcel boundaries
where parcels are altered for the purpose of increasing or reducing the size of
contiguous parcels and where the number of parcels is not increased;
   C.   Division of land to create a parcel that is sold or donated as a gift
to an immediate family member; however, this exception shall be limited to
allow the seller or donor to sell or give no more than one parcel per tract of
land per immediate family member;
   D.   Division of land created to provide security for mortgages, liens or
deeds of trust; provided, that the division of land is not the result of a
seller-financed transaction. (Ord. 287, 3-9-1999; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PLAT PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-3-1: Preliminary Data Requirements
10-3-2: Preliminary Procedure
10-3-3: Final Plat
10-3-4: Alternate Procedure
10-3-5: Water Rights
10-3-1: PRELIMINARY DATA REQUIREMENTS:
For subdivision located within the village limits, the supporting documentation
required before the preliminary plat is submitted shall provide sufficient
information for the village to determine:
   A.   Water: That sufficient potable water and sufficient pumping and/or
collection capacity at the water source will be available to meet the peak
daily demand flow rate (as measured by the peak daily discharge from the
potable water storage tanks) that has occurred during the previous three (3)
year period, plus the demand anticipated (at 600 gallons per lot per day) from
the subdivision when fully occupied.
   B.   Wastewater Plant Capacity: That the capacity of the wastewater
treatment plant facilities will be sufficient to meet peak daily water
treatment demands (as determined by the peak daily influent that has occurred
during the previous 3 year period), plus the demand anticipated (at 300 gallons
per day per lot) from the subdivision when fully occupied.
   C.   Single-Family Dwelling Assumption: All lots shall be assumed to be used
for single-family dwelling. If multi-family dwellings or other types of units
are to be constructed within the subdivision, then equivalency of single-family
units shall be used in the calculation of the eighty percent (80%) limit. If
other than single-family units, all capacity must be calculated pursuant to the
impact fee ordinance. (Ord. 287, 3-9-1999)
10-3-2: PRELIMINARY PROCEDURE:
At his or her discretion and with the approval of the planning and zoning
commission, the subdivider may elect to combine the preliminary and final plat
procedures.
   A.   Information; Fee Required: Every owner of any tract of land situated
within the platting jurisdiction of the village who proposes to lay out any
subdivision or resubdivide any portion of an existing subdivision into any
parcels, streets, alleys, parks or other portions intended for public use
shall:
      1.   Pay the necessary filing fee to the village clerk/treasurer.
      2.   Submit five (5) copies of the preliminary plat at least five (5)
days prior to the next regular or special planning and zoning commission
meeting.
      3.   Submit a completed application form.
   B.   Scale: Plats shall be twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x
36") in size and show north point, scale and date. Minimum scale shall be one
inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100').
   C.   Map Information: The preliminary plat map shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The dimensions and acreage of the land to be subdivided;
      2.   The location of present property lines; existing and abutting
streets or roads, utility easements and other easements; and other existing
features within and adjacent to the area to be subdivided;
      3.   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts and other underground
structures within the tract and immediately adjacent thereto; also, the
location and size of the nearest water main, sanitary sewer and other
utilities; plats for subdivisions in the extraterritorial jurisdiction shall
show location and capacity of water well or wells;
      4.   Provision for all other requirements of the subdivision regulations,
including, but not limited to, planning for terrain management, stormwater
management, water supply and delivery, solid liquid waste disposal, streets,
roads, emergency vehicle access, utility easements and alleys;
      5.   Proposed locations with widths of streets, alleys and easements, and
width, depth and acreage of lots, parks, parcels and blocks; all lots shall
meet minimum lot size requirements;
      6.   Legal description indicating the range, township and section within
which the subdivision is located and lot and block numbers;
      7.   The title under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded,
the name of the subdivider platting the tract and the name of the licensed land
surveyor who prepared the plat;
      8.   The requested zoning classification and property use for the area
being subdivided;
      9.   Contours referred to in the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey
datum with intervals of two feet (2') or less in all areas excepting on slopes
averaging less than three percent (3%) where one foot (1') intervals shall be
required. For slopes over eight percent (8%), five foot (5') contour intervals
will be acceptable;
      10.   Any restrictive covenants governing the subdivision.
   D.   Recommendation By Commission: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall
make a recommendation to the Board of Trustees after examining and reviewing
the preliminary oral and written presentation by the subdivider to determine
that the Village subdivision regulations and requirements have been considered
and are to be followed in the final presentation of a subdivision plan by the
subdivider.
   E.   Board Decision: The Board of Trustees shall approve or disapprove the
plat. (Ord. 287, 3-9-1999)
10-3-3: FINAL PLAT:
Within six (6) months of approval of the preliminary plat, the final plat shall
be submitted with two (2) Mylar copies and two (2) paper copies and shall be at
a scale of one hundred feet to one inch (1" = 100') or larger. Where necessary,
the plat may be on several sheets accompanied by an index sheet showing the
entire subdivision. It shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission
for approval prior to the submission to the Board of Trustees. The final plat
shall show the following:
   A.   All information required on a preliminary plat;
   B.   Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets and easements, and
property lines of residential lots and other sites; with accurate dimensions,
bearings or deflection angles and radii, arcs, and central angles of all
curves;
   C.   Name and right-of-way width of each street or other right of way, with
the street name continued if it is aligned with an existing street, with
streets and alleys abutting the subdivision drawn in dashed lines and named;
   D.   Location, dimensions, and purpose of any easements;
   E.   Number to identify each lot and block or tract;
   F.   Designation of any lots to be used for multiple dwellings;
   G.   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are dedicated or
reserved;
   H.   Location and description of monuments;
   I.   Certification by a New Mexico registered land surveyor as to accuracy
of survey and plat;
   J.   Statement by owner dedicating streets, right of way and any sites for
public uses (together with dimensions of same);
   K.   Title, scale, north arrow and date;
   L.   Signed approval by authorized representatives of all utilities. (Ord.
287, 3-9-1999)
10-3-4: ALTERNATE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Conditions: When a subdivision consists of no more than two (2) parcels
of land or is a replat of previously filed subdivision which does not increase
the total number of lots by more than two (2) lots; and
      1.   All resulting lots meet minimum lot size requirements (see current
planning and zoning ordinance);
      2.   All Municipal liens on the subject property have been paid in full;
      3.   No provisions are required by the village for utilities, easements,
rights of way or drainage;
      4.   All owners of the subject property have signed the plat and
application;
      5.   None of the lots to be affected by the proposed subdivision have
been previously subdivided using the alternate subdivision procedure; and
      6.   Affected utility companies have signed releases;
then the planning and zoning commission may review the plat and make its
recommendation to the board of trustees. If the proposal is ineligible, the
commission will promptly notify the applicant that the full subdivision
procedure is required. The board of trustees will act on the recommendation of
the planning and zoning commission at its next regular or special meeting.
The planning and zoning commission may also review and make recommendations to
the board of trustees concerning replats which decrease the number of lots or
contiguous parcels in a previously filed subdivision; provided, that the items
provided in this subsection A are satisfied.
   B.   Submission Of Documents: The applicant is required to submit to the
village the following:
      1.   Completed application form, including waiver of public hearing;
      2.   Payment of the necessary filing fee to the village clerk/treasurer;
      3.   The original Mylar and two (2) copies of a final plat that meet all
the requirements of a final plat in section
10-3-3 of this chapter.
   C.   Waiver Of Rights Protected: By providing this alternate procedure, the
village does not waive its rights to require the applicant to satisfy any or
all of the village's usual requirements for subdivision approval. (Ord. 287, 3-
9-1999)
10-3-5: WATER RIGHTS:
   A.   Any subdivider of land not located within the original place of
Cloudcroft as shown on the original plat map filed of record, prior to the
approval of a final plat, shall be required to transfer to the village of
Cloudcroft sufficient water rights to serve all lots in the subdivision being
presented for approval.
   B.   "Sufficient water rights" shall be defined as the right to divert from
either surface or underground sources at least 0.45 acre-feet per annum per
lot.
   C.   Such water rights to be acceptable to the village must have been
accepted for filing as prima facie evidence of such right with the state
engineer of the state of New Mexico.
   D.   Such water rights shall be deemed to be acceptable when the state
engineer of the state of New Mexico has recognized or authorized a transfer of
such water rights the place of diversion, change of purpose of use to municipal
so that such water rights may be incorporated and used in the Cloudcroft
municipal water system by diversion from a surface source or a completed
functional well for diversion from an underground basin.
   E.   In lieu of a transfer of water rights, the subdivider may pay to the
village four thousand five hundred dollars ($4,500.00) for each lot. (Ord. 348,
4-14-2009)
CHAPTER 4
SUBDIVIDER REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Contract Required
10-4-2: Disclosure Statement
10-4-1: CONTRACT REQUIRED:
The subdivider shall be required to enter into a contract with the village,
agreeing to abide by and to comply with his layout and drawings, as finally
approved, and also all plans and specifications as approved, which contract
shall be reviewed annually and shall contain, among other provisions, the
following:
   A.   Repairs; Replacement: The subdivider shall be responsible for all
repairs to his construction work and the replacement of defective material or
workmanship on public property which may become apparent for a period of one
year after work has been completed and accepted by the village. (Ord. 287, 3-9-
1999)
   B.   Water, Sewer Lines: For subdivisions within the village limits, the
subdivider shall agree to supply and install all water lines and sewer lines of
approved weight and quality within the subdivision in accordance with village
standards, and also outside of the subdivision a sufficient distance to connect
with the village sewer and water system, and to furnish and install approved
weight and quality valves, fire hydrants, manholes, manhole rings and covers
with sewer stub outs and all appurtenances to the water and sewer systems. Fire
hydrants shall have a minimum of a four foot (4') radius clearance on all
sides; fire hydrants set into a bank shall have a wall or other device to
prevent rubble, dirt and runoff from collecting around them. Fire hydrants
shall be located so that the difference in grade between the hydrant and the
adjacent improved road is no greater than one foot (1'); the dirt level at the
hydrant shall be just below the mounting flange of the hydrant body.
Subdivisions outside the village limits but within the planning and platting
jurisdiction of the village shall provide an adequate supply of potable water
to each lot by a water system approved by the environment department (ED), but
not from water sources/aquifers within the village water rights area, without
village approval. Subdivisions outside the village limits but within the
planning and platting jurisdiction of the village shall connect to a public
sanitary sewer system if feasible. Where lots cannot be connected with a public
sewer system provisions must be made for sanitary sewerage treatment consisting
of a central treatment plant whose discharge meets all federal, state and local
standards and does not have the potential for contaminating the village ground
and surface water supply. (Ord. 322, 10-14-2003)
   C.   Additional Water, Sewer Lines: Should the present sewer and water lines
and related appurtenances serving a subdivision within the village limits not
be adequate as determined by the village, the subdivider shall agree to bear
the cost of additional and/or replacement lines and appurtenances thereto in
order to carry the increased load made necessary by the subdivision.
   D.   Flood Protection: The subdivider shall agree to protect drainage
structures, to build bridges, culverts and other drainage facilities in the
area that may be necessary to protect the subdivision, the village and other
lands in the area from floods because of the development, and shall not change
the existing drainage patterns and quantities for any area outside of the
subdivision.
   E.   Damaged Facilities Repaired: Any damage caused by the subdivider to
existing water lines, sewer lines and/or any other infrastructure shall be
repaired at the subdivider's expense.
   F.   Licensed Engineer: The subdivider shall agree to retain and pay for the
services of a competent New Mexico licensed engineer to inspect all work as the
same progresses, make reports to the village, and certify in writing that all
work is in compliance with accepted engineering standards; the engineer shall
be under the direction and control of the village.
   G.   Performance Bond: The board of trustees shall require the subdivider to
post a performance bond in the full amount of one hundred percent (100%) of his
projected costs of development using a standard performance bond. (Ord. 287, 3-
9-1999)
   H.   Other Required Documents: A set of as built plans, and such other
certificates, affidavits, endorsements or deductions as may be required by the
board of trustees to ensure compliance with these regulations. (Ord. 322, 10-
14-2003)
10-4-2: DISCLOSURE STATEMENT:
The subdivider shall give to persons acquiring an interest in the subdivided
land a statement complying with the requirements of New Mexico Statutes
Annotated section 47-6-17. (Ord. 287, 3-9-1999)
CHAPTER 5
IMPROVEMENTS; STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Utilities Required
10-5-2: Streets
10-5-3: Public Sites And Open Spaces
10-5-1: UTILITIES REQUIRED:
All utilities, including water, sewer, electric transmission lines and street
improvements, shall be completed before any building permits shall be issued.
Utility design and construction shall be approved by the village and
appropriate utility providers. (Ord. 287, 3-9-1999)
10-5-2: STREETS:
It is hereby required that all dedicated streets shall be a minimum of fifty
feet (50') in width, shall be cleared a minimum of twenty four feet (24') in
width, and shall be finished or paved a minimum of twenty two feet (22') in
width. In lieu of paving in a residential development, streets must have a
minimum depth of base course of four inches (4") after compaction with proper
drainage. Commercial subdivisions and commercial areas within subdivisions
shall be paved. Streets shall be constructed to New Mexico highway department
standards to include proper drainage. Street design and construction shall be
approved by the village. Streets which terminate in a cul-de-sac shall be no
longer than five hundred feet (500'); the terminus shall have a minimum
surfaced area radius of fifty feet (50'). Subdivider shall install street
signs, of a style selected by the village, at all intersections and such other
sites as may be determined by the village. (Ord. 322, 10-14-2003)
10-5-3: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
   A.   Dedication For Park, Playground And Similar Spaces: Where a proposed
park, playground, school or other public use shown in a general community or
master plan is located in whole or in part in a proposed subdivision, the board
of trustees may require the dedication or reservation of such area, and in
cases of parks, the village shall develop the park within a reasonable time
after the subdivision has been completed. However, the subdivider shall not be
required to dedicate more than five percent (5%) of the total area of the
subdivision to the village for public use, exclusive of streets and alleys.
   B.   Other Areas: Where deemed essential by the board of trustees, upon
consideration of the particular type of development proposed in the
subdivision, and especially in large scale neighborhood unit developments, the
board of trustees may require the dedication or reservation of such other areas
or sites of a character, extent and location suitable to the needs created by
such development for schools, parks and other neighborhood purposes. However,
the subdivider shall not be required to dedicate more than five percent (5%) of
the total area of the subdivision to the village for public use, exclusive of
streets and alleys.
   C.   Pedestrian Easement: Any subdivision with a common boundary with a
national forest, or U.S. government or New Mexico state owned land, shall
provide a pedestrian easement every one-half (1/2) mile along the property line
shared by the subdivision and the public land. (Ord. 287, 3-9-1999)
CHAPTER 6
VARIANCES
SECTION:
10-6-1: Authority
10-6-2: Conditions Imposed
10-6-1: AUTHORITY:
Where the Board of Trustees finds that extraordinary hardships may result from
strict compliance with these regulations, it may vary the regulations so that
substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured; provided, that
the variation will not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of
this Title. (Ord. 287, 3-9-1999)
10-6-2: CONDITIONS IMPOSED:
In granting variances and modifications, the Board of Trustees may require
conditions that will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of
the standard or requirements so varied or modified. (Ord. 287, 3-9-1999)
CHAPTER 7
DEVELOPMENT FEE
SECTION:
10-7-1: General Provisions
10-7-2: Advisory Committee
10-7-3: Assumptions; Plan
10-7-4: Plan; Calculation Of Fee
10-7-5: Notice; Public Hearing
10-7-6: Accounting
10-7-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   State Law; Definitions: There is imposed in the Village a development
fee pursuant to laws 1993, chapter 122, and all definitions in such Act are
adopted herein and to which reference herein is made as State law.
   B.   Territorial Coverage: The development fee shall be assessed on any new
development of property within the Village limits.
   C.   Purpose: The development fee is imposed to pay the following specified
costs of constructing capital improvements or facility expansions as authorized
by State law.
   D.   Assessment And Collection: The development fee shall be assessed and
collected as provided by State law. (Ord. 288, 3-9-1999)
10-7-2: ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
Prior to adoption of a development fee, the Board of Trustees shall appoint a
Capital Improvements Advisory Committee, to be composed of not less than five
(5) members who shall be appointed by a majority vote of the Board of Trustees.
Not less than forty percent (40%) of the membership of the Advisory Committee
must be representative of the real estate, development or building industries.
No members shall be employees or officials of a municipality or county or other
governmental entity. The Advisory Committee serves in an advisory capacity and
shall:
   A.   Advise and assist the Board of Trustees in adopting land use
assumptions;
   B.   Review the capital improvements plan and file written comments;
   C.   Monitor and evaluate implementation of the capital improvements plan;
   D.   File annual reports with respect to the progress of the capital
improvements plan and report to the Board of Trustees any perceived inequities
in implementing the plan or imposing the development fee;
   E.   Advise the Board of Trustees of the need to update or revise the land
use assumptions, capital improvements plan and development fee. (Ord. 288, 3-9-
1999)
10-7-3: ASSUMPTIONS; PLAN:
   A.   Adoption Of Plan: Upon adoption of land use or system-wide assumptions,
the Village shall provide for a capital improvements plan to be developed by
qualified professionals using generally accepted engineering and planning
practices in accordance with State law.
   B.   Public Hearing: Upon completion of the capital improvements plan, the
Board of Trustees shall schedule and publish notice of a public hearing to
discuss the adoption of the capital improvements plan and imposition of the
development fee with notice as provided by State law.
   C.   Consolidation: The Board of Trustees may consolidate the land use
assumption and capital improvements as provided by State law.
   D.   Updating: The Board of Trustees shall update the land use assumptions
and capital improvements plan at least every five (5) years, and shall review
and evaluate its current land use assumptions and shall cause an update of the
capital improvements plan to be prepared and hold hearings in accordance with
State law. (Ord. 288, 3-9-1999)
10-7-4: PLAN; CALCULATION OF FEE:
A qualified professional shall prepare the capital improvements plan and
calculate the development fee in accordance with State law. The capital
improvements plan shall follow the infrastructure capital improvement planning
guidelines established by the Department of Finance and Administration and
shall address the following:
   A.   Description Of Existing Improvements: A description, as needed to
reasonably support the proposed development fee, which shall be prepared by a
qualified professional, of the existing capital improvements within the service
area and the costs to upgrade, update, improve, expand or replace the described
capital improvements to adequately meet existing needs and usage and strict
safety, efficiency, environmental or regulatory standards;
   B.   Analysis Of Capacity: An analysis, which shall be prepared by a
qualified professional, of the total capacity, the level of current usage and
commitments for usage of capacity of the existing capital improvements;
   C.   Description Of Expansions; Costs: A description, which shall be
prepared by a qualified professional, of all of the parts of the capital
improvements or facility expansions and their costs necessitated by and
attributable to new development in the service area based on the approved land
use assumptions;
   D.   Table Of Level, Quantity: A definitive table establishing the specific
level or quantity of use, consumption, generation or discharge of a service
unit for each category of capital improvements or facility expansions and an
equivalency or conversion table establishing the ratio of a service unit to
various types of land uses, including residential, commercial and industrial;
   E.   Number Of Projected Service Units: The total number of projected
service units necessitated by and attributable to new development within the
service area based on the approved land use assumption and calculated in
accordance with generally accepted engineering or planning criteria;
   F.   Projected Demand: The projected demand for capital improvements or
facility expansions required by new service units accepted over a reasonable
period of time, not to exceed ten (10) years. (Ord. 288, 3-9-1999)
10-7-5: NOTICE; PUBLIC HEARING:
To impose the development fee, the Village shall schedule and publish notice of
a public hearing, pursuant to the Village open meetings resolution to consider
land use assumptions, or system-wide land use assumptions, within the
designated service area that will be used to develop the capital improvements
plan, which public hearing shall be held and conducted in accordance with State
law. (Ord. 288, 3-9-1999)
10-7-6: ACCOUNTING:
All money collected through the adoption of a development fee shall be
maintained in separate interest-bearing accounts clearly identifying the payor
and the category of capital improvements or facility expansions within the
service area for which the fee was adopted with interest earned on development
fees to become part of the account on which it is earned and subject to all
restrictions placed on the use of development fees under State law. An annual
report describing the amount of any development fees collected, encumbered and
used during the preceding year by category of capital improvement and service
area identified as provided shall be a part of the annual audit process.
Disbursement from the separate accounts shall be made in accordance with State
law. (Ord. 288, 3-9-1999)
TITLE 11
FRANCHISES 1
CHAPTER 1
TELEPHONE FRANCHISE
SECTION:
11-1-1: Grant Of Authority
11-1-2: Company Liability
11-1-3: House Moving And Other Unusual Use
11-1-4: Tree Trimming
11-1-5: Consideration
11-1-6: Inspection Of Books
11-1-7: Payment In Lieu Of Other Taxes
11-1-8: Representation Of No Claims Under Prior Franchise
11-1-9: Alternative Dispute Resolution
11-1-10: Notices
11-1-11: Annexation
11-1-12: Nonwaiver Of Other Rights
11-1-13: Term Of Franchise
11-1-14: Effective Date
11-1-15: Severability Clause
11-1-16: Appendix A
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-42-1.
11-1-1: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
There is hereby granted by the village of Cloudcroft, hereinafter called the
"village" to Tularosa Basin Telephone Company, its successors and assigns,
hereinafter called the "company", the nonexclusive right and privilege to
construct, erect, operate and maintain, in, upon, along, across, above, over
and under the streets, alleys, public ways and public places now in use or
dedicated, and all extensions thereof, and additions thereto, in said village,
poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and other
telecommunications facilities necessary or proper for the maintenance and
operation in said village of Cloudcroft of the company's telecommunications
business; provided, however, that no poles or other facilities shall be placed
where the same will interfere with any street, roadway or traffic control
facilities or with any existing utility facilities and shall be placed in such
a manner as to cause a minimum interference with the rights or reasonable
convenience of property owners who adjoin any of said streets, alleys or public
ways and places. Any and all changes made by the company for company reasons in
the location of the poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and
other telecommunications facilities shall not require the village to pay for
the change in any street, roadway or traffic control facility caused by the
change of the locations by the company. The cost thereof shall be paid by the
company. (Ord. 371, 3-15-2016)
11-1-2: COMPANY LIABILITY:
The company shall, at all times during the life of this franchise, be subject
to all lawful exercise of the police power by the village and to such
regulations as the village may, by resolution or ordinance, hereafter provide.
It is expressly understood and agreed by and between the company and village
that the company shall save the village harmless from all loss sustained by the
village on account of any suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand
whatsoever, resulting from negligence on the part of the company in the
construction or maintenance of its telecommunications system in the village.
The village shall notify the company's representative in writing at P.O. Box
550, Tularosa, NM 88352, within ten (10) days after the service of process in a
suit against the village on account of any negligence as aforesaid on the part
of the company. Failure to promptly notify the company as required above shall
operate as release of the company's obligation to save the village harmless
regarding the claim or demand if such failure of notice results in substantial
harm to the company. The village will forward a copy of any notice of claim
made under the state tort claims act involving the company within a reasonable
period of time. (Ord. 371, 3-15-2016)
11-1-3: HOUSE MOVING AND OTHER UNUSUAL USE:
Any person or corporation desiring to move a building or other structure along,
or to make any unusual use of, the streets, alleys and public ways of the
village which shall interfere with the poles, wires or facilities of the
company or the village, shall first give notice to the company or the village,
as the case may be, and a sum sufficient to cover the expense and damages
incident to the cutting, altering and moving of the wires or other facilities
of the company or the village, and before a permit is given by the village
therefor, the applicant shall present a receipt from the company showing the
payment. Thereupon the company, upon presentation of said permit, shall within
a reasonable time thereafter provide for and do such cutting, altering and
moving of said wires and facilities as may be necessary to allow such moving or
other unusual use of the streets, alleys and public ways of the village. (Ord.
371, 3-15-2016)
11-1-4: TREE TRIMMING:
The company shall have the authority, to the extent that the village has such
authority, to trim trees upon or overhanging streets, highways, alleys, bridges
or other public ways or places of the village in order to prevent the branches
of such trees from coming in contact with the wires, cables, conductors or
other facilities or equipment of the company; provided, however, that the
company shall obtain permission of any landowner should it be necessary to trim
any tree where the main trunk is located on private property. (Ord. 371, 3-15-
2016)
11-1-5: CONSIDERATION:
As a further consideration for this franchise, the company shall pay to the
village franchise payments in an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the
gross monthly recurring revenues, exclusive of all federal and state excise
taxes, from the services listed in section
11-1-16, "Appendix A", of this chapter, furnished to subscribers of the
company, not including uncollectible revenues related to those services within
the village of Cloudcroft. Payment shall be made in quarterly installments
within sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar quarter during the term
of this franchise. (Ord. 371, 3-15-2016)
11-1-6: INSPECTION OF BOOKS:
The village shall have the right, at all reasonable times, to inspect the books
and records of the company pertaining to the company's gross monthly recurring
revenues from the services listed in section
11-1-16, "Appendix A", of this chapter received from the company's subscribers
located within the limits of the village. (Ord. 371, 3-15-2016)
11-1-7: PAYMENT IN LIEU OF OTHER TAXES:
In consideration of the franchise payments hereinabove provided for, it is
expressly understood and agreed by the company and the village that these
payments shall be in lieu of any and all other franchise, license, occupation
or other forms of excise or revenue taxes based upon or measured by the
revenues, employees, payroll, property, facilities or equipment of the company,
excepting, however, general ad valorem property taxes, special assessments for
local improvements and sales or gross receipts taxes (all hereinafter referred
to as "excepted taxes"). The franchise payments shall continue only so long as
the company is not prohibited from making the payments by any lawful authority
having jurisdiction in the premises. Furthermore, if the village does levy,
charge or collect or attempt to levy, charge or collect any other franchise,
license, occupation or other form of excise or revenue taxes of the type above
specified in this paragraph (other than excepted taxes), the obligation to make
franchise payments hereunder shall be abated to the extent such other taxes are
levied, charged or collected by the village. (Ord. 371, 3-15-2016)
11-1-8: REPRESENTATION OF NO CLAIMS UNDER PRIOR FRANCHISE:
The village and the company recognize the existence of and validity of
ordinances 338 and 338A, previously granting a franchise to Tularosa Basin
Telephone Company ("company"), and agree that the prior franchise has been
extended by mutual agreement in order to negotiate this agreement, it being the
intent and understanding that there are no claims by the village against
Tularosa Basin Telephone Company or the company and no claims by Tularosa Basin
Telephone Company or the company against the village with respect to the
locations, establishment, construction, maintenance or operation of the
company's lines and facilities within the village, or amounts due to the
village under the prior franchise. (Ord. 371, 3-15-2016)
11-1-9: ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
   A.   Any party considering the other to be in default of this agreement
shall give the other written notice of the default. The party receiving the
notice shall have thirty (30) days to remedy the default or within which to
commence actions to remedy the default, if the default cannot reasonably be
remedied within thirty (30) days. If the party alleged to be in default fails
to remedy the default within the prescribed period or to complete remedial
actions within a reasonable time, the other party may, upon sixty (60) days'
written notice, elect to cancel this agreement, subject to payment of any
accrued amounts due under section
11-1-5 of this chapter.
   B.   The parties desire to resolve disputes arising out of this chapter
without litigation. Accordingly, in the event of any dispute hereunder, the
parties agree to attempt to negotiate in good faith to resolve any dispute
arising under this chapter. The parties intend that these negotiations shall be
conducted by nonlawyer, business representatives.
   C.   Except for action seeking a temporary restraining order or injunction
related to the purposes of this chapter, or suit to compel compliance with this
dispute resolution process, the parties agree to use the following alternative
dispute resolution procedure and also agree not to sue any party to this
chapter with respect to any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to
this chapter or its breach prior to exhausting the procedures set out in this
section.
   D.   If the parties are unable to settle their dispute within sixty (60)
days of the initial request, either party may, on written notice to the other
party, initiate nonbinding mediation of the dispute before a single mediator.
The mediator shall be selected by agreement of the parties within thirty (30)
days after one of the parties has requested mediation. If a single mediator
cannot be agreed upon, each party shall select its own mediator and those
mediators shall select an independent mediator who will conduct the mediation
session(s). The mediator fees shall be borne equally by both parties. The
mediation shall be completed by recommendation of the mediation panel submitted
to both parties within thirty (30) days after selection of the entire mediation
panel.
Unless the parties agree otherwise, all matters, including the communications,
conduct and demeanor of the parties and their counsel during mediation, are
confidential and shall be inadmissible as settlement discussions in any
subsequent litigation. In the event mediation fails, the parties may resort to
means outside the scope of this section to resolve their dispute. (Ord. 371, 3-
15-2016)
11-1-10: NOTICES:
Written notice to the village shall be sent to Mayor, Village Of Cloudcroft at
P.O. Box 817, Cloudcroft, NM 88317. Written notice to the company shall be sent
to General Manager, Tularosa Basin Telephone Company, P.O. Box 550, Tularosa,
NM 88352. Hand delivery is acceptable. However, receipt shall be acknowledged.
(Ord. 371, 3-15-2016)
11-1-11: ANNEXATION:
Upon any annexation of territory to the village, any gross monthly recurring
revenues from the services listed in section
11-1-16, "Appendix A", of this chapter received from subscribers located within
the annexed area listed shall be included in the base for computation of
payments due to the village. Such inclusion shall be effective thirty (30) days
after written notice to the company of such annexation is delivered by the
village to the company. (Ord. 371, 3-15-2016)
11-1-12: NONWAIVER OF OTHER RIGHTS:
It is expressly understood and agreed by and between the village and the
company that neither the grant nor acceptance of this franchise shall
constitute a waiver, either upon the part of the company or the village, of any
rights or claims had or made by either with respect to the occupancy of the
streets, alleys and public places of the village, under the constitution and
laws of the state of New Mexico, nor shall anything herein in any way prejudice
or impair any rights or claims existing independently of this franchise of the
village or the company, or its predecessors or successors, with respect to the
construction, operation and maintenance, either before or after the life of
this franchise, of a telecommunications system in the village. (Ord. 371, 3-15-
2016)
11-1-13: TERM OF FRANCHISE:
The franchise and rights herein granted shall continue in force and effect for
a term of ten (10) years after the effective date of this franchise. (Ord. 371,
3-15-2016)
11-1-14: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall become effective thirty (30) days after its enactment,
provided the company within those thirty (30) days, shall have filed with the
village clerk of the village of Cloudcroft an unconditional acceptance thereof
and acknowledge the obligation to pay for the publication of the ordinance.
Within ten (10) days after the filing of the acceptance, the village clerk
shall acknowledge in writing the receipt of the company's acceptance and
publish the ordinance. (Ord. 371, 3-15-2016)
11-1-15: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, word or phrase of this chapter is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter. The board of trustees, the governing body
of the village of Cloudcroft, hereby declares that it would have passed this
chapter and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, word or phrase thereof
regardless of any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, words
or phrases being declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid. (Ord. 371, 3-
15-2016)
11-1-16: APPENDIX A:
   APPENDIX A
- Business dial tone line
- Business local service increments
- Business flat usage and multiparty service
- Business measured usage services
- Flat usage trunks
- Low income telephone assistance program
- Measured rate trunk usage
- Message rate trunk usage
- Public access line (PAL) services
- Residence dial tone
- Residence flat usage and multiparty service
- Residence local service increments
(Ord. 371, 3-15-2016)
CHAPTER 2
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
SECTION:
11-2-1: Grant Of Authority
11-2-2: Company Liability
11-2-3: Housemoving And Other Unusual Use
11-2-4: Tree Trimming
11-2-5: Consideration
11-2-6: Inspection Of Books
11-2-7: Payment In Lieu Of Other Taxes
11-2-8: Representation Of No Claims Under Prior Franchise
11-2-9: Alternative Dispute Resolution
11-2-10: Notices
11-2-11: Annexation
11-2-12: Non-Waiver Of Other Rights
11-2-13: Term Of Franchise
11-2-14: Effective Date
11-2-15: Severability Clause
11-2-16: Appendix A
11-2-1: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
There is hereby granted by the Village of Cloudcroft, hereinafter called the
"Village" to PVT NetWorks, Inc., its successors and assigns, hereinafter called
the "company", the non-exclusive right and privilege to construct, erect,
operate and maintain, in, upon, along, across, above, over and under the
streets, alleys, public ways and public places now in use or dedicated, and all
extensions thereof, and additions thereto, in said Village, poles, wires,
cables, underground conduits, manholes and other telecommunications facilities
necessary or proper for the maintenance and operation in said Village of
Cloudcroft of the company's telecommunications business supplying television
signals, voice, high speed data services and security systems; provided,
however, that no poles or other facilities shall be placed where the same will
interfere with any street, roadway or traffic control facilities or with any
existing utility facilities and shall be placed in such a manner as to cause a
minimum interference with the rights or reasonable convenience of property
owners who adjoin any of said streets, alleys or public ways and places. Any
and all changes made by the company for company reasons in the location of the
poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and other communications
facilities shall not require the Village to pay for the change in any street,
roadway or traffic control facility caused by the change of the locations by
the company. The cost thereof shall be paid by the company. (Ord. 376, 7-11-
2017)
11-2-2: COMPANY LIABILITY:
The company shall, at all times during the life of this franchise, be subject
to all lawful exercise of the police power by the Village and to such
regulations as the Village may, by resolution or ordinance, hereafter provide.
It is expressly understood and agreed by and between the company and Village
that the company shall save the Village harmless from all loss sustained by the
Village on account of any suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand
whatsoever, resulting from negligence on the part of the company in the
construction or maintenance of its telecommunications system in the Village.
The Village shall notify the company's representative in writing at 4011 West
Main St., Artesia, New Mexico 88210, within ten (10) days after the service of
process in a suit against the Village on account of any negligence as aforesaid
on the part of the company. Failure to promptly notify the company as required
above shall operate as release of the company's obligation to save the Village
harmless regarding the claim or demand if such failure of notice results in
substantial harm to the company. The Village will forward a copy of any notice
of claim made under the State Tort Claims Act involving the company within a
reasonable period of time. (Ord. 376, 7-11-2017)
11-2-3: HOUSEMOVING AND OTHER UNUSUAL USE:
Any person or corporation desiring to move a building or other structure along,
or to make any unusual use of, the streets, alleys and public ways of the
Village which shall interfere with the poles, wires or facilities of the
company or the Village, shall first give notice to the company or the Village,
as the case may be, and a sum sufficient to cover the expense and damages
incident to the cutting, altering and moving of the wires or other facilities
of the company or the Village, and before a permit is given by the Village
therefor the applicant shall present a receipt from the company showing the
payment. Thereupon the company, upon presentation of said permit, shall within
a reasonable time thereafter provide for and do such cutting, altering and
moving of said wires and facilities as may be necessary to allow such moving or
other unusual use of the streets, alleys and public ways of the Village. (Ord.
376, 7-11-2017)
11-2-4: TREE TRIMMING:
The company shall have the authority, to the extent that the Village has such
authority, to trim trees upon or overhanging streets, highways, alleys, bridges
or other public ways or places of the Village in order to prevent the branches
of such trees from coming in contact with the wires, cables, conductors, or
other facilities or equipment of the company; provided, however, that the
company shall obtain permission of any landowner should it be necessary to trim
any tree where the main trunk is located on private property. (Ord. 376, 7-11-
2017)
11-2-5: CONSIDERATION:
As a further consideration for this franchise, the company shall pay to the
Village franchise payments in an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the
gross monthly recurring revenues, exclusive of all Federal and State Excise
Taxes, from the services listed in section
11-2-16, "Appendix A", of this chapter, furnished to subscribers of the
company, not including uncollectible revenues related to those services within
the Village of Cloudcroft. Payment shall be made in quarterly installments
within sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar quarter during the term
of this franchise. (Ord. 376, 7-11-2017)
11-2-6: INSPECTION OF BOOKS:
The Village shall have the right, at all reasonable times, to inspect the books
and records of the company pertaining to the company's gross monthly recurring
revenues from the services listed in section
11-2-16, "Appendix A", of this chapter received from the company's subscribers
located within the limits of the Village. Considering that this does not
violate any CPNI rules. (Ord. 376, 7-11-2017)
11-2-7: PAYMENT IN LIEU OF OTHER TAXES:
In consideration of the franchise payments herein above provided for, it is
expressly understood and agreed by the company and the Village that these
payments shall be in lieu of any and all other franchise, license, occupation,
or other forms of Excise or Revenue Taxes based upon or measured by the
revenues, employees, payroll, property, facilities or equipment of the company,
excepting, however, General Ad Valorem Property Taxes, special assessments for
local improvements and Sales or Gross Receipts Taxes (all hereinafter referred
to as "excepted taxes"). The franchise payments shall continue only so long as
the company is not prohibited from making the payments by any lawful authority
having jurisdiction in the premises. Furthermore, if the Village does levy,
charge or collect or attempt to levy, charge or collect any other franchise,
license, occupation or other form of Excise or Revenue Taxes of the type above
specified in this paragraph (other than excepted taxes), the obligation to make
franchise payments hereunder shall be abated to the extent such other taxes are
levied, charged or collected by the Village. (Ord. 376, 7-11-2017)
11-2-8: REPRESENTATION OF NO CLAIMS UNDER PRIOR FRANCHISE:
The Village and the company recognize the existence of ordinance 32, which is
repealed by this chapter, previously granting a franchise to Cloudcroft TV
Company a predecessor in interest to the company, and agree that the prior
franchise has been recognized as effective by mutual agreement, it being the
intent and understanding that there are no claims by the Village against
Cloudcroft TV or the company and no claims by Cloudcroft TV or the company
against the Village with respect to the location, establishment, construction,
maintenance or operation of the company's lines and facilities within the
Village, or amounts due to the Village under the prior franchise. (Ord. 376, 7-
11-2017)
11-2-9: ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
   A.   Any party considering the other to be in default of this agreement
shall give the other written notice of the default. The party receiving the
notice shall have thirty (30) days to remedy the default or within which to
commence actions to remedy the default, if the default cannot reasonably be
remedied within thirty (30) days. If the party alleged to be in default fails
to remedy the default within the prescribed period or to complete remedial
actions within a reasonable time, the other party may, upon sixty (60) days
written notice, elect to cancel this agreement, subject to payment of any
accrued amounts due under section
11-2-5 of this chapter.
   B.   The parties desire to resolve disputes arising out of this chapter
without litigation. Accordingly, in the event of any dispute hereunder, the
parties agree to attempt to negotiate in good faith to resolve any dispute
arising under this chapter. The parties intend that these negotiations shall be
conducted by non-lawyer, business representatives.
   C.   Except for action seeking a temporary restraining order or injunction
related to the purposes of this chapter, or suit to compel compliance with this
dispute resolution process, the parties agree to use the following alternative
dispute resolution procedure and also agree not to sue any party to this
chapter with respect to any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to
this chapter or its breach prior to exhausting the procedures set out in this
section.
   D.   If the parties are unable to settle their dispute within sixty (60)
days of the initial request, either party may, on written notice to the other
party, initiate non-binding mediation of the dispute before a single mediator.
The mediator shall be selected by agreement of the parties within thirty (30)
days after one of the parties has requested mediation. If a single mediator
cannot be agreed upon, each party shall select its own mediator and those
mediators shall select an independent mediator who will conduct the mediation
session(s). The mediator's fees shall be borne equally by both parties. The
mediation shall be completed by recommendation of the mediation panel submitted
to both parties within thirty (30) days after selection of the entire mediation
panel.
Unless the parties agree otherwise, all matters, including the communications,
conduct and demeanor of the parties and their counsel during mediation, are
confidential and shall be inadmissible as settlement discussions in any
subsequent litigation. In the event mediation fails, the parties may resort to
means outside the scope of this section to resolve their dispute. (Ord. 376, 7-
11-2017)
11-2-10: NOTICES:
Written notice to the Village shall be sent to: Mayor, Village of Cloudcroft at
PO Box 817, Cloudcroft, New Mexico 88317. Written notice to the company shall
be sent to: General Manager, PVT NetWorks, Inc, 4011 West Main Street, Artesia,
New Mexico 88210. Hand-delivery is acceptable. However, receipt shall be
acknowledged. (Ord. 376, 7-11-2017)
11-2-11: ANNEXATION:
Upon any annexation of territory to the Village, any gross monthly recurring
revenues from the services listed in section
11-2-16, "Appendix A", of this chapter received from subscribers located within
the annexed area listed shall be included in the base for computation of
payments due to the Village. Such inclusion shall be effective thirty (30) days
after written notice to the company of such annexation is delivered by the
Village to the company. (Ord. 376, 7-11-2017)
11-2-12: NON-WAIVER OF OTHER RIGHTS:
It is expressly understood and agreed by and between the Village and the
company that neither the grant nor acceptance of this franchise shall
constitute a waiver, either upon the part of the company or the Village, of any
rights or claims had or made by either with respect to the occupancy of the
streets, alleys, and public places of the Village, under the Constitution and
laws of the State of New Mexico, nor shall anything herein in any way prejudice
or impair any rights or claims existing independently of this franchise of the
Village or the company, or its predecessors or successors, with respect to the
construction, operation, and maintenance, either before or after the life of
this franchise, of a telecommunications system in the Village. (Ord. 376, 7-11-
2017)
11-2-13: TERM OF FRANCHISE:
The franchise and rights herein granted shall continue in force and effect for
a term of ten (10) years after the effective date of this franchise. (Ord. 376,
7-11-2017)
11-2-14: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall become effective thirty (30) days after its enactment,
provided the company within those thirty (30) days, shall have filed with the
Village Clerk-Treasurer of the Village of Cloudcroft an unconditional
acceptance thereof and acknowledge the obligation to pay for the publication of
the ordinance. Within ten (10) days after the filing of the acceptance, the
Village Clerk-Treasurer shall acknowledge in writing the receipt of the
company's acceptance and publish the ordinance. (Ord. 376, 7-11-2017)
11-2-15: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, word or phrase of this chapter is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of the chapter. The Board of Trustees, the Governing Body of
the Village of Cloudcroft, hereby declares that it would have passed this
chapter and each section, asubsection, sentence, clause, word or phrase thereof
regardless of any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, words
or phrases being declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid. (Ord. 376, 7-
11-2017)
11-2-16: APPENDIX A:
Communication activities including voice, data, video and security system and
to the extent applicable:
Business dial tone line
Business flat usage and multiparty service
Business local service increments
Business measured usage services
Flat usage trunks
Low income telephone assistance program
Measured rate trunk usage
Message rate trunk usage
Public access line (PAL) service
Residence dial tone
Residence flat usage and multiparty service
Residence local service increments
Residence measured usage service
(Ord. 376, 7-11-2017)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
SECTION:
11-3-1: Franchise Granted
11-3-2: Authorized Activities
11-3-3: Interference With Right Of Way
11-3-4: Damages; Liability
11-3-5: Consideration
11-3-6: Franchise Fee
11-3-7: Term Of Franchise
11-3-1: FRANCHISE GRANTED:
That there is hereby granted to Otero County Electric Cooperative, Inc., a New
Mexico corporation, its successors or assigns, hereinafter called the
"cooperative", the exclusive right, privilege and franchise of erecting,
constructing, maintaining and operating an electric transmission and
distribution system consisting of poles, lines, wires, insulators,
transformers, arms, braces, anchors or other suitable structures and
appurtenances installed thereon, in, under or upon so many and in such parts of
the present and future public highways, streets, roads, alleys and other public
places in the village of Cloudcroft, Otero County, New Mexico, hereinafter
referred to as "village", as the cooperative, its successors and assigns, may
elect to use for the purpose hereinafter specified and using such electrical
transmission and distribution system for the purpose of transmitting,
conveying, distributing and supplying electricity in and in the vicinity of
said village for light, heat, power and all other lawful purposes. (Ord. 353,
6-8-2010)
11-3-2: AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES:
The said cooperative, its agents and employees, may enter in and upon the said
highways, streets, roads, alleys and public places at any time for the purpose
of making excavations, removing, repairing and maintaining such poles, wires,
cable and all other structures necessary or convenient in supplying such
electric service. Any and all excavations shall be repaired, and obstructions
removed as quickly as is reasonably possible, under the circumstances. (Ord.
353, 6-8-2010)
11-3-3: INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHT OF WAY:
The poles for said transmission and distribution system shall be placed and
erected in such a manner so as not to interfere with the use of the roads,
streets, alleys and public places in said village of Cloudcroft, Otero County,
New Mexico, or its inhabitants or property owners along such streets or alleys,
except as may be reasonably necessary, and shall be at all times in compliance
with the standards and specifications as established and amended by the rural
utilities service, and all applicable state and national electrical and safety
codes. (Ord. 353, 6-8-2010)
11-3-4: DAMAGES; LIABILITY:
The cooperative, its successors and assigns, shall during the term of this
franchise hold the village of Cloudcroft harmless against any and all damages
that may be caused by reason of the construction and operation of cooperative's
electric distribution system in Cloudcroft to any and every person or persons
that may be damaged by reason of the construction or operation of such
distribution system, and the cooperative, its successors and assigns, shall
defend or cause to be defended at its own expense, all actions that may be
commenced against the said village for damages caused by reason of the
construction or operation of such transmission and distribution system. (Ord.
353, 6-8-2010)
11-3-5: CONSIDERATION:
In consideration of the above grant, the cooperative agrees to furnish during
the continuation of its franchise adequate electric power and energy, to the
extent that the cooperative has such power, energy and facilities available, to
the consumers in the village of Cloudcroft, under the tariff schedule as
approved by and on file with the New Mexico public service commission or its
successors. (Ord. 353, 6-8-2010)
11-3-6: FRANCHISE FEE:
In lieu of an occupation tax or other tax, the cooperative shall pay as a
franchise tax to the village, two percent (2%) of its gross revenues derived
from sales of electricity to its consumers within the corporate limits of the
village of Cloudcroft. Said franchise tax shall be paid quarterly on the gross
revenue of the preceding quarter on or before January 31, April 30, July 31 and
October 31. (Ord. 353, 6-8-2010)
11-3-7: TERM OF FRANCHISE:
This franchise shall be in force and effect for a period of twenty five (25)
years from acceptance as provided herein, and shall thereupon terminate and all
licenses and privileges shall thereupon cease. (Ord. 353, 6-8-2010)
 
