CITY CODE
of
GALLUP, NEW MEXICO
2006
Code current through:
Ord. C2025-3, passed 5-13-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Gallup, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance C2024-7, passed November 26, 2024. Ordinances of
the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ORDINANCE NO. C2025-4
 
AN ORDINANCE ADDING A NEW CHAPTER 7 TO TITLE 6 OF THE GALLUP CITY CODE TO
AUTHORIZE, ESTABLISH AND REGULATE AUTOMATED SPEED ENFORCEMENT
 
WHEREAS, on January 24, 2023 the Gallup City Council (“Council”) adopted
Ordinance No. C2023-1 amending Section 6-1-1 of the Gallup City Code (“Code”)
to adopt the 2010 compilation of the New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance
(“Uniform Ordinance”); and
 
WHEREAS, Ordinance No. C2023-1 and the 2010 compilation of the New Mexico
Uniform Traffic Ordinance, as amended by Ordinance No. 2024-5 (adopted July 9,
2024), have been in effect for approximately thirty months; and
 
WHEREAS, experience gained under the Uniform Ordinance and related provisions
of the Code has shown that certain additions to the Uniform Ordinance and
related Code provisions addressing the enforcement of speed limits are
necessary and advisable in light of circumstances that are relatively
unique to the City of Gallup; and
 
WHEREAS, those circumstances include the City’s proximity to highway traffic,
the sporadic and intense use of City streets by large numbers of persons not
residing in the City, the level and volume of pedestrian traffic in the City,
and the resulting need for effective and efficient enforcement of established
speed limits on City streets and roads; and
 
WHEREAS, the City’s Police Department and its personnel are often required to
devote extensive time and effort to matters of law enforcement and crime not
related to speeding, and thus are frequently unable
to engage in the enforcement of speed limits; and
 
WHEREAS, speeding in the City and on City streets has increasingly become a
threat to the health, safety and welfare of the City’s residents; and
 
WHEREAS, having studied the matter and available alternatives, the Council has
determined that automated speed enforcement will effectively and efficiently
assist in enforcing the City’s speed limits, thereby protecting and enhancing
public safety and improving the quality of life for the City’s residents;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF
GALLUP, NEW MEXICO that a new Chapter 7 is added to Title 6, of the City’s Code
as set forth in Exhibit A to this Ordinance.
 
PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED this 27 th day of JUNE, 2025.
 
CITY OF GALLUP, NEW MEXICO
 
By: /s/ Louis Bonaguidi, Mayor   
ATTEST:   
 
/s/ Alfred Abeita II, City Clerk                      [SEAL]
 
CHAPTER 7: AUTOMATED SPEED ENFORCEMENT SECTION 1:  SHORT TITLE
This Chapter may be referred to as the Gallup Automated Speed Enforcement Ordinance or
"ASE."
SECTION 2: DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of the Gallup Automated Speed Enforcement Ordinance, the
following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
ASE SYSTEM FINE. The fine assessed for a violation, as set forth in Section 3 or successor
provision under this article (or successor article of the city's codified
ordinances).
ASE SYSTEM FINE NOTICE. A written document mailed to the address of the registered
owner or nominee stating that a violation has occurred and payment is due.
CAMERA SPEED DEVICE or "CSD”. The instrument that detects a violation of this
Chapter. The definition includes but is not limited to cameras and electronic
speed detection equipment reasonably relied upon by police officers.
CONTRACTOR. A person or entity that enters into a contract with the City of Gallup to provide
photographic or electronic evidence of a speed violation through a CSD.
DEPARTMENT. The Gallup Police Department.
DRIVER. The person operating a motor vehicle at the time of a violation.
IDENTIFY. To submit information on the actual driver of a vehicle sufficient to allow the City
to locate and notify the driver in lieu of the registered owner, including but
not limited to the name and address of the driver.
NOMINATE or NOMINATION. A written statement by the registered owner identifying the
actual driver of a car as the responsible party for a violation.
NOMINEE. The person or entity identified by the registered owner as the driver or responsible
party.
NUISANCE. The act of operating a vehicle in violation of this Chapter.
OWNER'S AFFIDAVIT. A written statement signed under oath and submitted to the
City or the City’s Contractor under penalty of perjury by the registered owner
of a vehicle who asserts therein that the registered owner was not driving the
vehicle at the time of a violation.
RESPONDENT. An accused violator who has received an ASE System Fine Notice and
has requested a hearing.
SECTION 3: VIOLATION
A violation is any action or conduct constituting a violation under Section 6-
6-3 or 6-6-5 of this Code, Sections 12-6-1 – 12-6-1.7 or 12-6-
12.19 of the Uniform Traffic Code (adopted pursuant to Section 6-6-1 of this
Code), Section 66-7-104 NMSA 1978 of the New Mexico State Motor Vehicle Code,
or any other city or state law pertaining to speeding. In the event of conflict
between this Chapter and Section 12-6-1.6 of the Uniform Traffic Code, this
Chapter shall control.
A violation may occur on any street, alley or other roadway in the City, on or
in any City-owned or City-managed parking facility, or on any other City-owned
real property within the City
limits. When a street, alley or other roadway is a boundary between the City and the County, the
 
entire public way shall be deemed within the City.
SECTION 4 ENFORCEMENT
A.   Violation recorded by CSD. The contractor shall provide all evidence of a CSD-
recorded
violation to the Gallup Police Department. The Gallup Police Department shall review all
CSD evidence provided by the contractor.
1.   If the Gallup Police Department determines that a violation has occurred
and that a citation is warranted, the
Gallup Police Department shall cause an ASE fine notice to be delivered to the
registered owner.
2.   The registered owner is strictly and vicariously liable for the violation
unless one of the
defenses herein applies. If there is more than one registered owner, all registered owners
shall be jointly and severally liable for the violation.
B.   ASE fine notice.
1.   The ASE fine notice shall state and contain the name of the registered
owner or nominee,
the effective date of the ASE fine notice, the type of violation, the date, time, and location
of the violation, a picture of the violation, the license plate number of the
vehicle, the name and identification of the issuing Gallup Police Department
official, the amount of the fine, the response due date and the return address.
The ASE fine notice shall inform the registered owner or the nominee of the
option to complete community service in lieu of payment of the ASE fine, and
the right to request a hearing. The ASE fine notice shall clearly explain the
process for requesting a hearing, explain the hearing options, provide the
deadline to request a hearing, and identify where the request shall be
submitted.
2.   Delivery. The ASE fine notice shall be delivered to the address of the
registered owner according to the address registered with the Department of
Motor Vehicles, from
information obtained from the Municipal Court, from Department Records, or from any
other documentation or records reasonably relied upon by police officers, or it
shall be delivered to the address of the nominee according to the owner's
affidavit.
C.   Response to an ASE fine notice. The registered owner shall pay the fine, elect to complete
community service, file an owner's affidavit making a nomination, or request a
hearing by the response due date as indicated by the ASE fine notice.
D.   Nomination. A registered owner not driving the car at the time of the
violation may either
accept the responsibility and pay the ASE fine, or identify the driver so an ASE fine notice
can be sent to the driver.
1.   If the registered owner claims that another person was driving the vehicle
at the time of
the violation, the registered owner shall so indicate on the owner's affidavit and identify
the person who was driving the vehicle. Any registered owner who submits an
owner's affidavit does so under penalty of perjury.
2.   A new ASE fine notice will be delivered to the nominee. If the nominee
successfully appeals the allegation that they were the driver, the City may
proceed against the
registered owner. The registered owner is also responsible for payment of the ASE fine if
the City cannot assert jurisdiction over the nominee, subject to the remaining
defenses available in this article.
E.   Default. If the city does not receive payment of the ASE fine, an election
to complete
community service, a nomination, or a request for a hearing by the response due date as
 
indicated by the ASE fine notice, the registered owner is in default. Upon the
registered
owner’s default, the City may pursue all remedies for collection of a debt and is entitled to an
award of reasonable attorney's fees incurred.
F.   Hearing. An individual may request a hearing to contest an automated speed
violation by submission of a petition to the Municipal Court. The petition must
substantially comply in form and content with standards prescribed by the
Municipal Court, and must be received by the Municipal Court no later than
fourteen (14) days following the effective date of the ASE fine notice. The
hearing shall occur either in person or virtually before the Municipal Judge or
his/her referee, and the rules of evidence shall govern the use and
admissibility of all testimony and documentary evidence. The Department shall
have the burden of proving the
violation by a preponderance of the evidence, except that the information set forth in the ASE
fine notice shall be presumed correct, subject to rebuttal by the petitioner,
who has the burden to rebut the ASE fine notice and to prove any defense by a
preponderance of the evidence. If the Department prevails, the petitioner shall
pay the fine at the conclusion of the hearing. The petitioner may appeal the
decision of the Municipal Court to the District Court in and for the Eleventh
Judicial District, State of New Mexico within 30 days of the decision and may
recover the costs of filing the appeal if successful.
G.   Defenses. At a timely requested hearing, the respondent may present the
following defenses:
1.   The vehicle was stolen or otherwise being driven without the registered
owner's knowledge or permission at the time of the alleged violation. To
substantiate this
defense, the respondent must, at a minimum, present an authenticated police report
pertaining to the theft or unauthorized use.
2.   Where the respondent is the registered owner, the ownership of the vehicle had lawfully
been transferred and conveyed from the
respondent to another person before the time of the alleged violation.
3.   The respondent is the registered owner, but was not driving the vehicle at the time of the
violation. To assert this defense, the respondent shall identify the actual
driver and comply with the nomination provisions in subsection (D) of this
section.
4.   The respondent is the registered owner, but did not receive notice because the ASE fine
notice was not mailed to the address of record with the Department of Motor
Vehicles.
H.   Penalty.
1.   A violation constitutes a civil infraction punishable by a fine of $100 or completion of
four hours of community service.
2.   A violator may elect service to the City as an alternative to payment of fines. A violator
who elects the option of service to the City in lieu of payment of a fine does
so voluntarily and is entitled to none of the benefits conferred upon city
employees, including, without limitation, worker's compensation or the payment
of any wages or benefits. The City is not responsible for damages incurred as a
result of such service except as otherwise provided by law. A violator who
elects this option shall request the option by written request delivered to the
Municipal Court no later than fourteen (14) days following the effective date
of the ASE fine notice or, at the latest, at the time of a
hearing convened pursuant to Paragraph F. above. Services shall be rendered in not less
than full hour increments and shall be credited against the fine payable at a
rate of $25 per hour. The City Manager or his/her designee shall establish
procedures for
 
administering this Paragraph including, but not limited to, the nature of services that may
be performed, the timeframe in which a respondent must complete their community
service, and consequences for failure to complete community service.
I.   Effect of Multiple ASE System Fine Notices in Default.
1.   Notice of ASE System Fine Notices in Default. If an alleged violator is in default on one
or more ASE system fines, a letter shall be sent to the registered owner(s) of
the subject vehicle(s) setting forth:
a.   The name of the registered owner;
b.   The date(s) the ASE system fine(s) was/were incurred;
c.   The type(s) of violation(s);
d.   The date(s), time(s), and location(s) of the violation(s);
e.   The license plate number(s) of the subject vehicle(s);
f.   The amount(s) of the fine(s);
g.   The citation number(s) associated with the unpaid fine(s);
h.   The response due date; and
i.   The return address. The notice shall also:
j.   Inform the registered owner that the time to appeal the fine notice(s) or
elect to
complete community service in lieu of payment has expired, and that if the registered
owner fails to resolve the unpaid ASE fines within 20 calendar days, the
subject vehicle(s) will be subject to a parking citation and immobilization and
impoundment if found to be parked on any street, alley or roadway within the
City, on or in any City-owned or any City-managed parking facility, or on any
other City-owned real property within the City limits. All notices must include
language describing how to receive additional information in English and
Spanish.
SECTION 5 ADMINISTRATION.
A. The Department and the City Manager shall be responsible for administration of this Chapter.
Reasonable rules and regulations may be promulgated by the City Manager to
carry out the intent and purpose of this Chapter. No such rule or regulation
may conflict with any provision of this Chapter, and in the event of any such
conflict the provisions of this Chapter shall control.
B. The revenue generated through ASE shall be retained and distributed to the Department and
the Municipal Court in such amounts and upon such conditions as the City’s
Council shall determine.
D. An independent third-
party lab shall perform a calibration test on the CSD instruments used for
speed detection under this ASE at least annually.
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. C2025-5
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING AND RESTATING TITLE 4, CHAPTER 6, SECTIONS 4 AND 9 
(STORAGE CONTAINERS AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE) OF THE CITY OF GALLUP
MUNICIPAL CODE
WHEREAS, unauthorized access to waste storage containers in the City of Gallup 
(“City”) has been and continues to be an ongoing problem; and
 
WHEREAS, problems and dangers associated with unauthorized access to storage
containers
include, but are not limited to, the spread of waste, litter and disease, the ignition of fires posing a danger
to nearby neighborhoods and properties, and the use of storage containers as
places for sleeping and shelter; and
 
WHEREAS, such problems impose costs on the public and on property owners and pose dangers
to the health and safety of individuals and to public health, safety and
welfare; and
 
WHEREAS, having studied the foregoing matters, the City’s Solid Waste
Department (“Solid Waste”) and other City staff have concluded that many of the
problems and dangers associated with unauthorized access to waste storage
containers may be effectively resolved or mitigated by a requirement that such
containers be and remain locked when not in active use; and
 
WHEREAS, the City is located in an area that is vulnerable to brush fires
due to its aridity, the dryness and density of its ground cover, and frequent
high winds; and
 
WHEREAS, the City’s Code currently permits the burning of dry weeds as a method
of disposing the same, but does not require a permit from the City’s Fire
Department (“FD”) to conduct such burning; and
WHEREAS, the FD has determined that the requirement of a FD issued permit to conduct such
burning will materially reduce the dangers posed by such fires; and
 
WHEREAS, Solid Waste, the FD and City staff have recommended that certain other provisions
of Title 4, Chapter
6, Sections 4 and 9 be amended for purposes of clarity and administrative efficiency;
and
 
WHEREAS, the City’s Council, having fully considered the foregoing matters,
finds the concerns and assessments of the City’s Solid Waste Department, its
Fire Department and other staff to be sound, and its recommendations to be
appropriate and well-founded;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY
OF GALLUP, NEW MEXICO, that Title 4, Chapter 6, Sections 4 and 9 of the City Code be and
hereby are amended and restated in their entirety, as follows:
 
TITLE 4 PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY CHAPTER 6 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
 
4-6-4: STORAGE CONTAINERS:
A.   Required: All solid waste in the city shall be stored for collection in
the manner prescribed
 
herein. The city shall provide containers for waste collection. Any containers provided for owners or
users of land shall become the property of the city at the time the city
provides a container for such land. (Ord. C90-5, 4-10-1990)
 
B.   Approved Containers:
 
1.   Clean and Sanitary:
 Approved storage containers shall be covered, fly proof, rodent proof and be
kept reasonably clean and sanitary. In addition: (Ord. C66-148, 7-12-1977)
 
a.   Capacity:
 Gallup Solid Waste division shall determine the standard capacity of the
containers used in the city. (Ord. C66-148, 7-12-1977; and. 2006 Code)
 
b.   Metal, Plastic:
 All containers shall be of lightweight galvanized metal or plastic
construction.
 
c.   Handles: All containers shall have safe, usable handles.
 
d.   Cover: All containers shall be provided with a usable cover.
 
e.   Locks: All containers size two (2)
yards or larger shall be locked at all times when they are not in use by the
owner of the property being served. The Director shall have the authority to
specify and direct container locks and locking mechanisms that are acceptable
to the City. Roll-off containers constitute the sole and exclusive exception to
this requirement. The owner of the property being served shall secure all roll-
off containers against entry to the extent practicable.
 
2.   Mechanically Collected Containers:
 Mechanically collected containers that are purchased for personal use shall
not be used for city collection.
 
C.   Defective Containers: Containers that have become deteriorated,
badly dented or leaky, do not
have handles, are without adequate cover, have jagged or sharp edges, cannot be locked, do not comply
with construction or size requirements, or otherwise do not comply with Section
4-6-4(B) shall be considered defective.
 
1.   Disposal: Defective containers are deemed solid waste and shall be placed
in collection
vehicles for disposal or shall be stored for possible resale of their components, as a source for
resin, or for vendor credit.
 
4-6-9: DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE:
A.   Site:
 All solid waste collected from areas within the jurisdiction of the city shall be transported
to the northwest New Mexico regional solid waste authority for disposal, or to
such other site as may be designated by the city council.
B.   Burning: Incineration:
 Certain solid waste may be burned or incinerated if it does not cause a
hazard. None may be burned or incinerated except the types listed below and
under the conditions
 
specified. 1
 
1.   Hazardous hospital wastes may be incinerated when done with the approval of the Director
in compliance with regulations of the environmental improvement agency.
 
2.   Dry weeds may be burned if2:
 
a.   Burning is the most feasible method of disposal;
 
b.   The city’s fire department is notified and issues an express, written permit for the
proposed burning;
 
c.   There is no air stagnation alert; and
 
d.   The burning is supervised by a reasonable person.
 
3.   Dry paper products may be burned in an incinerator of a type approved by the building
inspector when such burning is in compliance with state air quality
regulations.
 
4.   No new incinerators shall be constructed and no existing incinerators
shall be rebuilt or
modified without the approval of the building inspector, the environmental improvement
agency and the director.
 
C.   On Public Street: Solid waste which has been deposited on a public street
or other public property shall be checked for identification. Mail or labels
bearing names and addresses found in or on
said waste shall be considered prima facie evidence of the source of generation of the
solid waste and a failure to comply with subsection A of this section. (Ord.
C99-7, 10-26-1999)
D.   Use of Site: Use of the city disposal site shall be subject to the
following conditions:
 
1.   Dead animals shall be placed in the dead animal trench and covered
immediately.
 
2.   Bricks, rocks, concrete, demolition wastes, car bodies, tree limbs, white
goods
(refrigerators, washers, etc.) and tires shall be placed in the demolition disposal site.
 
3.   Household wastes, loose paper, paper products, putrescible wastes, boxes, bottles, cans,
waste food, offal and garbage shall be placed in the garbage disposal site.
 
4.   All vehicles shall observe a ten (10) miles per hour speed limit.
5.   All wastes shall be disposed of as required by the Director.
6.   Each person using the landfill shall register with the sanitation department by completing a
registered user information sheet.
 
E   Unauthorized Use Of Landfill: Scavenging, burning, littering or
using the landfill in such a
 
1 See section 4-6-5 of this Chapter.
2 See section 4-5-2 of this Title.
 
manner as to disrupt its planned operation or creating a public nuisance or hazard to health is
prohibited. (Ord. C66-148, 7-12-1977)
 
PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED on this 9th day of September, 2025.
 
 
 
CITY OF GALLUP
 
/s/ Louis Bonaguidi, Mayor
 
 
 
 
ATTEST:
 
/s/ Alfred Abeita II, City Clerk
 
[seal]
 
 
ADOPTED ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. C2006-11
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF GALLUP, NEW MEXICO ADOPTING THE 2006 CODIFICATION
OF THE CITY OF GALLUP ORDINANCES.
   WHEREAS, the city code of the city of Gallup was last codified in 1961; and,
   WHEREAS, numerous changes have been made to the city code since 1961; and,
   WHEREAS, city staff has worked with the previous codifiers to completely
update and modernize the code book of the city of Gallup; and,
   WHEREAS, those changes, amendments and re-codification is now complete and
ready for adoption by the city of Gallup;
   NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GALLUP, NEW MEXICO, DO
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:
   The 2006 codification of the city code of the Gallup, New Mexico, is hereby
adopted.
   All city ordinances set out in the 2006 codification supersede provisions of
the city code previously enacted by the city council to the extent that they
are in conflict or inconsistent with those adopted by the 2006 codification.
PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED THIS 27 DAY OF JUNE, 2006.
         CITY OF GALLUP
 
         BY:                                                            
             BOB ROSEBROUGH, MAYOR
ATTEST:
                                                    
PATTY HOLLAND, CITY CLERK
         Vote:
         Mayor Rosebrough   AYE
         Councilor Armijo   AYE
         Councilor Butler   AYE
         Councilor Gonzales   AYE
         Councilor Nechero   AYE
Motion made by: COUNCILOR NECHERO
Seconded by: COUNCILOR BUTLER
CITY CHARTER
Charter Amended Pursuant To Resolution 3064,
Adopted April 7, 1981, Effective May 14, 1981
CHARTER OF THE
CITY OF GALLUP, McKINLEY COUNTY, NEW MEXICO 1
 
Notes
1 1. This Charter amended pursuant to Res. 3064, adopted by the electorate on
  April 7, 1981, and effective May 14, 1981.
ARTICLE I
INCORPORATION, FORM OF GOVERNMENT, POWERS, SEAL
Section 1. Incorporation And Powers
The municipal corporation now existing and known as the city of Gallup within
its present boundaries as now established or as hereinafter established in the
manner provided by law, shall remain and continue in perpetuity to be a body
politic and corporate. It shall possess all powers granted to municipal
corporations under the statutes of New Mexico and not contrary to the
provisions of this charter or granted by the constitution of the state of New
Mexico and such other powers as are consistent with the constitution of the
state of New Mexico and contained herein. The city was incorporated under
chapter 32, session act of 1891, in the territory of New Mexico but
notwithstanding such incorporation, the said municipality shall hereafter be
known as the "city". (amd. Res. 96-26, 3-7-1997)
Section 2. Form Of Government
The municipal government provided by this charter shall be known as the
"council- manager government". Pursuant to its provision and subject only to
the limitations imposed by the state constitution and by this charter, all
powers of the city shall be vested in an elective council, hereinafter referred
to as "the council". The council's powers shall include the power to enact
local legislation; adopt budgets; determine policy; and appoint the city
manager and such other officers and employees deemed necessary and proper for
orderly government and administration of the affairs of the city. All powers of
the city shall be exercised in the manner prescribed by this charter, or if the
manner be not prescribed; then in such manner as may be prescribed by ordinance
or state statute.
Section 3. Powers Of City
The city may exercise all legislative powers and perform all functions not
expressly denied by general law or charter. This grant of powers shall not
include the power to enact private or civil laws governing civil relationships
except as incident to the exercise of an independent municipal power. No tax
imposed by the governing body of a charter municipality, except a tax
authorized by general law, shall become effective until approved by a majority
vote of the charter municipality. The purpose of this section is to provide for
maximum local self-government. A liberal construction shall be given to the
powers of municipalities. (amd. Res. 96-26, 3-7-1997)
Section 4. Corporate Seal
The city shall have the power and authority to adopt by ordinance a city seal
which shall be in the custody of the city clerk.
ARTICLE II
COUNCIL, MEMBER, NUMBER, ELECTION, TERMS
Section 1. Number, Selection
The council shall consist of the mayor elected from the city at large and four
(4) councilors elected from the council districts created by ordinance. (amd.
Res. 96-24, 3-7-1997)
Section 2. Officers
   A. Elected Officers: The elected officers of the city of Gallup shall be a
mayor, four (4) councilors, and municipal judge. Except as hereinafter
provided, the term of office of such officers shall be four (4) years for the
office of mayor and four (4) years for each councilor. The term of the
municipal judge shall be the same as provided by state law. The terms of
councilors shall be staggered so that two (2) councilors shall be elected every
two (2) years for a four (4) year term. (At the time of adoption of this
charter amendment, the existing mayor, councilors and municipal judge shall
continue in their respective offices until the expiration of their respective
elective term, subject to the provisions of recall, as hereafter provided.)
(amd. Res. 96-24, 3-7-1997)
   The election of these municipal officers shall be conducted in the manner
provided in this charter and as provided by New Mexico state law. All elective
officers shall hold office for the period to which they were elected and until
their successors are duly elected and qualified.
   B. City Attorney: The city council shall appoint the city attorney who shall
serve at the pleasure of the city council and at a compensation fixed by the
city council. The city council may retain special counsel upon its own motion
or upon the request of the city attorney. (amd. Res. 87-9, 1-26-1987)
   The city attorney shall be the chief legal counsel to the city and the legal
advisor to the city council, city manager, all departments of the city and
boards and commissions. The city attorney shall perform such other duties as
the city council may direct. (amd. Res. 87-9, 1-26-1987)
      (a)   emoval Of Appointive Officers: By the concurrent vote of a majority
of the elected members of the council, any appointive officer of the
corporation may be removed from office. Any officer removed may, within ten
(10) days after his discharge, demand written charges and a right to be heard
thereon at a public meeting of the council. Such hearing shall be granted by
the council within ten (10) days after such a demand. Any officer removed shall
immediately vacate his office. He shall be paid his usual salary for thirty
(30) days following the date of his removal plus any other compensation
otherwise due him. The action of the council in removing such officer shall be
final. (amd. Res. 96-24, 3-7-1997)
   C.   Oath Of Office: Each person elected or appointed to hold an office of
the city of Gallup, shall, before entering upon the duties of such office, take
and subscribe to the official oath. (amd. Res. 96-24, 3-7-1997)
Section 3. Qualifications
The mayor, councilors, and municipal judge shall be legal residents of the
state and qualified electors therein. The qualifications of municipal judge may
be set by ordinance of the city of Gallup. (amd. Res. 87-11, 1-26-1987)
Section 4. Salaries Of Mayor And Councilors
The salary of the mayor shall be twenty one thousand dollars ($21,000.00)
annually. The salary of each city councilor shall be fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) annually. The salaries shall be paid in monthly installments.
(amd. Ord. C95-1, 1-10-1995)
All other salaries of the officers and the city manager shall be provided in
the manner prescribed by ordinance. The salaries shall be paid in semi-monthly
installments until increased or decreased by ordinance, and said ordinance
shall not increase or decrease the mayor's, councilor's, or municipal judge's
salary during his current term. (amd. Res. 87-8, 1-26-1989)
Section 5. Judge Of Members
The council shall be the judge of the election and qualification of its members
and for such purposes shall have the power to subpoena witnesses and require
production of records but the decision of the council in any such case shall be
subject to review by the courts.
Section 6. Duties Of The Mayor
The mayor of the city of Gallup shall be the presiding officer of the council
and shall be the official head of the city. He shall sign all bonds, warrants
and other official documents. He shall exercise and perform all duties imposed
upon him by this charter, by state law and the ordinances of the city, and
resolutions of the council. The mayor having a vote the same as other members
of the city council shall not have veto powers. (Res. R2012-32, 7-24-2012)
Section 7. Absence To Terminate Membership
   A. If the mayor or any councilor shall be absent for more than three (3)
consecutive regular meetings without the consent of the council, he shall
thereupon cease to hold office.
   B. Upon such vacancy in the office of the mayor or councilor, the vacancy
shall be duly noted in the official minutes of the council and such officer
notified of his removal.
Section 8. Filling Of Vacancies
When a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor more than one year prior to the
expiration of the mayor's term, it shall be filled by a special election, the
first notice of which shall be published within thirty one (31) days. The
qualified elector that is successfully elected as a result of the special
election shall serve as mayor for the remainder of the vacant term. If the
vacancy occurs less than one year prior to the next regular municipal election
for the office of mayor, the duly elected standing mayor pro tempore shall
become mayor. When a vacancy occurs in any other office, the council, by
majority vote of its remaining membership, shall within thirty one (31) days
fill the vacancy of the office until the next regular municipal election, at
which time a qualified elector shall be elected to fill any unexpired term.
(Res. R2012-33, 7-24-2012)
Section 9. Duties Of City Clerk
The city clerk shall give notice of meetings, shall keep the journal of its
proceedings, shall authenticate by his signature and record in full a book kept
for the purpose of ordinances and resolutions and shall perform such other
duties as shall be required by this charter or as otherwise required by law not
in conflict with this charter.
Section 10. Procedure Of Council
The council, by ordinance, shall determine its own rules and order of business.
It shall keep a journal of its proceedings. It shall hold meetings regularly at
such times as the council shall determine but in no event less than once a
month. It shall elect from its membership a standing mayor pro tempore who, in
the absence or incapacity of the mayor, shall have the same power and duties as
mayor; provided that in the absence or incapacity of both the mayor and
standing mayor pro tempore, a remaining quorum of the council may elect an
interim mayor pro tempore who shall act only until the mayor or, in the absence
or incapacity of the mayor, the standing mayor pro tempore can act. All
meetings of the council shall be open to the public except those closed in
compliance with state law.
ARTICLE III
THE CITY MANAGER
Section 1. Appointment, Removal And Salary
The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city. The
city council, by a majority vote of all members, shall appoint the city
manager, who shall serve at the pleasure of the city council and at a salary
fixed by the city council. The city council shall appoint a city manager within
a reasonable time after a vacancy exists in the position. The city manager
shall be chosen on the basis of executive and administrative qualifications
with particular emphasis on actual experience and knowledge of the duties of
the office. (amd. Res. 87-10, 1-26-1987)
During the period of any vacancy or extended absence in the office of the city
manager, the city council shall appoint an acting city manager. The city
manager may appoint an employee of the city as acting city manager during the
temporary absence of the city manager. Any acting city manager shall have all
responsibilities, duties and authority of the city manager during a vacancy in
office or during the temporary absence or disability of the city manager. (amd.
Res. 87-10, 1-26-1987)
Section 2. Powers And Duties
The city manager shall be responsible to the council for the proper
administration of all the affairs of the city and to that end, subject to the
provisions of this charter, he shall have the power to and be required to:
   (a)   Devote his entire time to the discharge of his official duties,
prepare the agenda for and attend all meetings of the council unless excused
therefrom by mayor or council.
   (b)   Prepare the budget annually, submit to the council and be responsible
for its administration after its adoption.
   (c)   Prepare and submit to the council, at the end of each fiscal year, a
complete report of finances and administrative activities of the city for the
preceding year. (amd. Res. 96-24, 3-7-1997)
   (d)   Keep the council advised at all times of financial conditions and
future needs of the city.
   (e)   Employ and discharge all employees of the city pursuant to personnel
ordinance of the city. (amd. Res. 96-24, 3-7-1997)
ARTICLE IV
BUDGET AND BORROWING FOR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
Section 1. Fiscal Year
The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of July of
each calendar year and shall end on the last day of June of the next succeeding
calendar year. Such fiscal year shall also constitute the budget and accounting
year. As used in this charter, the term budget year shall mean the fiscal year
for which any particular budget is adopted and in which it is administered.
Section 2. Preparation And Submission Of Budget
The city manager, at least forty (40) days prior to the beginning of each
budget year, shall submit to the council a budget and an explanatory budget
message.
Section 3. Budget A Public Record
The budget and budget message and all supporting schedules shall be a public
record in the office of the city clerk open to public inspection. The city
manager shall cause sufficient copies of the budget and budget message to be
prepared for distribution to interested persons and post at least one copy of
the same upon a public bulletin board maintained in the city hall.
Section 4. Public Hearing On Budget
The council shall hold a public hearing on the budget as submitted, at which
time all interested persons shall be given an opportunity to be heard, for or
against the estimates of any item thereof.
Section 5. Further Consideration Of Budget
After the conclusion of such public hearing, the council may insert new items
or may increase or decrease the items of the budget.
Section 6. Vote Required For Adoption
The recommended budget shall be adopted by the favorable votes of a majority of
all the members of the council.
Section 7. Date Of Final Adoption; Failure To Adopt
The recommended budget shall be adopted not later than the first day of June of
the fiscal year and submitted to the state for approval as required by law.
Section 8. State Hearing Open To Public
(rep. Res. 96-24, 3-7-1997)
Section 9. Effective Date Of Budget; Certification; Copies Made Available
Upon final adoption, the budget shall be in effect for the budget year. A copy
of the budget, as finally adopted, shall be certified by the city clerk.
Sufficient copies of the certified budget shall be available in the finance
office at city hall for the use of all city offices, departments or agencies
and for the use of interested persons and civic organizations. (amd. Res. 96-
24, 3-7-1997)
Section 10. Budget Summary
At the head of the budget there shall appear a summary stating the sources of
anticipated revenue and expenditures, written in such a manner as to present a
simple and clear summary of the detailed estimates of the budget.
ARTICLE V
RECALL, INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
Section 1. Recall; Petition; Election; Ballot; Effect; Filling Vacancies
   (A) Any elective officer of the city shall be subject to a recall election
at any time, except as hereinafter provided. The petition for the recall
election must be signed by a number of qualified voters of the city equal in
number to twenty percent (20%) of the total number of qualified voters of the
city that voted on the office of governor at the last preceding general
election. The election must be held within thirty (30) days of the filing of a
good and sufficient petition unless a regular city election occurs within sixty
(60) days, in which case such recall election shall be held at the regular
election. At such recall election, there shall be a special ballot containing
the name of the officer, the position which he holds and the dates of the
beginning and termination of his official term. Below the name and title of the
officer shall be the two (2) phrases, "for the recall" and "against the
recall", one below the other, with a space after each for the placing of a
cross where desired. If a majority of the ballots and a number equal to a
majority of the ballots cast at the election of the officer whose recall is
proposed, show a vote for the recall, the office in question shall be
thenceforth vacant.
   (B) If an officer is recalled as provided for above, he shall not be
eligible for reelection until the term for which he was originally elected
shall have expired.
   (C) If a recall election results in a failure to secure the required
majority of votes in favor of the recall, the officer in question shall not
again be subjected to recall until after the expiration of six (6) months from
the time at which the first recall election was held.
   (D) Vacancies created by a recall election shall be filled in the same
manner as is provided for the filling of vacancies in the governing body due to
other causes; provided, that if the mayor and all councilors are recalled at
one election, the city clerk, or if there be no city clerk, the district judge
of the judicial district in which such city is located shall within three (3)
days call an election to be held in accordance with the provisions specified in
this charter for the election of the mayor and councilors at regular elections.
Section 2. Referendum; Actions Subject To Petition; Election
   (A) No ordinance shall, unless it be declared an emergency measure on the
ground of urgent public need, go into effect until thirty (30) days after its
passage. If at any time within said thirty (30) days, a petition signed by a
number of qualified voters of the city equal in number to twenty percent (20%)
of the total number of qualified voters of the city that voted on the office of
governor at the last preceding general election is presented to the governing
body asking that the measure in question be submitted to a vote of the people
for adoption or rejection, said measure shall not go into effect until an
election shall have been held as petitioned and; provided, that if a measure in
question be submitted to a vote of the people for adoption or rejection, said
measure shall not go into effect until an election shall have been held as
petitioned and; provided, that if a measure be declared an emergency measure,
as provided herein, it shall go into effect at once, subject to repeal by an
adverse majority at the election. An emergency measure must be adopted by a
four-fifths (4/5) vote of all members of the city council. It shall be the duty
of the governing body of the city to provide for such election within thirty
(30) days of the filing of the petition unless a regular city election occurs
within sixty (60) days, in which case the voters shall vote on the referendum
at the regular election.
Section 3. Ballot On Referendum; Effect Of Result; Repeal Of Emergency Measure
At such an election, the ballot shall contain the text of the measure in
question, and below the phrases "for the above measure" and "against the above
measure", followed by spaces for marking with a cross the phrase desired. If a
majority of the votes cast are against the measure, it shall be of no effect.
If a majority of the votes cast be for the measure, it shall go into effect
immediately following the canvass of the election, the result being made final
and legal publication completed.
Section 4. Initiative; Petition; Failure Of Commission To Adopt; Election;
Ballot; Result
   (A) Upon petition signed by a number of the qualified voters of the city
equal in number to twenty percent (20%) of the total number of qualified voters
of the city voting on the office of governor at the last preceding general
election, any measure may be proposed to the governing body of the city for
enactment within thirty (30) days of the time of filing the petition containing
the proposed measure. If the governing body of the city either fails to act at
all, acts adversely, or amends the proposed measure, it shall be their duty to
call an election within thirty (30) days for submitting the measure to a vote
of the people, unless a regular city election occurs within sixty (60) days, in
which case the voters shall vote upon the measure at the regular election.
   (B) At such election, the ballot shall contain the proposed measure as
originally submitted and the measure as amended, if amended by the governing
body of the city. After each of these measures, there shall be printed the
words "For Proposed Measure or Measures" and "Against Proposed Measure or
Measures" with a space for the voter to indicate his preference. (amd. Res. 96-
24, 3-7-1997)
   (C) If a majority of the votes cast at the election are in favor of the
measure in its original form or its amended form, it shall be declared in
effect as adopted. If neither measure receives a majority of the votes cast
neither shall be in effect.
Section 5. Form Of Petitions; Committee Of Petitioners
All petition papers circulated for the purposes of an initiative, referendum or
recall shall be uniform in size and style. Initiative petition papers shall
contain the full text of the proposed ordinance. Each signer of any such
petition paper shall sign his name in ink or indelible pencil and shall
indicate after his name his place of residence by street and number, or other
description sufficient to identify the place. There shall appear on each
petition the names and addresses of the same five (5) electors, who, as a
committee of the petitioners, shall be regarded as responsible for the
circulation and filing of the petition. Attached to each separate petition
paper there shall be an affidavit of the circulator thereof that he, and he
only, personally circulated the foregoing paper, that it bears a stated number
of signatures, that all the signatures appended thereto were made in his
presence, and that he believes them to be the genuine signatures of the persons
whose names they purport to be.
Section 6. Filing, Examination And Certification Of Petition
All papers comprising a recall, an initiative or referendum petition shall be
assembled and filed with the city clerk as one instrument. Within ten (10) days
after a petition is filed, the city clerk shall determine whether each paper of
the petition is in proper form, and whether the petition is signed by a
sufficient number of qualified electors. After completing his examination of
the petition, the city clerk shall certify the result thereof to the council at
its next regular meeting and in no event later than twenty (20) days after
filing of petitions.
Section 7. Amendment Of Insufficient Petitions
A recall, referendum or initiative petition may be amended at any time within
ten (10) days after the notification of insufficiency has been sent by the city
clerk, by registered mail to each of the five (5) members of the petitions
committee as hereinabove provided, by filing a supplementary petition upon
additional papers signed and filed as provided in the case of an original
petition. The city clerk shall, within five (5) days after such an amendment is
filed, make examination of the amended petition, and, if the petition be still
insufficient, he shall file his certificate to that effect in his office and
notify the committee of petitioners of his findings and no further action shall
be had on such insufficient petition. The finding of the insufficiency of a
petition shall not prejudice the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
Section 8. Repealing Ordinances
Initiative and referendum ordinances adopted or approved by the electors shall
be legally published and may be amended or repealed by the council, as in the
case of other ordinances.
Section 9. Filing Date
For the purposes of all sections of article V, the term "filing of a petition"
shall be deemed to be the date the city clerk certifies that a good and
sufficient number of qualified electors signed a petition. (Res. 2007-03, 1-9-
2007)
ARTICLE VI
NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
Section 1. Municipal Elections
The regular election for the choice of mayor, municipal judge and members of
the council shall be held on the second Tuesday in March of each odd-numbered
year with commencement of the terms of the officers and the conduct of the
elections being governed by state law, but in odd-numbered years. (Res. R2010-
38, 12-14-2010)
Section 2. Regulations Of Elections
The council shall have the power and authority to make regulations which it
considers needful or desirable, not inconsistent with this charter, for the
conduct of municipal elections, for prevention of fraud in such elections and
for the recount of ballots in case of doubt or fraud; provided, that until such
regulations have been adopted, the state law pertaining to the conduct of
municipal elections shall apply. The city clerk shall have full authority to
and shall conduct all municipal elections. The council shall have power to make
any other provisions relating to the nomination of officers and to the conduct
of elections neither repugnant nor contrary to the provisions of the laws of
New Mexico or the provisions of this charter. (amd. Res. 2007-03, 1-9-2007)
Section 3. Qualifications Of Electors And Residence Of Candidates For Municipal
Office
   (A) Any person whose affidavit of voter registration has been filed by the
McKinley County clerk, who is registered to vote in a general election precinct
established by the board of county commissioners that is wholly or partly
within the municipal boundaries and who is a resident of the municipality is a
qualified elector of the municipality. Persons who would otherwise be qualified
electors if land on which they reside is annexed to a municipality shall be
deemed to be qualified electors as of the final effective date of the
annexation. All candidates for municipal elective office shall be qualified
electors as of the date of filing of their declaration of candidacy.
   (B) For the purpose of determining the residence of a person desiring to be
a candidate for the nomination or election to an office, permanent residence
shall be resolved in favor of that place shown on the person's certificate of
registration as the person's permanent residence, provided the person resides
on the premises. Any questions regarding residence shall be resolved in
accordance with the laws of the state of New Mexico. The city clerk and city
attorney shall validate candidate residency. (Res. 2007-03, 1-9-2007)
Section 4. City Ballots
   (A) The full names of all the candidates for each city office shall be
printed on the official ballots.
   (B) At 5:01 P.M., fifty four (54) days prior to the municipal election, the
municipal clerk, in the presence of the certified candidates (or authorized
representatives) who desire to be present, administers an impartial and fair
drawing by lot to determine the order the candidates' names will appear on the
ballot. The clerk will draw for any candidate who is not present. (amd. Ord.
C95-1, 1-10-1995)
   (C) The election shall be conducted in the manner prescribed by the statutes
of New Mexico which do not conflict with the provisions of this charter.
Section 5. Voting Machines
The council shall have the power to provide for the use of mechanical or other
devices for voting or counting the votes in accordance with the principles set
forth in this charter.
Section 6. Runoff Elections
   (A) If no candidate receives forty percent (40%) of the votes, plus one
vote, cast for a particular office, a runoff election shall be held within
thirty (30) days after certification of the results of the election. The two
(2) qualified candidates who receive the highest number of votes cast for the
office shall automatically become the candidates in a runoff election without
filing a declaration of candidacy. (Res. R2012-34, 7-24-2012)
   (B) The council shall, by resolution, fix the date of the runoff election
and specify the offices to be filled and the names of the candidates therefor.
The resolution shall be published once, at least seven (7) days before the
runoff election date. No other publications are required in connection with
runoff elections. Eligibility to vote in a runoff election shall be the same as
in the original election for the particular office and only such voting
precincts and procedures will be reactivated as are necessary to accommodate
any runoff race. (added Res. 89-10, 3-14-1989)
Section 7. Authority To Opt In
Notwithstanding any provision in this Article VI or elsewhere in this Charter
to the contrary, the Council of the City of Gallup shall have the authority to
enact an ordinance opting in to the election of the City's municipal officers
in the regular local election in accordance with Section 3.1 of the Local
Election Act (NMSA 1-22-3.1) and all other applicable provisions of the New
Mexico Election Code (NMSA 1-1-1 - 1-26-6) as the same are currently
formulated. Except as necessary to enact and make effective the foregoing
ordinance, nothing in this Section 7 shall alter or affect, or authorize the
Council or any officer of the City to alter or affect, any provision of this
Charter. (Res. 2023-21, 7-25-2023)
ARTICLE VII
PLANNING, ZONING, HOUSING
Section 1. Power To Plan; Zone
The council shall have full power and authority to perform any act necessary,
including the power to establish a planning commission for the city and such
other agencies as may be required from time to time, to provide for planning,
zoning, development, slum clearance, housing, housing rehabilitation,
replanning, redevelopment and such other improvements and development of the
city not prohibited by state or federal law and deemed necessary by the
council. All ordinances existing pertaining to planning and zoning of the city
are hereby ratified and confirmed.
Section 2. Board Of Appeals
The council may appoint a board of appeals to be composed of at least three (3)
members, none of whom shall be a member of the planning commission or zoning
commission. This board of appeals shall hear all complaints of recommended
action taken or proposed action of the planning commission or zoning
commission. Following a thorough and complete investigation of each complaint,
the aggrieved person will be heard. The action or proposed action of the
planning commission or zoning commission and such board of appeals may be
overridden by a majority vote of all the members of the council.
ARTICLE VIII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1. Right Of City Manager And Other Officers In Council
The city manager, the heads of departments, and officers of the city shall be
entitled to seats in the council, but shall have no vote therein. The city
manager shall have the right to take part in the discussions of all matters
coming before the council, and the department heads and other officers shall
have the right to take part in all discussions of the council relating to their
respective offices, departments or agencies.
Section 2. Investigations By Council Or City Manager
The council, the city manager, or any person or committee authorized by either
of them and acting under their direction and control, shall have power to
inquire into the conduct of any office, department, agency or officer of the
city and to make investigations as to municipal affairs, and for that purpose
may subpoena witnesses, administer oath, and compel the production of books,
papers, or other evidence. Failure to obey such subpoena or to produce books,
papers, or other evidence as ordered under provisions of this section shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
Section 3. Publicity Of Records
All records and accounts of every office or agency of the city shall be open to
inspection by any citizen, or any representative of the press at all reasonable
times as required by law and under reasonable regulations established by the
city manager.
Section 4. Effect Of This Charter On Existing Laws
   (A) All laws and parts of laws as relating to or affecting the city of
Gallup, in force when this charter shall take effect are hereby repealed and
superseded to the extent that the same are inconsistent with the provisions of
this charter; otherwise, all other resolutions, ordinances, statutes, and laws
whatsoever remain in full force and effect.
   (B) Insofar as the provisions of the charter are the same in terms or in
substance and effect as provisions of law in force when this charter shall take
effect, relating to or affecting the city of Gallup, the provisions of this
charter are intended to be not a new enactment but a continuation of such
provisions of law, and this charter shall be so construed and applied.
Section 5. Amending The Charter
Amendments to this charter may be framed and submitted to the electors of the
city by a charter commission in the manner provided by law for framing and
submitting a new charter. Amendments may also be proposed and submitted by vote
of a majority of the city council, or by a petition signed by a number of the
qualified voters of the city equal in number to twenty percent (20%) of the
total number of qualified voters of the city that voted on the office of
governor at the last preceding general election. Such petition shall set forth
the proposed amendment and be filed with the city clerk. Final adoption of the
proposed amendment shall be ratified by a majority of qualified electors voting
thereon and shall take effect thirty (30) days following the canvass and
official determination by the council of the results of such election.
Section 6. Saving Clause
Should the courts of this or any other state of the United States declare any
section, provision, paragraph, clause, sentence, phrase, or part thereof, of
this charter invalid, unauthorized or unconstitutional, or in conflict with any
other section, provision, paragraph, clause, sentence, phrase, or part thereof
of this charter, then such decision shall affect only the section, provision,
paragraph, clause, sentence, phrase, or part thereof, declared to be invalid,
unauthorized or unconstitutional, and shall not affect any other part of this
charter whatsoever. (amd. Res. 96-24, 3-7-1997)
Section 7. Discrimination
No individual shall be denied any civil or political right or privilege nor be
discriminated against by practice or policy in municipal matters on account of
his race, color, religion, national origin, gender, disability or age. (amd.
Res. 96-24, 3-7-1997)
ARTICLE IX
SUCCESSION IN GOVERNMENT
Section 1. Rights Of Officers And Employees Reserved
Nothing in this charter contained, except as specifically provided, shall
affect or impair the rights or privileges of officers or employees of the city
or of any office, department or agency existing at the time when this charter
shall take effect, or any provision of law in force at the time when this
charter shall take effect and not inconsistent with the provisions of this
charter, in relation to personnel, appointment, ranks, grades, tenure of
office, promotion, removal, pension and retirement rights, civil rights or any
other rights or privileges of officers (elective or appointive), or employees
of the city, or any office, department or agency thereof.
Section 2. Continuance Of Contracts
All contracts entered into by the city, or for its benefit, prior to the taking
effect of this charter, shall continue in full force and effect. Public
improvements for which legislative steps have been taken under laws or
ordinances or resolutions existing at the time this charter takes effect, may
be carried to completion as nearly as practicable in accordance with the
provisions of existing laws, ordinances and resolutions.
Section 3. Pending Actions And Proceedings
No action or proceeding, civil or criminal, pending at the time when this
charter shall take effect, brought by or against the city or any office,
department or agency or officer thereof, shall be affected or abated by the
adoption of this charter or by anything therein contained.
Section 4. When Provisions Take Effect
The provisions of this charter shall become effective sixty five (65) days
after approval by a majority vote of the qualified electors of the city of
Gallup.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
GALLUP CITY CODE  1
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Interpretation
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-17-5.
1-1-1: TITLE:
Regular city elections for the purpose of electing city officers and
considering any other questions placed on the ballot by the city council shall
be held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November of each odd
numbered year. (Ord. C98-2, 3-24-1998; Ord. C2023-4, 11-28-2023)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section 1-2-1 of this title. (Ord. C61-25, 4-
21-1964; amd. 2006 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964; amd.
2006 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of the city code shall make every effort to
maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the city
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be
returned to the office of the city clerk when directed so to do by order of the
city council. (2006 Code)
1-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
In the determination of the provisions of each section of this code, the
following rules shall be observed:
   A.    Intent To Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   B.   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provisions of any section
of this code prohibit the commission of an act, not only the person actually
doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the employer
and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said person
shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth.
(1961 Code § 1-1-6)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Pending Suits
1-2-4: Validity And Severability
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this
city code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or
are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the city; and all special ordinances, except as this code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case, such provisions of this code on
taking effect shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in
respect to such provisions only. (1961 Code § 1-2-1; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   The repeal of the ordinances as provided in subsection A of this
section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is accrued, any duty imposed,
any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding commenced under or by virtue
of the ordinances repealed or the term of office of any person holding office
at the time these ordinances take effect; nor shall the repeal of any ordinance
have the effect of reviving any ordinance heretofore repealed or superseded.
(2006 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue
of the preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1961 Code § 1-2-2)
1-2-3: PENDING SUITS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance. (1961 Code § 1-2-3)
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this city code. (1961 Code § 1-2-3; amd. 2006 Code)
1-2-4: VALIDITY AND SEVERABILITY:
If by law a part of this code is deemed or considered invalid in a particular
circumstance, that part shall still be enforceable, in whole or in part, in any
other circumstance allowed by law. When a part of this code is invalid in a
particular circumstance, that part shall then be severable from any other part
or parts that remain meaningful and valid. If a part of this code cannot be
enforced because the city has legal authority over some but not all persons or
subject matters, the part shall remain valid and enforceable as to any person
and subject matter where authority exists. This section shall be construed in a
manner consistent with applicable provisions of state and federal
constitutions, laws, regulations and court decisions; and shall not be
construed as an attempt to validate any code provision, otherwise invalid in
some or all circumstances, for any practice or purpose which would render this
section invalid, or render any other part of this code invalid solely because
of this section. (Ord. C90-7, 6-19-1990)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, Generally
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   Words prohibiting anything being done, except in accordance with a
license or permit or authority from a board or officer, shall be construed as
giving such board or officer power to license or permit or authorize a thing to
be done. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
   C.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2006 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERALLY:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
ANYTHING OF VALUE: Any conceivable thing of the slightest value, tangible or
intangible, movable or immovable, corporeal or incorporeal, public or private.
The term is not necessarily synonymous with the traditional legal term
"property".
CITY: The city of Gallup, county of McKinley, state of New Mexico.
CITY COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of
Gallup.
CODE: The city code of the city of Gallup.
COUNTY: The county of McKinley, state of New Mexico.
DEADLY WEAPON: Any firearm, whether loaded or unloaded; or any weapon which is
capable of producing death or great bodily harm, including, but not restricted
to, any types of daggers, brass knuckles, switchblade knives, bowie knives,
poniards, butcher knives, dirk knives, and all such weapons with which
dangerous cuts can be given, or with which dangerous thrusts can be inflicted,
including sword canes, and any kind of sharp pointed canes, also slingshots,
slug shots, bludgeons; or any other weapon with which dangerous wounds can be
inflicted.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Gallup".
FISCAL YEAR: From July 1 of each year to June 30 of the next year.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT AND NEGLIGENTLY: Imports a want of such
attention to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission as a
prudent man ordinarily bestows in acting in his own concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICER: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Gallup".
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include every part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PEACE OFFICER: Any public official or public officer vested by law with a duty
to maintain public order or to make arrests for crimes, whether that duty
extends to all crimes or is limited to specific crimes.
PERSON: Shall be deemed to include any person, firm, association or
corporation, or any organization of any kind.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished, and every right or
interest therein.
PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE: Includes streets, alleys, public ways, public squares or
any area used by the public for travel or parking, either in a vehicle or on
foot, whether publicly or privately owned.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of New Mexico.
STREET: Shall include all alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, ways, squares,
places and sidewalks, whether public or private and open to the public.
TENANT OR OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or
with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964; amd. 2006 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY  1
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Labor In Default Of Payment
1-4-3: License Revocation
1-4-4: Application Of Provisions
1-4-5: Sale Of Alcoholic Beverages Without License
1-4-6: Suspension Of Sentence
1-4-7: Property Left By Escapees
1-4-8: Confiscation Of Property Used In Crime
1-4-9: Liability Of Officers
1-4-10: Notification Of Abatement Of Nuisance
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA §§ 3-17-1 and 35-15-3.
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Unless specifically authorized otherwise by state law or limited by state law
or ordinance, a person found guilty of a misdemeanor as provided in this code
or found guilty of violating any provision of this code by committing an act
declared to be unlawful or otherwise prohibited, or omitting to act when
required, shall, for any single offense, be fined not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment not exceeding ninety (90) days, or by both
such fine and imprisonment. Each day this code is violated shall constitute a
separate offense. Notwithstanding any other provision of this code or state
law, no sentence of imprisonment shall exceed one hundred seventy nine (179)
days for any single offense or for all combined offenses consolidated at a
single arraignment or trial. (Ord. C90-4, 4-10-1990)
1-4-2: LABOR IN DEFAULT OF PAYMENT:
Every person committed to the city jail and other places provided by the city
for the incarceration of offenders of the provisions of this code shall be
required to work for the city at such labor as his or her strength permits
within or without such prison and other places provided for the incarceration
of such offenders. Such labor shall not exceed ten (10) hours each working day
and, for such work, the person employed shall be credited with such amount as
provided by statute towards the reduction of any fine or costs. Such work shall
continue until such fines or costs shall have been fully paid, either by such
work or by money payments. Money payments of such fines or costs may be made in
an amount equal to the original fine or cost or both, less any amount due the
person for such labor performed as herein provided. Such labor shall be
utilized by the various departments of the city wherever reasonable by request
to and under the supervision of the chief of police or such other person as the
city council by resolution may appoint for administering such work. (Ord. C61-
25, 4-21-1964; amd. 2006 Code)
1-4-3: LICENSE REVOCATION:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code, any
license previously issued to him by the city may be revoked by the city
council. (1961 Code § 1-3-3)
1-4-4: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to
every section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any act is
forbidden or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or
obligation remains unperformed or act continues, unless otherwise specifically
provided in this code.
   B.   One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one
recovery shall be made against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   No Fine Or Penalty Declared: Whenever the doing of any act or the
omission to do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this
code, and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such
breach, the provisions of the general penalty clause of this chapter shall
apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a breach or violation occurs or continues. (1961 Code § 1-3-4)
1-4-5: SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES WITHOUT LICENSE 1 :
The following policy is hereby adopted by the city council with regard to any
person found guilty, by plea or after trial, of the sale or offer of sale, of
any alcoholic beverage within the city without having a license permitting the
sale of such beverages. The penalty for conviction of sale of alcoholic
beverages without a license shall be as follows:
   A.   First Offense: When the defendant has not previously been convicted of
the misdemeanor of sale of alcoholic beverages without a license within the
city within the preceding three (3) years, he shall be sentenced to the city
jail for not less than thirty (30) days.
   B.   Second Offense: When the defendant has been once previously convicted
of the misdemeanor of sale of alcoholic beverages without a license within the
city within the preceding three (3) years, he shall be sentenced to the city
jail for not less than sixty (60) days.
   C.   Third And Subsequent Offenses: When the defendant has been convicted of
the misdemeanor of sale of alcoholic beverages without a license within the
city two (2) or more times within the preceding three (3) years, he shall be
sentenced to the city jail for not less than ninety (90) days.
   D.   Imposition Of Fine: In addition to the foregoing jail sentences, the
municipal judge may impose such fine, within his jurisdiction, as he may deem
appropriate.
   E.   Suspension Or Deferment Prohibited: There shall be no suspension or
deferment of any sentence hereby imposed. (Ord. C66-106, 2-26-1974)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 3 of this code for provisions regarding liquor
  control.
1-4-6: SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE:
   A.   Authority; Options: Except as prohibited under section
1-4-5 of this chapter, probation upon entry of a plea of guilty or judgment of
conviction when the magistrate judge is satisfied that such will serve the ends
of justice and of the public, he may:
      1.   Suspend, in whole or in part, the execution of the sentence; or
      2.   Place the defendant on probation for a period not exceeding one year
on terms and conditions the court deems best; or
      3.   Suspend, in whole or in part, the execution of the sentence and
place the defendant on probation for a period not exceeding one year on terms
and conditions the court deems best.
   B.   Discharge Of Liability: The defendant's liability for any fine or other
punishment imposed is fully discharged upon the successful completion of the
terms and condition of probation. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
1-4-7: PROPERTY LEFT BY ESCAPEES:
Any money or valuables left in the city jail by any escaped person shall become
the property of the city and shall revert to the general fund. (Ord. C61-25, 4-
21-1964)
1-4-8: CONFISCATION OF PROPERTY USED IN CRIME:
Any property used by any person in the commission of any act made unlawful by
this code shall be confiscated by the city. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
1-4-9: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (Ord. C61-
25, 4-21-1964)
1-4-10: NOTIFICATION OF ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE 1 :
When the city manager shall determine that a nuisance exists under any
provision of this code, he shall notify the person responsible for such
nuisance of such nuisance and request such person to immediately abate the
nuisance. If within ten (10) days from such notice, the person responsible for
such nuisance has not taken reasonable action to abate the nuisance, then the
city manager or his representative shall file a complaint against the
responsible person in the municipal court, provided, notice is not mandatory,
and the city manager or his representative may file a complaint without such
notice being given when such is determined to be necessary for the public
health, safety and welfare. (Ord. C66-31, 9-1968)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 4, chapters 1 and 2 of this code.
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Corporate Seal
1-5-2: Fiscal Year
1-5-1: CORPORATE SEAL 1 :
   A.   Description: A seal shall be adopted, the impression of which shall be
as follows: in the center the image of the official city logo and surrounding
such image in a circle the words, "City of Gallup, New Mexico, Founded 1881".
(Ord. 2012-9, 7-24-2012)
   B.   Use Of Seal: The seal of the city shall be affixed to all transcripts,
orders, certifications, certificates and other documents which it may be
necessary and proper to authenticate under the provisions of this code. (Ord.
C61-25, 4-21-1964)
   C.   Facsimile Of Seal: Seal is on file with the city clerk's office. (1961
Code § 1-6-3)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-18-1. See also charter article I, section 4.
1-5-2: FISCAL YEAR:
The fiscal year of the city shall begin on July 1 and end on June 30 of each
year. (1961 Code § 1-27-1)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL  1
SECTION:
1-6-1: Membership; Terms; Clerk
1-6-2: Qualifications
1-6-3: Mayor
1-6-4: Compensation
1-6-5: Mayor Pro Tempore
1-6-6: Meetings
1-6-7: Quorum
1-6-8: Rules Of Order
1-6-9: Motions
1-6-10: Ordinances
1-6-11: Committees
1-6-12: Advisory Commissions
1-6-13: Vacancy In Council
 
Notes
1 1. See also charter article II.
1-6-1: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS; CLERK:
The governing body of the city shall be the city council members and the mayor.
The city council shall consist of the mayor and four (4) council members.
Council members shall be elected for terms of four (4) years, except as
otherwise provided by charter and shall hold office until their successors are
duly elected and qualified. The city clerk shall serve as clerk of the city
council. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
1-6-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
Each member of the city council shall be a duly qualified elector of the city
and shall reside within the limits of the city during the term for which he has
been elected. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
1-6-3: MAYOR:
   A.   Elected Official; Term: The mayor shall be an elective official and
shall hold office for four (4) years and until his successor is duly elected
and qualified, except as otherwise provided by the charter.
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Generally Described: The mayor shall be the presiding officer of the
city council and shall be the official head of the city. He shall sign all
bonds, warrants and other official documents. He shall exercise and perform all
duties imposed upon him by the charter, by state law and the ordinances of the
city, and resolutions of the city council.
      2.   Supervise Officers; Enforce Ordinances: The mayor shall supervise
the conduct of all of the officers of the city, examine the grounds of all
reasonable complaints made against any of them, and cause all violations of
their duty or their neglect to be corrected promptly or reported to the proper
tribunal for punishment and correction. It shall be his duty to see that all of
the provisions of this code and other ordinances of the city are enforced.
      3.   May Require Aid: In case of any riot, rout or unlawful assembly, the
mayor shall have power to direct the action of the police force of the city,
and to call to his aid all citizens in suppressing the same.
   D.   Absence Or Inability To Serve:
      1.   Absence: Whenever any power shall be vested in the mayor, or he
shall be required to do any act or perform any executive function, in his
absence, it shall be the duty of the mayor pro tempore, for the time being, to
exercise such power and perform such act or executive function.
      2.   Death, Disability Or Resignation 1 : When a vacancy occurs in the
office of mayor more than one year prior to the expiration of the mayor's term,
it shall be filled by a special election, the first notice of which will be
published within thirty one (31) days. The qualified elector that is
successfully elected as a result of the special election shall serve as mayor
for the remainder of the vacant term. If the vacancy occurs less than one year
prior to the next regular municipal election for the office of mayor, the duly
elected mayor pro tem shall become mayor. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964; amd. 2006
Code; Ord. 2012-2, 3-13-2012; Ord. C2022-5, 12-13-2022)
 
Notes
1    NMSA § 3-11-2.
1-6-4: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Mayor: The salary of the mayor shall be twenty one thousand dollars
($21,000.00) annually.
   B.   Council Members: The salary of the council members whose terms commence
after the effective date of this section shall be fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) annually.
   C.   Paid Monthly: The salaries shall be paid monthly. (Ord. C95-1, 1-10-
1995)
1-6-5: MAYOR PRO TEMPORE 2 :
   A.   Mayor Pro Tempore: Council shall elect from its membership a standing
mayor pro tempore who, in the absence or incapacity of the mayor, shall
exercise the powers and duties of the mayor. In the absence or incapacity of
both the mayor and the standing mayor pro tempore, a majority of the remaining
members may elect an interim mayor pro tempore who shall act only until either
the mayor or the standing mayor pro tempore can act. (1961 Code § 1-8-6; Ord.
C61-25, 4-21-1964)
 
Notes
2    See Charter Article II, Section 10. See also subsection
  1-6-3D of this chapter.
1-6-6: MEETINGS:
   A.   Notice Of Meetings: Notice requirements shall be met by posting notice
of the date, time, place and agenda in the office of the city clerk. The city
clerk shall also provide telephone notice to those broadcast stations licensed
by the federal communications commission and newspapers of general circulation
in the city that have made an annual written request for the notice of public
meetings. (Ord. 2009-2, 5-26-2009)
   B.   Mayor To Preside: The mayor shall preside at all regular and special
meetings of the city council. He shall have the same right to vote as the other
members of the city council. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
   C.   Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the city council shall be held on
the second and fourth Tuesday evenings of each month at the council chambers of
the municipal building located at the corner of Aztec Avenue and Second Street.
Subsequent changes to the regular meetings of the city council shall be enacted
by resolution. Such meeting may be recessed to, or held in the first instance
at such other place or time as the mayor shall designate in a notice of a
meeting to be posted in the manner of notice of meetings as provided in
subsection A of this section.
   D.   Special Meetings:
      1.   Call: Special meetings may be called by the mayor or two (2) members
of the governing body upon three (3) days' notice. The notice shall include an
agenda for the meeting or information on how members of the public may obtain a
copy of the agenda. The agenda shall be available to the public at least twenty
four (24) hours before any special meeting.
      2.   Notice Requirements: Notice of a special meeting shall be posted in
the same manner as provided in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 2009-2, 5-
26-2009)
   E.   Adjourn: The city council may, at any regular or special meeting
called, adjourn to any other evening prior to the evening for the next regular
meeting, and in such case notice shall be given to each member by the clerk of
the city council in the same manner as provided in subsection D2 of this
section. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
1-6-7: QUORUM:
   A.   Three (3) members of the city council shall constitute a quorum to
transact business.
   B.   As long as there is a quorum of three (3) members of the city council
present in person for a meeting, up to two (2) members may participate in the
meeting by means of a conference telephone or other similar communications
equipment when it is otherwise difficult or impossible for the member(s) to
attend the meeting in person under the following conditions:
      1.   Each council member so participating can be identified when
speaking;
      2.   All participants in the meeting are able to hear each other at the
same time;
      3.   Members of the public attending the meeting are able to hear any
member of the public body who speaks during the meeting, including the member
(s) participating remotely. (Ord. 2016-10, 9-13-2016)
1-6-8: RULES OF ORDER:
   A.   Mayor To Preside; Call To Order: At all meetings of the city council,
the mayor shall preside and call all members to order at the appointed time and
proceed according to applicable state statutes, the rules of order as herein
provided, Council Resolution adopting rules of order, or as set forth in
Robert's Rules Of Order. Should a conflict exist between state statute, this
Ordinance, a council resolution, or Robert's Rules of Order; the order of
precedence shall be:
      1.   State statute;
      2.   City ordinance;
      3.   Council resolution; and
      4.   Robert's Rules of Order.
   B.   Questions Of Order Or Business Priority: The presiding officer shall
decide all questions of order and questions in relation to priority of
business.
   C.   Resolutions Reduced To Writing: All resolutions shall be reduced to
writing before being presented to the city council.
   D.   Voting; Recording: Every question presented shall be voted upon by all
members unless excused by the presiding officer and the yeas and nays, together
with the names of the voters, shall be recorded when called by any member of
the city council.
   E.   Majority Vote Required For Passage: In the passage of adoption of every
bylaw, ordinance, resolution or order, or to enter into contracts, a majority
of the votes of the members present of the city council shall be required.
   F.   Speaking; Number, Term: No member of the city council shall speak on
any question more than twice, nor for a longer period than five (5) minutes at
each time, except by special permission of the mayor.
   G.   Address Chair: Any member of the city council, before stating any
proposition or motion, shall address the chair, but shall not proceed before
being recognized.
   H.   Right To Address Council: No person not a member shall have the right
to address the city council or to participate in its proceedings unless
permission shall first be given by the chair, and it shall be the duty of the
chief of police to strictly enforce this rule, and if necessary, to expel from
the room any person violating it; provided, the city manager, officers of the
city and department heads shall have a right to be heard on matters pertaining
to their offices and departments. (1961 Code § 1-8-7; amd. Ord. C61-25, 4-21-
1964; Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966; Ord. C2022-5, 12-13-2022)
1-6-9: MOTIONS:
All motions shall be reduced to writing when requested by any member of the
city council. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
1-6-10: ORDINANCES 1 :
   A.   Style: The style of all ordinances shall be, "Be it ordained by the
governing body of the city of Gallup".
   B.   Record And Publication: An ordinance shall be recorded in a book kept
for that purpose, shall be authenticated by the signature of the mayor and city
clerk and shall bear the seal of the city. The ordinance shall be published one
time in a newspaper of general circulation in the city either in its entirety
or by title and a general summary of the subject matter contained in the
ordinance, whichever the city council elects to do.
   C.   Effective Date: No ordinance shall, unless it be declared an emergency
measure on the ground of urgent public need, go into effect until thirty (30)
days after its passage, unless a longer period for taking effect is otherwise
specified. After passage, the ordinance shall be subject to referendum as
provided in article V section 2 of the city charter. An ordinance declared an
emergency measure and adopted by at least four-fifths (4/5) of all members of
the city council shall go into effect five (5) days after publication as
provided in subsection B of this section, subject to repeal by referendum.
   D.   Repeal Of Ordinances:
      1.   Whenever any ordinances or any part thereof shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance or ordinances, the part thereof thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication and going
into effect of the ordinances repealing or modifying the same, and no suit,
proceeding, right, fine or penalty instituted, created, given, received or
accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal shall be in any way
affected, released or discharged by such repeal or modification.
      2.   Whenever any ordinance repealing or modifying a former ordinance
shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such
former ordinance unless it be therein so expressly provided. (1961 Code § 1-5-
6; amd. Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964; Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966; Ord. C66-161, 6-27-
1978; Ord. C2022-5, 12-13-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-17-1 et seq.
1-6-11: COMMITTEES:
All committees shall be appointed by the mayor or mayor pro tempore, with the
concurrence of the city council. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
1-6-12: ADVISORY COMMISSIONS:
   A.   Power To Create And Appoint: The mayor, with the advice and concurrence
of the city council, may create and appoint commissions for the purpose of
advising the council on issues involving city services and activities.
   B.   Advisory Only: Unless otherwise explicitly stated, all commissions
created after the effective date hereof shall be advisory only and shall not
have the authority or power to legally obligate the council or the city.
   C.   Appointments: All appointments of commission members shall be made by
the mayor, with the advice and concurrence of the city council. The
appointments may be made for a stated period of time. Any individual
appointment may be renewed at the time of the appointed term expiration.
   D.   Commission Reports: All commissions shall report as requested to the
mayor and council. Such commission reports may be made orally or in writing.
   E.   Presiding Chair; Procedures: All commissions created pursuant to this
section shall elect a presiding chair. Procedures governing commission meetings
and activities which are not contrary to or inconsistent with established city
policies may be adopted by a majority vote of the commission, subject to review
of the mayor and council.
   F.   Delegation Of Power Or Authority: No creation or appointment of any
commission under this section shall be considered a delegation of any power or
authority of the city council. (Ord. C99-2, 6-22-1999)
1-6-13: VACANCY IN COUNCIL 1 :
When a vacancy occurs in any office other than the mayor, the city council, by
majority vote of its remaining membership, shall within thirty one (31) days,
fill the vacancy of the office for the unexpired term. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964;
amd. Ord. C66-161, 6-27-1978; 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter, article II, section 8.
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES  1
SECTION:
1-7-1: Bond Required
1-7-2: Duties
1-7-3: Care Of Documents
1-7-4: Disposal Of Funds
1-7-5: Violation; Removal; Hearing
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA §§ 3-10-1 et seq., and 3-13-1 et seq.
1-7-1: BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   Specified: The officers hereafter mentioned shall, before entering upon
the duties of their respective offices, execute bonds to the city with sureties
to be approved by the city council, conditioned that they will faithfully
perform the duties of their respective offices, and surrender and turn over to
their respective successors all money, books, papers, property and other things
in their custody or control belonging to the city. The amounts of the bonds as
required by this section shall be as follows:
      1.   City clerk, five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
      2.   City treasurer, such amount as provided by law.
      3.   As otherwise required by state law for officers.
   B.   Filing; Preservation: Said bonds shall be filed with the mayor and by
him preserved and kept in some secure place subject, however, at all times to
the inspection of the city council. (Ord. C66-34, 1-14-1969; amd. 2006 Code)
1-7-2: DUTIES:
In addition to their regular duties, the several city officers and appointees
shall do and perform all such duties and render such other services not
specially defined by the provisions of this code as may be required of them by
the city council. (Ord. C66-34, 1-14-1969)
1-7-3: CARE OF DOCUMENTS:
Any officer of the city who shall deliver to any person other than the legal
custodian thereof, any record, book, paper or document belonging to the
archives of the city, except upon order of the mayor, without first taking a
receipt therefor from the person to whom such record, book, paper or document
is delivered, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The provisions of this section shall apply to officers and
employees. (Ord. C66-34, 1-14-1969; amd. 2006 Code)
1-7-4: DISPOSAL OF FUNDS:
   A.   Required:
      1.   The city clerk, chief of police, municipal judge and all other city
officers receiving monies belonging to the city shall, before three o'clock (3:
00) P.M. of each day, pay over to the city treasurer all monies then in their
hands, taking his receipt therefor, specifying the date thereof and on what
account paid.
      2.   Unless otherwise provided by this code, all fees, taxes, licenses,
fines, penalties, forfeitures and all monies from any source whatsoever which
may be collected or received by any officer or employee of the city in his
official capacity, for the performance of any official duty or service, shall
be paid by him over to the city treasurer.
   B.   Violation; Removal: Any officer of the city chargeable with money or
other personal property of the city, or who has been entrusted with the
collection, management or disbursement of any monies, bonds or interest
accruing therefrom, belonging to or held in trust by the city, who fails to
render an account thereof and make a settlement with the city treasurer on the
first day of every month, shall be subject to removal. (Ord. C66-34, 1-14-1969)
1-7-5: VIOLATION; REMOVAL; HEARING 1 :
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter may be removed by
the concurrent vote of four (4) members of the city council; but no such
removal shall be made without a charge, in writing, and an opportunity of
hearing being given. When any officer is removed under the provisions of this
section, the city council shall appoint his successor to fill the office for
the unexpired term of the officer removed. (Ord. C66-34, 1-14-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. See also charter, article II, section 2B(a).
CHAPTER 7A
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE A. CITY MANAGER  1
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Appointment; Removal; Compensation
1-7A-2: Bond Required
1-7A-3: Directors Of Departments
1-7A-4: Appointment And Removal Of Employees
1-7A-5: Financial Interest Prohibited
1-7A-6: Vacancy
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-13-3.
1-7A-1: APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Appointment; Qualifications:
      1.   Appointment: The city council, by a majority vote of all members,
shall appoint a city manager, who shall be the chief executive and head of the
administrative branch of the city 1 . No member of the city council shall be
chosen as city manager. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964; amd. 2006 Code)
      2.   Qualifications: The city manager shall be employed solely on the
basis of his executive and administrative qualifications with special reference
to his actual experience in or his knowledge of accepted practice in respect to
the duties of his office and need not, when appointed, be a resident of the
city or state. He shall have a college degree in some field allied to municipal
administration and two (2) years' experience in such field as an executive, or
shall have a minimum of two (2) years of college and five (5) years' experience
in an executive capacity in governmental administration.
      3.   Compensation: The city manager shall receive such compensation as
may be fixed by the city council.
   B.   Term; Removal, Hearing:
      1.   Term: The city manager shall be employed for an indefinite term and
shall hold office until a vacancy is created by death, resignation or removal
by the city council.
      2.   Removal:
         a.   Vote Required: The city council may remove the city manager by a
majority vote of all its members.
         b.   Preliminary Resolution: At least thirty (30) days before such
removal shall become effective, the city council shall, by a majority vote of
all its members, adopt a preliminary resolution stating the reasons for his
removal. By the preliminary resolution, the city council may suspend the city
manager from duty.
         c.   Reply; Request For Hearing: Within ten (10) days, the city
manager may reply, in writing, and may request a public hearing which shall be
held not earlier than twenty (20) days, nor later than thirty (30) days after
the filing of such request.
         d.   Resolution For Removal: After such public hearing, if one be
requested, and after full consideration, the city council, by majority vote of
all its members, may adopt a resolution of removal which shall be final.
         e.   Compensation: If the removal is for malfeasance, or misfeasance
in the performance of his duties, or he shall be convicted of a felony or of a
crime involving moral turpitude, the city council shall cause to be paid him
any salary due him to the date of the preliminary resolution. Otherwise, the
city manager shall be paid forthwith upon his removal his salary for the next
thirty (30) days following the adoption of the preliminary resolution of
removal. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
 
Notes
1 2. See charter, article III, section 1.
1-7A-2: BOND REQUIRED:
The city manager shall furnish a surety bond to be approved by the city
council, said bond to be conditioned upon the faithful performance of his
duties. The premium of the bond shall be paid by the city. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-
1964)
1-7A-3: DIRECTORS OF DEPARTMENTS:
All administrative officers heretofore or hereafter appointed shall have
supervision and control of their respective departments subject to the general
supervision and direction of the city manager. The city manager may, upon the
appointment by the mayor and approval of the city council, serve as the
director of one or more departments. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
1-7A-4: APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF EMPLOYEES:
Whenever it becomes necessary to employ or remove for just cause any employee,
such position shall be filled or vacated by the city manager according to the
requirements of the city. The city manager shall employ or remove such persons
based solely on the merit, qualifications or disqualifications of the employee
concerned, without regard to race, color or creed, or to the affiliation or
lack of affiliation of any person with any political party or other
organization. (Ord. C66-6, 6-20-1967)
1-7A-5: FINANCIAL INTEREST PROHIBITED:
The city manager shall have no financial interest in any contract or financial
transaction with the city. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
1-7A-6: VACANCY:
The city council shall appoint a city manager within a reasonable time after a
vacancy exists in the position. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 7B
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE B. CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Custody Of Official Documents
1-7B-2: Attest Contracts, Deeds And Other Documents
1-7B-3: Issuance Of Licenses
1-7B-4: Reports Required
1-7B-5: Keeper Of Seal
1-7B-1: CUSTODY OF OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS:
The city clerk shall have custody of all the laws and ordinances of the city.
He or his deputy shall attend all meetings of the city council, and shall keep
a regular and correct journal of the proceedings of the city council. (Ord.
C61-25, 4-21-1964)
1-7B-2: ATTEST CONTRACTS, DEEDS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS:
The city clerk shall attest for and on behalf of the city all contracts, deeds
and other documents authorized for the city. (Ord. C66-164, 1-9-1979; amd. 2006
Code)
1-7B-3: ISSUANCE OF LICENSES:
The city clerk or his authorized deputy shall make out all licenses authorized
by the provisions of this code and countersign them under the corporate seal,
and before issuing any warrant or license, he shall present the same to the
mayor for his signature and approval. No license shall be issued by the city
clerk until the fee therefor has been paid by the party making the application.
(Ord. C66-34, 1-14-1969)
1-7B-4: REPORTS REQUIRED:
The city clerk shall keep a full and complete record of all licenses and
warrants issued, with the names of the parties in whose favor they are drawn,
including dates, amounts, numbers and purpose for which issued, and shall on
the first day of each month, or as soon thereafter as the same can be
completed, and at such other times as the city council may require, prepare a
full and complete report of all warrants and licenses issued, also of all
monies collected belonging to the city, submitting with such report all
vouchers issued, and such report shall also include all other transactions of
his office during the month last preceding such report, and shall submit the
same to the city council at its first regular meeting in each and every month.
(Ord. C66-34, 1-14-1969)
1-7B-5: KEEPER OF SEAL 1 :
The city clerk shall be the keeper of the corporate seal and shall affix it to
all instruments which are required to be attested by the corporate seal. (Ord.
C66-34, 1-14-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. See also charter, article I, section 4.
CHAPTER 7C
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY  1
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Attend City Council Meetings
1-7C-2: Draft Legal Documents
1-7C-3: Right To Be Heard By City Council
1-7C-4: Act As Legal Counsel
1-7C-5: Execute Bond
 
Notes
1 1. See charter article II, subsection 2B for appointment provisions.
1-7C-1: ATTEND CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS:
It shall be the duty of the city attorney to attend all meetings of the city
council and to prepare written opinions upon all legal questions submitted to
him by the city council, and he shall advise any committee upon all questions
of law submitted to him, and, when so requested, shall advise any city officer
upon all questions of law pertaining to contracts with or by the city, and
shall advise upon all questions of law regarding the duties of such officers.
(1961 Code § 1-14-1)
1-7C-2: DRAFT LEGAL DOCUMENTS:
The city attorney shall draft all ordinances, contracts, leases, conveyances
and all instruments of writing which shall be required of him by the city
council. He shall act as legal advisor to the city in all matters pertaining to
contracts with or by the city, and shall advise upon all questions of law in
regard to the same. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
1-7C-3: RIGHT TO BE HEARD BY CITY COUNCIL:
The city attorney shall have a right to be heard upon all questions or motions
before the city council when the legality of any such proposed action shall be
called into question. (Ord. C66-34, 1-14-1969)
1-7C-4: ACT AS LEGAL COUNSEL:
It shall be the duty of the city attorney to attend the sessions of the
municipal court when requested by the municipal judge and to prosecute all
persons charged with the violation of any provision of this code. He shall
also, when required by the city council or any officer authorized to make the
request, appear on behalf of the city in all suits or proceedings by or against
the city and prosecute or defend the same as the case may require. He shall
cause execution to issue on all judgments in favor of the city and attend to
their prompt collection. (Ord. C66-34, 1-14-1969)
1-7C-5: EXECUTE BOND:
The city attorney is hereby authorized and empowered to make or execute any
bond or affidavit in the name of the city, signing the name of the city, as
city attorney, that may be necessary in any suit or proceeding in which the
city is a party. (Ord. C66-34, 1-14-1969)
CHAPTER 8A
CITY DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE A. POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Chief Of Police
1-8A-2: Uniforms Required
1-8A-3: Powers And Duties Of Officers
1-8A-4: Report Of Arrests
1-8A-5: Search Of Prisoners
1-8A-6: Personal Property In Police Possession
1-8A-7: Leaving City On Private Business, Permission Required
1-8A-8: Removal For Violation
1-8A-1: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Rank: The chief of police shall be the head of the police department
and have supervision over all the officers and members thereof. The chief of
police may, with the approval of the city council, appoint such special police
as may be required from time to time; however, such appointment may not be for
a period of longer than ten (10) days and special police shall not be
reappointed following the specified ten (10) days without the consent of the
city council.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.   Records And Reports: The chief of police shall keep such records and
make such reports concerning the activities of the police department as may be
required by statute or by the city council.
      2.   Performance Of Police Department: The chief of police shall be
responsible for the performance of the police department and of its functions
and all persons who are members of the police department shall serve subject to
his orders.
      3.   Code Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the chief of police, and
police officers, to see to the enforcement of all provisions of this code, of
all applicable statutes, and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the
law and arrest violators thereof. They shall have authority to call upon any
citizen or bystander to assist them in the execution of their duty. They shall
serve all processes issued to them and enforce all orders and judgments of the
court.
      4.   Custody Of Stolen Property: The chief of police shall have the
custody of all lost, abandoned or stolen property recovered within the city.
(Ord. C66-34, 1-14-1969)
1-8A-2: UNIFORMS REQUIRED:
The chief of police and all police officers shall wear uniforms of a type to be
designated by the chief of police. (1961 Code § 3-1-2)
1-8A-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS 1 :
   A.   Power Of Sheriff Or Constable: In the discharge of his proper duties, a
police officer shall have the same powers and be subject to the same
responsibility as sheriffs or constables in similar cases.
   B.   Writs And Processes: Police officers shall:
      1.   Execute: Execute and return all writs and processes as directed by
the municipal judge.
      2.   Serve: Serve criminal writs and processes in any part of the county
wherein the city is situated.
   C.   Suppress And Apprehend: Police officers shall, within the city:
      1.   Suppress all riots, disturbances and breaches of the peace;
      2.   Apprehend all disorderly persons;
      3.   Pursue and arrest any person fleeing from justice; and
      4.   Apprehend any person in the act of violating the laws of the state
or ordinances of the city and bring him before competent authority for
examination and trial.
   D.   Additional Duties: All police officers shall aid the chief of police in
the fulfillment of his duties as he may require, and shall be at all times
under the supervision and subject to the orders of the chief of police. (Ord.
C61-52, 10-4-1966)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-13-2.
1-8A-4: REPORT OF ARRESTS:
A report of all arrests made by the police officers for violations of the
provisions of this code shall be made daily, in writing, and shall include the
nature of the violation and the name of the offender. The reports shall be
filed and maintained in the police department. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
1-8A-5: SEARCH OF PRISONERS:
All persons committed to the city jail shall be immediately searched by the
arresting officer in the presence of any reliable resident of the city. All
articles of value or weapons shall be immediately turned over to the chief of
police or other officer in charge, together with the name of the person to whom
they belong, if ascertained, so that proper disposition can be made for their
safekeeping. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
1-8A-6: PERSONAL PROPERTY IN POLICE POSSESSION 1 :
   A.   Inventory; Record: A police officer shall immediately inventory and
make appropriate record in the records of the police department of any personal
property coming into his possession under authority of law or left in the
possession of the city. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
   B.   Authority To Sell Unclaimed Or Confiscated Property: Any unclaimed
personal property which has been unclaimed by the true owner and has been in
the possession of the city for more than six (6) months, or any property
confiscated by authority of law may be sold at public sale by the chief of
police and as provided by the laws of the state of New Mexico. (Ord. C61-52,
10-4-1966; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Notice Of Sale: The chief of police shall publish a notice of the
public sale once each week for two (2) successive weeks; the last publication
shall be made not more than seven (7) days, nor less than one day, before the
date of the sale. The notice shall contain:
      1.   A brief description of the personal property to be sold;
      2.   The time and place of the sale;
      3.   That persons claiming such property shall make such claim prior to
the time of such sale;
      4.   That the personal property will be auctioned off to the highest
bidder for cash; and
      5.   That the personal property is sold without warranty or guaranty of
any kind from the city, and in an "as is" condition.
   D.   Reclaiming Property: Prior to the sale, if the true owner identifies
the unclaimed personal property to be sold and offers strict proof of identity
and ownership of the personal property, the property shall be returned to the
true owner. Confiscated property shall not be returned to its owner after such
confiscation. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
 
Notes
  1. NMSA §§ 29-1-13 through 29-1-15. See subsection
1 1-9-28B of this title for sale of unclaimed personal property with a value of
  more than $2,500.00.
1-8A-7: LEAVING CITY ON PRIVATE BUSINESS, PERMISSION REQUIRED:
No police officer shall leave the city on private business without permission
of the chief of police. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
1-8A-8: REMOVAL FOR VIOLATION:
The chief of police and police officers of the city are subject to removal for
the violation of any provision of this article. No officer shall commit any
violation of any law of the United States, the state or any of the provisions
of this code. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
CHAPTER 8B
CITY DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE B. FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Chief Of Fire Department
1-8B-2: Division Commander
1-8B-3: Officers Of Department
1-8B-4: Fire Companies
1-8B-5: Badge
1-8B-6: Inspection Of Buildings And Premises
1-8B-7: Equipment Regulations
1-8B-8: Fire Rules And Regulations
1-8B-9: Signals
1-8B-10: Violation; Police Power
1-8B-11: Penalty
1-8B-1: CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Employment; Terms: The city manager shall employ the chief of the fire
department. He shall hold office pursuant to the terms of chapter 11 of this
title. (Ord. C66-70, 7-12-1971)
   B.   Rank: The chief of the fire department, commonly referred to as the
fire chief, shall be the head of the fire department and have supervision over
all officers and members thereof. (1961 Code § 1-16-2; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Duties And Authority:
      1.   The fire chief shall keep such records and make such reports
concerning the activities of the fire department as may be required by statute
or by the city council. He shall be responsible for the performance of the fire
department and of its functions and all persons who are members of the fire
department shall serve subject to his orders. He shall be responsible for the
control and custody of all fire department property and equipment. He shall
have the authority of a police officer while actively engaged in fighting a
fire, or going to or from a fire. (1961 Code § 1-16-3)
      2.   The chief shall perform such duties as may be prescribed by
subsection C1 of this section, as well as any others required of him by the
city council. (1961 Code § 3-2-6)
1-8B-2: DIVISION COMMANDER:
The chief shall appoint a division commander to exercise the duties of the
chief during his absence and in general have control over the fire department
subordinate to him. (1961 Code § 3-2-7; amd. 2006 Code)
1-8B-3: OFFICERS OF DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Designated: The fire department shall consist of one chief and such
other fire department officers as may be deemed necessary by the chief and
which are recommended by the chief, with the approval of the city manager, and
such hose companies, hook and ladder companies, fire companies and other
companies and organizations, with their respective officers, as may have been,
or may hereafter be organized and shall receive the recognition of the city
council. (Ord. C66-70, 7-12-1971; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Election:
      1.   The secretary and treasurer shall be chosen or elected at the time,
place and in the manner prescribed in the constitution and laws of said fire
department. The persons receiving the highest number of votes for their
respective offices shall be declared to be the nominees of said fire
department, or convention of the companies belonging to said fire department,
and thereupon a certificate shall be duly transmitted to the city clerk, signed
by the chairman of said fire department or convention, and duly attested by the
secretary of the same, setting forth the persons who received the highest
number of votes for their respective offices.
      2.   The city clerk shall, at the next regular meeting of the city
council, present said certificates to the city council and thereupon, the city
council shall proceed to forthwith confirm or reject said nominations of said
fire department or convention; provided, that said persons so nominated and
confirmed shall be citizens of the city, and not salesmen or employees of any
company or organization doing business with the Fire Department at the time
they assume the duties of their respective offices; provided further, that any
persons so chosen as above and confirmed as aforesaid, shall hold their
respective offices for one year, or until their successors are elected and
qualified; and provided further, that any person so chosen and confirmed may be
suspended or removed for cause by the City Council, upon and after full
investigation of any charge duly filed, in writing, with the City Clerk. In
case of the death, resignation, removal or suspension of either of the said
officers, the vacancy so caused shall be filled by the City Council. (Ord. C66-
70, 7-12-1971)
1-8B-4: FIRE COMPANIES:
   A.   Officers; Adoption Of Rules And Regulations: Each of said fire
companies or organizations shall elect from its members a foreman, assistant
foreman, second assistant foreman and third assistant foreman, secretary and
treasurer, and make and adopt such rules, regulations and bylaws as it shall
deem proper; provided, that such rules, regulations and bylaws as it shall
adopt shall be consistent with the provisions of this Code, and shall be
submitted to and approved by the City Council. (1961 Code § 3-2-4)
   B.   Foreman; Duties: It shall be the duty of the foreman to command their
respective companies, and preserve order and discipline and require and enforce
among the members thereof a strict compliance with the rules and regulations of
the Fire Department, to keep or cause to be kept correct rolls specifying the
time of admission and discharge of each member, and to make or cause to be made
true and correct copies of the same, for the Chief, when called upon so to do,
and in the absence of the foreman, the next acting officer, according to rank,
shall take command and perform the duties of foreman. (1961 Code § 3-2-8)
   C.   Duties: It shall be the duties of the companies, under the supervision
of their officers, to keep the hose and all fire apparatus clean and in good
working order at all times, and at fires cause the same to be managed
skillfully and effectively for the extinguishment of such fires. The hook and
ladder companies shall discharge the customary duty of the hose companies to
act as hosemen, to attend to taking the hose to fires, manage and protect it
while there, and after the fire is extinguished to properly put it in its right
place; and all companies shall perform such other duties as are necessary or
may be required by the Chief, his assistant, or foreman of the respective
companies. (1961 Code § 3-2-9)
1-8B-5: BADGE:
Every firefighter of the Fire Department shall, when on duty, wear a suitable
badge, to be provided by the City Council, with the name and number of said
firefighter's company engraved or marked thereon, and any person wearing such
badge unlawfully shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (1961 Code § 3-2-14; amd. 2006 Code)
1-8B-6: INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS AND PREMISES:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department and members of the
Fire Department designated by the Fire Chief for that purpose to inspect
buildings and premises within the City limits at such times as they may deem
proper, and to notify property owners and those in control of any such property
of any fire hazards as may exist therein, together with recommendation for the
removal or correction of said hazard. Should fire result from such hazard or
the failure of the owner or controller of said property to remove or correct
such hazards, said owner or controller of said property shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 2018-12, 8-28-2018)
1-8B-7: EQUIPMENT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Property Of City: All hose carts, carriages, hook and ladders, and all
other fire machinery, apparatus, tools, buckets and property of any description
whatsoever, in any way connected with said companies, excepting such property
as may be purchased by the companies with their private funds, or of its
individual members, when delivered to any company, shall be and remain the sole
and exclusive property of the City and shall be receipted for in duplicate by
the foreman and secretary of each company, one copy of which shall be kept by
the Chief, and one copy by the City Clerk, and said apparatus shall be kept in
good order and in a clean condition and ready for immediate service, in such
places as are now, or may be hereafter provided and designated by the City
Council. (1961 Code § 3-2-5)
   B.   Private Use: No person having charge of any hose or other equipment,
shall suffer the some to be applied to private use without the consent of the
City Council under the penalty provided for a violation of this code, and he
shall be personally liable in addition thereto for any injuries thereby
happening to such apparatus. (1961 Code § 3-2-13)
1-8B-8: FIRE RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Conduct At Fire: The different fire companies under the direction of
the proper officers, shall, upon the alarm of fire, report to the place of fire
with the fire apparatus under their care, and there work and manage the same
under the direction of the chief and his assistant. If any company shall,
without permission of the chief or other person in command of the fire
department, leave any fire, with their fire apparatus, the officer in command
of such company shall be held liable for such offense. (1961 Code § 3-2-10)
   B.   Improper Conduct: If any member of the fire department wilfully
disobeys or refuses to obey any order or direction of any proper official at
any fire, going to or coming from the same, he shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (1961 Code § 3-2-11; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Limits At Fire: The chief of police, or such other officer as may be in
command of the police at any fire, may prescribe limits within which no person
shall be admitted unless by order of the chief of police, or some other officer
of the police, to aid in carrying out the provisions of this article. (1961
Code § 3-2-12)
1-8B-9: SIGNALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person except the chief of the fire department, or
foreman, to give any of the working signals adopted by the fire department
while the same is on duty either at fire or practice. (1961 Code § 3-2-18)
1-8B-10: VIOLATION; POLICE POWER:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article may be immediately
taken in charge by any officer of the city or any officer of the fire
department, and brought before the municipal judge. The officers of each fire
company, when on duty, shall be vested with all the powers of police officers
of the city and have full power to summon a posse for their assistance. All
fines and penalties collected by virtue of this article shall be turned over to
the city. (1961 Code § 3-2-15)
1-8B-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (1961 Code § 3-2-19; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 8C
CITY DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE C. DEPARTMENT OF SANITATION
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Established; Superintendent, Appointment
1-8C-2: Superintendent Of Sanitation
1-8C-1: ESTABLISHED; SUPERINTENDENT, APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby established a department of sanitation in the city, consisting
of a superintendent and such additional personnel as may from time to time be
deemed necessary, all to be appointed by the city manager, and to receive such
compensation as may be provided by action of the city council. (1961 Code § 3-
4-1)
1-8C-2: SUPERINTENDENT OF SANITATION:
   A.   Supervision Under City Manager: The superintendent of sanitation shall
work under the general supervision of the city manager, or any department of
the city subsequently designated by the city council. (1961 Code § 3-4-2)
   B.   Duties: The duties of the superintendent shall be:
      1.   Supervise Operation: To supervise the operation of the sanitation
department;
      2.   Propose Rules And Regulations: To propose such rules and regulations
for the consideration of the city council as he may deem necessary to carry out
the provisions of this article;
      3.   Report To City Council: To make reports to the city council from
time to time as may be required;
      4.   Perform Other Assigned Duties: To perform such other duties as may
be assigned to him by the city council;
      5.   Inspections: To periodically make inspections throughout the city to
determine if the ordinances pertaining to sanitation are being followed.
Complaints with the municipal court shall be filed by the superintendent
against those persons violating any sanitation ordinances. The superintendent
shall give violators a reasonable opportunity to comply with the sanitation
ordinances before filing such complaints. (1961 Code § 3-4-3; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Term Of Office: The superintendent of sanitation shall serve for the
duration of his appointment unless otherwise removed by authority of the city
council or until his successor is duly appointed and qualified. (1961 Code § 3-
4-4)
CHAPTER 8D
CITY DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE D. OFFICE OF EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS  1
SECTION:
1-8D-1: Purpose
1-8D-2: Office Of Civil Emergency Preparedness; Local Coordinator, Appointment
1-8D-3: Local Coordinator; Duties And Responsibilities
1-8D-4: Emergency Operating Center; Activation
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 12-10-5.
1-8D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to create a civil emergency preparedness
organization for the city to be prepared for, and to function in the event of,
emergencies endangering the lives and property of the people of the city. The
duty of such civil emergency preparedness organization shall be to plan for
protection of the lives and health of the citizens of the city and of property
and of property rights, both private and public, and all functions necessary
and incident thereto. (Ord. C66-58, 3-10-1970; amd. 2006 Code)
1-8D-2: OFFICE OF CIVIL EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS; LOCAL COORDINATOR, APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government of the
city, an office of civil emergency preparedness, which shall consist of a local
coordinator, who shall be appointed by the mayor with the concurrence of the
city council, and subject to approval of the state director, New Mexico
emergency planning and coordination bureau, in accordance with New Mexico
Statutes Annotated section 12-10-5. (Ord. C66-58, 3-10-1970; amd. 2006 Code)
1-8D-3: LOCAL COORDINATOR; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The local coordinator of the office of civil emergency preparedness shall be
the executive head of the office of civil emergency preparedness and shall be
responsible for carrying out the civil defense program of the city. He may be
reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of his duties. It shall be
the duty of the local coordinator as soon as practicable after his appointment
to establish an organization to carry out the purpose set forth in this article
and he shall have all necessary power and authority to form committees or other
bodies and to appoint and designate the chairman or chief officer of such
bodies as may be necessary to establish such an organization. He shall have
such further duty and responsibility to cooperate with all civil emergency
preparedness agencies of other governmental units, including the state and the
federal government. The local coordinator is further authorized to formulate
written plans and gather information and keep written records thereof to govern
the functions of the office of civil emergency preparedness. (Ord. C66-58, 3-
10-1970; amd. 2006 Code)
1-8D-4: EMERGENCY OPERATING CENTER; ACTIVATION:
In the event of an enemy caused emergency or emergency resulting from natural
causes, the mayor shall cause to be activated an emergency operating center,
complete with the necessary communications capability for the continued
performance of local government. This emergency operation center shall operate
under the direction of the mayor in carrying out his duties as elected chief
executive and as specified in his oath of office. The local coordinator of the
office of civil emergency preparedness shall act as the chief executive
assistant to the mayor in the execution of these duties or as the mayor shall
direct. (Ord. C66-58, 3-10-1970; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 9
PROCUREMENT CODE
SECTION:
1-9-1: Purpose And Applicability
1-9-2: Definitions
1-9-3: Central Purchasing Office
1-9-4: Relevant Exemptions
1-9-5: General Procurement
1-9-6: Competitive Sealed Proposals
1-9-7: Procurement Of Professional Services
1-9-8: Qualifications Based Proposals; Architects; Engineers; Landscape
Architects; Surveyors
1-9-9: Miscellaneous Bid And Proposal Matters
1-9-10: Specifications
1-9-11: Contract Matters
1-9-12: Types Of Contracts
1-9-13: Cost Or Pricing Data
1-9-14: Multiple Source Award
1-9-15: Miscellaneous Procurement Matters
1-9-16: Small Purchases
1-9-17: Sole Source Or Emergency Procurement
1-9-18: Rapid Procurement
1-9-19: Other Types Of Procurements
1-9-20: Used Items
1-9-21: Ethical Conduct
1-9-22: Protests
1-9-23: Remedies
1-9-24: Debarment Or Suspension
1-9-25: Judicial Review
1-9-26: Resident Business Bidders Preference
1-9-27: New Mexico Resident Contractor
1-9-28: Sale, Exchange And Gift Of Property
1-9-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the procurement code is to provide for the fair
and equitable treatment of all persons involved in public procurement, to
maximize the purchasing value of public funds and to provide safeguards in
order to provide a procurement system of quality and integrity.
   B.   Applicability: The procurement code applies to all expenditures by the
city for the procurement of tangible personal property, services and
construction.
   C.   Expenditure Of Federal Funds: Procurement involving the expenditure of
federal funds must be conducted in accordance with the mandatory applicable
federal laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations will supersede the
procurement code where the procurement code is inconsistent with those federal
laws and regulations. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004)
1-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this chapter, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES: Services related to the art and science of designing
and building structures for human habitation or use and includes planning,
providing preliminary studies, designs, specifications, working drawings and
providing for general administration of construction contracts.
CENTRAL PURCHASING OFFICE: The office or officer within a state agency or local
public body responsible for the control of procurement of items of tangible
personal property, services, or construction. For the city, the central
purchasing office is the office of the purchasing agent.
CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER (CPO): Person within a State Agency's or Local Public
Body's Central Purchasing Office who is responsible for the control of
procurement of items of tangible personal property, services or construction.
CITY: The city of Gallup.
CITY OF GALLUP RESIDENT BUSINESS: For the purpose of qualifying for the city
resident business preference as specified in section
1-9-26 of this chapter, the following definition shall apply: a business
enterprise that has a fixed office or distribution point located in and a
street address within the corporate limits of the city; and has a current
business registration certificate from the city; and files and pays applicable
gross receipts tax on the state of New Mexico CRS report at the combined state
of New Mexico and city of Gallup rate for a period of ninety (90) calendar
days.
CONSTRUCTION: The process of building, altering, improving or demolishing any
public structure or building or public improvement of any kind to public real
property. Construction shall not include the routine maintenance or repair of
existing facilities.
CONTRACT: Any agreement for the procurement of items of tangible personal
property, services or construction.
CONTRACT MODIFICATION: Any written alteration in the provisions of a contract
accomplished by mutual action of the parties to the contract.
CONTRACTOR: Any business having a contract with a state agency or a local
public body.
COOPERATIVE PROCUREMENT: Procurement conducted by or on behalf of more than one
state agency or local public body or by a state agency or local public body
with an external procurement unit.
COST ANALYSIS: The evaluation of cost data and profit for the purpose of
arriving at costs actually incurred by a contractor, estimates of costs to be
incurred by a contractor and a profit to be allowed to a contractor.
COST DATA: Factual information concerning the cost of labor, material, overhead
and other cost elements which are expected to be incurred by a contractor or
which have been actually incurred by a contractor in performing the contract.
COST REIMBURSEMENT CONTRACT: A contract which provides for a fee other than a
fee based on a percentage of cost and under which a contractor is reimbursed
for costs which are allowable and allocable in accordance with the contract
terms.
DATA: Recorded information, regardless of form or characteristic.
DEFINITE QUANTITY CONTRACT: A contract which requires the contractor to furnish
a specified quantity of services, items of tangible personal property or
construction at or within a specified time.
DESIGNEE: A duly authorized representative.
DETERMINATION: A written documentation of a decision of the purchasing agent
which must include findings of fact that are necessary to support a decision.
This section requires that the purchasing agent comply with the basic mandates
of due process of law in that the decision must be in writing and must include
findings of fact which are required to support the decision reached. In any
litigation, the determination will form a major portion of the record upon
which the court will base its decision.
DIRECT OR INDIRECT PARTICIPATION: Any type of involvement in the approval,
disapproval, recommendation, formulation of any part of a purchase request or
influencing the content of any specification, investigation, auditing or the
rendering of advice.
EMPLOYEES: Any individuals receiving salary, wages or per diem and mileage from
the city, except elected officials and noncompensated individuals, e.g.,
appointed committee and board members.
EXTERNAL PROCUREMENT UNIT: Any procurement organization not located in this
state which, if in this state, would qualify as a state agency or a local
public body.
FINANCIAL INTEREST: An interest held by an individual, his spouse or dependent
minor children that is:
   A.   An ownership interest in business; or
   B.   Any employment or prospective employment for which negotiations have
already begun.
HEAVY ROAD EQUIPMENT: Any motor driven vehicle or apparatus capable of use for
earth moving or mixing components which has an aggregate value or price over
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
IMMEDIATE FAMILY: Refers only to spouse, children, parents, brothers and
sisters and is not necessarily consistent with other state statutes regarding
nepotism or other conflicts of interest involving relations.
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB): All documents, including those attached or
incorporated by reference, utilized for soliciting sealed bids.
LOCAL PUBLIC BODY: Every political subdivision of the state and the agencies,
instrumentalities and institutions thereof.
NEW MEXICO RESIDENT BUSINESS: A state of New Mexico "resident business" as
defined under New Mexico Statutes Annotated sections 13-1-21 through 13-1-22.
NEW MEXICO RESIDENT CONTRACTOR: A state of New Mexico "resident contractor" as
defined under New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 13-4-2.
PRICE AGREEMENT: A definite or indefinite quantity contract and the contract
must require that the city issue a purchase order in order to obtain tangible
personal property, services or construction under the definite quantity or
indefinite quantity contract.
PRICE ANALYSIS: The evaluation of pricing data without analysis of the separate
cost components and profit.
PROCUREMENT: The buying, renting, leasing, lease-purchasing or otherwise
acquiring of any goods, supplies, services or construction. It includes all
functions that pertain to procurement, including, but not limited to,
preparation of specifications, selection and solicitation of sources,
preparation and award of contracts and contract administration.
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES: The services of architects, archeologists, engineers,
surveyors, landscape architects, medical arts practitioners, scientists,
management and system analysts, certified and/or registered public accountants,
lawyers, psychologists, planners, researchers and persons or businesses
providing similar services, which may be designated as such by a determination
issued by the purchasing agent or the central purchasing office.
PURCHASE ORDER: The document issued by the central purchasing office directing
a contractor to deliver items of tangible personal property, services or
construction.
PURCHASE REQUISITION: The document submitted by a using agency to request that
the central purchasing office obtain a specified service, construction or item
of tangible personal property.
PURCHASING AGENT: The person or designee authorized to enter into or administer
contracts and make written determinations with respect thereto.
RAPID PROCUREMENT: Purchases of perishable food products and other goods,
services, and construction where advertising and the solicitation of offers are
not feasible.
REGULATION: Any rule, order or statement of policy, in whole or in part, and as
may subsequently be amended or repealed, issued by a city department or agency,
to affect persons that are members or employees of the issuer.
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS: All documents, including those attached or incorporated
by reference, used for soliciting proposals.
RESPONSIBLE BIDDER: A bidder who submits a responsive bid and supplies, when
required, sufficient information and data to prove that the bidder can perform
as promised in the bid.
RESPONSIBLE OFFEROR: An offeror who meets the same qualifications as required
for a responsible bidder, except that the responsible offeror has submitted a
responsive proposal to a request for proposals.
RESPONSIVE BID: A bid which conforms, in all material respects, to the
requirements established in the invitation for bids.
RESPONSIVE OFFER: Similar to a responsive bid except that the offer conforms,
in all material respects, to requirements set forth in the request for
proposals.
SERVICES: The furnishing of labor, time, or effort by a contractor, not
involving the delivery of a specific end product other than reports which are
merely incidental to the required performance.
SMALL BUSINESS: A business, not a subsidiary or division of another business,
having an average annual volume for the preceding three (3) fiscal years which
does not exceed one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000.00).
(Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004; amd. Ord. C2022-1, 4-26-2022)
1-9-3: CENTRAL PURCHASING OFFICE:
   A.   Duties: The central purchasing office shall be responsible for the
procurement function for the city, and shall perform all duties required by
this chapter and all other relevant statutes including recommending procurement
regulations to the director of the administrative services division,
establishing programs for the development and use of procurement specifications
and quality control methods, and prescribing forms to be used by the city
departments to requisition and report on the procurement of tangible goods,
services and construction. The central purchasing office shall also cooperate
and coordinate with the state purchasing agent, the central purchasing office
of other local public bodies and the purchasing office of external procurement
units to maximize the benefits to the city from joint and cooperative
procurement efforts.
   B.   Centralized Purchasing: The central purchasing office shall perform all
procurement functions of the city, except:
      1.   When otherwise expressly authorized by statute, ordinance or
regulation of the city. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004; amd. Ord. C2022-1, 4-26-
2022)
1-9-4: RELEVANT EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Printing and duplicating contracts involving materials which are
required to be filed in connection with proceedings before administrative
agencies, public safety agencies or judicial and legal agencies.
   B.   Purchases of publicly provided or publicly regulated utilities and
refuse collection services.
   C.   Purchases of books and periodicals from the publishers or copyright
holders thereof.
   D.   Travel or shipping by common carrier or by private conveyance or to
meals and lodging.
   E.   Purchase of animals to be used for exhibit.
   F.   Purchases not exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) consisting of
magazine subscriptions, web-based or electronic subscriptions, conference
registration fees and other similar purchases where prepayments are required.
   G.   The issuance, sale and delivery of public securities, pursuant to the
applicable authorizing statute, with the exception of bond attorneys and
general financial consultants.
   H.   Contracts entered into by a local public body with a private
independent contractor for the operation of a jail, pursuant to New Mexico
Statutes Annotated sections 33-3-26 and 33-3-27.
   I.   Art objects or artifacts or for their creation.
   J.   Advertising in all media, including radio, television, print, and
electronic.
   K.   Purchase of promotional goods intended for resale by the tourism
department.
   L.   Procurement of items of tangible personal property or services by the
city from a state agency, local public body, or external procurement unit.
   M.   Contracts with professional entertainers. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004;
amd. Ord. C2022-1, 4-26-2022)
1-9-5: GENERAL PROCUREMENT:
   A.   Exceptions: All procurement of goods, services or construction shall be
achieved by competitive sealed bids, except:
      1.   When competitive sealed proposals are authorized;
      2.   For small purchases;
      3.   For sole source procurements;
      4.   For emergency procurements;
      5.   For existing contracts;
      6.   For purchases from antipoverty program businesses;
      7.   For rapid procurement.
   B.   Invitations For Bids: The central purchasing office shall prepare or
review and approve all invitations for bids, which shall contain:
      1.   The specifications for the services, construction or items of
tangible personal property to be procured;
      2.   All contractual terms and conditions applicable to the procurement;
      3.   The location where bids are to be received;
      4.   Date, time and place of the bid opening;
      5.   A notice that states, "Violations of the procurement code may
involve criminal penalties for such conduct as illegal bribes, gratuities and
kickbacks, civil penalties and/or appropriate administrative remedies".
   C.   Bidders: Any business requesting an invitation for bid shall, at the
time the request is made, provide its current mailing address to the central
purchasing office.
   D.   Amendments To Invitation For Bids: The central purchasing office may
amend the invitation for bids in compliance with this chapter and regulations
to:
      1.   Make any changes in the invitation for bids, such as changes in
quantity, purchase descriptions, specifications, delivery schedules and opening
dates;
      2.   Correct defects or ambiguities; or
      3.   Furnish to other bidders information given to one bidder, if such
information will assist the other bidders in submitting bids or if the lack of
such information would prejudice the other bidders.
The amendment shall be sent to all bidders known to have received a copy of the
bid, within a reasonable time to allow bidders to consider them in preparing
their bid.
   E.   Bidding Time:
      1.   "Bidding time" means the period of time between public notice of the
invitation for bids or request for proposals and the date of bid opening.
      2.   The central purchasing office shall allow a reasonable bidding time
for preparation of bids or request for proposals, except when a shorter time is
determined to be in the best interest of the city. The bidding time shall be
not less than ten (10) calendar days unless a lesser time is deemed to be in
the best interest of the city.
   F.   Public Notice: Public notice of invitation for bids or request for
proposals shall be published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the area in which the central purchasing office is located. Such
public notice may include publication in a newspaper of general circulation,
mailing, or posting through an electronic medium accessible to the public.
      1.   The central purchasing office may authorize additional publications
at its discretion.
      2.   Vendor registration:
         a.   The city may establish registration fees for different categories
of services, construction or items of tangible personal properties.
         b.   Such fees must be related to the actual direct cost of furnishing
copies of the notice or invitation for bids to prospective bidders. The fees
shall be used exclusively for the purpose of furnishing such copies.
      3.   The city or the central purchasing office may require prospective
bidders who have requested documents for bid on a construction project to pay a
deposit for a copy of the documents for bid. If specified in the bid documents,
the deposit, less delivery charges, shall be refunded, if the documents for bid
are returned in usable condition within the time limits specified in the bid
documents.
   G.   Prebid Conferences: Prebid conferences may be conducted to explain the
procurement requirements. They shall be announced to all prospective bidders
known to have received an invitation for bids. The conference should be held
long enough after the invitation for bids has been issued to allow bidders to
become familiar with it, but sufficiently before bid opening to allow
consideration of the conference results in preparing their bids. Nothing stated
at the prebid conference shall change the invitation for bids unless a change
is made by written amendment, as provided by this chapter and regulations.
   H.   Receipt And Acceptance Of Bids:
      1.   Bids must be accepted for consideration without alteration or
correction, except as authorized in this chapter.
      2.   Bids are to be evaluated on the requirements set forth on the
invitation for bids. Any criteria which will affect the bid price, such as
discounts, transportation costs, total or life cycle costs, must be objectively
measurable. No criteria may be used in bid evaluation that is not set forth in
the invitation for bids.
      3.   Each bid received by the central purchasing office shall be received
electronically via electronic procurement platform in place.
      4.   If the lowest responsible bid has otherwise qualified and if there
is no change in the original terms and conditions, the lowest bidder may
negotiate with the purchaser for a lower total bid, in order to avoid rejection
of all bids, for the reason that the lowest bid was up to ten percent (10%)
higher than budgeted project funds. Such negotiation shall not be allowed if
the lowest bid was more than ten percent (10%) over budgeted project funds.
   I.   Correction Or Withdrawal Of Bids:
      1.   A bid which contains a mistake, when discovered before the bid
opening, may be modified or withdrawn by a bidder prior to the opening, by
delivery of a written or telegraphic notice to the central purchasing office.
      2.   After the bid opening, no modification in prices or other provisions
of bids are permitted. However, a low bidder alleging a material mistake of
fact which makes his bid nonresponsive may be permitted to withdraw his bid,
if:
         a.   The mistake is clearly evident on the face of the bid; or
         b.   The bidder submits evidence which clearly and convincingly
demonstrates that a mistake was made.
The decision to permit or deny withdrawal of a bid on the basis of mistake is a
decision to be made by the purchasing agent or designee and shall be supported
by a determination setting forth the grounds for the decision.
   J.   Bid Opening: Bids are to be opened publicly in the presence of one or
more witnesses at the time and place designated in the invitation for bids. The
amount of each bid and each bid item (if appropriate) and other relevant
information as may be specified by the central purchasing office, together with
the name of each bidder, shall be recorded in the procurement file and each bid
shall be open to public inspection.
   K.   Late Bids: Any bids received after the time and date for opening of
bids at the place designated for opening will be deemed late and will not be
considered for award.
Exception: A late bid may be considered for award if it is the only bid
received and postmarked prior to the bid opening date and time. Any decision to
allow consideration of a late bid shall be made in writing by the purchasing
agent and made a part of the appropriate procurement file.
   L.   Bid Award:
      1.   Following award, a record showing the basis for the award shall be
made part of the procurement file and the central purchasing office shall make
part of the bid file the names of all people present at the bid opening.
      2.   Contracts solicited by competitive sealed bids shall require that
the bid amount exclude the applicable state gross receipts tax or applicable
local option tax; but the city shall be required to pay the applicable tax,
including any increase in the applicable tax becoming effective after the date
the contract is entered into. The applicable gross receipts tax or applicable
local option tax shall be shown as a separate amount on each billing or request
for payment made under the contract.
   M.   Multistep Sealed Bidding: When the central purchasing office makes a
determination that it is impractical to initially prepare specifications to
support an award based on price, an invitation for bids may be issued
requesting the submission of unpriced offers to be followed by an invitation
for bids. Thus, multistep sealed bidding is a 2-phase process, consisting of a
technical first phase composed of one or more steps in which bidders submit
unpriced technical offers to be evaluated by the central purchasing office or
designee; and a second phase in which those bidders whose technical offers are
determined to be acceptable during the first phase have their price bids
considered. This is designed to obtain the benefits of competitive sealed
bidding by award of a contract to the lowest responsible bidder and at the same
time, obtain the benefits of the competitive sealed proposals procedure through
the solicitation of technical offers and conduct discussions to evaluate and
determine the acceptability of technical offers.
   N.   Identical Low Bids:
      1.   Definition: "Identical low bids" are low responsive bids from
responsible bidders which are identical in price after the application of the
preferences referred to in sections
1-9-26 and
1-9-27 of this chapter.
      2.   Award: When two (2) or more identical low bids are received, the
central purchasing office may:
         a.   Award pursuant to the multiple source award provisions of this
chapter and the procurement regulations;
         b.   Award to a city resident business if identical low bids are
submitted by a city resident business and a noncity resident business;
         c.   Award to a New Mexico resident business if the identical low bids
are submitted by a New Mexico resident business and a nonresident business;
         d.   Award to a New Mexico resident manufacturer if the identical low
bids are submitted by a New Mexico resident manufacturer and a New Mexico
resident business;
         e.   Award by lottery to one of the identical low bidders; or
         f.   Reject all bids and resolicit bids or proposals for the required
services, construction or items of tangible personal property.
   O.   Bid Security:
      1.   When Applicable: Bidders for construction contracts procured by
competitive sealed bid must provide bid security when the price is estimated by
the purchasing agent to exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00). The
bid security shall be equal to at least five percent (5%) of the amount of the
bid and shall be a bond provided by a surety company authorized to do business
in this state or the equivalent in cash or otherwise supplied in a form
satisfactory to the city.
      2.   Rejection Of Bids:
         a.   When the invitation for bids requires bid security, failure to
provide such security is grounds for rejection.
         b.   If a bidder is permitted to withdraw its bid before award, no
action shall be taken against the bidder or its surety.
      3.   Bid And Performance Bonds And Other Security:
         a.   Bid security, performance bonds or other security may be required
for contracts for items of tangible personal property or services, as the
central purchasing office deems necessary to protect the city.
         b.   Any such bonding requirements shall not be used as a substitute
for a determination of the responsibility of a bidder or offeror.
         c.   See small business provisions regarding reduction of security 1 .
(Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004; amd. Ord. C2022-1, 4-26-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-9-19 D of this chapter.
1-9-6: COMPETITIVE SEALED PROPOSALS:
   A.   Conditions For Use: Competitive sealed proposals may be used when:
      1.   Procuring professional services (See section
1-9-7 of this chapter);
      2.   When the central purchasing office or designee makes a determination
that the use of competitive sealed bidding is either not practicable or
advantageous to the city;
      3.   Design-build projects are authorized as per New Mexico Statutes
Annotated subsection 13-1-119.1;
      4.   For a qualifications based selection process for architects,
engineers, landscape architects, and surveyors see section
1-9-8 of this chapter.
   B.   Request For Proposals: Competitive sealed proposals are solicited
through a request for proposals and shall include the same material as is
included in an invitation for bids. The request should include the following:
      1.   The specifications for the services or items of tangible property to
be procured;
      2.   All contractual terms and conditions applicable to the procurement;
      3.   Instructions and information to offerors, including the location,
date, time and place where proposals are to be received;
      4.   All of the evaluation factors, including price, if applicable;
      5.   A statement that discussions may be conducted with offerors who
submit proposals determined to be reasonably assured of being selected for
award, but that proposals may be accepted without such discussions;
      6.   A statement of when and how price should be submitted; and
      7.   A notice that states, "Violations of the procurement code may
involve criminal penalties for such conduct as illegal bribes, gratuities and
kickbacks, civil penalties and/or appropriate administrative remedies".
   The request for proposals may incorporate documents by reference; provided,
that the request specifies where such documents can be obtained. The request
for proposals may require written acknowledgment of the receipt of all
amendments issued. The manner in which proposals are to be submitted, including
any forms for that purpose, may be designated as a part of the request for
proposals.
   C.   Public Notice:
      1.   Public notice shall be given in the same manner as provided in
subsection
1-9-5F of this chapter.
      2.   A copy of the RFP shall be made available for public inspection and
notice thereof posted at the purchasing office.
   D.   Receipt And Registration Of Proposals:
      1.   Proposals and modifications shall be received electronically via
electronic procurement platform in place by due date.
      2.   Proposals shall not be opened publicly. After the date established
for receipt of proposals, a register of proposals should be prepared, which
includes the name of each offeror, a description sufficient to identify the
service or item of tangible personal property offered, the names of the
required witnesses and such other information as may be specified by the
purchasing agent.
      3.   The proposals themselves shall not be open to public inspection
until after award of the contract.
      4.   Offerors may request, in writing, nondisclosure of confidential
data. Such data should accompany the proposal and should be readily separable
from the proposals, in order to facilitate eventual public inspection of the
nonconfidential portion of the proposal.
   E.   Evaluation Of Proposals: Proposals shall be evaluated on the basis of
demonstrated competence and qualification for the type of goods or services
required and shall be based on the evaluation factors set forth in the request
for proposals. Numerical rating systems or a weighted scale shall be used to
indicate relative importance of evaluation factors to be used in the scoring of
proposals. Price may be a weighted factor. For the purpose of conducting
discussions, proposals shall be initially classified as:
      1.   Acceptable;
      2.   Potentially acceptable; that is, reasonably assured of being made
acceptable; or
      3.   Unacceptable; offerors whose proposals are unacceptable shall be
notified promptly.
   F.   Negotiations:
      1.   Offerors submitting proposals can be afforded an opportunity for
discussion and revision of proposals. The city reserves the right to short list
offerors.
      2.   Revision may be permitted after submission of proposals but prior to
award and for the purpose of obtaining the best and final offers in response to
a request for proposals. Negotiations may be conducted with responsible
offerors found to be reasonably likely to be selected for award.
      3.   Discussions may be held to promote understanding of the city's
requirements and offerors proposals and to facilitate arriving at a contract
that will be most advantageous to the city.
      4.   The contents of any proposal shall not be disclosed so as to be
available to competing offerors during the negotiation process.
   G.   Award: The award shall be made to the responsible offeror or offerors
whose proposal is most advantageous to the city, taking into consideration the
evaluation factors set forth in the request for proposals. The purchasing agent
or designee shall make a written determination showing the basis on which the
award was found to be most advantageous to the city, based on the factors set
forth in the request for proposals. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004; amd. Ord. C2022-
1, 4-26-2022)
1-9-7: PROCUREMENT OF PROFESSIONAL SERVICES:
   A.   Regulations: The central purchasing office may procure professional
services whose cost does not exceed sixty thousand dollars ($60,000.00) in
accordance with regulations promulgated by the city.
   B.   Award: Award shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
1-9-6G of this chapter. The city may negotiate with any responding offeror with
the intent of obtaining best and final offers.
   C.   Procurement File: All proposals submitted must be recorded and placed
in the procurement file for audit purposes. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004; amd.
Ord. C2022-1, 4-26-2022)
1-9-8: QUALIFICATIONS BASED PROPOSALS; ARCHITECTS; ENGINEERS; LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECTS; SURVEYORS:
   A.   Interviews: When the costs of architect, engineer, landscape architect,
surveyor or construction management services are expected to exceed sixty
thousand dollars ($60,000.00), a selection committee shall evaluate statements
of qualifications and performance data submitted by at least three (3)
businesses in regard to the particular project. The selection committee may
conduct interviews with those businesses applying for selection regarding their
qualifications, their approach to the project and their ability to furnish the
required services.
   B.   Criteria:
      1.   The selection committee shall select, ranked in order of their
qualifications, those businesses deemed to be the most highly qualified to
perform the required services after considering the evaluation criteria, except
for price, established by the using department.
      2.   Notwithstanding other provisions of this subsection, prices may be
requested under separate, sealed cover with the proposal, but shall not be
considered in the evaluation criteria, nor opened prior to the final ranking by
the evaluation committee.
      3.   If fewer than three (3) businesses have submitted a statement of
qualifications for a particular project, the selection committee may select the
highest ranked business from among those businesses which have submitted a
statement of qualifications; or recommend termination of the selection process
pursuant to subsection
1-9-9A of this chapter and send out new notices of the resolicitation.
Proposals received in response to a terminated solicitation are not public
information and shall not be made available to competing offerors.
   C.   Contract Negotiations:
      1.   Should the city be unable to negotiate a satisfactory contract with
the business determined to be the first and most qualified, at a price
determined to be fair and reasonable to both parties, and taking into account
the scope, complexity and professional nature of the services, negotiations
with that business shall be terminated. The city shall then undertake
negotiations with the second most qualified business. Failing accord with the
second most qualified business, negotiations shall be formally terminated and
negotiations with the third most qualified business shall commence. Should
negotiations fail with the first, second or third most qualified business,
additional businesses, if any, shall be ranked in order of qualifications.
      2.   Negotiations shall continue until a contract is signed with a
qualified business or the procurement process is terminated and a new request
for proposal is initiated.
   D.   Architect; Engineer; Landscape Architect; Surveyor Contracts:
      1.   All contracts between the city and an architect for the construction
of new buildings or for the remodeling or renovation of existing buildings
shall contain the provision that all designs, drawings, specifications, notes
and other work developed in the performance of the contract are the sole
property of the city.
      2.   All documents, including drawings and specifications, prepared by
the architect, engineer, landscape architect or surveyor are instruments of
professional service. If the plans and specifications developed in the
performance of the contract shall become the property of the city upon
completion of the work, the city agrees to hold harmless, indemnify and defend
the architect, engineer, landscape architect or surveyor against all damages,
claims and losses, including defense costs, arising out of any reuse of the
plans and specifications without the written authorization of the architect,
engineer, landscape architect or surveyor. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004; amd. Ord.
C2022-1, 4-26-2022)
1-9-9: MISCELLANEOUS BID AND PROPOSAL MATTERS:
   A.   Rejection Or Cancellation Of Bids Or Request For Proposals:
      1.   Reasons For; Determination: An invitation for bids, a request for
proposals or any other solicitations may be canceled or any or all bids or
proposals may be rejected in whole or in part, when it is in the best interest
of the city. A determination containing the reasons therefor shall be made part
of the procurement file. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, if no
bids are received or if all bids received are rejected in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and the items of tangible personal property,
construction or services are still desired, the purchasing agent may, upon
issuing a determination, procure the items of tangible personal property,
construction or services in the open market at the best obtainable price.
      2.   Records:
         a.   When bids or proposals are rejected or a solicitation canceled
after bids or proposals are received, the bids or proposals which have been
opened shall be retained in the procurement file.
   B.   Irregularities In Bids Or Proposals: The central purchasing office may
waive technical irregularities in the form of the bid or proposal of the low
bidder or offeror which do not alter the price, quality or quantity of the
services, construction or items of tangible personal property bid or offered.
   C.   Responsibility Of Bidders And Offerors:
      1.   If a bidder or offeror who otherwise would have been awarded a
contract is found not to be a responsible bidder or offeror, a determination
that the bidder or offeror is not a responsible bidder or offeror, setting
forth the basis of the finding shall be prepared by the central purchasing
office.
      2.   Failure of a bidder or offeror to promptly supply information
connected with inquiries with respect to responsibility is grounds for a
determination of nonresponsibility.
   D.   Prequalification Of Bidders:
      1.   Businesses may be prequalified by the central purchasing office for
particular types of services, construction or items of tangible personal
property.
      2.   Any mailing lists of potential bidders or offerors shall include,
but not be limited to, such prequalified businesses.
      3.   Regulations should be adopted determining the prerequisites for
prequalification.
      4.   The fact that a business has been prequalified by the central
purchasing office does not represent a finding of responsibility. (Ord. C2004-
15, 11-9-2004; amd. Ord. C2022-1, 4-26-2022)
1-9-10: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Requirement:
      1.   All specifications shall be drafted to ensure maximum competition.
(Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004; amd. 2006 Code)
      2.   Brand name specification may be used only when the central
purchasing office determines that the identified brand name item will satisfy
the needs of the city.
      3.   The central purchasing office shall attempt to identify as many
sources as possible from which the designated brand name items can be obtained
and shall achieve whatever price competition is practicable. A sole source
procurement may be made in accordance with section
1-9-17 of this chapter.
   B.   Brand Name Or Equal Specifications:
      1.   Normally, brand names or equal specifications shall include a
description of the particular design, function or performance characteristics
required. However, if the essential characteristics of the brand names included
in the specifications are commonly known in the industry or trade, such a
detailed description is not necessary.
      2.   Where brand name or equal specification is used in a solicitation,
the solicitation shall contain explanatory language that the use of the brand
name is for the purpose of describing a standard of quality, performance and
characteristics desired and not intended to limit or restrict competition.
   C.   Purchase Requests:
      1.   The using agency's requests for procurement must contain a statement
of need, the general characteristics of the item of tangible personal property,
construction or service desired and a statement of the quantity desired and
quality desired.
      2.   The central purchasing office may consolidate procurements. (Ord.
C2004-15, 11-9-2004)
1-9-11: CONTRACT MATTERS:
   A.   Uniform Contract Clauses: The city may require, by regulation, that
contracts include uniform clauses providing for termination, price adjustment,
adjustment in time or performance, etc. The following are specifically allowed
to be included as uniform contract clauses:
      1.   Unilateral right of the city to order, in writing, changes in the
work within the scope of the contract and temporary stoppage of the work or
delay of performance.
      2.   Variations occurring between estimated quantities of work in a
contract and actual quantities.
      3.   Liquidated damages.
      4.   Permissible excuses for delay or nonperformance.
      5.   Termination for default.
      6.   Termination in whole or in part for convenience of the City.
      7.   Assignment clauses providing for the assignment by the contractor to
the City of causes of action for violation of State or Federal Antitrust
Statutes.
      8.   Indemnification of subcontractors.
      9.   Uniform subcontract clauses.
   B.   Price Adjustments: Adjustments in price shall be computed in one or
more of the following ways, as specified in the contract:
      1.   By agreement on a fixed price adjustment before commencement of
performance or as soon thereafter as is practicable.
      2.   By unit price, as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed
upon.
      3.   By the cost attributable to the events or conditions, as specified
in the contract or subsequently agreed upon.
      4.   By a provision for both upward and downward revision of stated
contract price upon the occurrence of specified contingencies, if the contract
is for commercial items sold in substantial quantities to the general public
with prices based upon established catalogue or list prices in a form regularly
maintained by the manufacturer or vendor and published or otherwise available
for customer inspection. In the event of revision of the stated contract price,
the contract file shall be promptly documented by the Central Purchasing
Office.
      5.   In any other manner agreed upon by the parties.
      6.   In the absence of agreement by the parties, by unilateral
determination reasonably computed by the City of the costs attributable to the
events or conditions. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004)
1-9-12: TYPES OF CONTRACTS:
   A.   In General:
      1.   Types Permitted: Except as provided in this chapter, any type of
contract is allowed, including, but not limited to, definite quantity and
indefinite quantity contracts and price agreements, which will promote the best
interests of the City.
      2.   Cost Plus Percentage Contract: However, a cost plus a percentage of
cost contract is prohibited, except for the purchase of insurance.
      3.   Cost Reimbursement Contract: A cost reimbursement contract may be
used when such contract is likely to be less costly or it is impracticable to
otherwise obtain the services, construction or items of tangible personal
property required. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004)
   B.   Multiterm Contracts:
      1.   Prerequisites: Prior to the utilization of a multiterm contract, the
Central Purchasing Office shall determine that:
         a.   The estimated requirements over the period of a contract are
reasonably firm and continuing; and
         b.   The contract will serve the best interests of the City.
      2.   Term Of Contract: A multiterm contract may be entered into for any
period of time, not to exceed:
         a.   Four (4) years for items of tangible personal property,
construction or services (except for professional services), if the contract
amount is less than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00);
         b.   Ten (10) years, including all extensions and renewals for items
of tangible personal property, construction or services (except for
professional services), if the contract amount is more than twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00);
         c.   A contract for professional services may not exceed a term of
four (4) years, including all extensions and renewals, except that a multiterm
contract for the services of bond counsel, financial advisors, trustees, escrow
agents, registrars, paying agents, letter of credit issuers and other forms of
credit enhancement and other similar services, excluding bond attorneys,
underwriters and financial advisors with regard to the issuance, sale and
delivery of public securities, may be for the life of the securities or as long
as the securities remain outstanding; and
         d.   Thirty (30) years for the purchase of electricity or natural gas.
      3.   Availability Of Funds: Payment and performance of obligations for
any succeeding fiscal periods are subject to the availability and appropriation
of funds, except as provided in a multi-term contract that pledges revenues
from a special fund that is exempt from the requirements of New Mexico Statutes
Annotated 6-6-11 (1978).
      4.   Cancellation: If funds are not appropriated or otherwise made
available to support continuation of the multiterm contract, the contract shall
be canceled. (Ord. 2017-9, 11-14-2017; amd. Ord. C2022-1, 4-26-2022)
1-9-13: COST OR PRICING DATA:
   A.   When Applicable: A prospective contractor shall submit cost or pricing
data when the contract is expected to exceed twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) and is to be awarded by a method other than competitive sealed
bids and when such data is required to be provided by the Central Purchasing
Office.
   B.   When Not Required: Cost or pricing data is not required when:
      1.   The procurement is based on competitive sealed bid;
      2.   The contract price is based on established catalog or market prices;
      3.   The contract price is set by law or regulation; or
      4.   The contract is for professional services.
   C.   Change Orders Or Contract Modifications:
      1.   When required by the Central Purchasing Office, a contractor shall
submit cost or pricing data prior to the execution of any change order or
contract modification, regardless of whether or not the pricing data was
required in connection with the initial award of the contract, if the change
order or modification involves aggregate increases or decreases that are
expected to exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00).
      2.   However, the submission of cost or pricing data relating to change
orders or contract modifications shall not be required when unrelated to change
orders or contract modifications for which cost or pricing data would not be
required or consolidated for administrative convenience.
   D.   Certification: The contractor, whether actual or prospective, shall
submit certification of the cost or pricing data that, to the best of its
knowledge and belief, the cost or pricing data submitted was accurate, complete
and current as of a specified date.
   E.   Price Adjustment Provision: Whenever cost or pricing data is required,
the certification shall contain a provision stating that the price to the City
(including profit or fee) shall be adjusted to exclude any significant sums by
which the City reasonably finds that such a price was increased because the
contractor furnished cost or pricing data that was inaccurate, incomplete or
not current as of the date specified.
   F.   Cost Or Price Analysis: A cost or price analysis may be conducted prior
to the award of a contract other than one awarded by competitive sealed
bidding. A written record of such cost or price analysis shall be made part of
the procurement file.
   G.   Cost Principles: The City may promulgate regulations setting forth
principles to determine the allowability of incurred costs for the purpose of
reimbursing costs to a contractor. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004)
1-9-14: MULTIPLE SOURCE AWARD:
   A.   Limitations On Use:
      1.   A multiple source award may be made when awards to two (2) or more
bidders or offerors are necessary for adequate delivery of goods or services.
      2.   Multiple source awards shall not be made when a single award will
meet the needs of the City without sacrifice of economy or service.
   B.   Determination Required: The Central Purchasing Office shall make a
determination setting forth the reasons for a multiple source award. (Ord.
C2004-15, 11-9-2004)
1-9-15: MISCELLANEOUS PROCUREMENT MATTERS:
   A.   Receipt Of Goods: The Municipal warehouse will be the central receiving
point for all goods, except where the nature of the goods or the quantities
involved dictates otherwise.
   B.   Payment Of Purchases:
      1.   No payment shall be made unless the Central Purchasing Office or
using agency certifies that the services, construction or items of personal
property have been received and meet specifications; or
      2.   Unless prepayment is permitted by virtue of exclusion from this
chapter, section
1-9-4 of this chapter, or by the nature of the procurement (e.g., special
orders, custom fabrications).
      3.   If payment is made by mail, the payment shall be deemed tendered on
the date it is postmarked.
   C.   Right To Inspect Plant: A contract or solicitation thereof may include
a provision allowing the City, at reasonable times, to inspect the part of the
plant or place of business of a contractor or any subcontractor which is
related to the performance of any contract awarded or to be awarded.
   D.   Audits:
      1.   The City may, at reasonable times and places, audit the books and
records of any person who has submitted cost or pricing data to the extent that
such books or records relate to such cost or pricing data.
      2.   Vendors supplying cost or pricing data must maintain books and
records that relate to such data for three (3) years from the date of final
payment under the contract, unless a shorter period is authorized in writing.
      3.   The same provisions relate to an audit of the books and records of
any contractor or subcontractor under a negotiated contract or subcontract
other than a firm fixed price contract. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004)
1-9-16: SMALL PURCHASES:
   A.   Limits: The Central Purchasing Office shall procure services (except
for professional services; see section
1-9-7 of this chapter) or items of tangible personal property having a value
not exceeding forty thousand dollars ($40,000.00) in accordance with the
applicable small purchase regulations.
   B.   Dividing Purchases: Procurement requirements shall not be artificially
divided so as to constitute a small purchase under this section. (Ord. C2004-
15, 11-9-2004; amd. Ord. C2022-1, 4-26-2022)
1-9-17: SOLE SOURCE OR EMERGENCY PROCUREMENT:
   A.   Sole Source Procurement:
      1.   A contract may be awarded without competitive sealed bids or
competitive sealed proposals, regardless of the estimated cost, when the
Central Purchasing Office makes a determination, after conducting a good faith
review of available sources and consulting the using agency, that there is only
one source for the required service, construction or item of tangible personal
property.
      2.   If such a situation exists, the Central Purchasing Office shall
conduct negotiations, as appropriate, in order to obtain the most advantageous
terms for the City.
      3.   Any request by a using agency that a procurement be restricted to
one potential contractor shall be accompanied by a written explanation as to
why no other will be suitable or acceptable to meet the need.
   B.   Emergency Procurements:
      1.   An emergency is a situation creating a threat to public health,
safety, welfare or property arising by reason of flood, epidemic, riot,
equipment failure or other similar events. The emergency condition must create
an immediate and serious need for items of tangible personal property, services
or construction that cannot be met through normal procurement methods and the
lack of such services or construction seriously threaten:
         a.   The functioning of government;
         b.   The preservation or protection of property; or
         c.   The health or safety of any person.
      2.   The central purchasing office or designee may authorize emergency
procurement when an emergency exists; provided, that emergency procurements are
to be made with such competition as is practicable under the circumstances.
      3.   A written determination of the basis of the emergency procurement
and the selection of a particular contractor shall be included in the
procurement file.
   C.   Records:
      1.   The central purchasing office shall maintain records of all sole
source or emergency procurements.
      2.   The record shall contain:
         a.   The contractor's name and address;
         b.   The amount and term of the contract;
         c.   A listing of the services, construction or items of tangible
personal property procured under the contract; and
         d.   The conditions necessitating the purchase.
   D.   Construction Emergency Or Sole Source Procurements: Notwithstanding the
requirements of subsections A and B of this section, sole source and emergency
procurement, other sections of statute apply when acquiring construction
contracts. If the central purchasing office declares a sole source or emergency
construction contract, the office must:
      1.   Obtain a state wage rate determination, pursuant to New Mexico
Statutes Annotated section 13-4-11, if the construction contract is more than
sixty thousand dollars ($60,000.00).
      2.   Obtain performance and labor/material payment bonds, pursuant to New
Mexico Statutes Annotated section 13-4-18, if the construction contract is more
than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00). The central purchasing office
may require those bonds if a project is less than twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00), at their discretion. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004; amd. Ord. C2022-
1, 4-26-2022)
1-9-18: RAPID PROCUREMENT:
   A.   The rapid procurement procedure is for purchases of perishable food
products and other goods, services and construction for any amount not to
exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), where advertising and the
solicitation of offers are not feasible and would involve delays resulting in
unnecessary increases in cost and time which are detrimental to the best
interest of the city.
   B.   Examples of said purchases include, but are not limited to, purchases
of used, discontinued or unique items that may be available for a limited or
one time offer.
   C.   Rapid procurement may be utilized by the purchasing office under the
following conditions:
      1.   The requesting department submits written documentation to the
purchasing office justifying the need for rapid procurement.
      2.   The purchasing agent makes a written determination granting approval
or denying the request for a rapid purchase.
      3.   The purchasing office solicits three (3) written quotes or if three
(3) quotes cannot be obtained, documentation regarding efforts made to obtain
three (3) quotes are made a part of the file.
      4.   All documents regarding a rapid purchase shall be made a part of the
appropriate procurement file. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004; amd. Ord. C2022-1, 4-
26-2022)
1-9-19: OTHER TYPES OF PROCUREMENTS:
   A.   Procurement Under Existing Contracts: The central purchasing office may
contract for services, professional services, construction or items of tangible
personal property without use of competitive sealed bids or competitive sealed
proposals, as follows:
      1.   When procuring at a price equal to or less than a federal supply
contract price or catalog price, whichever is lower and the purchase order
adequately identifies the contract relied upon; or
      2.   With a business which has a current contract or price agreement with
a state of New Mexico agency or governmental body, or an external procurement
unit for the items, services or construction which meet the same standard of
specifications as the items that are to be procured, if the following
conditions are met:
         a.   The quantity purchased does not exceed the quantity which may be
purchased under the applicable contract; and
         b.   The purchase order adequately identifies the contract relied upon
by number, if applicable, or by other appropriate reference; and
         c.   The central purchasing office shall retain a copy of the contract
or current price agreement relied upon for public inspection and for the use of
auditors; or
      3.   Utilize a solicitation awarded by the city to the same vendor within
the previous twelve (12) months, for the same goods or services and at the same
price, terms and conditions, and with the concurrence of the vendor. Copies of
the original contract shall become a part of the procurement record.
   B.   Cooperative Procurement:
      1.   The city may participate in, sponsor or administer a cooperative
procurement agreement for procurement of any services, professional services,
construction or items of tangible personal property with a state agency, local
public body or external procurement unit, in accordance with a joint powers
agreement, or piggyback off another state agency, local public body, or
external procurement unit's contract.
      2.   The central purchasing office may cooperate with the state
purchasing agent in obtaining contracts or price agreements and such contracts
or price agreements shall apply to purchase orders issued subsequently under
the agreement.
   C.   Purchases From Antipoverty Program Businesses:
      1.   The central purchasing office may negotiate a contract for materials
grown, processed or manufactured in this state by small businesses,
cooperatives, communities, self-determination corporations or such other
enterprises designed and operated to alleviate antipoverty conditions and aided
by state or federal antipoverty programs or private philanthropy.
      2.   Prior to negotiating a contract under this section, the central
purchasing office shall make a determination of the reasonableness of the price
and the quality of the materials and that the public interest will best be
served by such a procurement.
   D.   Small Business Assistance Purchases:
      1.   It is the policy of the state to encourage municipalities to do
business with small businesses.
      2.   The central purchasing office shall take all reasonable action to
ensure that small businesses are solicited on each procurement for which they
appear to be qualified.
      3.   The central purchasing office may make special provisions for
progress payments to encourage procurement from small businesses.
      4.   The central purchasing office may reduce bid bond, performance bond
or payment bond requirements to encourage procurement from small businesses.
   E.   Procurements Pursuant To Corrections Industries Act: The city may
purchase items of tangible personal property and services offered, pursuant to
the provisions of the corrections industries act. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004)
1-9-20: USED ITEMS:
   A.   Request Bids: The central purchasing office, when procuring used items
of tangible personal property, the estimated cost of which exceeds fifteen
thousand dollars ($15,000.00), shall request bids as though the items were new,
adding specifications that permit used items under conditions to be outlined in
the bid specifications, including, but not limited, to:
      1.   Requiring a written warranty for at least ninety (90) days after
date of delivery; and
      2.   An independent "certificate of working order" by a qualified
mechanic or appraiser.
   B.   Trade In Or Exchange Of Used Items:
      1.   The central purchasing office, when trading in or exchanging used
items of tangible personal property, the estimated value of which exceeds
fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00), as part payment on the procurement of
new items of tangible personal property, shall:
         a.   Have an independent appraisal made of the items to be traded in
or exchanged. The appraisal shall be in writing, shall be made part of the
procurement file and shall be a public record. The invitation for bids or
request for proposals shall contain notice to prospective bidders or offerors
of the description and specifications of the items to be traded in or
exchanged, the appraised value of the items to be traded in or exchanged and
the location where the items to be traded in or exchanged may be inspected; or
         b.   Have two (2) written quotes for purchase of the property at a
specified price.
      2.   Award shall be based upon the net bid. Bidders or offerors shall
compute their net bid or offer by deducting the appraised value or highest
quote of the items to be traded in or exchanged from the gross bid or offer on
the new items of tangible personal property to be procured.
         a.   If an amount offered in trade is less than the appraised value or
the highest quote but is found to be a fair reflection of the current market,
representative of the condition of the items of tangible personal property and
in the best interest of the agency, the bid or offer may be accepted.
         b.   Documentation of the terms of acceptance shall be in writing,
shall be made a part of the procurement file and shall be a matter of public
record. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004)
1-9-21: ETHICAL CONDUCT:
   A.   Employee Participation:
      1.   No city employee can participate directly or indirectly in a
procurement when the employee knows that the employee or any member of the
employee's immediate family has a financial interest in the business seeking or
obtaining a contract, unless a waiver is granted as per subsection E of this
section.
      2.   This prohibition does not apply if the financial interest is held in
a blind trust.
   B.   Bribes, Gratuities: All contracts and solicitations shall contain
notice that violations of the procurement code may involve criminal penalties
for such conduct as illegal bribes, gratuities and kickbacks, civil penalties
and appropriate administrative remedies.
   C.   Contingent Fees:
      1.   No person or business may be retained nor may a business retain a
person or business to solicit or secure contracts upon an agreement or
understanding that the compensation is contingent upon the award of the
contract.
      2.   The only exception is obtaining professional services in
anticipation of the receipt of federal or state grants or loans.
   D.   Contemporaneous Employment: No city employee who is participating
directly or indirectly in the procurement process can become or while employed
by the city be an employee of any person or business contracting with the city,
unless a waiver is granted as per subsection E of this section.
   E.   Waivers: The purchasing agent or city manager may grant a waiver from
unlawful employee participation or contemporaneous employment with the
concurrence of the executive director of administrative services and notice
provided to the city council, if it determines that:
      1.   The contemporaneous employment financial interest has been
disclosed;
      2.   The employee will be able to perform his procurement functions
without actual or apparent bias or favoritism; and
      3.   The employee's participation is in the best interest of the city.
   F.   Use Of Confidential Information: No city employee or former employee
may knowingly use confidential information for actual or anticipated personal
gain or for the actual or anticipated personal gain of any other person. (Ord.
C2004-15, 11-9-2004)
1-9-22: PROTESTS:
   A.   Rights:
      1.   Any bidder or offeror who is aggrieved in connection with a
solicitation or award of a contract may protest to the central purchasing
office.
      2.   The protest must be submitted in writing within seven (7) calendar
days after knowledge of the facts or occurrences giving rise thereto.
   B.   Contents: The protest shall:
      1.   Include the name and address of the protestant;
      2.   Identify the contracting activity and the number of the
solicitation, if any, and if a contract has been awarded, the contract number,
if any;
      3.   Contain a statement of the grounds for protest;
      4.   Include supporting exhibits, evidence affidavits or documents to
substantiate any claim unless not available within the filing time, in which
case the expected availability date shall be indicated; and
      5.   Specify the ruling requested from the central purchasing office.
   C.   Procurements After Protest: In the event of a timely protest, the
central purchasing office shall not proceed further with the procurement unless
the central purchasing office determines that the award of the contract is
necessary to protect substantial interests of the city.
   D.   Authority To Resolve: The purchasing agent, central purchasing office
or designee has the authority to take any action reasonably necessary to
resolve a protest. This authority shall be exercised in accordance with this
chapter and regulations promulgated by the central purchasing office, but shall
not include the authority to award money for damages or attorney fees.
   E.   Written Determination: The purchasing agent, central purchasing office
or designee shall make a written determination on the merits of the protest as
expeditiously as possible. The determination shall:
      1.   State the reasons for the action taken; and
      2.   Inform the protestant to the right to judicial review of the
determination pursuant to section
1-9-25 of this chapter.
   F.   Notice Of Determination: A copy of the determination shall be mailed
immediately to the protestant, the using agency that requested the procurement
and other bidders or offerors involved in the procurement. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-
9-2004)
1-9-23: REMEDIES:
   A.   Relief Prior To Award: If, prior to award, the central purchasing
office makes a determination that a solicitation or proposed award of a
contract is in violation of law, then the solicitation or proposed award shall
be canceled.
   B.   Relief After Award:
      1.   No Fraud Or Bad Faith: If, after an award, the central purchasing
office makes a determination that a solicitation or award of a contract is in
violation of law and that the business awarded the contract has not acted
fraudulently or in bad faith, then:
         a.   The contract may be ratified, affirmed and revised to comply with
law; provided, that a determination is made that doing so is in the best
interest of the city, or
         b.   The contract may be terminated and the business awarded the
contract shall be compensated for the actual expenses reasonably incurred under
the contract, plus a reasonable profit, prior to termination.
      2.   Fraud Or Bad Faith: If, after an award, the central purchasing
office makes a determination that a solicitation or award of a contract is in
violation of law and that the business awarded the contract has acted
fraudulently or in bad faith, the contract shall be canceled. (Ord. C2004-15,
11-9-2004)
1-9-24: DEBARMENT OR SUSPENSION:
   A.   Authority:
      1.   The central purchasing office, after reasonable notice to the
business involved, has the authority to recommend to the city council the
suspension or debarment of a business for cause, in consideration for award of
contracts other than contracts for professional services.
      2.   Debarment shall not exceed a period of three (3) years and
suspension shall not exceed three (3) months. The authority to debar or suspend
shall be exercised by the governing authority of the city. There must be notice
and an opportunity for a hearing.
   B.   Causes For Debarment Or Suspension; Time Limit: The causes for
debarment or suspension occurring within three (3) years of a procurement
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Conviction of a bidder, offeror or contractor for commission of a
criminal offense related to obtaining or attempting to obtain a public or
private contract or subcontract or in the performance of such contract or
subcontract;
      2.   Conviction of a bidder, offeror or contractor under state or federal
statutes of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction
of records or receiving stolen property;
      3.   Conviction of a bidder, offeror or contractor under state or federal
antitrust statutes arising out of the submission of bids or proposals;
      4.   Violation by a bidder, offeror or contractor of contract provisions,
as set forth in this subsection, of a character which is reasonably regarded by
the central purchasing office to be so serious as to justify suspension or
debarment action:
         a.   Wilful failure to perform in accordance with one or more
contracts; provided, that this failure has occurred within a reasonable time
preceding the decision to impose debarment; or
         b.   A history of failure to perform, or of unsatisfactory performance
of, one or more contracts; provided, that the failure or unsatisfactory
performance has occurred within a reasonable time preceding the decision to
impose debarment; and, provided further, that failure to perform or
unsatisfactory performance caused by acts beyond the control of the contractor
shall not be considered to be a basis for debarment;
      5.   Any other cause occurring within three (3) years of a procurement
which the central purchasing office determines to be so serious and compelling
as to affect responsibility as a contractor; or
      6.   For a wilful violation by a bidder, offeror or contractor of the
provisions of this chapter within three (3) years of a procurement.
   C.   Determination: The city council shall issue a written determination
which shall:
      1.   State the reasons for the actions taken; and
      2.   Inform the business involved of its rights to judicial review
pursuant to section
1-9-25 of this chapter.
   D.   Notice: A copy of the determination shall be immediately mailed to the
debarred or suspended business. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004)
1-9-25: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
All actions authorized by this chapter for judicial review shall be filed
pursuant to the following provisions:
   A.   Time Limit: All actions for judicial review must be filed within thirty
(30) days of receipt of notice of the determination.
   B.   Venue: Venue for all action shall lie in the eleventh judicial district
court for McKinley County. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004)
1-9-26: RESIDENT BUSINESS BIDDERS PREFERENCE:
   A.   New Mexico Resident Business Bidders Preference: The city grants a
preference to New Mexico resident bidders for public purchases of goods or
services in accordance with New Mexico Statutes Annotated sections 13-1-21 and
13-1-22.
   B.   City Resident Business Preferences:
      1.   Local suppliers of goods and services (city resident businesses) pay
city taxes to support the community and should be given preference to suppliers
outside the city limits.
      2.   Any city resident business preference should not be so costly as to
be against the public interest and should have monetary limits.
      3.   Gallup is a home rule city and is not denied by general law or
charter the authority to grant city resident business preferences.
   C.   Application Of City Resident Business Preference: When evaluating bids
preferences shall be accorded a "city resident business", as defined in section
1-9-2 of this chapter, under the following conditions:
      1.   Whenever the city procures tangible goods or services, a city
resident business bid shall be multiplied by the applicable factor as listed
below when compared to the bid of a noncity resident business:
 
Dollar Amount            X Factor
$0.00 - $15,000.00         0.90
15,000.01 - 25,000.00      0.91
25,000.01 - 50,000.00      0.92
50,000.01 - 75,000.00      0.93
75,000.01 - 5,000,000.00   0.94
 
   If the bid receiving the preference is made lower than the otherwise lowest
responsive bid because of the preference, the contract shall be recommended for
award to the bidder receiving the preference.
      2.   This section does not apply for any bid price greater than five
million dollars ($5,000,000.00).
      3.   No city resident business preference shall be given any person or
entity whose place of business, as evidenced by a current city business
registration certificate, is located outside the city who establishes a
telephone service or mailing address inside the city.
      4.   No preference of any type shall be given when the expenditure of
federal funds designated for a specific purchase is involved; or if otherwise
prohibited by law or regulation.
      5.   Bidders shall be entitled to only one preference, whichever is
greater (resident business or New Mexico resident preference) when evaluating
bids.
   D.   Public Works Contracts: New Mexico and city resident business bidder
preferences do not apply to any public works (construction) bids or proposals
unless the contractor has also registered as a New Mexico resident contractor
in accordance with New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 13-4-2. (Ord. C2004-
15, 11-9-2004)
1-9-27: NEW MEXICO RESIDENT CONTRACTOR:
For public works (construction) projects New Mexico resident contractors shall
have their bid multiplied by a factor of .95 when compared to the bids of
nonresident contractors, pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 13-
4-2. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004)
1-9-28: SALE, EXCHANGE AND GIFT OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Value Less Than Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars: The city may sell
surplus personal property for cash at a public or private sale without notice
where it is shown that such property does not exceed the value of two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). The following shall apply:
      1.   Personal property may not be sold unless it is declared surplus
property by a department head and approved by the purchasing agent.
      2.   Prices will be determined by the current market value or prior
auction sale price of such personal property. A written record of the sale
shall be made for the auditor's inspection.
   B.   Value More Than Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars: Surplus personal
property having a value of more than two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) and unclaimed personal property shall be sold either at public
auction or by sealed bids. Notice of the sale shall be published two (2) times
in a newspaper of general circulation. Published notices shall be at least
seven (7) days apart and the final notice shall be at least seven (7) days
prior to the advertised date of sale. The terms of the sale are:
      1.   Items may be inspected in accordance with the provisions of the
notice of sale;
      2.   Sold to the highest bidder "as is, where is";
      3.   Full settlement to be made prior to the removal of any item. Upon
settlement, the item becomes the responsibility of the purchaser;
      4.   Any or all bids may be rejected; and
      5.   A minimum acceptable sale price may be established for any item of
surplus property and if established, shall be stated in the notice of sale.
   C.   Minimum Price Established: If a minimum acceptable sale price has been
established for an item of surplus personal property and no bid equaling or
exceeding this amount has been received, then the central purchasing office may
negotiate the sale of such item at a sale price acceptable to the purchasing
agent.
   D.   Exchange Or Donate: The city may sell, at a private or public sale,
exchange or donate real or personal property to the state, to any of its
political subdivisions or to the federal government if such sale, exchange or
gift is in the best interests of the public and is approved by the city
council. (Ord. C2004-15, 11-9-2004)
CHAPTER 10
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Election Date
1-10-2: Notice Of Regular Election
1-10-3: Council Districts
1-10-4: City Clerk; Election Duties
1-10-5: Voting Precincts
1-10-6: Notice For Special Elections
1-10-7: Candidates For Office
1-10-8: Declaration Of Candidacy
1-10-9: Withdrawal
1-10-10: Determining Qualification
1-10-11: Publishing Names Of Candidates
1-10-12: Election Officials
1-10-13: Watchers
1-10-14: Voting Machines
1-10-15: Write In Candidates
1-10-16: Candidates Elected Without Vote
1-10-17: Votes Required For Election
1-10-18: Canvass Of Returns; Certificate Of Election
1-10-19: Qualifications Of Officials
1-10-20: Organizational Meeting
1-10-21: Procedures For Conducting Of Election; Retention Of Records
1-10-1: ELECTION DATE:
Regular city elections for the purpose of electing city officers and
considering any other questions placed on the ballot by the city council shall
be held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November of each odd
numbered year. (Ord. C98-2, 3-24-1998; Ord. C2023-4, 11-28-2023)
1-10-2: NOTICE OF REGULAR ELECTION:
   A.   Publication Of Resolution: Not more than sixty (60) days, nor less than
forty five (45) days, before the date of a regular election, the city council
shall give notice of the election by publishing a resolution.
   B.   Contents Of Resolution: The resolution shall state the date when the
election will be held, the offices to be filled, the questions to be submitted
to the voters, the location of each polling place and the date and time of the
closing of the registration books.
   C.   Closing Of Registration Books: The registration books shall be closed
at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the forty second day immediately preceding the
election. When the forty second day prior to any election is a Saturday, Sunday
or legal holiday, registration shall be closed at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of
the next succeeding regular business day for the office of the county clerk.
   D.   Number Of Publications: The resolution shall be published twice, not
less than seven (7) days apart. (Ord. C66-142, 6-8-1976)
1-10-3: COUNCIL DISTRICTS:
For any regular City Council election, the boundaries of the four (4) city
council districts shall be as described on Exhibit “A” attached to Ordinance
No. C2021-6 and made a part of this code. (Ord. C2021-6, 11-16-2021)
1-10-4: CITY CLERK; ELECTION DUTIES 1 :
The city clerk shall:
   A.   Administration: Administer the election;
   B.   Secure Polling Place: With the consent of the city council, secure a
polling place in each voting division; (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
   C.   Supplies And Equipment: See that all necessary supplies and equipment
are present at each polling place prior to the opening of the polls on election
day; (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966; amd. 2006 Code)
   D.   Obtain Affidavits Of Registration: At least three (3) days prior to an
election, obtain from the county clerk the original affidavits of registration
for all election precincts and voting divisions located wholly or partially in
the city and return the same to the county clerk the day following the
election; said affidavits shall constitute the registration list for a city
election;
   E.   Delivery Of Election Supplies: Prior to the opening of the polls on
election day, shall arrange safe delivery of the election supplies to the
polls, the election supplies shall include the following:
      1.   One metal box for each voting division;
      2.   The locked binder of original affidavits of registration for each
precinct or voting division;
      3.   Two (2) poll books and two (2) tally books;
      4.   Instructions to voters, which shall be posted at each polling place;
      5.   Pens, ink or indelible pencils;
      6.   Official and sample ballots and forms for affidavits of assistance;
and
      7.   Printed envelopes for spoiled and rejected ballots. (Ord. C61-52,
10-4-1966)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-8-7.
1-10-5: VOTING PRECINCTS:
In a city election, the same precincts will be used that are used in a general
election. If a precinct lies partly within and partly without the city, the
part of the precinct lying within the city constitutes a precinct for a city
election. When determined feasible by the city clerk, the city council may
consolidate precincts for a city election. (Ord. C98-2, 3-24-1998)
1-10-6: NOTICE FOR SPECIAL ELECTIONS:
   A.   Required; Publication: Whenever a special election is called or
required, notice of the election shall be published once each week for four (4)
consecutive weeks. The first notice of the election shall be published between
forty five (45) and sixty (60) days before the day of the election. The notice
shall state the purpose for calling the election, the date and time of the
election and the date and time of the closing of the registration books by the
county clerk. (Ord. C66-142, 6-8-1976)
   B.   Closing Of Registration Books: The registration books for the election
shall be closed at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the forty second day immediately
preceding the election. When the forty second day prior to any election is a
Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, registration shall be closed at five o'clock
(5:00) P.M. of the next succeeding regular business day for the office of the
county clerk. (Ord. C66-142, 6-8-1976; amd. 2006 Code)
1-10-7: CANDIDATES FOR OFFICE 1 :
Any qualified elector and legal resident of the city may declare his candidacy
for any elective city office by filing a "declaration of candidacy" with the
city clerk on the fifty sixth day preceding the day of election between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. (Ord. C98-2, 3-
24-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-8-27A.
1-10-8: DECLARATION OF CANDIDACY:
One or more electors may file in one declaration of candidacy. The declaration
shall state for each candidate, the candidate's name, home address, office he
seeks, ticket designation, if any, and if a candidate for councilmember, he
shall indicate whether he is seeking the district he is seeking. The
declaration shall be signed by each candidate under oath before a notary
public. Following receipt of such declarations of candidacy, the city clerk
shall present them to the city council at their next regular meeting. (Ord.
C61-52, 10-4-1966)
1-10-9: WITHDRAWAL:
At any time before five o'clock (5:00) P.M., not less than fifteen (15) days
before the day of election, a candidate for city office may file an affidavit
in the office of the city clerk stating that he is no longer a candidate for
city office. The city clerk shall not place on the ballot the name of any
person who files an affidavit as provided in this section. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-
1966)
1-10-10: DETERMINING QUALIFICATION:
The city clerk shall determine if the candidate filing a declaration of
candidacy is a qualified elector of the city. If the candidate is a qualified
elector of the city and he does not withdraw as provided in section
1-10-9 of this chapter, the city clerk shall place the candidate's name on the
ballot. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
1-10-11: PUBLISHING NAMES OF CANDIDATES:
The city clerk shall publish the names of the candidates for each office to be
filled in the order their name or ticket designation will appear on the ballot.
Publication shall be once each week for two (2) successive weeks and not less
than two (2) days before the day of election. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
1-10-12: ELECTION OFFICIALS:
   A.   Appointment: Not less than ten (10) days before the day of a city
election, the city council shall appoint no less than one judge of elections
and not less than two (2) clerks of election for each polling place, who are
the election officials. On the tenth day before the day of election, the city
clerk shall post and maintain in his office until the day of election, the
names of the judges and clerks of election for each polling place. The posting
of the names of the judges and clerks of election for each polling place may be
proved by an affidavit signed by the city clerk.
   B.   Vacancies: The mayor shall appoint a qualified elector as an election
official to fill any vacancy which may occur between the time the list of
election officials is posted by the city clerk and the day of election. If a
vacancy occurs on the day of election, the election officials present at the
polling place, by a majority vote, may appoint a qualified elector to fill any
vacancy.
   C.   Duties: The election officials shall:
      1.   Conduct the city election in the manner provided by law for the
conduction of general elections; and
      2.   At the closing of the polls, count the votes cast on each question
and each candidate and deliver the election returns and supplies to the city
clerk. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
1-10-13: WATCHERS:
Upon petition filed with the city clerk, any two (2) or more candidates for
city office may appoint two (2) persons as watchers for each voting precinct.
Such watchers shall have such powers as are granted watchers under New Mexico
Statutes Annotated sections 3-8-31, 3-8-46 and 3-9-15. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966;
amd. 2006 Code)
1-10-14: VOTING MACHINES:
Voting machines shall be used by the city in all regular elections. The names
of the candidates shall be arranged on the ballot in columns designated at the
left hand side of the voting machine by their ticket designation or as
independent candidates, if no ticket designation is contained in the
candidate's declaration of candidacy. The offices shall be arranged in the
following order: mayor; councilmember, position 1; councilmember, position 2;
councilmember, position 3; councilmember, position 4 and municipal judge. On
the third Monday at ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. preceding the city election, the
candidates or their representatives shall meet with the city clerk at his
office for the purpose of drawing lots for column positions for each office
within the column 1 . (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also charter, article VI, subsection 4(B).
1-10-15: WRITE IN CANDIDATES 1 :
Space shall be provided on the voting machine for a qualified elector to write
in the name of one candidate for each office to be filled. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-
1966)
 
Notes
1 2. See NMSA § 3-8-27L for provisions regarding certification of write-in
  candidates by the city clerk.
1-10-16: CANDIDATES ELECTED WITHOUT VOTE:
If no more than one candidate qualifies for each office to be filled in a city
election, the candidate for each office shall be declared elected without a
vote upon certification by the city clerk. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
1-10-17: VOTES REQUIRED FOR ELECTION:
The candidate who received a plurality of the votes cast for a designated
office shall be elected. All other questions submitted to the voters shall be
decided by a majority vote. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
1-10-18: CANVASS OF RETURNS; CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION:
Within three (3) days after the city election, the city clerk shall call to his
assistance the mayor, or if the mayor is a candidate at the election, any
justice of the peace within the county who is not a candidate at the election,
and in his presence shall:
   A.   Open election returns;
   B.   Canvass the returns in the same manner as county election returns are
canvassed;
   C.   Certify the results of the election;
   D.   Determine the total number of voters who voted at the election;
   E.   Enter the results of the election and the total number of voters who
voted at the election in the official minute book of the city.
   F.   Issue the certificate of election to the candidate so elected; and;
   G.   Deliver the certificate of election to the candidate elected or mail
the certificate of election to the candidate so elected by certified mail.
(Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
1-10-19: QUALIFICATIONS OF OFFICIALS:
The city council shall be the judge of the election and qualification of its
members. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
1-10-20: ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING:
The city council consisting of the newly elected and qualified officers and the
officers whose terms have not expired or whose successors have not been elected
and qualified, shall meet on the first Tuesday of May following the city
election to organize itself. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
1-10-21: PROCEDURES FOR CONDUCTING OF ELECTION; RETENTION OF RECORDS:
In conducting the election and retaining records pertinent thereto, the city
clerk shall adhere to the provisions set forth in the most current edition of
the "Election Handbook Of The State Of New Mexico", which is prepared by the
secretary of state's office, and the appropriate sections of the city charter.
(Ord. C98-2, 3-24-1998)
ARTICLE A. ELECTION CAMPAIGN PRACTICES
SECTION:
1-10A-1: Declaration Of Policy
1-10A-2: Definitions
1-10A-3: Disclosure With Declaration Of Candidacy
1-10A-4: Campaign Financing
1-10A-5: Campaign Materials
1-10A-6: Enforcement
1-10A-7: Nonwaiver Of Penalties
1-10A-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
Public disclosure and regulation of certain campaign practices will serve to
increase public confidence in the integrity of government by informing the
public of the qualifications of a candidate for elective office and of the
possible sources of influence upon that candidate and of the financing of a
campaign to influence the passage or defeat of a measure. The principle that
the candidate assumes ultimate and complete responsibility for the conduct of
the campaign is therefore incorporated into the ordinances of the city of
Gallup. (Ord. 2005-5, 6-28-2005)
1-10A-2: DEFINITIONS:
ANONYMOUS CONTRIBUTION: A contribution received by a candidate for the office
of mayor, councilor or municipal judge for which the contributor cannot be
identified when the amount of the contribution exceeds one hundred dollars
($100.00).
CAMPAIGN MATERIALS: Any published, printed or broadly distributed campaign
advertising or communications, such as newspaper advertisements, handbills,
petitions, circulars, letters, radio or television broadcasts, cable
distributions or similar written material used in a campaign by a candidate.
CANDIDATE: Any individual who has filed a declaration of candidacy with the
city clerk for the office of mayor, councilor, or municipal judge.
CANDIDATE FINANCE COMMITTEE: Consists of the candidate, the candidate's
treasurer, and any person authorized either expressly or by implication by the
candidate to participate in the solicitation, receipt, expenditure, or
employment of contributions on behalf of the candidate. "Member of the
candidate committee" means any such person.
CANDIDATE'S TREASURER: The person who is appointed by a candidate to receive,
keep and disburse all money which may be collected, received or disbursed by
the candidate, the candidate finance committee, or any of its members.
CONTRIBUTIONS:
   A. Monies, loans, debts incurred, obligations incurred, property in-kind,
including the use thereof, or commercial or professional services:
       1.   Incurred or received by a candidate, the candidate's treasurer, the
candidate finance committee, or a member thereof, on behalf of the candidate.
For the purposes of this definition, a debt or obligation shall be considered
incurred at the time authorization is given or contract made for the debt or
obligation.
       2.   Not received by a person or entity named in subsection A1 of this
definition, but expended or employed on behalf of a candidate or measure, where
such monies, loans, debts incurred, obligations incurred, property in-kind, or
commercial or professional services have been solicited or otherwise consented
to by such committee or have been expended or employed in a manner or amount
directed, authorized, either expressly, by implication, or consented to by such
committee.
   B. Contributions of property, including the use thereof, and contributions
of commercial or professional services shall be attributed a cash value equal
to their fair market value.
   C. Notwithstanding the foregoing, none of the following shall be considered
a contribution: a candidate's own services and property, other than cash; the
use of a dwelling unit and residential premises incidental thereto for any
campaign purpose and the provision of refreshments and entertainment in
connection with such use; the services of the person who is performing the
duties of the candidate's treasurer; and the use of vehicles for any campaign
purpose other than in connection with the performance of a commercial or
professional service.
ELECTION: Any city of Gallup municipal election.
PERSON: Any individual, cooperative association, club, corporation, company,
firm, partnership, joint venture syndicate, profit or nonprofit organization,
or other entity. (Ord. 2005-5, 6-28-2005)
1-10A-3: DISCLOSURE WITH DECLARATION OF CANDIDACY:
Each candidate shall file with the city clerk, within two (2) days of filing
the declaration of candidacy, a notarized statement, signed by the candidate
under oath, setting forth any known present business relationship the candidate
has or may have with the city. Any candidate seeking to qualify to be on the
ballot for the office of mayor, councilor, or municipal judge, or whose name
appears on the ballot, who either receives contributions or expends funds in an
amount that exceeds one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) shall be subject to the
reporting provisions of this article. (Ord. 2005-5, 6-28-2005)
1-10A-4: CAMPAIGN FINANCING:
   A.   One Candidate Finance Committee: Each candidate may appoint a treasurer
who shall not be the candidate and may establish no more than one candidate
finance committee.
   B.   One Bank Account Filing Requirements:
      1.   Each candidate or the candidate's treasurer shall establish one and
only one campaign bank checking account for each election. All parties having
signature authorization for the checking account, the checking account number
and the bank name shall be registered with the city clerk upon filing a
declaration of candidacy.
      2.   All contributions of monies received for the benefit of the
candidate's campaign shall be deposited in that account, and all disbursements
shall be made from that account.
      3.   Each candidate shall file with the bank at which the campaign
checking account has been established a letter authorizing the release of
information concerning that account to the city clerk and shall submit a copy
of the letter of authorization to the city clerk. Upon the request of the city
clerk, each candidate or the candidate's treasurer shall provide to the city
clerk all bank records, canceled checks, and any other financial information
relating to the campaign as may be requested by the city clerk.
   C.   Disclosure Of Campaign Financing:
      1.   Each candidate seeking to qualify to be on the ballot for the office
of mayor, councilor or municipal judge who either receives contributions or
expends funds in an amount that exceeds one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) shall
file with the city clerk two (2) statements, each of which shall be cumulative,
signed under oath by the candidate or the candidate's treasurer, setting forth
the following information up to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of the day preceding
the filing of each statement:
         a.   The total of all contributions, which shall include all
contributions received, regardless of whether the contribution has been
deposited in the candidate's campaign bank checking account.
         b.   The name and address of each contributor, together with total
cumulative cash value contributed by the contributor, when that amount exceeds
one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         c.   All expenditures made on behalf of the campaign, including any
reimbursements and the nature thereof, and the name and address of the person
or business to which payment was made.
      2.   The two (2) statements required by this subsection shall be filed as
follows: the first statement on the Tuesday two (2) weeks preceding the
election; and the second and final statement not earlier than the seventh day
nor later than the thirtieth day after the election. Each statement shall be
filed with the city clerk no later than twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the
specified day.
      3.   Those candidates who spend one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or less
on the entire campaign must file an affidavit with the city clerk no later than
seven (7) days after the election is held that their spending did not exceed
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   D.   Unexpended Contributions: Any contributions not expended on the
campaign shall be disposed of, at the option of the candidate, by one of the
following methods:
      1.   Retained in the campaign bank checking account for a possible runoff
election for that office, or to conclude the campaign committee's activities;
      2.   Returned to the person who made the contribution;
      3.   Placed in the city's general fund; or
      4.   Given to a charity identified by the candidate.
   The second (final) campaign financing statement shall reflect the final
disposition of such contributions.
   E.   Anonymous Contributions:
      1.   All anonymous contributions shall be disposed of by a candidate by
placing the contribution in the city's general fund or by giving the
contribution to a charity.
      2.   An anonymous contribution shall not be considered to be a
contribution to or expenditure of the campaign; however, a record of all
anonymous contributions shall be kept by the candidate or the candidate's
treasurer and the receipt and disposition of every anonymous contribution shall
be reported to the city clerk, in writing, at the time the campaign financing
disclosure statements required by subsection C of this section are filed. Such
report must disclose the goods, services, monies, or other contributions
received; their value, the date of receipt and the date and method of
disposition.
   F.   Inclusive: For the purposes of this section, contributions and
expenditures include those contributions received and expenditures made by or
on behalf of an individual at any time prior to the individual filing a
declaration of candidacy for the office of mayor, city councilor or municipal
judge through the time the final campaign financing disclosure statement is
due.
   G.   Campaign Finance Records:
      1.   Inspection And/Or Audit: All campaign finance records and statements
shall be open to inspection and/or audit by the city clerk, his/her designated
representative, or the city of Gallup auditor. Statements shall be presented to
the city clerk for inspection or audit, or both. The city clerk shall create an
electronic database for all campaign reporting required in this article and
place that information on the city's website.
      2.   Campaign Financial Records:
         a.   Each candidate or the candidate's treasurer shall keep financial
records of the campaign for a period of one year following the date of the
election, to assure their availability in the event of complaint or inquiry by
the city clerk. Such campaign financial records shall include records of all
contributions, regardless of amount, expenditures, canceled checks, invoices,
receipts, bank statements, bills of sale, statements of accounts, leases,
rental agreements, and all other financial records pertinent to the campaign.
         b.   In preparing and maintaining financial records, ledgers, journals
or otherwise, and in recording contributions and expenditures on the statements
required by subsection C of this section, each candidate or the candidate's
treasurer shall:
            (1)   Record in-kind contributions as both contributions and
expenditures equal to the fair market value of the goods or services received;
            (2)   Record campaign loans and contributions, with subsequent
repayment of loans credited against contributions;
            (3)   Record returned contributions as credits against
contributions;
            (4)   Record names of contributors on the bank deposit slips.
   H.   Fundraising Activity:
      1.   The gross receipts of a fundraising activity on behalf of a
candidate are considered to be campaign contributions, and all expenditures
associated with a fundraising activity are considered to be campaign
expenditures. As used in this subsection, the term "gross receipts" includes
all monies and donations of any kind which are received as part of the
fundraising activity.
      2.   The host of a fundraising activity on behalf of a candidate or
committee shall be responsible for reporting the contributions resulting from
the activity unless contributors are identified in the required manner on the
disclosure of campaign financing statement, and the limits to contributions
specified in subsection E of this section shall apply as if the total
contributions at the fundraising activity, not otherwise reported, were made by
the host.
   I.   Runoff Elections:
      1.   If the result of an election requires a runoff election, the
provisions and requirements of this article also apply to any runoff election.
(Ord. 2005-5, 6-28-2005)
1-10A-5: CAMPAIGN MATERIALS:
Each candidate shall ensure that all campaign materials specify the name of the
sponsor who authorized the printing or distribution of such material and the
name and address of the establishment that printed or otherwise created the
campaign materials; provided, that the name and address of the printing
establishment is not required to be specified in a newspaper advertisement.
(Ord. 2005-5, 6-28-2005)
1-10A-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Charges Of Violations:
      1.   Any charge or charges that a candidate or any other group has
committed a violation of this article shall be made in writing, notarized and
brought before the city clerk.
      2.   Each charge of any alleged violation shall specify the specific
provision alleged to have been violated, or a clear and concise statement of
why the complainant believes a violation has occurred, and shall include
documentation as to time, place, facts, and the names of any witnesses to the
alleged violation. No charge shall be accepted unless the complaint is signed
and unless the documentation referred to above, the statement of the provision
alleged to have been violated, or the reason for the complaint, is presented at
the same time the complaint is filed.
      3.   Except as provided in subsection D of this section, the city clerk
shall give written notice of such charge or charges to the candidate before
taking further action.
   B.   Review: The city clerk shall review the complaint for completeness, and
proceed with the complaint or reject the complaint and give written notice to
the complainant of the reasons for the rejection.
   C.   Investigation; Hearing; Report: Upon referral of any complaint by the
city clerk, the city clerk shall investigate the charge or charges, hold a
hearing and issue a report.
   D.   Initiation Of Charge Or Charges By Clerk; Written Notice Not Required:
Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, the city clerk may, on
his/her own initiative, initiate a charge or charges that a candidate has
committed a violation of this article. In the event that inspection and/or
audit of the candidate's campaign financial records results in a charge or
charges against a candidate, written notice to the candidate of the charge or
charges shall not be required before the city clerk takes further action.
   E.   Public Reprimand: Should the city clerk find, after due hearing, that a
violation of this article has occurred, he/she may, for each violation, issue a
public reprimand.
   F.   Removal From Office: In addition to the public reprimand, or as an
alternative thereto, if the violator be a successful candidate in the election,
the city clerk may recommend to the city council that the violator be removed
from office.
   G.   Suspension Or Removal By Vote Of City Council: The city council may,
upon the recommendation of the city clerk, and after due hearing of the charge,
order the suspension or removal of the successful candidate; provided, however,
that no official shall be removed or suspended except upon the concurrence of
two-thirds (2/3) of the city council members qualified to vote thereon.
   H.   Declare Ineligible To Run: The city council may, upon the
recommendation of the city clerk, and after due hearing of the charge, and upon
a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the city council members qualified to vote thereon,
declare an unsuccessful candidate ineligible to run for city office for the
next four (4) year period.
   I.   Appeal: An appeal may be taken from any findings and action of the city
clerk, pursuant to subsections E and F of this section and from any order of
the city council pursuant to subsection H of this section to the district court
of the eleventh judicial district, by filing a notice of appeal in the said
district court within five (5) days of the date of the action or order appealed
from, and by filing with said district court within thirty (30) days a true
transcript and record of the proceedings upon which said action or order is
based. The hearing in district court shall be held on said transcript and
record only, and new testimony shall not be taken. (Ord. 2005-5, 6-28-2005)
1-10A-7: NONWAIVER OF PENALTIES:
Nothing herein set forth shall be construed to affect or otherwise diminish any
penalties otherwise provided by law for violation of this article, nor shall
prevent the city clerk from bringing to the attention of the proper authority
any alleged violation coming to his/her attention which may be subject to other
penalties. (Ord. 2005-5, 6-28-2005)
CHAPTER 11
PERSONNEL RULES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Title And Scope
1-11-2: Definitions
1-11-3: General Provisions
1-11-3-1: Policy Established And Adopted
1-11-3-2: Application; Authority
1-11-3-3: Prerogatives Reserved
1-11-3-4: Administrative Regulations, Procedures And Interpretations
1-11-4: Policy Statements
1-11-4-1: Equal Employment Opportunity
1-11-4-2: Sexual Harassment Policy
1-11-4-3: Immigration Reform And Control Act
1-11-4-4: Drug And Alcohol Policy
1-11-4-5: Nepotism
1-11-1: TITLE AND SCOPE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this chapter hereafter shall constitute and
be referred to as the official PERSONNEL POLICIES of the city. (Ord. C2000-2,
8-22-2000, eff. 9-26-2000)
1-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be used for descriptive purposes. If there is
any conflict between the definition and the rule or regulation to which it
applies, the latter shall take precedence.
AT WILL EMPLOYMENT: An employment relationship whereby either the city or the
employee can terminate employment at any time, for any reason or no reason,
with or without notice or cause.
CITY MANAGER: Chief administrative officer of the city.
CLASS SPECIFICATION: A written statement of the characteristic duties,
responsibilities, and qualification requirements that distinguish a given class
from other classes.
CLASS TITLE: The designation of a class which becomes the official title of all
positions allocated to that class for personnel purposes.
CLASSIFICATION (Noun): One or more positions so nearly alike in the essential
character of their duties and responsibilities that they may be designated a
class with the same pay grade, title and qualification requirements.
CLASSIFICATION (Verb): Process of analysis based on comparative duties,
responsibilities and qualifications by which appropriate classes are
determined.
CLASSIFICATION PLAN: A schematic list of classes supported by class
specifications.
EMPLOYEE: An authorized and appointed incumbent of a budgeted council approved
position in the municipal service.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: Management personnel reporting directly to the city
manager.
EXEMPT EMPLOYEES: Employees whose job duties meet the tests established by the
fair labor standards act (FLSA) and state law for exemption from overtime pay
requirements.
FRINGE BENEFITS: Cash or noncash compensation to employees in addition to
salary or compensation paid for services rendered.
JOB VACANCY: An unoccupied, budgeted, council approved position for which funds
are allocated.
LAYOFF: The separation of an employee from the city due to deletion of
position, shortage of work or funds, reorganization or any other reason where
the business need for the layoff is not based on employee performance.
Performance history may be taken into account in the decision concerning the
employee(s) to be laid off.
LEAVE: An authorized absence from regularly scheduled work for reasons
specified in the personnel policies.
NONEXEMPT EMPLOYEE: Employees whose job duties do not meet the tests
established by the fair labor standards act and state law for exemption from
overtime pay requirements.
OVERTIME: Management authorized and actual time worked by a nonexempt employee
in excess of that employee's standard work period as established by the city
manager as per the fair labor standards act.
PAY OR COMPENSATION PLAN: The aggregate of pay rates (either single rates or
ranges) assigned to each class of positions in the classification plan.
PAY RANGE: All pay rates from minimum to maximum established for a class by the
pay or compensation plan.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION: Written evaluation of the job performance of an
employee by a supervisor.
POSITION: Any budgeted council approved position of employment with the city
including, but not limited to, regular full time appointment, regular part time
employment, temporary appointment or term appointment.
PROMOTION: The change of an employee from a position in one classification to a
position in another classification with a pay rate higher than current pay
rates.
RECLASSIFICATION: Process of analysis by which an established position is
reviewed to determine whether the duties and responsibilities of that position
merit a change in class designation.
RESIGNATION: The voluntary separation of an employee from the municipal
services.
RETIREMENT: The voluntary separation of an employee who has become eligible for
retirement under PERA.
WORKERS' COMPENSATION: Required benefits paid to eligible employees who sustain
on the job injuries covered by the city. (Ord. C2000-2, 8-22-2000, eff. 9-26-
2000)
1-11-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
1-11-3-1: POLICY ESTABLISHED AND ADOPTED:
The policies established in this chapter and adopted for the city are
enumerated in the following sections. (Ord. C2000-2, 8-22-2000, eff. 9-26-2000)
1-11-3-2: APPLICATION; AUTHORITY:
   A.   Application: The policies in this chapter shall be applicable to all
employees of the city, except as provided by the charter, this chapter, or
other law. Responsibility and authority for the implementation and
administration of these policies are vested in the city manager,
notwithstanding any other provisions of these articles and sections. The city
manager is responsible for the development, approval, and implementation of
rules, regulations, and procedures for the implementation of these policies.
The city reserves the right, at any time, with or without notice to employees,
to amend, make additions or deletions to this chapter as the city council deems
necessary. In addition, the need may arise for the city to depart from the
provisions of this chapter or to impose other expectations and procedures not
expressed herein. Amendments may be proposed by the city manager.
   B.   Interpretation: These personnel policies shall be interpreted as a
whole and rather than interpreting individual sections or sentences in
isolation and out of context. Official interpretation of these policies and the
rules, regulations, and procedures shall be made by the city manager with
consultation with the personnel director. They have the force and effect of law
for the various departments, agencies and special programs of the city.
   C.   Not A Contract: These policies do not constitute an employment
contract. (Ord. C2000-2, 8-22-2000, eff. 9-26-2000)
1-11-3-3: PREROGATIVES RESERVED:
   A.   Rights Of City Manager: Subject to applicable ordinances and
resolutions for regulations and policies of the city council, the city manager
has and retains all rights to administer the affairs of the city, either
personally or through his subordinates. These rights include, but are not
limited to:
      1.   Establishing the standard of work and employee conduct; suspending,
discharging or to otherwise disciplining employees.
      2.   Hiring, promoting, demoting, reclassifying, transferring, retiring,
and assigning work.
      3.   Judging the employee's skill, ability, efficiency, and general
performance.
      4.   Determining the starting and quitting times and numbers of hours to
be worked.
      5.   Determining the assignment of work and the size and composition of
the work force.
      6.   Revising, eliminating, combining, or establishing new positions,
jobs, classifications, reclassifications and/or pay rates.
      7.   Establishing, closing down or expanding the operation of any
facility, department or division, and reducing, increasing, altering,
combining, transferring, or ceasing a department's operation, equipment or
service.
      8.   Contracting with private individuals or organizations to perform or
receive municipal services and determining the services to be rendered, bought,
or sold.
      9.   Introducing technological changes, new, improved or modified
services, methods, techniques and equipment and otherwise generally managing
the operation and directing the work force.
      10.   Exercising judgment on all administrative matters not specifically
prohibited by this chapter. (Ord. C2000-2, 8-22-2000, eff. 9-26-2000)
1-11-3-4: ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS, PROCEDURES AND INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.   Power To Adopt, Amend Or Rescind Written Administrative Procedures: The
city manager, at any time deemed by him to be necessary or proper, by himself,
his authorized designee or through his designated personnel director, may
adopt, amend or rescind written administrative procedures, regulations or
interpretations consistent with these policies. Such procedures, regulations or
interpretations shall be effective on the dates specified by the city manager
and shall be placed on record in the personnel office, together with these
policies, to be open to public inspection during normal working hours.
   B.   Construction Of Words: In adopting this personnel code, specific gender
pronouns for male and female, singular and plural have generally not been used.
However, when a masculine pronoun has been used, it is intended to refer to
both male and female employees. (Ord. C2000-2, 8-22-2000, eff. 9-26-2000)
1-11-4: POLICY STATEMENTS:
1-11-4-1: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY:
The city is an equal employment opportunity employer. With the adoption of its
equal employment opportunity (EEO) plan, the city reaffirms its commitment to
comply with applicable federal and state laws regarding nondiscrimination in
employment. Unlawful discrimination against any person in recruitment,
examination, hiring, classification, training, promotion, retention, assignment
of duties, granting of rights and benefits, or any other terms and conditions
of employment because of race, color, religion, sex, age, mental or physical
disability, national origin, or veteran status is prohibited. The city further
reaffirms its intent to provide reasonable accommodation, where appropriate,
for known disabilities of employees or employment applicants. (Ord. C2000-2, 8-
22-2000, eff. 9-26-2000)
1-11-4-2: SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY:
It is the policy of the city to maintain a working environment free from all
forms of sexual harassment. "Sexual harassment" is defined as unwelcome sexual
advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a
sexual nature when:
   A.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a
term or condition of an individual's employment or advancement;
   B.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as
the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
   C.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with
an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or
offensive working environment.
Any employee who violates this policy will be subject to appropriate
disciplinary action, up to and including termination from employment with the
city. (Ord. C2000-2, 8-22-2000, eff. 9-26-2000)
1-11-4-3: IMMIGRATION REFORM AND CONTROL ACT:
In compliance with the immigration reform and control act of 1986, the city
requires all newly hired employees to present documented proof of identity and
eligibility to work in the United States. Employees will be required to furnish
this information prior to reporting for work. (Ord. C2000-2, 8-22-2000, eff. 9-
26-2000)
1-11-4-4: DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY:
All city employees are strictly prohibited from:
   A.   Illegal Drugs:
      1.   Using Or Being Under The Influence: Using or being under the
influence of illegal drugs to any degree during working hours or while actively
engaged in the duties of employment, including, but not limited to, lunch
periods, breaks or while on call;
      2.   Possessing, Selling, Transferring Or Purchasing: Possessing,
selling, transferring or purchasing illegal drugs during working hours, while
on city property, or while operating city owned vehicles or equipment;
   B.   Alcohol: Consuming alcohol or having sufficient quantities of alcohol
in their system to impair mental or bodily function to any degree during
working hours or while actively engaged in the duties of employment, including,
but not limited to, lunch periods, breaks or while on call;
   C.   Over The Counter Drugs: Using or being under the influence of
prescription or over the counter drugs during working hours or while actively
engaged in the duties of employment to the extent that the use of any such
legal drug may affect the safe and efficient performance of the employee's job
duties, or may endanger the safety of coworkers or members of the public. (Ord.
C2000-2, 8-22-2000, eff. 9-26-2000)
1-11-4-5: NEPOTISM:
   A.   Direct Supervision:
      1.   No person shall be hired, promoted, demoted or transferred to a
position which is under the direct supervision in the departmental chain of
command of a relative who is related by blood, adoption or by marriage to the
third degree of kindred.
      2.   The third degree of kindred includes spouses, parents, children,
brothers, sisters, grandparents, grandchildren, aunts, uncles, nieces and
nephews. The restriction shall also apply to relationships having the
characteristics of a family relationship, and to members of the same household.
   B.   Indirect Supervision:
      1.   No person shall be hired, promoted, demoted or transferred to a
position at the level of executive director and above who is related by blood,
adoption, or marriage to the second degree of kindred of any of the following
individuals: mayor, city council member, city manager, city attorney and
employees at the level of executive director of a department and above.
      2.   The second degree of kindred includes spouses, parents, children,
brothers and sisters.
      3.   This section shall not apply to anyone employed by the city prior to
July 1, 2003, or to seasonal employees or part time employees who work one
thousand (1,000) hours or less per year and grant-funded positions.
      4.   Any employment contrary to this section shall be null and void, and
any person giving or allowing such employment shall be liable to the city for
any and all monies paid out.
      5.   This section is subservient to New Mexico law and an;y conflict
between this section and the New Mexico law on nepotism will be resolved in
favor of state law. (Ord. C2004-6, 7-8-2003)
CHAPTER 12
LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Short Title
1-12-2: Purpose
1-12-3: Conflicts
1-12-4: Definitions
1-12-5: Rights Of Employees
1-12-6: Rights Of Employer
1-12-7: Labor Management Relations Board – Conditions Of Continued Existence
And Transfer Of Authority Upon Termination
1-12-8: Board – Powers And Duties
1-12-9: Hearing Procedures
1-12-10: Appropriate Bargaining Units
1-12-11: Elections
1-12-12: Exclusive Representation
1-12-13: Decertification Of Exclusive Representative
1-12-14: Scope Of Bargaining
1-12-15: Impasse Resolution
1-12-16: Employers – Prohibited Practices
1-12-17: Employees – Labor Organizations – Prohibited Practices
1-12-18: Strikes And Lockouts Prohibited
1-12-19: Agreements Valid – Enforcement
1-12-20: Judicial Enforcement – Standard Of Review
1-12-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter may be cited as the LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS ORDINANCE. (Ord. C-
2020-3, 12-8-2020)
1-12-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to guarantee employees the right to organize and
bargain collectively with their employer, to protect the rights of the employer
and the employees and to promote harmonious and cooperative relationships
between the employer and the employees; and to acknowledge the obligation of
the employer and the employees to provide orderly and uninterrupted services to
the citizens. (Ord. C-2020-3, 12-8-2020)
1-12-3: CONFLICTS:
In the event of conflict with other City of Gallup Ordinances, the provisions
of this Chapter shall supersede other previously enacted ordinances. City of
Gallup sanctioned rules and regulations, administrative directives,
departmental rules and regulations, and workplace practices shall control
unless there is a conflict with a collective bargaining agreement. Where a
conflict exists, the collective bargaining agreement shall control. (Ord. C-
2020-3, 12-8-2020)
1-12-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in the Labor Management Relations Chapter:
                             Means a group of employees designated by the City
APPROPRIATE BARGAINING UNIT: of Gallup Board for the purpose of collective
                             bargaining.
APPROPRIATE GOVERNING BODY:  Means the policymaking body or individual
                             representing a public employer.
                             Means a signed affirmation by a member of an
AUTHORIZATION CARD:          appropriate bargaining unit designating a
                             particular organization as exclusive
                             representative.
BOARD:                       Means the City of Gallup Labor Management
                             Relations Board.
                             Means the designation by the board of a labor
CERTIFICATION:               organization as the exclusive representative for
                             all public employees in an appropriate bargaining
                             unit.
                             Means the act of negotiating between a public
                             employer and an exclusive representative for the
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING:       purpose of entering into a written agreement
                             regarding wages, hours and other terms and
                             conditions of employment.
                             Means a person who devotes a majority of the
                             person's time to assisting and acting in a
CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE:       confidential capacity with respect to a person who
                             formulates, determines and effectuates management
                             policies.
EMERGENCY:                   Means a one (1) time crisis that was unforeseen
                             and unavoidable.
                             Means a labor organization that, as a result of
EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE:    certification, has the right to represent all
                             public employees in an appropriate bargaining unit
                             for the purposes of collective bargaining.
                             Means failure of a public employer and an
IMPASSE:                     exclusive representative, after good-faith
                             bargaining, to reach agreement in the course of
                             negotiating a collective bargaining agreement.
                             Means an employee organization, one (1) of whose
                             purposes is the representation of public employees
LABOR ORGANIZATION:          in collective bargaining and in otherwise meeting,
                             consulting and conferring with employers on
                             matters pertaining to employment relations.
                             Means an act by the employer to prevent its
                             employees from going to work for the purpose of
LOCKOUT:                     resisting demands of the employees' exclusive
                             representative or for the purpose of gaining a
                             concession from the exclusive representative.
                             Means an employee who is engaged primarily in
                             executive and management functions and is charged
                             with the responsibility of developing,
                             administering or effectuating management policies.
MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE:         An employee shall not be deemed a management
                             employee solely because the employee participates
                             in cooperative decision-making programs or whose
                             fiscal responsibilities are routine, incidental or
                             clerical.
                             Means assistance by an impartial third party to
                             resolve an impasse between a public employer and
MEDIATION:                   an exclusive representative regarding employment
                             relations through interpretation, suggestion and
                             advice.
                             Means an employee whose work is predominantly
                             intellectual and varied in character and whose
                             work involves the consistent exercise of
                             discretion and judgment in its performance and
                             requires knowledge of an advanced nature in a
PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYEE:       field of learning customarily requiring
                             specialized study at an institution of higher
                             education or its equivalent. The work of a
                             professional employee is of such character that
                             the output or result accomplished cannot be
                             standardized in relation to a given period of
                             time.
                             Means a regular non-probationary employee of the
PUBLIC EMPLOYEE:             City of Gallup; and includes those employees whose
                             work is funded in whole or in part by grants or
                             other third-party sources.
PUBLIC EMPLOYER:             Means the City of Gallup.
                             Means a public employee's refusal, in concerted
                             action with other public employees, to report for
                             duty or the willful absence, in whole or in part,
STRIKE:                      from the full, faithful and proper performance of
                             the duties of employment for the purpose of
                             inducing, influencing or coercing a change in the
                             conditions, compensation, rights, privileges or
                             obligations of public employment.
                             Means an employee who devotes a majority of work
                             time to supervisory duties, who customarily and
                             regularly directs the work of two (2) or more
                             other employees and who has the authority in the
                             interest of the employer to hire, promote or
                             discipline other employees or to recommend such
                             actions effectively, but "supervisor" does not
SUPERVISOR:                  include an individual who performs merely routine,
                             incidental or clerical duties or who occasionally
                             assumes a supervisory or directory role or whose
                             duties are substantially similar to those of the
                             individual's subordinates and does not include a
                             lead employee or an employee who participates in
                             peer review or occasional employee evaluation
                             programs. (Ord. C-2020-3, 12-8-2020)
 
1-12-5: RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Employees, other than management, supervisory, confidential, and
probationary employees, may form, join, or assist any labor organization for
the purpose of collective bargaining through a representative chosen by the
employees without interference, restraint, or coercion. Employees also have the
right to refuse to form, join, or assist any labor organization.
   B.   Public employees have the right to engage in other concerted activities
for mutual aid or benefit. This right shall not be construed as modifying the
prohibition on strikes set forth in
1-12-18 of this Chapter. (Ord. C-2020-3, 12-8-2020)
1-12-6: RIGHTS OF EMPLOYER:
Unless limited by the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement or by
other statutory provision, the employer may:
   A.   Direct the work of, hire, promote, assign, transfer, demote, suspend,
discharge, or terminate public employees;
   B.   Determine qualifications for employment and the nature and content of
personnel examinations;
   C.   Take actions as may be necessary to carry out the mission of the
employer in emergencies, and;
   D.   Retain all rights not specifically limited by a collective bargaining
agreement or by the Public Employee Bargaining Act. (Ord. C-2020-3, 12-8-2020)
1-12-7: LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS BOARD - CONDITIONS OF CONTINUED EXISTENCE
AND TRANSFER OF AUTHORITY UPON TERMINATION:
   A.   The Labor-Management Relations Board created on April 8, 2008, pursuant
to Ordinance number 2008-1 shall continue to exist subject to the following:
      1.   The Board shall submit copies of its rules to the New Mexico Public
Employee Labor Relations Board no later than April 30, 2021. If the Board fails
to meet the submission deadline, it shall cease to exist on July 1, 2021. If
the Public Employee Labor Relations Board determines that the Board's rules do
not meet the requirements of the Public Employee Bargaining Act, the Board must
submit rules which comply with the Public Employee Bargaining Act by June 30,
2021, or it will cease to exist on July 1, 2021.
      2.   The Board shall submit to the New Mexico Public Employee Labor
Relations Board between November 1 and December 31, 2021, and every subsequent
odd-numbered year thereafter, an affirmation that:
         (a)   the Gallup City Council has affirmatively elected to continue to
operate under the local board; and
         (b)   each labor organization representing City of Gallup employees
that is subject to the jurisdiction of the Board has submitted a written notice
to the Board that it affirmatively elects to continue to operate under the
local board.
      If the Board fails to timely submit the affirmation required by this
subsection, it shall cease to exist on January 1 of the following even-numbered
year.
      3.   The Board shall cease to exist immediately upon filing with the
Public Employee Labor Relations Board written notification that the Board has
voted to cease its existence.
      4.   The Board shall cease to exist immediately upon having a membership
vacancy exceeding sixty (60) days in length.
      5.   The City Council may terminate the existence of the Board by
ordinance that repeals this ordinance.
      6.   If the Board ceases to exist, all matters pending before the Board
shall be transferred to the New Mexico Public Employee Labor Relations Board.
   B.   The Board shall be composed of three members appointed by the City
Council. One member shall be appointed on the recommendation of individuals
representing labor, one (1) member shall be appointed on the recommendation of
the City of Gallup County Manager, and one (1) member shall be appointed on the
recommendation of the first two (2) appointees.
   C.   Board members shall serve for a period of one (1) year with terms.
Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment and
such appointments shall only be made for the remainder of the unexpired term. A
Board member may serve an unlimited number of terms.
   D.   During the term of appointment, no Board member shall hold or seek any
other political office or public employment; or be an employee of a union, an
organization representing public employees, or a public employer.
   E.   Each Board member shall be paid per diem and mileage in accordance with
the provisions of the Per Diem and Mileage Act. (Ord. C-2020-3, 12-8-2020)
1-12-8: BOARD - POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The Board shall promulgate rules and regulations necessary to
accomplish and perform its functions and duties as established in the Labor
Management Relations Chapter, including the establishment of procedures for:
      1.   The designation of appropriate bargaining units;
      2.   The selection, certification, and decertification of exclusive
representatives; and;
      3.   The filing, hearing, and determination of complaints of prohibited
practices.
   B.   The Board shall:
      1.   Hold hearings and make inquiries necessary to carry out its
functions and duties;
      2.   Conduct studies on problems pertaining to employee-employer
relations;
      3.   Request information and data from public employers and labor
organizations necessary to carry out its functions and responsibilities; and
      4.   Hire personnel or contract with third parties as the appropriate
governing body deems necessary to assist the Board in carrying out its
functions and may delegate any or all of its authority to those third parties,
subject to final review of the Board.
   C.   The Board may issue subpoenas requiring, upon reasonable notice, the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence, including
books, records, correspondence, or documents relating to the matter in
question. The Board may prescribe the form of subpoena, but it shall adhere
insofar as practicable to the form used in civil actions in the district court.
The Board may administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive
evidence.
   D.   The Board shall decide issues by majority vote and shall issue its
decisions in the form of written orders and opinions.
   E.   The Board has the power to enforce provisions of the Public Employee
Bargaining Act and this Chapter through the imposition of appropriate
administrative remedies, actual damages related to dues, back pay including
benefits, reinstatement with the same seniority status that the employee would
have had but for the violation, declaratory or injunctive relief or provisional
remedies, including temporary restraining orders or preliminary injunctions. No
punitive damages or attorney fees may be awarded by the Board.
   F.   No rule or regulation promulgated by the Board shall require, directly
or indirectly, as a condition of continuous employment, any employee covered by
the Labor Management Relations Chapter to pay money to any labor organization
that is certified as an exclusive representative. (Ord. C-2020-3, 12-8-2020)
1-12-9: HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   The Board may hold hearings for the purposes of:
      1.   Information gathering and inquiry;
      2.   Adopting rules; and
      3.   Adjudicating disputes and enforcing the provisions of the Labor
Management Relations Chapter and rules adopted pursuant to the Chapter.
   B.   The Board shall adopt rules setting forth procedures to be followed
during hearings of the Board. Such rules shall meet minimal due process
requirements of the state and federal constitutions.
   C.   The Board may appoint a hearing examiner to conduct any adjudicatory
hearing authorized by the Labor Management Relations Chapter. At the conclusion
of the hearing, the examiner shall prepare a written report, including findings
and recommendations, all of which shall be submitted to the Board for its
decision.
   D.   A rule proposed to be adopted by the Board that affects a person or
governmental entity outside of the Board and its staff shall not be adopted,
amended or repealed without public hearing and comment on the proposed action
before the Board. The public hearing shall be held after notice of the subject
matter of the rule, the action proposed to be taken, the time and place of the
hearing, the manner in which interested persons may present their views and the
method by which copies of the proposed rule, proposed amendment or repeal of an
existing rule may be obtained. All meetings shall be held in the City of
Gallup. Notice shall be published once, at least thirty (30) days prior to the
hearing date in a newspaper of general circulation in McKinley County and
notice shall be mailed at least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing date to
all persons who have made a written request for advance notice of hearings.
   E.   All adopted rules shall be filed in accordance with applicable state
statutes.
   F.   A verbatim record made by electronic or other suitable means shall be
made of every rulemaking and adjudicatory hearing. The record shall not be
transcribed unless required for judicial review or unless ordered by the Board
or the New Mexico Public Employee Labor Relations Board. (Ord. C-2020-3, 12-8-
2020)
1-12-10: APPROPRIATE BARGAINING UNITS:
   A.   The Board shall, upon receipt of a petition for a representation
election filed by a labor organization, designate the appropriate bargaining
unit. Appropriate bargaining units shall be established on the basis of
occupational groups or a clear and identifiable community of interest in
employment terms, employment conditions, and related personnel matters among
the employees involved. Occupational groups shall generally be identified as
blue collar, secretarial, clerical, technical, paraprofessional, professional,
corrections, firefighters, and police officers. Department, craft, or trade
designations other than as specified above shall not determine bargaining
units. The parties, by mutual agreement and approval of the Board, may further
consolidate occupational groups. The essential factors in determining
appropriate bargaining units shall include the principles of efficient
administration of government, the history of collective bargaining, and the
assurance to employees of their rights guaranteed by the Chapter.
   B.   If the labor organization and the City cannot agree on the appropriate
bargaining unit within thirty (30) days, the Board shall hold a hearing
concerning the composition of the bargaining unit. Any agreement as to the
appropriate bargaining unit between the City and the labor organization is
subject to the approval of the Board.
   C.   The Board shall not include in any appropriate bargaining unit
supervisors, managers, or confidential employees.
   D.   Jobs included within a bargaining unit pursuant to the Gallup Labor
Management Relations Chapter in effect on January 1, 2020 shall remain in that
bargaining unit after enactment of this Chapter unless otherwise removed by the
Board in accordance with its rules governing unit clarification. (Ord. C-2020-
3, 12-8-2020)
1-12-11: ELECTIONS:
   A.   Whenever, in accordance with rules prescribed by the Labor Management
Relations Board, a petition is filed by a labor organization containing the
signatures of at least thirty percent (30%) of the public employees in an
appropriate bargaining unit, the board or local board shall conduct a secret
ballot representation election to determine whether and by which labor
organization the public employees in the appropriate bargaining unit shall be
represented. Upon acceptance of a valid petition, the Board shall require the
City of Gallup to provide the labor organization within ten (10) business days
the names, job titles, work locations, home addresses, personal email addresses
and home or cellular telephone numbers of any public employee in the proposed
bargaining unit. This information shall be kept confidential by the labor
organization and its employees or officers. The ballot shall contain the name
of any labor organization submitting a petition containing signatures of at
least thirty percent (30%) of the public employees in the appropriate
bargaining unit. The ballot shall also contain a provision allowing public
employees to indicate whether they do not desire to be represented by a labor
organization. An election shall only be valid if forty percent (40%) of the
eligible employees in the bargaining unit vote in the election.
   B.   Once a labor organization has filed a valid petition calling for a
representation election, other labor organizations may seek to be placed on the
ballot. Such an organization shall file a petition containing the signatures of
not less than thirty percent (30%) of the public employees in the appropriate
bargaining unit no later than ten days after the Board and the public employer
post a written notice that the petition in subsection A of this section has
been filed by a labor organization.
   C.   As an alternative to the provisions of subsection A of this section, a
labor organization with a reasonable basis for claiming to represent a majority
of the employees in an appropriate bargaining unit may submit authorization
cards rom a majority of the employees in an appropriate bargaining unit to the
Board, which shall, upon verification that a majority of the employees in the
appropriate bargaining unit have signed valid authorization cards, certify the
labor organization as the exclusive representative of all public employees in
the appropriate bargaining unit. The City may challenge the verification of
Relations Board by filing a written challenge with the Board specifying the
grounds for the challenge. The Board shall hold a fact-finding hearing on the
challenge to confirm that a majority of the employees in the appropriate
bargaining unit have signed valid authorization cards.
   D.   If a labor organization receives a majority of votes cast, it shall be
certified as the exclusive representative of all public employees in the
appropriate bargaining unit. Within fifteen (15) days of an election in which
no labor organization receives a majority of the votes cast, a runoff election
between the two (2) choices receiving the largest number of votes cast shall be
conducted. The Board shall certify the results of the election, and, when a
labor organization receives a majority of the votes cast, the Board shall
certify the labor organization as the exclusive representative of all public
employees in the appropriate bargaining unit.
   E.   An election shall not be conducted if an election or runoff election
has been conducted in the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the
proposed representation election. An election shall not be held during the term
of an existing collective bargaining agreement, except as provided in section
1-12-13 of this Chapter. (Ord. C-2020-3, 12-8-2020)
1-12-12: EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATION:
   A.   A labor organization that has been certified by the Board as
representing the public employees in the appropriate bargaining unit shall be
the exclusive representative of all public employees in the appropriate
bargaining unit. The exclusive representative shall act for all public
employees in the appropriate bargaining unit and negotiate a collective
bargaining agreement covering all public employees in the appropriate
bargaining unit. The exclusive representative shall represent the interests of
all public employees in the appropriate bargaining unit without discrimination
or regard to membership in the labor organization. A claim by a public employee
that the exclusive representative has violated this duty of fair representation
shall be forever barred if not brought within six (6) months of the date on
which the public employee knew, or reasonably should have known, of the
violation.
   B.   This section does not prevent a public employee, acting individually,
from presenting a grievance without the intervention of the exclusive
representative. At a hearing on a grievance brought by a public employee
individually, the exclusive representative shall be afforded the opportunity to
be present and    make its views known. An adjustment made shall not be
inconsistent with, or in violation of, the collective bargaining agreement then
in effect between the City and the exclusive representative.
   C.   The City shall provide an exclusive representative of an appropriate
bargaining unit reasonable access to employees within the bargaining unit,
including the following:
      1.   For purposes of newly hired employees in the bargaining unit,
reasonable access includes:
         (a)   The right to meet with new employees, without loss of employee
compensation or leave benefits; and
         (b)   The right to meet with new employees within thirty (30) days
from the date of hire for a period of at least thirty (30) minutes but not more
than one hundred twenty (120) minutes, during new employee orientation or, if
the City does not conduct new employee orientations, at individual or group
meetings; and;
      2.   For purposes of employees in the bargaining unit who are not new
employees, reasonable access includes:
         (a)   The right to meet with employees during the employees' regular
work hours at the employees' regular work location to investigate and discuss
grievances, workplace-related complaints and other matters relating to
employment relations; and
         (b)   The right to conduct meetings at the employees' regular work
location before or after the employees' regular work hours, during meal periods
and during any other break periods.
   D.   The City shall permit an exclusive representative to use the City's
facilities or property, whether owned or leased by the City, for purposes of
conducting meetings with the represented employees in the bargaining unit. An
exclusive representative may hold the meetings described in this section at a
time and place set by the exclusive representative. The exclusive
representative shall have the right to conduct the meetings without undue
interference and may establish reasonable rules regarding appropriate conduct
for meeting attendees.
   E.   The meetings described in this section shall not interfere with the
City's operations.
   F.   If the City has the information in its records, the City shall provide
to the exclusive representative, in an editable digital file format agreed to
by the exclusive representative, the following information for each employee in
an appropriate bargaining unit:
      1.   The employee's name and date of hire;
      2.   Contact information, including:
         (a)   Cellular, home and work telephone numbers;
         (b)   A means of electronic communication, including work and personal
electronic mail addresses; and
         (c)   Home address or personal mailing address; and;
      3.   Employment information, including the employee's job title, salary
and work site location.
   G.   The City shall provide the information described in subsection F of
this section to the exclusive representative within ten (10) days from the date
of hire for newly hired employees in an appropriate bargaining unit, and every
one hundred twenty days (120) for employees in the bargaining unit who are not
newly hired employees. The information shall be kept confidential by the labor
organization and its employees or officers. Apart from the disclosure required
by this subsection, and notwithstanding any provision contained in the
Inspection of Public Records Act, the public employer shall not disclose the
information described in subsection F of this section, or public employees'
dates of birth or social security numbers to a third party.
   H.   An exclusive representative shall have the right to use the electronic
mail systems or other similar communication systems of a public employer to
communicate with the employees in the bargaining unit regarding:
      1.   Collective bargaining, including the administration of collective
bargaining agreements;
      2.   The investigation of grievances or other disputes relating to
employment relations; and
      3.   Matters involving the governance or business of the labor
organization.
   I.   Nothing in this section prevents the City from providing an exclusive
representative access to employees within the bargaining unit beyond the
reasonable access required under this section or limits any existing right of a
labor organization to communicate with public employees. (Ord. C-2020-3, 12-8-
2020)
1-12-13: DECERTIFICATION OF EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE:
   A.   A member of a labor organization or the labor organization itself may
initiate decertification of a labor organization as the exclusive
representative if thirty percent (30%) of the public employees in the
appropriate bargaining unit make a written request to the Board for a
decertification election. Decertification elections shall be held in a manner
prescribed by rule of the Board. An election shall only be valid if forty
percent (40%) of the eligible employees in the bargaining unit vote in the
election.
   B.   When there is a collective bargaining agreement in effect, a request
for a decertification election shall be made to the Board no earlier than
ninety (90) days and no later than sixty (60) days before the expiration of the
collective bargaining agreement; provided, however, a request for an election
may be filed at any time after the expiration of the third year of a collective
bargaining agreement with a term of more than three (3) years.
   C.   When, within the time period prescribed in subsection B of this
section, a competing labor organization files a petition containing signatures
of at least thirty percent (30%) of the public employees in the appropriate
bargaining unit, a representation election rather than a decertification
election shall be conducted.
   D.   When an exclusive representative has been certified but no collective
bargaining agreement is in effect, the Board shall not accept a request for a
decertification election or an election sought by a competing labor
organization earlier than twelve (12) months subsequent to a labor
organization's certification as the exclusive representative. (Ord. C-2020-3,
12-8-2020)
1-12-14: SCOPE OF BARGAINING:
   A.   Except for retirement programs provided pursuant to the Public
Employees Retirement Act, the City and exclusive representatives:
      1.   Shall bargain in good faith on wages, hours and all other terms and
conditions of employment and other issues agreed to by the parties. However,
neither the City nor the exclusive representative shall be required to agree to
a proposal or to make a concession; and
      2.   Shall enter into written collective bargaining agreements covering
employment relations.
   B.   Entering into a collective bargaining agreement shall not obviate the
duty to bargain in good faith during the term of the collective bargaining
agreement regarding changes to wages, hours and all other terms and conditions
of employment, unless it can be demonstrated that the parties clearly and
unmistakably waived the right to bargain regarding those subjects. However, no
party may be required, by this provision, to renegotiate the existing terms of
collective bargaining agreements already in place.
   C.   In regard to the Public Employees Retirement Act, the City, in a
written collective bargaining agreement, may agree to assume any portion of a
public employee's contribution obligation to retirement programs provided
pursuant to the Public Employees Retirement Act. Such agreements are subject to
the limitations set forth in this section.
   D.   The obligation to bargain collectively shall not be construed as
authorizing the City and an exclusive representative to enter into an agreement
that is in conflict with the provisions of any other statute of this state;
provided, however, that a collective bargaining agreement that provides greater
rights, remedies and procedures to public employees than contained in a state
statute shall not be considered to be in conflict with that state statute. In
the event of an actual conflict between the provisions of any other statute of
this state and an agreement entered into by the public employer and the
exclusive representative in collective bargaining, the statutes of this state
shall prevail.
   E.   Payroll deduction of the exclusive representative's membership dues
shall be a mandatory subject of bargaining if either party chooses to negotiate
the issue. The amount of dues shall be certified in writing by an official of
the labor organization and shall not include special assessments, penalties or
fines of any type. The City shall honor payroll deductions until the
authorization is revoked in writing by the public employee in accordance with
the negotiated agreement and this subsection and for so long as the labor
organization is certified as the exclusive representative. Public employees who
have authorized the payroll deduction of dues to a labor organization may
revoke that authorization by providing written notice to their labor
organization during a window period not to exceed ten (10) days per year for
each employee. The City and the labor organization shall negotiate when the
commencement of that period will begin annually for each employee. If no
agreement is reached, the period shall be during the ten (10) days following
the anniversary date of each employee's employment. Within ten (10) days of
receipt of notice from a public employee of revocation of authorization for the
payroll deduction of dues, the labor organization shall provide notice to the
City of a public employee's revocation of that authorization. A public
employee's notice of revocation for the payroll deduction of dues shall be
effective on the thirtieth day after the notice provided to the City by the
labor organization. No authorized payroll deduction of dues held by the City or
a labor organization on July 1, 2020 shall be rendered invalid by this
provision and shall remain valid until replaced or revoked by the public
employee. During the time that a board certification is in effect for a
particular appropriate bargaining unit, the City shall not deduct dues for any
other labor organization.
   F.   The City and a labor organization, or their employees or agents, are
not liable for, and have a complete defense to, any claims or actions under the
law of this state for requiring, deducting, receiving or retaining fair share
dues or fees from public employees, and current or former public employees do
not have standing to pursue these claims or actions if the fair share dues or
fees were permitted at the time under the laws of this state then in force and
paid, through payroll deduction or otherwise, on or before June 27, 2018. This
subsection:
      1.   Applies to all claims and actions pending on July 1, 2020 and to
claims and actions filed on or after July 1, 2020; and
       2.   Shall not be interpreted to infer that any relief made unavailable
by this section would otherwise be available.
   G.   An impasse resolution or an agreement provision agreed to by the City
manager, or designated agent, and an exclusive representative that requires the
expenditure of funds shall be contingent upon the specific appropriation of
funds by the City Council and the availability of funds. An arbitration
decision shall not require the re-appropriation of funds.
   H.   An agreement shall include a grievance procedure to be used for the
settlement of disputes pertaining to employment terms and conditions and
related personnel matters. The grievance procedure shall provide for a final
and binding determination. The final determination shall constitute an
arbitration award within the meaning of the Uniform Arbitration Act; such award
shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the standard set forth in the
Uniform Arbitration Act. The costs of an arbitration proceeding conducted
pursuant to this subsection shall be shared equally by the parties.
   I.   The following meetings shall be closed:
      1.   Meetings for the discussion of bargaining strategy preliminary to
collective bargaining negotiations between the City and the exclusive
representative of the public employees of the City of Gallup;
      2.   Collective bargaining sessions; and
      3.   Consultations and impasse resolution procedures at which the City
and the exclusive representative of the appropriate bargaining unit are
present. (Ord. C-2020-3, 12-8-2020)
1-12-15: IMPASSE RESOLUTION:
   A.   The following impasse procedures shall be followed by the City and
exclusive representatives:
      1.   if an impasse occurs, either party may request from the Board that a
mediator be assigned to the negotiations unless the parties can agree on a
mediator. A mediator with the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shall
be assigned by the Board to assist negotiations unless the parties agree to
another mediator; and
      2.   if the impasse continues after a thirty (30) day mediation period,
either party may request a list of seven (7) arbitrators from the Federal
Mediation and conciliation service. One (1) arbitrator shall be chosen by the
parties by alternately striking names from such list. Who strikes first shall
be determined by coin toss. The arbitrator shall render a final, binding,
written decision resolving unresolved issues pursuant to section
1-12-14 of this Chapter and the Uniform Arbitration Act no later than thirty
(30) days after the arbitrator has been notified of selection by the parties.
The arbitrator's decision shall be limited to a selection of one of the two
parties' complete, last, best offer. The costs of an arbitrator and the
arbitrator's related costs conducted pursuant to this subsection shall be
shared equally by the parties. Each party shall be responsible for bearing the
cost of presenting its case.
      The decision shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the standard
set forth in the Uniform Arbitration Act.
   B.   The City may enter into a written agreement with the exclusive
representative setting forth an alternative impasse resolution procedure.
   C.   In the event that an impasse continues after the expiration of a
contract, the existing contract will continue in full force and effect until it
is replaced by a subsequent written agreement. However, this shall not require
the City to increase any employees' levels, steps or grades of compensation
contained in the existing contract. (Ord. C-2020-3, 12-8-2020)
1-12-16: EMPLOYERS - PROHIBITED PRACTICES:
The City or its representative shall not:
   A.   Discriminate against an employee with regard to terms and conditions of
employment because of the employee's membership in a labor organization;
   B.   Interfere with, restrain, or coerce any employee in the exercise of any
right guaranteed under the Labor Management Relations Chapter or use public
funds to influence the decision of its employees or the employees of its
subcontractors regarding whether to support or oppose a labor organization that
represents or seeks to represent those employees, or whether to become a member
of any labor organization; provided, however, that this subsection does not
apply to activities performed or expenses incurred:
      1.   Addressing a grievance or negotiating or administering a collective
bargaining agreement;
      2.   Allowing a labor organization or its representatives access to City
of Gallup facilities or properties;
      3.   Performing an activity required by federal or state law or by a
collective bargaining agreement;
      4.   Negotiating, entering into or carrying out an agreement with a labor
organization;
      5.   Paying wages to a represented employee while the employee is
performing duties if the payment is permitted under a collective bargaining
agreement; or
      6.   Representing the City in a proceeding before the Board, the New
Mexico Labor Relations Board, or in a judicial review of that proceeding;
   C.   Dominate or interfere in the formation, existence or administration of
a labor organization;
   D.   Discriminate in regard to hiring, tenure or a term or condition of
employment in order to encourage or discourage membership in a labor
organization;
   E.   Discharge or otherwise discriminate against a public employee because
the employee has signed or filed an affidavit, petition, grievance or complaint
or given information or testimony pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter or
because a public employee is forming, joining or choosing to be represented by
a labor organization;
   F.   Refuse to bargain collectively in good faith with the exclusive
representative;
   G.   Refuse or fail to comply with a provision of this Chapter or Board
rule;
   H.   Refuse or fail to comply with a collective bargaining agreement; or
   I.   Negotiate issues which are the subject of negotiations or make any
offer, commitment, or promise whatsoever to employees or the exclusive
representative, other than through the appointed negotiating team. It is the
intent of this language that the integrity of the negotiating process be
maintained. All negotiations and concessions shall occur only between the
respective appointed negotiating teams. (Ord. C-2020-3, 12-8-2020)
1-12-17: EMPLOYEES - LABOR ORGANIZATIONS - PROHIBITED PRACTICES:
An employee, a labor organization, or its representative shall not:
   A.   Discriminate against an employee with regard to labor organization
membership or because of race, color, religion, creed, age, disability, sex, or
national origin;
   B.   Solicit membership for an employee or labor organization during the
employee's duty hours. This does not include the work breaks or lunch periods;
   C.   Restrain or coerce any employee in the exercise of any right guaranteed
by the provisions of the Labor Management Relations Chapter;
   D.   Refuse to bargain collectively in good faith with the employer;
   E.   Refuse or fail to comply with any collective bargaining agreement with
the employer. This issue is subject to the required negotiated grievance
procedure negotiated by the parties;
   F.   Refuse or fail to comply with any provision of the Labor Management
Relations Chapter;
   G.   Picket homes or private businesses of employees, appointed individuals,
or elected officials of the City;
   H.   Restrain or coerce the employer in the selection of its agent for
bargaining; or
   I.   Negotiate issues which are the subject of negotiations or make any
offer, commitment, or promise whatsoever to the public employer, other than
through the appointed negotiating team. It is the intent of this language that
the integrity of the negotiating process be maintained. All negotiations and
concessions shall occur only between the respective appointed negotiating
teams. (Ord. C-2020-3, 12-8-2020)
1-12-18: STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No employee or labor organization shall engage in a strike. No labor
organization shall cause, instigate, encourage, or support a strike. The
employer shall not cause, instigate or engage in an employee lockout.
   B.   The City may apply to the district court for injunctive relief to end a
strike, and an exclusive representative of public employees affected by a
lockout may apply to the district court for injunctive relief to end a lockout.
   C.   The Board, upon a clear and convincing showing of proof at a hearing
that a labor organization directly caused or instigated an employee strike, may
impose appropriate penalties on that labor organization, up to and including
decertification of the labor organization with respect to any of its bargaining
units which struck as a result of such causation or instigation. A strike means
an employee's refusal, in concerted action with other employees, to report for
duty or his willful absence or withholding of service in whole or in part from
the full, faithful, and proper performance of the duties of employment for the
purpose of inducing, influencing, or coercing a change in the working
conditions, compensation, rights, privileges, or obligations of employment.
(Ord. C-2020-3, 12-8-2020)
1-12-19: AGREEMENTS VALID - ENFORCEMENT:
All collective bargaining agreements and other agreements between the City and
an exclusive representative are valid and enforceable according to their terms
when entered into in accordance with the provisions of this Labor Management
Relations Chapter. (Ord. C-2020-3, 12-8-2020)
1-12-20: JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT - STANDARD OF REVIEW:
   A.   The Board may request the district court to enforce any order issued
pursuant to the Labor Management Relations Chapter, including those for
appropriate temporary relief and restraining orders. The Court shall consider
the request for enforcement on the record made before the Board. The Court
shall uphold the action of the Board and take appropriate action to enforce it
unless the Court concludes that the order is:
      1.   Arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion;
      2.   Not supported by substantial evidence on the record considered as a
whole; or
      3.   Otherwise not in accordance with law.
   B.   Any person or party, including any labor organization, affected by a
final regulation, order, or decision of the Board, may appeal to the district
court for further relief. All such appeals shall be based upon the record made
at the Board hearing. All such appeals to the district court shall be taken
within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the final regulation, order, or
decision of the Board. Actions taken by the Board shall be affirmed unless the
Court concludes that the action is:
      1.   Arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion;
      2.   Not supported by substantial evidence on the record taken as a
whole; or
      3.   Otherwise not in accordance with law. (Ord. C-2020-3, 12-8-2020)
CHAPTER 13
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-13-1: Compensation And Hours Of Municipal Judge
1-13-2: Temporary Incapacity Or Absence Of Judge
1-13-3: Citation Or Summons
1-13-4: Court Costs; Collection; Purpose
1-13-5: Suspension Of Sentence, Probation
1-13-6: Misdemeanor Compliance Program
1-13-1: COMPENSATION AND HOURS OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
   A.   Compensation: The municipal judge shall receive an annual salary that
is eighty percent (80%) of the annual salary of a full time state magistrate
judge.
   B.   Hours: The municipal judge shall hold office hours a minimum of forty
(40) hours per week and shall hold no other employment that may conflict with
the assigned judicial duties. (Ord. C95-1, 1-10-1995)
1-13-2: TEMPORARY INCAPACITY OR ABSENCE OF JUDGE:
   A.   Appointment:
      1.   City Council: In the event of the temporary incapacity or absence of
the duly elected municipal judge, any elected state magistrate or any
registered voter of the city may be appointed to the office of municipal judge
by the city council during such temporary incapacity or absence.
      2.   Municipal Judge: In the event of the temporary incapacity or absence
of the duly elected municipal judge, any elected state magistrate or any
registered voter of the city may be appointed to the office of municipal judge
by the duly elected municipal judge; provided, that such appointee may serve no
longer than five (5) consecutive days unless appointed by the city council.
   B.   State Magistrate:
      1.   Approval From Supreme Court: A state magistrate may not be appointed
to serve as temporary municipal judge unless prior written approval is received
from the New Mexico supreme court.
      2.   Maximum Term: A state magistrate approved by the New Mexico supreme
court to serve as municipal judge may serve in that capacity no longer than
ninety (90) days per year.
      3.   Compensation: A state magistrate appointed to the office of
municipal judge shall serve without compensation.
   C.   Compensation:
      1.   Any registered voter other than a state magistrate appointed to the
office of municipal judge by the city council or the duly elected municipal
judge shall be compensated at a rate of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per
day when conducting hearings in the municipal court. (Ord. C87-4, 8-1987; amd.
2006 Code)
      2.   The city shall not compensate a temporary municipal judge for more
than thirty five (35) days per year. (Ord. C87-4, 8-1987)
1-13-3: CITATION OR SUMMONS:
In any action for the violation of any ordinance not amounting to a breach of
the peace, the first process may be a citation or summons requiring the party
charged to appear before the court at a time fixed in the citation or summons.
Upon failure of the party charged to appear, the municipal judge may forthwith
issue a warrant for his arrest for the offense specified in the citation or
summons commanding that the party charged shall be arrested and proceedings had
as in the case when arrest is made upon a warrant issued upon affidavit. (Ord.
C66-222, 1-24-1984)
1-13-4: COURT COSTS; COLLECTION; PURPOSE:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, "convicted" means the defendant
has been found guilty of a criminal charge by a municipal judge, either after
trial, a plea of guilty or a plea of nolo contendere.
   B.   Court Costs: The Municipal Judge shall collect the following costs:
      1.   A corrections cost of twenty dollars ($20.00);
      2.   A judicial education cost of three dollars ($3.00); and
      3.   A court automation cost of six dollars ($6.00).
   C.   Collection: The costs are to be assessed and collected, upon and as an
element of conviction, from persons convicted of violating any ordinance
relating to the operation of a motor vehicle or any ordinance that may be
enforced by the imposition of a term of imprisonment.
   D.   Correction Costs:
      1.   Use: All monies collected as "correction costs" ($20.00) shall be
deposited in a Special Fund in the Municipal Treasury and shall be used for:
         a.   Municipal jailer or juvenile detention officer training;
         b.   The construction planning, construction, operation and
maintenance of a Municipal Jail or juvenile detention facility;
         c.   Paying the cost of housing Municipal prisoners in a County Jail
or detention facility or housing juveniles in a detention facility;
         d.   Complying with match or contribution requirements for the receipt
of Federal funds relating to jails or juvenile detention facilities;
         e.   Providing inpatient treatment or other substance abuse programs
in conjunction with or as an alternative to jail sentencing;
         f.   Defraying the cost of transporting prisoners to jails or
juveniles to juvenile detention facilities; or
         g.   Providing electronic monitoring system.
      2.   Interest Collected From Costs: A City may credit the interest
collected from costs deposited in the Special Fund pursuant to subsection 0.1.
of this section to the City's General Fund.
   E.   Judicial Education Costs: All monies collected as "judicial education
costs" ($3.00) shall be used for the education and training, including
production of bench books and other written materials, of the Municipal Judge
and other Municipal Court employees.
   F.   Court Automation Costs: All monies collected as "court automation
costs" ($6.00) shall be used for the purchase and maintenance of court
automation systems in the Municipal Court. The court automation systems shall
have the capability of providing, on a timely basis, electronic records in a
format specified by the Judicial Information Systems Council.
   G.   Bench Warrant Cost: Upon the issuance of a bench warrant, the Municipal
Court shall assess a cost of one hundred dollars ($100.00) against the
individual whose arrest is commanded by the bench warrant.
   H.   Traffic Education And Enforcement Cost: Any person convicted of
violating any section of the uniform traffic ordinance shall pay, upon and as
an element of conviction, and in addition to any other cost or fine, a four
dollar ($4.00) traffic education and enforcement cost to the Municipal Court.
All moneys collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited in a Special
Fund in the Municipal Treasury and shall be used for equipment and training for
traffic safety and enforcement duties of the Gallup Police Department. (Ord.
C2003-9, 9-9-2003, eff. 9-15-2003; amd. Ord. 2009-6, 7-14-2009, eff.
retroactive to 7-1-2009; Ord. 2018-8, 6-12-2018; Ord. 2019-4, 2-26-2019; Ord.
C2024-5, 7-9-2024)
1-13-5: SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE, PROBATION:
   A.   Plea Of Guilty; Judgment Of Conviction: The Municipal Court may, upon
entry of a plea of guilty or judgment of conviction:
      1.   Suspend in whole or part the execution of sentence; or
      2.   Place the defendant on probation for a period not exceeding one year
on terms and conditions the court deems best; or both.
   The court may, as a condition of probation, require the defendant to serve a
period of time in volunteer labor to be known as community service. The type of
labor and period of service shall be at the sole discretion of the court;
provided, that any person receiving a sentence of community service shall be
immune from any civil liability other than gross negligence arising out of the
community service, and any person who performs community service pursuant to
court order or any criminal diversion program shall not be entitled to any
wages, shall not be considered an employee for any purpose and shall not be
entitled to workers' compensation, unemployment benefits or any other benefits
otherwise provided by law. As used in this subsection, "community service"
means any labor that benefits the public at large or any public, charitable or
educational entity or institution.
   B.   Conditions: Suspension of execution of the sentence or probation, or
both, shall be granted only when the Municipal Judge is satisfied it will serve
the ends of justice and of the public, and that the defendant's liability for
any fine or other punishment imposed is fully discharged upon successful
completion of the terms and conditions of probation. (Ord. C87-4, 8-1987)
1-13-6: MISDEMEANOR COMPLIANCE PROGRAM:
   A.   The Municipal Court may create a "misdemeanor compliance program" to
monitor defendants' compliance with the conditions of probation imposed by the
Municipal Court. The program shall be limited to participation by persons who
have been convicted of a misdemeanor criminal offense specified in the Criminal
Code, convicted of driving while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
drugs or convicted of driving while the person's driver's license is suspended
or revoked pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Code. The City's program shall comply
with guidelines established by the Administrative Office of the Courts.
   B.   As a condition of probation, the Municipal Court may require the
defendant to pay a fee of not less than fifteen dollars ($15.00) nor more than
fifty dollars ($50.00) per month to the City for a public probation program for
the term of the defendant's probation. Money collected by the City pursuant to
this subsection shall be used to offset the cost of the operation of, or the
contracting out of the misdemeanor compliance program. (Ord. 2014-10, 12-9-
2014)
CHAPTER 14
POLICE RESERVE
SECTION:
1-14-1: Established
1-14-2: Eligibility
1-14-3: Police Chief Authority
1-14-4: Reserve Officer Authority
1-14-5: Code Of Conduct
1-14-6: Equipment
1-14-7: Medical Expenses
1-14-8: Access Control Fees
1-14-9: Offenses
1-14-1: ESTABLISHED:
A police reserve unit is established as an organization of persons appointed
and sworn as members or trainees thereof by the chief of police. For the
purpose of this chapter, a "trainee" means a person who has been accepted into
training to qualify to become a member of the reserve unit. Members and
trainees shall be volunteer workers only and are not employees of the city or
of the police department for any purpose, but shall be agents of the city when
acting in an official capacity on specific assignments given by the chief of
police or his designee. They shall serve voluntarily, without pay. (Ord. C88-5,
6-5-1988)
1-14-2: ELIGIBILITY:
The requirements for members of the reserve unit shall be those established by
the New Mexico law enforcement academy board/department of public safety
training and recruiting division for state certified law enforcement officers,
New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 29-7-1 et seq., law enforcement training.
The chief of police may provide any further training he deems necessary or
desirable. The chief of police shall appoint and swear in members who qualify
and with or without cause, may terminate any member or trainee at any time. Any
member or trainee may resign at any time by written notification to the chief
of police. Persons no longer members shall immediately return all city
property. The chief of police may decrease or increase the number of members of
the reserve unit, which shall not exceed twenty (20). (Ord. C88-5, 6-5-1988)
1-14-3: POLICE CHIEF AUTHORITY:
The chief of police or his designee shall have complete authority over the
reserve unit. He or his designee may establish and amend, from time to time,
rules and regulations governing the unit, discipline of members and trainees,
assignment of duties and procedures. (Ord. C88-5, 6-5-1988)
1-14-4: RESERVE OFFICER AUTHORITY:
Each member shall have the status and authority of a police officer when
performing an assigned duty except as limited by the chief of police. When not
performing officially assigned duties, members shall have no police authority
and shall not represent, identify or hold themselves out to be police officers.
(Ord. C88-5, 6-5-1988)
1-14-5: CODE OF CONDUCT:
The police reserves are governed by the police department code of conduct.
(Ord. C88-5, 6-5-1988)
1-14-6: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Required; Firearms: Each member shall maintain and keep for his
expedient use all property issued by the city. He shall not carry any firearm
unless he shall have qualified in its use and scored an eighty percent (80%) or
better on the range. Each member, at all times other than while serving as
such, shall not wear, display or carry any city property unless he shall have
received, in writing, the permission of the chief of police.
   B.   Provided By City: The city shall provide the following equipment for
each reserve member: one leather belt and holster, handcuff case, mace holder
and PR-24 holder; one helmet; one vest; one badge; one cap badge; one PR-24 or
nightstick.
   C.   Uniform Purchase: Each reserve member shall purchase his own uniform
and that uniform shall be the same as the uniform worn by sworn officers of the
police department.
   D.   Remain Property Of City: Each item issued to the member shall remain
and be the property of the city.
   E.   Vehicles: The city shall provide insurance for reserve vehicles. The
reserve unit shall be responsible for maintenance, including tires and
mechanical repairs. The reserve unit shall be allowed to purchase gas at the
public safety building, to be billed monthly.
   F.   Surplus: Worn police surplus shall be given to the reserves. This
includes equipment and vehicles. (Ord. C88-5, 6-5-1988)
1-14-7: MEDICAL EXPENSES:
The city shall provide medical expenses, as follows: "medical expenses" as used
in this chapter are limited only to necessary medical expenses to treat the
accident or injury such as medical doctors, nurses and other necessary medical
services up to a maximum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00); but, excludes
any rehabilitative expenses, any disability benefits, including, but not
limited to, temporary total disability benefits and permanent partial
disability benefits, death benefits, and any and all other expenses which are
of a similar nature or nonmedical nature. (Ord. C88-5, 6-5-1988)
1-14-8: ACCESS CONTROL FEES:
The reserve unit shall be responsible for collecting access control fees at
city parks, as established by the city council. (Ord. C88-5, 6-5-1988)
1-14-9: OFFENSES:
   A.   Nonmembers: It shall be unlawful for any person not a member of the
reserve unit:
      1.   To wear, display or carry any clothing or property issued to
trainees or members of the reserve unit or which appears as or simulates such
clothing or property; or
      2.   To represent, identify or hold himself out to be a trainee, member
or having any connection with the reserve unit.
   B.   Member; Trainee: It shall be unlawful for any trainee or member of the
reserve unit to engage in any conduct described in subsection A of this section
when not performing specific duties assigned by the chief of police or his
designee. (Ord. C88-5, 6-5-1988)
CHAPTER 15
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
SECTION:
1-15-1: Short Title
1-15-2: Purpose
1-15-3: Definitions; General
1-15-4: Requirements; General
1-15-5: Discrimination Prohibited
1-15-6: Administration
1-15-7: Termination
1-15-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the AFFORDABLE HOUSING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2007-06,
7-24-2007)
1-15-2: PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted to implement Gallup's affordable housing program. In
accordance with New Mexico constitution article IX, section 14, the affordable
housing act, New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978, section 6-27-1 et seq. (the
"act"), rules, the purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Establish procedures to ensure that both state and local housing
assistance grantees are qualifying grantees who meet the requirements of the
act and the rules promulgated pursuant to the act both at the time of the award
and throughout the term of any grant or loan under the program;
   B.   Establish an application and award timetable for state housing
assistance grants or loans to permit the selection of the qualifying grantee(s)
by Gallup;
   C.   Create an evaluation process to determine:
      1.   The financial and management stability of the applicant;
      2.   The demonstrated commitment of the applicant to the community;
      3.   A cost benefit analysis of the project proposed by the applicant;
      4.   The benefits to the community of a proposed project;
      5.   The type or amount of assistance to be provided;
      6.   The scope of the affordable housing project;
      7.   Any substantive or matching contribution by the applicant to the
proposed project;
      8.   A performance schedule for the qualifying grantee with performance
criteria; and
      9.   Any other rules or procedures which Gallup believes is necessary for
a full review and evaluation of the applicant and the application or which the
MFA believes is necessary for a full review of Gallup's evaluation of the
applicant;
   D.   Require long term affordability of Gallup's affordable housing projects
so that a project cannot be sold shortly after completion and taken out of the
affordable housing market to ensure a quick profit for the qualifying grantee;
   E.   Require that a grant or loan for a project must impose a contractual
obligation on the qualifying grantee that the affording housing units in any
project be occupied by persons of low or moderate income;
   F.   Provide for adequate security against the loss of public funds or
property in the event that the qualifying grantee abandons or otherwise fails
to complete the project;
   G.   Require review and approval of a housing grant project budget by Gallup
and/or the MFA before any expenditure of grant funds or transfer of granted
property;
   H.   Require that a condition of grant or loan approval be proof of
compliance with all applicable state and local laws, rules and ordinances;
   I.   Provide definitions for "low income and moderate income" and setting
out requirements for verification of income levels;
   J.   Provide Gallup with a valid affordable housing program; and
   K.   Require that Gallup enter into a contract with the qualifying grantee
consistent with the act, which contract shall include remedies and default
provisions in the event of the unsatisfactory performance by the qualifying
grantee and which contract shall be subject to the review of the MFA in its
discretion. (Ord. 2007-06, 7-24-2007)
1-15-3: DEFINITIONS; GENERAL:
The following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
ACT: The affordable housing act, New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978, section
6-27-1 et seq.
AFFORDABILITY PERIOD:
   A.   If the fair market value of any housing assistance grant or the total
amount of affordable housing funds that have been awarded, loaned, donated, or
otherwise conveyed to the qualifying grantee is from one dollar ($1.00) to
fourteen thousand nine hundred ninety nine dollars ninety nine cents
($14,999.99), then the affordability period shall be not less than five (5)
years.
   B.   If the fair market value of any housing assistance grant or the total
amount of affordable housing funds is from fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) up to and including forty thousand dollars ($40,000.00), then the
affordability period shall be not less than ten (10) years.
   C.   If the fair market value of any housing assistance grant or the total
amount of affordable housing funds is from forty thousand dollars ($40,000.00)
up to and including one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), then the
affordability period shall be not less than fifteen (15) years.
   D.   If the fair market value of any housing assistance grant or the total
amount of affordable housing funds is greater than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00), then the affordability period shall be not less than twenty (20)
years.
AFFORDABLE: Consistent with minimum rent and/or income limitations set forth in
the MFA act, and in guidelines established by MFA.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING: Residential housing primarily for persons or households of
low or moderate income.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUNDS: Any or all funds awarded or to be awarded, loaned or
otherwise distributed under the act for payment of the costs of infrastructure,
property acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation for affordable housing
under an affordable housing plan.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PLAN OR PLAN: A plan pursuant to an affordable housing
program that contemplates one or more affordable housing projects, which may be
developed in one or more phases.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAM OR PROGRAM: Any programs Gallup and/or the MFA
establish pursuant to the act.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT OR PROJECT: Any work or undertaking, whether new
construction, acquisition of existing residential housing, remodeling,
improvement, rehabilitation or conversion, which may be undertaken in one or
more phases, as part of an affordable housing plan, as approved by Gallup and/
or the MFA for the primary purposes as allowed by the act.
APPLICANT: Subject to further qualifications in subsection
1-15-4B of this chapter, an individual, a governmental housing agency, regional
housing authority, including any tribal housing authority, a for profit
organization, including a corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
joint venture, syndicate, or association or a nonprofit organization meeting
the appropriate criteria of Gallup and/or the MFA.
APPLICATION: An application to participate in one or more affordable housing
programs or affordable housing plans under the act submitted by an applicant to
Gallup and/or the MFA.
BUILDER: An individual or entity licensed as a general contractor to construct
residential housing in the state that satisfies the requirements of a
qualifying grantee and has been approved by Gallup and/or the MFA to
participate in an affordable housing program. The term "builder" shall also
include an individual or entity that satisfies the requirements of a qualifying
grantee and has been approved by Gallup and/or the MFA to participate in an
affordable housing program, who is not licensed as a general contractor in the
state, provided such individual or entity contracts with a general contractor
licensed in the state to construct residential housing.
BUILDING: A structure capable of being renovated or converted into affordable
housing or a structure that is to be demolished and is located on land donated
for use in connection with an affordable housing project.
CITY: The city of Gallup, New Mexico, a New Mexico municipal corporation.
CONGREGATE HOUSING FACILITY: Residential housing designed for occupancy by more
than four (4) persons of low or moderate income living independently of each
other. The facility may contain group dining, recreational, healthcare or other
communal living facilities and each unit in a congregate housing facility shall
contain at least its own living, sleeping, and bathing facilities.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT: The United States of America and any agency or
instrumentality, corporate or otherwise, of the United States of America.
HUD: The United States department of housing and urban development.
HOUSEHOLD: One or more persons occupying a housing unit.
HOUSING ASSISTANCE GRANT: The donation by Gallup of:
   A. Land for construction of a project;
   B. An existing building for conversion or renovation as affordable housing;
or
   C. The costs of infrastructure, property acquisition, construction or
rehabilitation necessary to support affordable housing.
INFRASTRUCTURE: Infrastructure improvements and infrastructure purposes.
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT: Includes, but is not limited to:
   A. Sanitary sewage systems, including collection, transport, storage,
treatment, dispersal, effluent use and discharge;
   B. Drainage and flood control systems, including collection, transport,
diversion, storage, detention, retention, dispersal, use and discharge;
   C. Water systems for domestic purposes, including production, collection,
storage, treatment, transport, delivery, connection and dispersal;
   D. Areas for motor vehicle use for road access, ingress, egress and parking;
   E. Trails and areas for pedestrian, equestrian, bicycle or other nonmotor
vehicle use for access, ingress, egress and parking;
   F. Parks, recreational facilities and open space areas for the use of
residents for entertainment, assembly and recreation;
   G. Landscaping, including earthworks, structures, plants, trees and related
water delivery systems;
   H. Electrical transmission and distribution facilities;
   I. Natural gas distribution facilities;
   J. Lighting systems;
   K. Cable or other telecommunications lines and related equipment;
   L. Traffic control systems and devices, including signals, controls,
markings and signs;
   M. Inspection, construction management and related costs in connection with
the furnishing of the items listed in this definition; and
   N. Heating, air conditioning and weatherization facilities, systems or
services, and energy efficiency improvements that are affixed to real property.
INFRASTRUCTURE PURPOSE: A. Planning, design, engineering, construction,
acquisition or installation of infrastructure, including the costs of
applications, impact fees and other fees, permits and approvals related to the
construction, acquisition or installation of the infrastructure, provided
Gallup may determine it appropriate to reduce or waive building permit fees,
sewer and water hookup fees and other fees with respect to an affordable
housing project for which affordable housing funds and/or housing assistance
grants are awarded, loaned, donated or otherwise distributed under the act;
         B. Acquiring, converting, renovating or improving existing facilities
for infrastructure, including facilities owned, leased or installed by the
owner;
         C. Acquiring interests in real property or water rights for
infrastructure, including interests of the owner; and
         D. Incurring expenses incident to and reasonably necessary to carry
out the purposes specified in this definition.
MFA: The New Mexico mortgage finance authority.
MFA ACT: The mortgage finance authority act, enacted as chapter 303 of the laws
of 1975 of the state of New Mexico, as amended 1 .
MORTGAGE: A mortgage, mortgage deed, deed of trust or other instrument creating
a lien, subject only to title exceptions as may be acceptable to Gallup and/or
the MFA, on a fee interest in real property located within the state or on a
leasehold interest that has a remaining term at the time of computation that
exceeds or is renewable at the option of the lessee until after the maturity
day of the mortgage loan.
MORTGAGE LENDER: Any bank or trust company, mortgage company, mortgage banker,
national banking association, savings bank, savings and loan association,
credit union, building and loan association and any other lending institution;
provided that the mortgage lender maintains an office in the state, is
authorized to make mortgage loans in the state and is approved by Gallup and/or
the MFA and either the federal housing authority, veterans' affairs, Federal
National Mortgage Association (now known as Fannie Mae), or Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation.
MORTGAGE LOAN: A financial obligation secured by a mortgage, including a
mortgage loan for a project.
MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING PROGRAM: A program involving a congregate housing
facility, a multiple-family housing project or a transitional housing facility.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY HOUSING PROJECT: Residential housing that is designed for
occupancy by more than four (4) persons or families living independently of
each other or living in a congregate housing facility, at least sixty percent
(60%) of whom are persons of low or moderate income, including, without
limitation, persons of low or moderate income who are elderly and handicapped
as determined by Gallup and/or the MFA, provided that the percentage of low
income persons and families shall be at least the minimum, if any, required by
federal tax law.
ORDINANCE: This ordinance 2007-06.
PERSONS OF LOW OR MODERATE INCOME: Persons and families within the state who
are determined by the MFA to lack sufficient income to pay enough to cause
private enterprise to build an adequate supply of decent, safe and sanitary
residential housing in their locality or in an area reasonably accessible to
their locality, and whose incomes are below the income levels established by
the MFA to be in need of the assistance made available by the act, taking into
consideration, without limitation, such factors as defined under the act. For
purposes of this definition, the word "families" means a group of persons
consisting of, but not limited to, the head of a household; his or her spouse,
if any; and children, if any, who are allowable as personal exemptions for
federal income tax purposes.
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES: Policies and procedures of the MFA, including, but not
limited to, mortgage loan purchasing, selling, servicing and reservation
procedures, which the MFA may update and revise from time to time as the MFA
deems appropriate.
PUBLIC SERVICE AGENCIES: Shall include, but are not limited to, any entities
that support affordable housing and which believe that the program or project
proposed by the applicant is worthy and advisable, but which are not involved,
either directly or indirectly, in the affordable housing program or project for
which the applicant is applying.
QUALIFYING GRANTEE:
   A.   An individual who is qualified to receive assistance pursuant to the
act and is approved by Gallup; and
   B.   A governmental housing agency, regional housing authority, corporation,
a limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, syndicate, association
or a nonprofit organization that:
      1.   Is organized under state or local laws and can provide proof of such
organization;
      2.   If a nonprofit organization, has no part of its net earnings inuring
to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual; and
   C.   Is approved by Gallup.
RFP: Any request for proposal made by Gallup.
RECERTIFICATION: The recertification of applicants and/or qualifying grantees
participating in any affordable housing programs or in any programs under the
act as determined necessary from time to time by Gallup and/or the MFA.
REHABILITATION: The substantial renovation or reconstruction of an existing
single-family residence or a multi-family housing project, which complies with
requirements established by the MFA. Rehabilitation shall not include routine
or ordinary repairs, improvements or maintenance, such as interior decorating,
remodeling or exterior painting, except in conjunction with other substantial
renovation or reconstruction.
RESIDENTIAL HOUSING: Any building, structure or portion thereof that is
primarily occupied, or designed or intended primarily for occupancy, as a
residence by one or more households and any real property that is offered for
sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of such a building,
structure or portion thereof. "Residential housing" includes congregate
housing, manufactured homes and housing intended to provide or providing
transitional or temporary housing for homeless persons.
RESIDENTIAL USE: That the structure or the portion of the structure, to benefit
from the affordable housing funds or housing assistance grant, is designed
primarily for use as the principal residence of the occupant or occupants and
shall exclude vacation or recreational homes.
RULES: The New Mexico finance authority affordable housing rules adopted
pursuant to section 6-27-8B New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978.
STATE: The state of New Mexico.
TRANSITIONAL HOUSING FACILITY: Residential housing that is designed for
temporary or transitional occupancy by persons of low or moderate income or
special needs. (Ord. 2007-06, 7-24-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA §§ 58-18-1 – 58-18-27, inclusive (1978), as amended.
1-15-4: REQUIREMENTS; GENERAL:
With the exception of housing assistance grants involving funding from the
state which shall be governed by subsection L of this section, the following
requirements shall apply to all housing assistance grants and/or affordable
housing funds awarded, loaned or otherwise distributed by Gallup under the act
to a qualifying grantee:
   A.   Request For Proposals: Gallup, in its discretion, may issue one or more
RFPs to solicit applications from applicants or shall otherwise identify a
qualifying grantee for the use of any affordable housing funds or housing
assistance grants to be awarded, loaned, donated or otherwise distributed under
the act.
   B.   Applicant Eligibility: The following applicants are eligible under the
act to apply for affordable housing funds or a housing assistance grant to
provide housing or related services to persons of low or moderate income in the
community:
      1.   All individuals who are qualified to receive assistance pursuant to
the act, the rules, and this chapter that are approved by Gallup;
      2.   All regional housing authorities and any governmental housing
agencies;
      3.   All for profit organizations, including any corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, joint venture, syndicate or association;
      4.   All nonprofit organizations meeting the following requirements:
         a.   A primary mission of the nonprofit organization must be to
provide housing or housing related services to persons of low or moderate
income;
         b.   The nonprofit organization must have received its 501(c)(3)
designation prior to submitting an application; and
         c.   Have no part of its net earnings inuring to the benefit of any
member, founder, contributor, or individual;
      5.   All nonindividual applicants must:
         a.   Be organized under state or local laws and can provide proof of
such organization and be approved by Gallup;
         b.   Have a functioning accounting system that is operated in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or has designated an
entity that will maintain such an accounting system consistent with generally
accepted accounting principles;
         c.   Have among its purposes significant activities related to
providing housing or services to persons or households of low or moderate
income; and
         d.   Have no significant outstanding or unresolved monitoring findings
from Gallup, the MFA, or its most recent independent financial audit, or if it
has any such findings, it has a certified letter from Gallup, the MFA, or
auditor stating that the findings are in the process of being resolved.
   C.   Applications:
      1.   Process For Applying: Applicants wishing to apply for a housing
assistance grant, including the use of any affordable housing funds, or to
participate in any affordable housing program are required to submit to Gallup
the following (as applicable):
         a.   One original application, together with all required schedules,
documents, or such other information which may be required by Gallup or in any
RFP which may have been issued by Gallup, must be included in the completed
application;
         b.   A proposal describing the nature and scope of the affordable
housing project proposed by the applicant and for which the applicant is
applying for funds or a grant under the act, and which describes the type and/
or amount of assistance which the applicant proposes to provide to persons of
low or moderate income;
         c.   Executive summary and project narrative(s) that address(es) the
evaluation criteria set forth in any RFP issued by Gallup for the affordable
housing funds or the housing assistance grant for which the applicant is
applying;
         d.   A proposed budget for the affordable housing project for which
the applicant is applying for affordable housing funds or for a housing
assistance grant;
         e.   Current independent financial audit;
         f.   If the applicant is a nonprofit organization:
            (1)   Proof of 501(c)(3) tax status;
            (2)   Documentation that confirms that no part of its net earnings
inures to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor or individual;
         g.   If an applicant is a legal entity, including a nonprofit
organization:
            (1)   A current annual budget for the applicant, including all
sources and uses of funds not just those related to relevant programs and/or a
current annual budget only for the program for which the applicant is applying
for a housing assistance grant, or as otherwise may be required by Gallup and/
or the MFA in its discretion;
            (2)   An approved mission statement that the applicant has among
its purposes significant activities related to providing housing or housing
related services to persons or households of low or moderate income;
            (3)   A list of members of the applicant's current board of
directors or other governing body, including designated homeless participation,
where required by Gallup;
            (4)   Evidence (or a certification as may be allowed by Gallup)
that the applicant has a functioning accounting system that is operated in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or has a designated
entity that will maintain such an accounting system consistent with generally
accepted accounting principles;
            (5)   Evidence that the applicant has no significant outstanding or
unresolved monitoring findings from Gallup, the MFA, or its most recent
independent financial audit; or if it has any significant outstanding or
unresolved monitoring findings from Gallup, the MFA, or its most recent
independent financial audit, it has a certified letter from Gallup, the MFA, or
the auditor stating that the findings are in the process of being resolved;
            (6)   An organizational chart, including job titles and
qualifications for the applicant's employees or as otherwise may be required by
Gallup and/or the MFA in its discretion. Job descriptions may be submitted as
appropriate;
            (7)   Documentation that the applicant is duly organized under
state or local law and certification that the applicant is in good standing
with any state authorities, including the public regulation commission and the
secretary of state;
         h.   Information as may be required by Gallup in order for it to
determine the financial and management stability of the applicant;
         i.   Information as may be required by Gallup in order for it to
determine the demonstrated commitment of the applicant to the community;
         j.   A completed cost benefit analysis of the affordable housing
project proposed by the applicant. Any cost benefit analysis must include
documentation that clearly evidences that there is or will be a direct benefit
from the project proposed by the applicant to the community and/or to the
purported beneficiaries of the project, consistent with the provisions of the
act;
         k.   Information supporting the benefits to the community of the
affordable housing project proposed by the applicant;
         l.   Proof of substantive or matching funds or contributions and/or
in-kind donations to the proposed affordable housing project in connection with
the application for funds under the act. Nothing contained herein shall prevent
or preclude an applicant from matching or using local, private, or federal
funds in connection with a specific housing assistance grant or a grant of
affordable housing funds under the act;
         m.   Any certifications or other proof which Gallup may require in
order for Gallup to confirm that the applicant is in compliance with all
applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and ordinances;
         n.   A verification signed by the applicant before a notary public
that the information provided, upon penalty of perjury, is true and correct to
the best of the applicant's information, knowledge, and belief;
         o.   Certifications as may be required by Gallup and signed by the
chief executive officer, board president, or other authorized official of the
applicant, provided that Gallup, at its discretion may waive any of the
foregoing requirements if not deemed applicable.
      2.   Additional Requirements For Multi-Family Housing Projects:
Applicants who are submitting applications in connection with a multi-family
housing program must also submit to Gallup following additional information:
         a.   A verified certificate that, among other things:
            (1)   Identifies every multi-family housing program, including
every assisted or insured project of HUD, RHS, FHA and any other state or local
government housing finance agency in which such applicant has been or is a
principal;
            (2)   Except as shown on such certificate, states that:
         (A) No mortgage on a project listed on such certificate has ever been
in default, assigned to the federal government or foreclosed, nor has any
mortgage relief by the mortgagee been given;
         (B) There has not been a suspension or termination of payments under
any HUD assistance contract in which the applicant has had a legal or
beneficial interest;
         (C) Such applicant has not been suspended, debarred or otherwise
restricted by any department or agency of the federal government or any state
government from doing business with such department or agency because of
misconduct or alleged misconduct; and
         (D) The applicant has not defaulted on an obligation covered by a
surety or performance bond.
         b.   If such applicant cannot certify to each of the above, such
applicant shall submit a signed statement to explain the facts and
circumstances that such applicant believes will explain the lack of
certification. Gallup may then determine if such applicant is or is not
qualified.
            (1)   The experience of the applicant in developing, financing and
managing multiple-family housing projects; and
            (2)   Whether the applicant has been found by the United States
equal employment opportunity commission or the New Mexico human rights
commission to be in noncompliance with any applicable civil rights laws.
      3.   Additional Requirements For Mortgage Lenders: If the applicant is a
mortgage lender, Gallup shall consider, among other things:
         a.   The financial condition of the applicant;
         b.   The terms and conditions of any loans to be made;
         c.   The aggregate principal balances of any loans to be made to each
applicant compared with the aggregate principal balances of the loans to be
made to all other applicants;
         d.   Gallup's assessment of the ability of the applicant or its
designated servicer to act as originator and servicer of mortgage loans for any
multi-family housing programs or other programs to be financed; and
         e.   Previous participation by the applicant in the MFA's programs and
HUD, federal housing authority, or rural housing service programs.
      4.   Submission Procedure:
         a.   Time, Place And Method Of Submission Delivery:
            (1)   If Gallup has issued an RFP, all applications must be
received by Gallup no later than the deadline set forth in the RFP; otherwise,
all applications must be received by Gallup by the deadline Gallup has
established in connection with the respective award or grant. So that any
qualifying grantees may be selected prior to January of the year in which any
housing assistance grant would be made, Gallup shall issue any RFPs, solicit
any applications, or otherwise identify any qualifying grantees no later than
October 15 of any year in order to allow sufficient time for prospective
applicants to respond to any such RFP, solicitation, or otherwise, and further
to allow the MFA not less than forty five (45) days in which to review any such
applications or otherwise determine or confirm that an applicant is a
qualifying grantee under the act and consistent with the rules.
            (2)   Applications shall be submitted by applicants to Gallup in
the form required by Gallup and shall contain all information which is required
by this chapter and any RFP which may have been issued.
         b.   Additional Factors: The application procedures shall take into
consideration:
            (1)   Timely completion and submission to Gallup of an application
or other appropriate response to any solicitation by Gallup;
            (2)   Timely submission of all other information and documentation
related to the program required by Gallup as set forth in this chapter or as
set forth in the rules;
            (3)   Timely payment of any fees required to be paid to Gallup at
the time of submission of the application; and
            (4)   Compliance with program eligibility requirements as set forth
in the act, the rules and this chapter.
         c.   Submission Format:
            (1)   City forms or MFA forms (if available) must be used when
provided and no substitutions will be accepted; however attachments may be
provided as necessary.
            (2)   An applicant's failure to provide or complete any element of
an application, including all requirements of Gallup or as may be listed on any
RFP, may result in the rejection of the application prior to review.
            (3)   Illegible information, information inconsistent with other
information provided in the application, and/or incomplete forms will be
treated as missing information and evaluated accordingly.
            (4)   Gallup and the MFA reserve the right to request further
information from any applicant so long as the request is done fairly and does
not provide any applicant an undue advantage over another applicant.
            (5)   Gallup, in its discretion, may cancel any RFP or reject any
or all proposals in whole or part submitted by any applicant.
            (6)   Neither Gallup nor the MFA shall be responsible for any
expenses incurred by an applicant in preparing and submitting an application.
However, Gallup or the MFA, as applicable, may establish and collect fees from
applicants who file applications. Notice that fees will be charged and the
amount of any such fees shall be included by Gallup or the MFA, as applicable,
in any RFP or otherwise shall be advertised as part of the application
solicitation process.
      5.   Review By Gallup: On receipt of an application, Gallup shall:
         a.   Determine whether the application submitted by the applicant is
complete and responsive;
         b.   Determine whether the applicant is a "qualifying grantee" as
defined herein and in the act;
         c.   Review and analyze whether the applicant has shown a demonstrated
need for activities to promote and provide affordable housing and related
services to persons of low or moderate income;
         d.   Determine whether the applicant has demonstrated experience
related to providing housing or services to persons of low or moderate income,
as well as experience and/or the capacity to administer the affordable housing
program or project for which the applicant has applied;
         e.   Determine whether the applicant's proposal provides a plan for
coordinating with other service providers in the community; whether the
applicant's plan addresses how persons of low income or moderate income in need
of housing and/or housing related supportive services can receive supportive
services and referrals to federal, state and local resources; and, whether the
applicant's plan addresses outreach efforts to reach the population to be
served as identified by Gallup in any RFP or otherwise;
         f.   Determine whether the applicant has support from public service
agencies, or such other support as may be required by Gallup and/or the MFA in
its discretion, for its proposed services in the community;
         g.   Ascertain the amount of any matching funds or in-kind services
specific to the program that may be utilized by the applicant in connection
with the program;
         h.   Ascertain whether any local, private, or federal funds will be
used by the applicant in connection with the specific grant for which the
applicant is applying;
         i.   Ascertain whether the applicant has and can demonstrate the
capability to manage the implementation of the program for which the applicant
is applying;
         j.   If applicant is a prior recipient of either a housing assistance
grant, affordable housing funds and/or other program funds, confirm that the
applicant had no outstanding findings or matters of noncompliance with program
requirements from Gallup or the MFA, as applicable; or if it has any such
findings, it has a certified letter from Gallup, the MFA, or auditor stating
that the findings are in the process of being resolved;
         k.   If applicant is a prior recipient of either a housing assistance
grant, affordable housing funds and/or other program funds, confirm that the
applicant reasonably committed and expended the funds under the prior program
and/or met anticipated production levels as set forth in any contract with
Gallup or the MFA, as applicable, for those prior program funds;
         l.   Evaluate the applicant's proposal in part based upon the
applicant's current financial audit;
         m.   Evaluate the applicant's proposed budget for the project for
which the applicant is applying for affordable housing funds or a housing
assistance grant which proposed budget must be approved by Gallup before
applicant can be approved as a qualifying grantee and any expenditure of grant
funds under the act or granted property is transferred to the applicant;
         n.   On receipt of an application from a builder, Gallup will analyze
the builder's ability to construct and sell sufficient residential housing
units to persons of low or moderate income within the time or times as may be
required by Gallup;
         o.   Consider other factors it deems appropriate to ensure a
reasonable geographic allocation for all affordable housing programs.
      6.   Certification By Gallup To The MFA: Gallup shall certify an
application to the MFA in writing upon:
         a.   Completion of its review of the application;
         b.   Determination that the application is complete;
         c.   Determination that the requirements of the act, the rules and
this chapter have been satisfied; and
         d.   Determination that the applicant is a qualifying grantee.
      7.   Review By The MFA: The MFA upon its receipt of the certification
from Gallup may, in its discretion, review the application and any of the
materials submitted by the applicant to Gallup. The MFA may also request any
additional information from the applicant, which it may require in order to
determine whether the applicant is a qualifying grantee under the act and the
application is complete. The MFA will then notify Gallup of its determination
of whether or not the application is complete and that the requirements of the
act and the rules have been satisfied and the applicant is a qualifying
grantee. Unless the period is extended for good cause shown, the MFA shall act
on an application within forty five (45) days of its receipt of any
application, which the MFA deems to be complete, and, if not acted upon, the
application shall be deemed to be approved.
      8.   Notification Of Acceptance: Gallup, upon completion of its review of
the application and an evaluation of the criteria for approval of the
application as set forth in this chapter and in any RFP issued by Gallup and
upon its determination that the applicant is a qualifying grantee, and upon its
receipt of notification from the MFA that it agrees that the application is
complete and that the act and rules have been satisfied and the applicant is a
qualifying grantee, by written notice shall notify each applicant which has
submitted an application of the approval or disapproval of its application.
Upon approval of its application, the applicant shall be considered approved to
participate in the affordable housing program. Gallup's and the MFA's
determination of any application shall be conclusive.
   D.   Additional Requirements: Upon acceptance, the following additional
requirements shall apply to any applicant, who is a qualifying grantee:
      1.   Contractual Requirements: The qualifying grantee shall enter into
one or more contracts with Gallup, which contract(s) shall be consistent with
the act and subject to the review of the MFA, in its discretion, and which
contract(s) shall include remedies and default provisions in the event of the
unsatisfactory performance by the qualifying grantee.
      2.   Security Provisions; Collateral Requirements: In accordance with the
act, the rules and this chapter, Gallup shall require the qualifying grantee to
execute documents, which will provide adequate security against the loss of
public funds or property in the event the qualifying grantee abandons or fails
to complete the affordable housing project, and which shall further provide, as
may be permitted by law, for the recovery of any attorney fees and costs which
Gallup and/or the MFA may incur in enforcing the provisions of this chapter,
the rules, the act and/or any agreement entered into by Gallup and the
qualifying grantee, and which documents may include, but are not limited to,
the following: note, mortgage, loan agreement, land use restriction agreement,
restrictive covenant agreements and/or any other agreement which Gallup may
require in order to allow for any funds which the qualifying grantee may
receive under a housing assistance grant or affordable housing funds to be
adequately secured and to allow Gallup and the MFA to ensure that such funds
shall be utilized by the qualifying grantee in accordance with the act, the
rules and this chapter.
      3.   Performance Schedule And Criteria: The qualifying grantee shall be
required to abide by a reasonable performance schedule and performance criteria
that Gallup, in its discretion, may establish.
      4.   Examination Of Books And Records: The qualifying grantee shall
submit to and Gallup shall cause to be made such examinations of the books and
records of each qualifying grantee as Gallup and/or the MFA deems necessary or
appropriate to determine the qualifying grantee's compliance with the terms of
the act, the rules, this chapter and any contracts between the qualifying
grantee and Gallup. Gallup and/or the MFA may require each qualifying grantee
to pay the costs of any such examination.
      5.   Infrastructure Cost Reimbursement Contracts:
         a.   Cost Reimbursements: Payment to a qualifying grantee under cost
reimbursable contract provisions shall be made upon Gallup's receipt from the
qualifying grantee of certified and documented invoices for actual expenditures
allowable under the terms of any agreement between the qualifying grantee and
Gallup.
         b.   Cost Reimbursements For Units Of Service: Payment under any unit
cost contract provisions shall be made upon Gallup's receipt from the
qualifying grantee of a certified and documented invoice showing the number of
units of service provided during the billing period.
         c.   Rate At Which Costs Incurred: Under unit cost or cost
reimbursable contracts, it is anticipated that costs will be incurred by the
qualifying grantee at an approximate level rate during the term of any
agreement between the qualifying grantee and Gallup. If Gallup determines that
the qualifying grantee is underspending or overspending, then Gallup may reduce
the budget and/or exercise such other budgetary fiscal controls it deems
appropriate.
         d.   Invoices: Qualifying grantees shall not submit invoices more than
once a month, unless written approval is obtained in advance from Gallup.
Failure to submit invoices within twenty (20) days of the close of the month
for which payment is sought may result in the nonavailability of funds for
reimbursement.
         e.   No Dual Application Of Costs: The qualifying grantee shall
certify that any direct or indirect costs claimed by the qualifying grantee
will not be allocable to or included as a cost of any other program, project,
contract, or activity operated by the qualifying grantee and which has not been
approved by Gallup in advance, in writing.
         f.   Prohibition Of Substitution Of Funds: Any affordable housing
funds or other amounts received by qualifying grantee may not be used by
qualifying grantee to replace other amounts made available or designated by the
state or local governments through appropriations for use for the purposes of
the act.
         g.   Cost Allocation: The qualifying grantee shall clearly identify
and distribute all costs incurred pertaining to the affordable housing project
by a methodology and cost allocation plan at times and in a manner prescribed
by, or acceptable to Gallup.
      6.   Additional Information: Qualifying grantees shall provide Gallup
with any and all information which Gallup reasonably may require in order for
it to confirm that the qualifying grantees continue to satisfy the requirements
of the act, the rules and this chapter throughout the term of any contract and/
or any affordability period or otherwise as may be required by Gallup or the
MFA in its discretion. At a minimum, on an annual basis, Gallup shall certify
to the MFA in writing that to the best of its knowledge the qualifying grantee
is in compliance with applicable provisions of the act, the rules and this
chapter.
   E.   Affordable Housing Requirements: All affordable housing funds or
housing assistance grants awarded under the act are to be used by qualifying
grantees for the benefit of persons of low or moderate income subject to the
provisions of the act and with particular regard to their housing related
needs.
      1.   Single-Family Property: Qualifying grantees shall agree that they
shall maintain any single-family property which has been acquired,
rehabilitated, weatherized, converted, leased, repaired, constructed, or which
property has otherwise benefited from affordable housing funds, including, but
not limited to, any loans which have been repaid with affordable housing funds
and which loans previously were secured by such properties, as affordable
housing for so long as any or all of the affordable housing funds which have
been awarded, loaned, or otherwise conveyed to the qualifying grantee are
unpaid and outstanding or the affordability period, whichever is longer.
      2.   Multi-Family Property:
         a.   Single Apartment Within A Multi-Family Property: Qualifying
grantees shall agree that, if any single apartments are to be rehabilitated,
weatherized, converted, leased, repaired, constructed, or otherwise are to
benefit from affordable housing funds; those apartments shall be leased to
persons of low or moderate income at the time of any such award. Qualifying
grantees, who are the landlords and/or owners of such properties, shall further
agree to contribute at least sixty percent (60%) of the cost of the
rehabilitation, weatherization, conversion, lease, repair, and/or construction.
Qualifying grantees also shall agree that the persons of low or moderate
income, who are tenants of those apartments, shall be allowed to remain tenants
for so long as there are no uncured defaults by those tenants under their
respective leases and provided that there is no just cause for the landlord to
terminate any lease agreement with those tenants.
         b.   Multiple Apartments: Qualifying grantees shall agree that, if
multiple apartments or an entire multi-family property are to be acquired,
rehabilitated, weatherized, converted, leased, repaired, constructed, or
otherwise are to benefit from affordable housing funds, including, but not
limited to, any loans which have been repaid with affordable housing funds and
which loans previously were secured by such properties, they shall maintain not
less than sixty percent (60%) of the housing units as affordable housing for so
long as any or all of the affordable housing funds which have been awarded,
loaned, or otherwise conveyed to the qualifying grantee are unpaid and
outstanding or the affordability period, whichever is longer.
      3.   Nonresidential Property: Qualifying grantees shall agree that they
shall maintain any nonresidential property which has been acquired,
rehabilitated, weatherized, converted, leased, repaired, constructed, or which
property has otherwise benefited from affordable housing funds, including, but
not limited to, any loans which have been repaid with affordable housing funds
and which loans previously were secured by such properties, as a facility which
provides housing related services to persons of low or moderate income for so
long as any or all of the affordable housing funds which have been awarded,
loaned, or otherwise conveyed to the qualifying grantee are unpaid and
outstanding or the affordability period, whichever is longer.
      4.   Housing Assistance Grant Affordability Requirements: Qualifying
grantees shall agree that they shall maintain any land or buildings received as
a housing assistance grant either as single-family or multi-family affordable
housing in accordance with subsections E1 and E2 of this section or as a
facility which provides housing related services to persons of low or moderate
income in accordance with subsection E3 of this section (as applicable) for the
duration of the affordability period. Qualifying grantees shall agree that they
shall maintain any land or buildings for which they have received the costs of
infrastructure as a housing assistance grant either as single-family or multi-
family affordable housing or as a facility which provides housing related
services to persons of low or moderate income (as applicable) for the duration
of the affordability period. In calculating the affordability period for
housing assistance grants of either land or buildings, the fair market value of
the land or buildings or the costs of infrastructure at the time of the
donation by the state or Gallup shall apply.
      5.   Affordability Period: Gallup, in its discretion, may increase the
affordability period in any contract, note, mortgage, loan agreement, land use
restriction agreement, restrictive covenant agreements and/or any other
agreement which Gallup may enter into with any qualifying grantee or
beneficiary of the affordable housing funds or of the housing assistance grant.
See definition of "affordability period" in section
1-15-3 of this chapter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the discretion of the
MFA, weatherization funds conveyed from the state to the MFA and/or any other
similar conveyances where an affordability period is not practical, shall not
be subject to the affordability period requirements of this subsection E; but
nevertheless, any such conveyances may be subject to recapture on some prorated
basis as determined by Gallup and/or the MFA.
   F.   Consent To Jurisdiction: Each qualifying grantee shall consent to the
jurisdiction of the courts of the state over any proceeding to enforce
compliance with the terms of the act, the rules and this chapter and any
agreement between the qualifying grantee and Gallup and/or the MFA.
   G.   Recertification Procedures:
      1.   The qualifying grantee must meet the requirements of the act, the
rules and this chapter, both at the time of any award and throughout the term
of any grant and contract related thereto.
      2.   Gallup may establish procedures for recertifying qualifying grantees
from time to time.
      3.   Qualifying grantees that fail to satisfy the requirements for
recertification shall cease to be eligible and shall be denied further
participation in affordable housing programs until the requirements of Gallup
and the MFA are satisfied.
   H.   Compliance With The Law: Qualifying grantee shall provide Gallup with
any certifications or other proof that it may require in order for Gallup and
the MFA to confirm that the qualifying grantee and the qualifying grantee's
proposed project are in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local
laws, rules and ordinances.
   I.   Extension Of Affordable Housing Programs: The MFA shall have the power
to create variations or extensions of affordable housing programs, or
additional programs that comply with the act and the rules.
   J.   Gallup Grant Requirements:
      1.   Gallup is authorized to make housing assistance grants under the
act. Upon determination that Gallup will make a housing assistance grant,
including the use of any affordable housing funds, Gallup shall provide the MFA
with the following:
         a.   Documentation that confirms that Gallup has an existing valid
affordable housing plan;
         b.   A copy of the proposed ordinance which provides for the
authorization of the housing assistance grant, including the use of any
affordable housing funds, together with a written certification that the
proposed grantee is in compliance with the act and the rules so that the MFA
may confirm both that the ordinance is in compliance with the act, that the
application is complete, and that the proposed grantee is a qualifying grantee
under the act and the rules.
      2.   Prior to the submission of the ordinance to the council, the council
must approve the budget submitted by the applicant.
      3.   An ordinance authorizing Gallup to make a housing assistance grant
and/or distribute affordable housing funds:
         a.   Must authorize the grant, including use of affordable housing
funds, if any;
         b.   Must state the requirements and purpose of the grant;
         c.   Must authorize the transfer or disbursement to the qualifying
grantee only after a budget is submitted to and approved by the council;
         d.   Must comply with the rules, as amended; and
         e.   May provide for matching or using local, private or federal funds
either through direct participation with a federal agency pursuant to federal
law or through indirect participation through the MFA.
      4.   The MFA shall act to approve the proposed housing assistance grant
authorized by Gallup within forty five (45) days of its receipt of the
documentation required in subsections J1, J2 and J3 of this section.
      5.   Gallup, in its discretion, may also hold any award of affordable
housing funds or any housing assistance grant made by Gallup in suspense
pending the issuance by Gallup of any RFP or pending the award of the
affordable housing funds or of the housing assistance grant by Gallup to the
qualifying grantee without the issuance of an RFP by Gallup. Any award of
affordable housing funds or a housing assistance grant by Gallup shall subject
the qualifying grantee of the award or grant to the oversight of Gallup and the
MFA under this chapter and the rules.
   K.   School District And Public Postsecondary Educational Institution Grant
Requirements: If a school district or a public postsecondary education
institution intends to make a housing assistance grant, then it shall provide
the MFA with written certification that the proposed grantee is in compliance
with the act, the rules and this chapter so that the MFA may confirm that the
application is complete and that the proposed grantee is a qualifying grantee
under the act, rules and this chapter. Any transfer of land by a school
district to Gallup to be further granted as part or all of an affordable
housing grant shall be subject to the additional limitations contained in the
act that the school district and the council enter into a contract that
provides the school district with a negotiated number of affordable housing
units that will be reserved for employees of the school district. Any transfer
of land by a public postsecondary educational institution shall be subject to
the additional limitations contained in the act that:
      1.   The property transferred shall be granted by Gallup as part or all
of an affordable housing grant; and
      2.   The governing board of the public postsecondary educational
institution and the council enter into a contract that provides the public
postsecondary educational institution with affordable housing units.
   As used in this section, "public postsecondary educational institution"
means a state university or a public community college. Gallup, in its
discretion, may also hold any housing assistance grant made by any school
district or public postsecondary educational institution in suspense pending
the issuance by Gallup of any RFP or pending the award of the housing
assistance grant by Gallup to the qualifying grantee without the issuance of an
RFP by Gallup. Any award of a housing assistance grant by a school district or
a public postsecondary educational institution shall subject the qualifying
grantee of the grant to the oversight of Gallup and the MFA under these rules.
   L.   Grants From The State: All housing assistance grants from the state
pursuant to the act shall be appropriated to the department of finance and
administration for disbursement by the MFA to a qualifying grantee consistent
with the rules adopted by the MFA for whatever program to which the grant is
applicable and consistent with the act. In the event that the MFA does not
currently have a program in place which is consistent with the terms of any
grant being made by the state, then the MFA, in its discretion may create a
program to fulfill the terms of the grant and shall adopt rules consistent with
the act. Such rules may include provisions for matching or using local,
private, or federal funds in connection with a specific grant, but matching or
using federal funds shall not be prohibited. (Ord. 2007-06, 7-24-2007)
1-15-5: DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED:
The development, construction, occupancy and operation of an affordable housing
program or an affordable housing project financed or assisted under the act
shall be undertaken in a manner consistent with principles of nondiscrimination
and equal opportunity, and Gallup shall require compliance by all qualifying
grantees with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations relating to
affirmative action, nondiscrimination and equal opportunity. (Ord. 2007-06, 7-
24-2007)
1-15-6: ADMINISTRATION:
Gallup and the MFA shall administer any affordable housing programs in
accordance with provisions of the act, the rules, this chapter, any applicable
state and federal laws and regulations as each of which may be amended or
supplemented from time to time. Gallup and the MFA, in establishing, funding
and administering the affordable housing programs and by making, executing,
delivering and performing any award, contract, grant or any other activity or
transaction contemplated by the act, shall not violate any provision of law,
rule or regulation or any decree, writ, order, injunction, judgment,
determination or award and will not contravene the provisions of or otherwise
cause a default under any of its agreements, indentures, or other instruments
to which it may be bound. (Ord. 2007-06, 7-24-2007)
1-15-7: TERMINATION:
The council may repeal this chapter and terminate Gallup's affordable housing
program and any or all contracts undertaken in its authority. Termination shall
be by ordinance at a public hearing or in accordance with the terms of the
contract. If an ordinance or a contract is repealed or terminated, all contract
provisions of the contract regarding termination shall be satisfied. (Ord.
2007-06, 7-24-2007)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
SUSTAINABLE GALLUP BOARD
SECTION:
2-1-1: Establishment
2-1-2: Powers
2-1-3: Bylaws Of The Board
2-1-4: General Provisions
2-1-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
The Gallup city council, possessing all the powers granted to municipal home
rule corporations under the statutes of the state of New Mexico, and its
charter, hereby establishes a board to be known as the "sustainable Gallup
board" (SGB). (Ord. 2016-12, 11-9-2016)
2-1-2: POWERS:
The role of the SGB shall be that of advising the city council on policy
matters relative to energy, water and recycling issues and, within this
context, to execute the following responsibilities:
   A.   Receive, consider and evaluate reports and presentations from
individuals, city staff, public and private organizations and make
recommendations on them to the city manager and to the city council, as
appropriate.
   B.   Review and recommend sustainable policies and programs. (Ord. 2016-12,
11-9-2016)
2-1-3: BYLAWS OF THE BOARD:
   A.   Name And Definition:
      1.   Name: The name of this board is the "sustainable Gallup board"
(SGB).
      2.   Definition: "Sustainability", as defined by the United Nations'
appointed Brundtland commission, is a way of life that "meets the needs of the
present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their
own needs". It is the capacity to endure. Sustainability encompasses the three
(3) pillars of environmental health, economic vitality and social equity.
   B.   Premise, Mission And Operational Principals:
      1.   Premise: The city council assumes that the interests of commerce in
city government are represented by the chamber of commerce, the economic
development corporation, the business improvement district, the council of
governments, etc. The SGB is to follow the premise that our natural
surroundings have an impact on public and environmental health; this premise
being necessary for the long term sustainability and quality of life in the
city of Gallup, and in consideration of its residents whose health and wellness
may be adversely affected by governmental decisions.
      2.   Mission: Monitor activities of commerce and governance that come
before the city council that may impact the environment; including air and
water quality, diversion of solid waste, and other environmental matters.
      3.   Operational Principles: The SGB shall receive input and concerns
from area citizens, and assignments from the mayor and city council. The board
will utilize scientific, peer reviewed primary sources for its data and fact
gathering. It will advise the city regarding wording and interpretation of
environmentally related surveys and documents. The SGB shall advise the mayor
and city council on these matters, as needed.
   C.   Membership:
      1.   Board Members:
         a.   At large members (voting members): The board shall consist of up
to seven (7) members appointed by the mayor, with city council approval; and
will strive to represent the diverse cultural, political and social interests
of Gallup and the surrounding communities.
         b.   Board members shall have an interest in and concern for
sustainability, as defined in this section.
         c.   Ex officio members (nonvoting):
            (1)   One or more representatives from the city of Gallup including
the conservation coordinator, or similar representative; including supervisors
and directors from the city of Gallup utility departments as may be
appropriate.
            (2)   One member from Northwest New Mexico council of governments
NWNMCOG.
            (3)   One member from Northwest New Mexico regional solid waste
authority (NWNMRSWA).
      2.   Term Of Board Members:
         a.   At large members: Will serve initial staggered terms of two (2)
and four (4) years, with fifty percent (50%) of the members serving each such
initial staggered term periods, to be drawn by random lots. All subsequent
terms shall be for four (4) years.
         b.   City employee members: Will hold their ex officio status based on
their employment position and/or assignment.
      3.   Vacancies:
         a.   A vacancy or vacancies in the board will be deemed to exist upon:
            (1)   The death or removal of any board member;
            (2)   An increase of the authorized number of board members; or
            (3)   A board member giving written notice to the chairperson of
his/her resignation. Once a board member resigns their position, their
resignation may not be rescinded.
         b.   The board may seek a replacement from the mayor and city council
for a board member anytime a vacancy/vacancies arises. Vacancies will be filled
within thirty (30) days. No reduction of the authorized number of board members
will remove any board member from office.
         c.   Vacancies caused by expiration of the member's term shall be
filled by the mayor, with city council approval.
      4.   Removal: The affirmative vote of the majority of the board members
present at a called meeting at which a quorum is present may remove, by
majority vote, an "at large" member from the board. Any member who has three
(3) consecutive meeting absences may be automatically removed from the board.
      5.   Compensation: Board members will not receive any compensation for
their services; however, the board may recommend the reimbursement of a
member's actual and necessary expenses incurred in the conduct of the business
of the board.
      6.   Board Meetings:
         a.   The board will meet at such locations as designated by the
chairperson of the board and concurred with by the board.
         b.   The board will adopt a resolution stating the time and place for
holding regular meetings and shall comply with the open meetings act of the
state of New Mexico.
         c.   Special meetings of the board may be called by the chairperson.
All special meetings will be noticed in advance and will comply with the
provisions of the open meetings act of the state of New Mexico.
         d.   Minutes taken at board meetings will be distributed prior to the
next board meeting and official action will be taken thereon.
      7.   Quorum And Voting:
         a.   The majority of the board members in office will be deemed a
quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the board. If the
number of board members diminishes during the meeting, business may still be
acted upon, providing the number of votes needed to pass items when a quorum
was originally present is achieved.
         b.   The act of a majority of the board members present at a meeting
at which a quorum is present will be the act of the board, unless the act of a
greater number is required by law or by these bylaws. Vote will be taken by
roll call.
         c.   Each board member will have one vote on matters which come before
the board. No proxy votes are allowed.
         d.   Ex officio members are nonvoting members and do not count as
quorum members.
      8.   Conflict Of Interest:
         a.   Each member of the board shall disclose the nature and extent of
any potential conflict of interest. Each member must certify annually that no
conflict of interest exists.
         b.   No member of the board may use information, not a matter of
public record, obtained because of board membership, for personal pecuniary
gain.
   D.   Officers:
      1.   Officers: The officers of the board will be a chairperson, vice
chairperson, secretary and such other officers as may be elected, in accordance
with the provisions of this subsection D. The board may elect or appoint such
other officers as it will deem desirable. Such officers will have the authority
to perform the duties prescribed.
         a.   Chairperson: The chairperson will be the principal officer of the
organization. The chairperson will preside at all meetings of the board and
perform all duties incident to the office, and such other duties as from time
to time may be assigned by the board. The chairperson is a nonvoting member of
all committees to which the board has not otherwise appointed the chairperson.
         b.   Vice Chairperson: In the absence of the chairperson, or in the
case of the chairperson's inability or refusal to act, the vice chairperson of
the board will perform the duties of the chairperson and when so acting, will
have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the
chairperson. The vice chairperson will perform such other duties as from time
to time may be assigned by the chairperson or by the board.
         c.   Secretary: The secretary will keep minutes of the meetings of the
board in one or more books provided for that purpose; issue all notices in
accordance with the provision of these bylaws or as required by law; maintain a
membership list and a register of the mailing address of each member; and
overall, perform all duties incident to the office of secretary, and such other
duties as from time to time may be assigned by the chairperson or by the board.
A copy of the approved and signed minutes will be forwarded to the city clerk.
      2.   Election Of Board Officers And Creation Thereof: The board members
themselves will elect its officers.
         a.   Office will be held until removed, or until a new election is
held.
         b.   Reelection of officers shall be held annually. An election to
replace officers may be held whenever called for by majority vote.
         c.   New offices may be created and filled at any meeting of the
board.
      3.   Removal: Any officer elected or appointed by the board may be
removed by the board whenever in its judgment the best interest of the board
would be served by that removal, subject to the rights, if any, of any officer
under any contract of employment.
   E.   Committees:
      1.   General And Ad Hoc Committees:
         a.   The board may, by resolution, designate one or more committees to
serve at the pleasure of the board. Any committee, to the extent provided in
the resolution of the board, will have the authority of the board; except that
no committee, no matter the board resolution, may:
            (1)   Take any final action on matters which under these bylaws
also requires approval of the board;
            (2)   Fill vacancies on any committee;
            (3)   Amend or repeal any resolution of the board;
            (4)   Appoint any other committees of the board or the members of
these committees;
            (5)   Expend funds or approve any transaction.
         b.   Each committee will consist of three (3) or more members
appointed by the board.
         c.   Any committee may establish subcommittees to facilitate the
conduct of its business.
   F.   Parliamentary Authority: The board will operate using consensus, when
possible. Otherwise, the rules contained in "Robert's Rules Of Order", latest
edition, will govern the board in all cases to which they are applicable and in
which they are consistent with these bylaws.
   G.   Annual Report: The board will report its activities to the Gallup city
council, at least annually. Such reports, or a summary thereof, will be
provided to each council person and board member and published in such
organization publications as the board will designate. (Ord. 2016-12, 11-9-
2016)
2-1-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   City Manager And Other Offices Of The City: The city manager and other
offices of the city will cooperate with and support the intent of this chapter
and assist the board and its officers and members in carrying out their
responsibilities.
   B.   Records: All records that may develop as a result of this chapter will
be open for inspection to any inquiring individual and entity at all reasonable
times, as required by law.
   C.   Amendments To Bylaws: Amendments to these bylaws may be proposed and
submitted by the board to the city council for appropriate action. (Ord. 2016-
12, 11-9-2016)
CHAPTER 2
RESERVED
(Ord. 2018-5, 3-13-2018)
CHAPTER 3
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Creation
2-3-2: Purpose And Duties
2-3-3: Membership
2-3-4: Terms Of Office
2-3-5: Officers
2-3-6: Meetings
2-3-7: Quorum And Voting
2-3-8: Removal, Resignation, And Replacement Of Members
2-3-1: CREATION:
The Gallup City Council hereby establishes a board to be known as the
"Indigenous Peoples Commission". (Ord. 2018-5, 3-13-2018)
2-3-2: PURPOSE AND DUTIES:
   A.   The purpose of the Indigenous Peoples Commission shall be to serve as
an advisory board to the Gallup City Council concerning matters of cultural
diversity, fairness, equal opportunity, and respect for indigenous peoples and
cultures.
   B.   The duties of the Indigenous Peoples Commission shall be to:
      1.   Study, analyze and recommend solutions with respect to the major
social, economic and cultural problems that affect people residing, working,
shopping, and visiting within the City, including discrimination in housing,
employment and public accommodations and facilities;
      2.   Provide recommendations to the City Council concerning City
practices and procedures;
      3.   Advise the community on methods to promote cultural understanding,
diversity, and equal opportunity for all, regardless of culture or ethnicity;
and
      4.   Work with the Gallup McKinley County Chamber of Commerce or other
appropriate entities to provide training programs for businesses and other
entities to reduce the incidence of discrimination and culturally insensitive
behaviors and attitudes. (Ord. 2018-5, 3-13-2018)
2-3-3: MEMBERSHIP:
The membership shall consist of not more than five (5) voting members and one
(1), ex officio, non-voting member appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the
City Council. The ex officio member shall be a City employee or official.
Voting members shall be residents of New Mexico within Gallup and McKinley
County. (Ord. 2018-5, 3-13-2018; amd. Ord. C2020-2, 2-25-2020)
2-3-4: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The five (5) voting members shall serve staggered terms with three (3) of the
initial members serving four (4) year terms and two (2) of the initial members
serving two (2) year terms. Thereafter, all terms shall be for a period of four
(4) years. No member shall serve more than two (2) consecutive terms of office.
Any member appointed to fill the unexpired term of a member that has resigned
or been removed shall complete the unexpired term. (Ord. 2018-5, 3-13-2018)
2-3-5: OFFICERS:
The Indigenous Peoples Commission shall elect a Chairperson, a Vice-
Chairperson, and a Secretary at the first meeting of each calendar year. (Ord.
2018-5, 3-13-2018)
2-3-6: MEETINGS:
Meetings shall be held at least quarterly. The commission will annually adopt a
resolution stating the time and place for holding regular meetings and shall
otherwise comply with the New Mexico Open Meetings Act and Inspection of Public
Records Act. Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson. Minutes of all
meetings will be distributed in advance of the next regularly scheduled meeting
and official action will be taken thereon. (Ord. 2018-5, 3-13-2018)
2-3-7: QUORUM AND VOTING:
The majority of members in office will be deemed a quorum for the transaction
of any business. Each voting board member will have one vote on all matters. No
proxy voting will be allowed. Votes will be taken by roll call. (Ord. 2018-5,
3-13-2018)
2-3-8: REMOVAL, RESIGNATION, AND REPLACEMENT OF MEMBERS:
Members serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and City Council and may be removed
at any time by the Mayor, subject to the confirmation of the City Council. Any
member that does not attend three (3) consecutive meetings shall be deemed to
have resigned his/her position and the Mayor shall be notified of such by the
Chairperson. Upon resignation or removal of a member or expiration of a
member's term of office, a new member shall be appointed pursuant to section
2-3-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-5, 3-13-2018)
CHAPTER 4
KEEP GALLUP CLEAN AND BEAUTIFUL BOARD
SECTION:
2-4-1: Creation
2-4-2: Purpose And Duties
2-4-3: Bylaws Of The Board
2-4-4: Provisions
2-4-1: CREATION:
The Gallup City Council, possessing all the powers granted to municipal home
rule corporations under the Statutes of the State of New Mexico, and its
charter, hereby establishes a new board entitled the "Keep Gallup Clean and
Beautiful" (KGCB) Board. (Ord. 2018-9, 7-24-2018)
2-4-2: PURPOSE AND DUTIES:
The purpose of the KGCB Board shall be to serve as an advisory board to the
Gallup City Council concerning matters relative to Keep America Beautiful
issues.
The board shall make recommendations that focus in the areas of community
improvement, education, litter prevention, beautification, waste reduction and
recycling projects to the Mayor and City Council.
   A.   The board shall have the following responsibilities:
      1.   Collaborate with the City of Gallup regarding community education
and marketing related to areas of litter prevention, beautification, and waste
reduction and recycling;
      2.   Monitor City performance from data collected and examined under the
Keep America Beautiful, Inc., Affiliate System guidelines and make an annual
report to the City Council;
      3.   Collaborate with the City of Gallup regarding community cleanup
initiatives and programs; and
      4.   Carry out such other tasks as the City Council may designate. (Ord.
2018-9, 7-24-2018)
2-4-3: BYLAWS OF THE BOARD:
   A.   Mission: To inspire, make recommendations, and educate people to take
action every day to improve and beautify our community environment.
   B.   Membership: The KGCB Board membership shall consist of up to five (5)
voting members, and one, ex officio, non-voting member appointed by the Mayor,
with City Council approval. The ex officio (non-voting) shall be a City of
Gallup employee, such as the Environmental Program Coordinator or similar
representative as may be appropriate.
   C.   Officers: KGCB Board members will elect its officers annually: a
Chairperson, and Vice-Chairperson. The board may elect or appoint such other
officers as it will deem desirable. Such officers will have the authority to
perform the duties prescribed. The members of the board shall regularly attend
meetings and shall serve without compensation except for reimbursement of
authorized expenses attendant to the performance of their duties.
      1.   Chairperson: The Chairperson will be the principal officer of the
organization. The Chairperson will preside at all meetings of the board and
perform all duties incident to the office, and such other duties as from time
to time may be assigned by the board. The Chairperson is a nonvoting member of
all committees to which the board has not otherwise appointed the Chairperson.
      2.   Vice-Chairperson: In the absence of the Chairperson, or in the case
of the Chairperson's inability or refusal to act, the Vice-Chairperson of the
board will perform the duties of the Chairperson and when so acting, will have
all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chairperson.
The City of Gallup KGCB Executive Director shall be a non-voting member of the
board. The KGCB Executive Director shall be custodian of all minutes and
records of the board and perform such other duties as the board may deem
necessary and consistent with both the responsibilities of the board and his/
her responsibilities to the City of Gallup, the City Manager, and coordinating
with the Tourism and Marketing Manager for the purpose of implementing the
provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Term Of Office:
      1.   At large voting members shall serve staggered terms with three (3)
of the initial members serving four (4) year terms and the remaining two (2)
members serving two (2) year terms. All subsequent terms shall be for four (4)
year terms.
      2.   City employee members will hold their ex officio status based on
their employment position and/or assignment.
   E.   Vacancies:
      1.   A vacancy or vacancies in the board will be deemed to exist upon:
         a.   A board member giving written notice to the Chairperson of his/
her resignation. Once a board member resigns their position, their resignation
may not be rescinded; or
         b.   The death or removal of any board member; or
         c.   An increase of the authorized number of board members.
      2.   The board may seek a board member replacement from the Mayor and
Council any time a vacancy/vacancies arises. Vacancies are scheduled to be
filled within thirty (30) days.
      3.   Any board vacancy may be filled for the remainder of the unexpired
term by Mayoral appointment, with City Council approval.
      4.   If a KGCB Board officer vacancy occurs - board members, with a
quorum and majority vote, shall nominate board members as needed. KGCB Board
member nominee names shall be submitted to Mayor and City Council for approval.
Newly appointed members shall be installed at the first regular meeting after
their appointment.
   F.   Removal: Any member who has three (3) unexcused, consecutive meeting
absences may be automatically removed from the board.
   G.   Board Meetings:
      1.   The board will meet at such locations as designated by the
Chairperson of the board and concurrence with by the board.
      2.   The board will adopt a resolution stating the time and place for
holding regular meetings and shall comply with the Open Meetings Act of the
State of New Mexico.
      3.   Special meetings of the board may be called by the Chairperson. All
special meetings will be noticed in advance and will comply with the provisions
of the Open Meetings Act of the State of New Mexico.
   H.   Quorum And Voting:
      1.   The majority of the board members in office will be deemed a quorum
for the transaction of business at any meeting of the board. If the number of
board members diminishes during the meeting, business may still be acted upon,
providing the number of votes needed to pass items when a quorum was originally
present is achieved.
      2.   The act of a majority of the board members present at a meeting, at
which a quorum is present, will be the act of the board, unless the act of a
greater number is required by law or by these bylaws. Vote will be taken by
roll-call.
      3.   Each board member will have one vote on matters which come before
the board. No proxy votes are allowed.
      4.   Ex officio members are nonvoting members and do not count as quorum
members.
   I.   Conflict Of Interest: Each member must certify annually that no
conflict of interest exists. No member of the board may use information, not a
matter of public record, obtained because of board membership, for personal
pecuniary gain.
   J.   Sub-Committees: To accomplish KGCB responsibilities the board shall
establish sub- committees such as, but not limited to, the areas of business
and industry, communications, education, finance/fundraising, and cleanup.
   A KGCB Board member will chair each sub-committee with an unspecified number
of community volunteers chosen by the board as working sub-committee members.
      1.   Appointed Members: Each committee will consist of a minimum of two
(2) or more members appointed by the KGCB Board.
      2.   Parliamentary Authority: The board will operate using consensus,
when possible. Otherwise, the rules contained in "Robert's Rules of Order",
latest edition, will govern the board in all cases to which they are
applicable.
      3.   Annual Report: The board will report its activities to the Gallup
City Council and published in such organization publications as the board will
designate. (Ord. 2018-9, 7-24-2018)
2-4-4: PROVISIONS:
   A.   Cooperation And Support: City Manager and the Solid Waste
Superintendent/Director, and/or his/her designee will cooperate with and
support the intent of this chapter and assist the board and its officers and
members in carrying out their responsibilities.
   B.   Amendments To Bylaws: Amendments to these bylaws may be proposed and
submitted by the board to the City Council for appropriate action. (Ord. 2018-
9, 7-24-2018)
CHAPTER 5
LIBRARY ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
2-5-1: Creation
2-5-2: Purpose And Duties
2-5-3: Bylaws Of The Board
2-5-4: Miscellaneous Provisions
2-5-1: CREATION:
The Gallup City Council, possessing all the powers granted to municipal home
rule corporations under the Statutes of the State of New Mexico, and its
Charter, hereby establishes a new board entitled the Library Advisory Board.
(Ord. 2018-16, 11-13-2018)
2-5-2: PURPOSE AND DUTIES:
   A.   The purpose of the Library Advisory Board shall be to advise the Gallup
City Council concerning matters relative to the Octavia Fellin Public Library.
The board shall recommend policies related to the mission of the Octavia Fellin
Public Library which is to enable the people of our diverse community to obtain
information, resources and education through a full range of library services.
   B.   The board shall have the following responsibilities:
      1.   Advise the Library Director on the development and implementation of
policies and procedures governing the operation of the library.
      2.   Review the annual library budget request.
      3.   Advise the Library Director in establishing short- and long-range
priorities including, but not limited to, new facilities and the expansion of
library facilities and services.
      4.   Be aware of expressed needs of the community concerning library
services and advise the Library Director.
      5.   Participate in advocacy initiatives including, but not limited to,
funding issues and requests, and fundraising initiatives.
      6.   Keep abreast of public library standards and trends.
      7.   Uphold the Library Bill of Rights and the Freedom to Read Statement
adopted by the American Library Association.
      8.   The board will report its activities to the Gallup City Council and
published in such organization publications as the board will designate.
      9.   Carry out such other tasks as the City Council may designate. (Ord.
2018-16, 11-13-2018)
2-5-3: BYLAWS OF THE BOARD:
   A.   Membership: The Library Advisory Board membership shall consist of up
to nine (9) voting members, appointed by the Mayor, with City Council approval.
The Library Director shall be a non-voting, ex officio member. The Mayor, with
City Council approval, may appoint up to two (2) non-voting members nominated
by the Library Director from the membership of the Octavia Fellin Teen Advisory
Board.
   B.   Officers: Board members will elect its officers: a Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson, and Secretary. The board may elect or appoint such other officers
as it will deem desirable. Such officers will have the authority to perform the
duties prescribed. The members of the board shall regularly attend meetings and
shall serve without compensation except for reimbursement of authorized
expenses attendant to the performance of their duties.
      1.   Chairperson: The Chairperson will be the principal officer of the
organization. The Chairperson will preside at all meetings of the board,
represent the Library Board at public functions and events, assist the Library
Director in establishing meeting agendas and perform all duties incident to the
office, and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the
board.
      2.   Vice-Chairperson: In the absence of the Chairperson, or in the case
of the Chairperson's inability or refusal to act, the Vice-Chairperson of the
board will perform the duties of the Chairperson and when so acting, will have
all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chairperson.
The Vice-Chairperson will perform such other duties as from time to time may be
assigned by the board.
      3.   Secretary: The Secretary will take minutes of the board meetings;
perform all duties incident to the Office of Secretary, and such other duties
as from time to time may be assigned by the Chairperson or by the board.
Minutes taken at board meetings will be distributed prior to the next board
meeting and official action will be taken thereon. A copy of the approved and
signed minutes will be forwarded to the City Clerk.
      4.   Re-Election Of Officers: The board shall elect officers annually at
the first meeting during the calendar year. New offices may be created and
filled at any meeting of the board. Should a vacancy occur in an officer
position, an election shall be held at the next regularly scheduled meeting to
select a replacement. The replacement officer will serve the remainder of the
unexpired term.
      5.   Parliamentary Authority: The board will operate using consensus,
when possible. Otherwise, the rules contained in "Robert's Rules of Order",
latest edition, will govern the board in all cases to which they are
applicable.
   C.   Term Of Office:
      1.   At Large Members: The voting members shall serve staggered terms
with four (4) of the initial members serving four-year terms and the remaining
members serving two-year terms. All subsequent terms shall be for four (4)
years.
      2.   Years Of Service: The number of consecutive years of service on the
board shall be limited to three (3) terms in order to maintain broad
representation of the entire community.
      3.   Library Director: Will hold his or her ex officio status based upon
his or her employment as the Library Director and is not subject to the term
limitation above.
      4.   Teen Advisory Board Members: These non-voting members shall serve
two (2) year terms and may be re-appointed for one additional two (2) year
term.
   D.   Vacancies:
      1.   Vacancy: A vacancy or vacancies in the board will be deemed to exist
upon:
         a.   A board member giving written notice to the Chairperson of his/
her resignation. Once a board member resigns their position, their resignation
may not be rescinded; or
         b.   The death or removal of any board member; or
         c.   An increase of the authorized number of board members.
      2.   Notification: The Library Director will notify the Mayor when a
vacancy occurs and may recommend a replacement member to the Mayor and Council.
      3.   Unexpired Term: A board member appointed to fill a vacancy of a
member with an unexpired term will serve the remainder of the unexpired term.
      4.   Newly Appointed Members: Newly appointed members shall be installed
at the first regular meeting after their appointment.
   E.   Removal: The affirmative vote of the majority of the board members
present at a called meeting at which a quorum is present may remove, by
majority vote, an "at large" member from the board. Any member who has three
(3) consecutive meeting absences may be removed from the board.
   F.   Board Meetings:
      1.   The board will meet at such time and location as designated by the
Chairperson of the board and with the concurrence of the board.
      2.   The board will adopt a resolution stating the time and place for
holding regular meetings and shall comply with the Open Meetings Act of the
State of New Mexico.
      3.   Special meetings of the board may be called by the Chairperson. All
special meetings will be noticed in advance and will comply with the provisions
of the Open Meetings Act of the State of New Mexico.
   G.   Quorum And Voting:
      1.   The majority of the board members in office will be deemed a quorum
for the transaction of business at any meeting of the board. If the number of
board members diminishes during the meeting, business may still be acted upon,
providing the number of votes needed to pass items when a quorum was originally
present is achieved.
      2.   The act of a majority of the board members present at a meeting, at
which a quorum is present, will be the act of the board, unless the act of a
greater number is required by law or by these bylaws. Votes will be taken by
roll-call.
      3.   Each board member will have one vote on matters which come before
the board. No proxy votes are allowed.
      4.   Ex officio members are nonvoting members and do not count as quorum
members.
   H.   Conflict Of Interest: Each member must certify annually that no
conflict of interest exists. No member of the board may use information, not a
matter of public record, obtained because of board membership, for personal
pecuniary gain.
   I.   Sub-Committees: The Board may establish sub-committees to assist in
accomplishing the responsibilities of the board. A board member will chair each
sub-committee with an unspecified number of board members and/or community
volunteers chosen by the board as working sub-committee members.
(Ord. 2018-16, 11-13-2018; amd. Ord. C2024-6, 11-12-2024)
2-5-4: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   City Manager And Other Offices Of The City: The City Manager and other
offices of the City will cooperate with and support the intent of this chapter
and assist the board and its officers and members in carrying out their
responsibilities.
   B.   Amendments To Bylaws: Amendments to these bylaws may be proposed and
submitted by the board to the City Council for appropriate action. (Ord. 2018-
16, 11-13-2018)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS  1
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Or Permit Required
3-1-2: Application For License
3-1-3: Fee For License
3-1-4: Investigation; Issuance
3-1-5: Refusal Or Revocation
3-1-6: Inspection Of Premises
3-1-7: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-38-1 et seq.
3-1-1: LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in any occupation, profession, trade, pursuit,
corporation or other institution and establishment, utility and business of
whatever name or character in the city unless he has been issued a license or
permit by this city to do so, or unless he is exempt from such license or
permit by law. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
3-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   School Tax License Number; Gross Receipts: Any person making
application for any license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall
include in such application his:
      1.   Current school tax license number or evidence of application for a
current school tax license; and
      2.   The amount of gross receipts of business done during the previous
calendar year within the city or county. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
   B.   Information Required; Specific Businesses: Each applicant for a license
under subsection
3-1-3A of this chapter shall submit an application to the city clerk giving the
following information:
      1.   Name and description of the applicant.
      2.   Address of applicant.
      3.   List of state licenses obtained to engage in business.
      4.   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired.
      5.   A photograph of applicant, taken within sixty (60) days immediately
prior to the date of filing the application, which picture shall be two inches
by two inches (2" x 2") showing the head and shoulders.
      6.   The fingerprints of the applicant and the names of at least two (2)
reliable property owners of the county who will certify as to the applicant's
good character and business responsibility, or, in lieu of the names of
references, any other available evidence as to the good character and business
responsibility of the applicant as will enable an investigator to properly
evaluate such character and business responsibility.
      7.   A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising
done or proposed to be done in order to attract customers, and, if required by
the clerk, copies of all said advertising whether by handbills, circular,
newspaper advertising, or otherwise, shall be attached to said application as
exhibits thereto. (1961 Code § 5-15-3; amd. Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966; 2006 Code)
      8.   At the time of filing the application, a fee of five dollars ($5.00)
shall be paid to the clerk to cover the cost of investigation. No application
fee shall be paid for renewal of an existing license unless the same shall
require renewed investigation under the provisions of this section and section
3-1-4 of this chapter. (Ord. C66-197, 4-13-1982; amd. 2006 Code)
3-1-3: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Enumerated; Specific Businesses: The following persons conducting any
of the following occupations, professions, trades or pursuits shall pay a
license fee in the amount herein provided before engaging in any of the
occupations, professions, trades or pursuits mentioned:
      1.   Circuses, menageries and like entertainment, one hundred dollars
($100.00) per day.
      2.   Carnivals, two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) per day. (Ord. C66-209,
5-24-1983)
         a.   A "charity" which is defined as an organization, not for
pecuniary profit, operated for the relief of poverty, distress, or other
conditions of public concern which has been granted an exemption from federal
income taxation by the internal revenue service pursuant to section 501-(3)(c)
of the internal revenue code; a "religious organization" which is defined as
any church or worship group, not for pecuniary profit, which conducts services
or observances in accordance with a defined set of spiritual beliefs; and a
civic organization, not for pecuniary profit, which is a branch, lodge, or
chapter of a recognized national or state organization which exists to promote
fellowship, educational, charitable, religious, patriotic, or other public
spirited activities designed to benefit the general public welfare.
         b.   Any charity, religious, or civic organization may conduct as a
fundraising activity a carnival for not more than three (3) consecutive days
and not more than six (6) total days in any calendar year.
         c.   The permit fee to conduct a carnival for a charity, religious, or
civic organization shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per day. (Ord.
2009-5, 6-9-2009)
      3.   Itinerant operatic and theatrical exhibitions and amusements
generally, twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day for each day an exhibition is
given. (Ord. C66-209, 5-24-1983)
      4.   Public dances, ten dollars ($10.00) per dance; provided, that no
public dance shall take place between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee or person
in charge of any premises to knowingly allow on the premises a public dance
during these hours and it is further unlawful for any person to conduct,
manage, assist with, perform at, attend or be at a public dance taking place
during these hours. (Ord. C66-226, 3-13-1984)
      5.   Skating rinks, twenty five dollars ($25.00) every three (3) months,
payable in advance.
      6.   Sparring exhibitions or boxing contests, twenty five dollars
($25.00) per day.
      7.   Wrestling exhibitions, twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day;
provided, that a wrestling exhibition may be given at a boxing contest without
additional license.
   The licensing and regulating of the foregoing occupations is hereby declared
to be conducive to the promotion of the health and general welfare of the city
and a separate license is hereby imposed on each place of business conducted or
maintained by the same person. (Ord. C66-209, 5-24-1983)
   B.   Due: The license fees shall be due and payable at the office of the
city clerk by any person doing a business specified in subsection A of this
section at the time the license is issued. (Ord. C66-32, 10-1-1968)
3-1-4: INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE 1 :
   A.   Referral To Chief Of Police: Upon receipt of such application, the
original shall be referred to the chief of police, who shall cause such
investigation of the applicant's business and moral character to be made as he
deems necessary for the protection of the public good.
   B.   Endorsement:
      1.   Approval: If, as a result of such investigation, the character and
business responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the
chief of police shall endorse on the application his approval, execute a permit
addressed to the applicant for the carrying on of the business applied for and
return said permit, along with the application, to the city clerk who shall,
upon payment of the prescribed license fee, deliver to the applicant his permit
and issue a license. Such license shall contain the signature and seal of the
issuing officer and shall show the name, address, the class of license issued,
the amount of fee to be paid, the date of issuance and the length of time the
same shall be operative, as well as the license number and other identifying
description of any vehicle used in such business. The city clerk shall keep a
permanent record of all licenses issued.
      2.   Disapproval; Hearing: If, as a result of such investigation, the
applicant's character or business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory,
the chief of police shall endorse on such application his disapproval and his
reasons for the same, and return the said application to the city clerk, who
shall notify the applicant that his application is disapproved and that no
permit and license will be issued, until the same is authorized by the city
council. At the request of the applicant, the city clerk shall thereupon submit
the application to the city council for consideration, and the city council
shall either order the said license issued or shall have the right to deny
issuance of the license whenever it may deem it for the best interest of the
public; provided, however, that no license shall be refused without first
giving the person so applying therefor an opportunity to be heard. If, upon
such hearing before the city council, a majority of the members thereof present
at such hearing, be of the opinion that it be for the best interest of the
public, such license may be refused. (1961 Code § 5-15-4)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-7B-3 of this code.
3-1-5: REFUSAL OR REVOCATION:
   A.   Refusal To Grant:
      1.   Authority: The city council may refuse to grant any license provided
for in this chapter whenever they deem such refusal in the best public
interest.
      2.   Hearing: No license provided for in this chapter shall be refused as
herein provided until the person seeking or holding the license shall have been
given an opportunity of a hearing by the city council.
      3.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of the hearing to determine if a license
under this chapter should be refused shall be given in writing, setting forth
generally the grounds of complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such
notice shall be sufficient if mailed, postage prepaid, to the applicant for
license, at his last known address at least five (5) days prior to the date set
for the hearing.
   B.   Revocation:
      1.   License: The city council may revoke any license issued under the
provisions of this chapter:
         a.   Whenever in the judgment of the city council the public welfare
requires the license be revoked; and
         b.   Whenever a holder of such a license is guilty of violating an
ordinance of the city relating to the granting of a license. (Ord. C61-52, 10-
4-1966)
      2.   Permit: The city council may revoke any permit or license which has
been issued for the purpose of engaging in business whenever in the judgment of
the city council the public welfare requires such revocation. (Ord. C66-197, 4-
13-1982)
3-1-6: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
For each license issued for a business listed under subsection
3-1-3A of this chapter, the chief of police or one of his officers shall
immediately make an inspection of the licensee's business premises to determine
if all of the building, fire, safety, health, noise and other ordinances and
laws of the city and state are being followed and a like inspection shall be
scheduled not less than once every two (2) weeks thereafter. (1961 Code § 5-15-
6; amd. Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
3-1-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1961 Code § 5-15-7; amd. Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966; 2006
Code)
CHAPTER 1A
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
ARTICLE A. BUSINESS REGISTRATION FEE  1
SECTION:
3-1A-1: Applicability
3-1A-2: Fee Imposed; Exemption
3-1A-3: Each Separate Business
3-1A-4: Revenue Division Taxpayer Identification Number
3-1A-5: Change Of Location
3-1A-6: Renewal Of Registration
3-1A-7: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-38-3.
3-1A-1: APPLICABILITY:
Any person proposing to engage in business, including non-profit organizations,
within the city limits after July 1, 1981, shall apply for and pay a business
registration fee for each outlet, branch or location within the city limits
prior to engaging in business, unless such person is required to obtain a
business license under chapters 1, including article A, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12
and 13 of this title. (Ord. C88-4, 6-28-1988; amd. 2006 Code; amd. Ord. C2019-
8, 7-23-2019)
3-1A-2: FEE IMPOSED; EXEMPTION:
   A.   Fee Imposed: There is imposed on each place of business, except for
non-profit organizations, a business registration fee of thirty five dollars
($35.00). The fee is imposed pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section
3-38-3, as it now exists or is amended, and shall be known as the "business
registration fee". The business registration fee may not be prorated for
businesses conducted for a portion of the year.
   B.   Exemption: No business registration fee shall be imposed on any
business which is licensed under chapters 1, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12 and 13 of
this title.
   C.   Initial Application: Prior to issuance of a registration certificate to
a business that is not currently registered, the City Clerk shall refer the
applicant to the Planning and Development Department, or any successor
department, for a review to determine that the business' proposed location is
zoned to allow that type of business and that any building meets applicable
building and fire codes. A business registration certificate shall not be
issued unless the location and building are in compliance with applicable
zoning, building, and fire codes. (Ord. C88-4, 6-28-1988; amd. Ord. C2019-8, 7-
23-2019)
3-1A-3: EACH SEPARATE BUSINESS:
Each separate business at the same location shall pay a separate fee:
   A.   If it is unrelated to each other business at the same location; or
   B.   If it is publicly identified as a separate business through telephone
listing, advertising or other means. (Ord. C88-4, 6-28-1988; amd. Ord. C2019-8,
7-23-2019)
3-1A-4: REVENUE DIVISION TAXPAYER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER:
Any person filing an application for issuance or renewal of any business
registration shall include in the application his current revenue division
taxpayer identification number or evidence of application for a current revenue
division taxpayer identification number. (Ord. C88-4, 6-28-1988; amd. Ord.
C2019-8, 7-23-2019)
3-1A-5: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
If a business changes its physical location, it is required to obtain a new
business registration certificate. (Ord. C88-4, 6-28-1988; amd. Ord. C2019-8,
7-23-2019)
3-1A-6: RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION:
Prior to March 16 of each year, any person with a place of business in the city
and subject to this article shall apply for renewal of business registration
with the city clerk. (Ord. C88-4, 6-28-1988; amd. Ord. C2019-8, 7-23-2019)
3-1A-7: PENALTY:
Any person who engages in a business within the city limits without having
obtained a business registration certificate shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and subject to the penalties contained in section
1-4-1. Any person who fails to pay the annual fee on or before March 16 of each
year shall be subject to a late fee of ten dollars ($10.00), to be paid in
addition to the registration fee. (Ord. C88-4, 6-28-1988; amd. Ord. C2019-8, 7-
23-2019)
CHAPTER 2
TAXES
ARTICLE A. MUNICIPAL GROSS RECEIPTS TAX  1
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Initial Municipal Gross Receipts Tax Enacted
3-2A-2: Effective Date
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 7-19D-1 et seq.
3-2A-1: INITIAL MUNICIPAL GROSS RECEIPTS TAX ENACTED:
By special ordinance S-391 enacted June 13, 1978, the city has imposed a
municipal gross receipts tax of one-fourth of one percent (0.25%) in compliance
with the municipal gross receipts tax act of the state on the approved
ordinance form provided by the revenue division of the department of taxation
and revenue. (Ord. C66-160, 6-13-1978)
3-2A-2: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The effective date of the initial municipal gross receipts tax is January 1,
1978. (Ord. C66-160, 6-13-1978)
ARTICLE B. MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
SECTION:
3-2B-1: Imposition Of Tax
3-2B-2: General Provisions
3-2B-3: Specific Exemptions
3-2B-4: Dedication
3-2B-5: Effective Date
3-2B-1: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
There is imposed on any person engaging in business in this municipality for
the privilege of engaging in business in this municipality an excise tax equal
to one-eighth of one percent (1/8%) of the gross receipts reported or required
to be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico gross receipts and
compensating tax act as it now exists or as it may be amended. The tax imposed
under this chapter is pursuant to the municipal local option gross receipts
taxes act as it now exists or as it may be amended and shall be known as the
"Municipal Infrastructure Gross Receipts Tax". (Ord. C2000-3, 7-11-2000)
3-2B-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
This chapter hereby adopts by reference all definitions, exemptions and
deductions contained in the gross receipts and compensating tax act as it now
exists or as it may be amended. (Ord. C2000-3, 7-11-2000)
3-2B-3: SPECIFIC EXEMPTIONS:
No municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax shall be imposed on the gross
receipts arising from:
   A.   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor vehicle,
air transportation or any other means from one point within the municipality to
another point outside the municipality;
   B.   A business located outside the boundaries of the municipality on land
owned by the municipality for which a state gross receipts tax distribution is
made pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated 7-1-6.4 subsection C, 1978; or
   C.   Direct broadcast satellite services. (Ord. C2000-3, 7-11-2000)
3-2B-4: DEDICATION:
Revenue from the municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax will be used for
the purposes listed below:
   A.   Payment of special obligation bonds issued pursuant to a revenue bond
act;
   B.   Repair, replacement, construction or acquisition of infrastructure
improvements, including, but not limited to, sanitary sewer lines, wastewater
treatment facilities, storm sewers and other drainage improvements, water,
water rights, water lines and utilities, streets, alleys, rights of way and
easements;
   C.   Any other capital improvements; or
   D.   Any combination of the foregoing purposes. (Ord. C2000-3, 7-11-2000)
3-2B-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The effective date of the additional municipal infrastructure gross receipts
tax shall be January 1, 2001, subject to the approval of the imposition of such
additional municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax by a majority of the
voters of the city voting on the question at a special election held thereon.
(Ord. C2000-3, 7-11-2000)
ARTICLE C. LODGERS' TAX  1
SECTION:
3-2C-1: Title
3-2C-2: Purpose
3-2C-3: Definitions
3-2C-4: Imposition Of Tax
3-2C-5: Exemptions
3-2C-6: License Required
3-2C-7: Collection Of Tax; Vendor Reporting; Payment and Audit Responsibility
3-2C-8: Failure To Pay Tax
3-2C-9: Administration
3-2C-10: Use Of Lodgers' Tax
3-2C-11: Vendor Audits
3-2C-12: Confidentiality Of Return And Audit
3-2C-13: Criminal Penalty
3-2C-14: Supremacy of Act
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-38-13.
3-2C-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as and cited as the LODGER'S TAX ORDINANCE. (Ord.
C2025-2, 4-8-2025)
3-2C-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide for the imposition, collection and
enforcement of a tax, and the use of resulting proceeds, as authorized by the
Lodgers' Tax Act , NMSA 3-38-13 through 3-38-25, as amended. (Ord. C2025-2, 4-
8-2025)
3-2C-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following capitalized terms shall have the
definitions set forth in NMSA 3-38-14, as amended:
GROSS TAXABLE RENT: See NMSA 3-38-14(A), as amended.
LODGING: See NMSA 3-38-14(B), as amended.
LODGINGS: See NMSA 3-38-14(C), as amended.
OCCUPANCY TAX: See NMSA 3-38-14(D), as amended.
PERSON: See NMSA 3-38-14(E), as amended.
RENT: See NMSA 3-38-14(F), as amended.
VENDOR: See NMSA 3-38-14(N), as amended.
These additional capitalized terms are defined as follows:
ACT: The Act means and refers to the Lodgers' Tax Act, NMSA 3-38-13 through 3-
38-25, as amended.
CITY: The City of Gallup, New Mexico, a home rule municipality.
COUNCIL: The City's governing body.
CITY MANAGER: The City's Manager or his/her appointed designee.
COMMITTEE Or LODGER'S TAX COMMITTEE: The advisory board established under this
article.
DISTRICT COURT: The District Court in and for the Eleventh Judicial District,
McKinley County, State of New Mexico.
All other terms used in this article shall understood in accordance with their
definition in the Act, and where not defined in the Act, in accordance with
their plain and normal meaning as informed by the meaning and intent of the
Act. (Ord. C2025-2, 4-8-2025)
3-2C-4: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
There is hereby imposed an Occupancy Tax for revenues on all lodging within the
City equal to five percent (5%) of Gross Taxable Rent. Such Tax shall be
imposed, collected and enforced to the greatest extent permitted by the Act and
any other applicable law. (Ord. C2025-2, 4-8-2025)
3-2C-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The imposition, collection and enforcement of the Tax provided for in this
article shall be subject to the exemptions set forth in NMSA 3-38-16, as
amended. No other or additional exemptions shall apply or be recognized. (Ord.
C2025-2, 4-8-2025)
3-2C-6: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No Vendor shall engage in business in the City without first having obtained a
business license from the City pursuant to title 3, chapter 1 of this code and
subject to all terms, conditions and penalties established by title 3, chapter
1. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, this article constitutes
an ordinance of the City relating to the granting of a license within the
meaning of section
3-1-5 (B)(1)(b) of this code. All Vendors must at all times have a current
business license issued by the City and, in addition, shall comply with all
other applicable parts and provisions of the City's code. (Ord. C2025-2, 4-8-
2025)
3-2C-7: COLLECTION OF TAX; VENDOR REPORTING, PAYMENT AND AUDIT RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   All Vendors shall collect the Tax imposed by section 4 in accordance
with NMSA 3-38- 17.
   B.   Each Vendor shall make a report to the City's Clerk by the twenty fifth
(25th) day of each month, on forms approved by the City Manager, of all
receipts for Lodging received in the immediately preceding calendar month, and
shall remit therewith payment, in cash or cash equivalent, of all amounts due
the City for the Tax imposed by this article. The report shall include all
information reasonably needed to enable the City to examine and audit its
contents, and shall be verified by the Vendor under penalty of perjury.
   C.   Each Vendor shall, as an absolute and irrevocable condition to its
license to do business, obtain and maintain, in electronic and hard copy form:
(1) a full, legible and contemporaneous transaction record of each payment for
lodging received during the immediately preceding thirty six (36) consecutive
calendar months; and (2) full and properly prepared books and records showing
(a) all payments for lodging and other income received during the same thirty
six (36) consecutive calendar month period, and (b) all Taxes imposed by this
article collected with respect to such payments.
   D.   Each Vendor shall fully and promptly cooperate in and with any audit
conducted pursuant to NMSA 3-38-17.1 and section
3-2C-11  below. A failure to comply with any part of provision of this section
7 shall constitute cause for the revocation of the Vendor's business license,
and shall entitle the City to enforce all rights, remedies and penalties
provided in this article or elsewhere in this code. (Ord. C2025-2, 4-8-2025)
3-2C-8: FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
   A.   Notice Of Delinquency: Every Vendor and Vendor officer or manager
responsible for the collection and payment of the Tax imposed by this article
is and shall be personally liable for the payment of any such tax the Vendor
fails to collect or remit to the City. In all cases where a Vendor fails to
report and pay pursuant to section 7.B. above, the City Clerk shall give the
Vendor written notice of the delinquency, mailed to the address shown on the
Vendor's business license.
   B.   District Court Action: If a Vendor fails to make payment to the City in
full within fifteen (15) days of the date on which the notice described in
section 8.A. is mailed, the City, in addition to exercising any other right,
remedy or penalty it has or may have, including but not limited to revoking the
Vendor's business license pursuant to section 7 above and/or seeking the
imposition of criminal penalties pursuant to section 3-2C-13 below, may bring
an action in law or equity in the District Court for the collection and
enforcement of:
      1.   Any and all amounts due, including, without limitation, interest on
the unpaid principal at the rate of one percent (1%) per month.
      2.   A civil penalty in the amount provided by NMSA 3-38-18(A), as
amended.
      3.   The City's reasonable attorneys' fees and costs of collection.
   C.   Lien: The Tax imposed by this article constitutes a lien in favor of
the City upon the Vendor's personal and real property, enforceable in
accordance with NMSA 3-38- 18.1(A), as amended.
   D.   Property Sales: All Persons shall strictly comply with NMSA 3-38-18.1
(B) and (C), as amended. (Ord. C2025-2, 4-8-2025)
3-2C-9: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The Committee shall be formed, receive reports, and function in
accordance with NMSA 3-38-17.2, 3-38-21.1 and 3-38-22, as amended, and is
created and shall be constituted and governed pursuant to NMSA 3-38-22, as
amended.
   B.   All amounts remitted or otherwise paid to the City for the Tax imposed
by this Article shall be placed by the City in a separate fund to be used and
disbursed for any and all purposes permitted, expressly or implicitly, under
the Act.
   C.   The following procedures shall apply to disputes regarding the Tax
imposed by this article, including claims for refunds:
      1.   No dispute or claim (collectively, "Claim") may be asserted by any
Person unless it is filed with the City's Clerk, in writing, within fifteen
(15) calendar days after the transaction or event giving rise to the Claim.
      2.   All Persons asserting a Claim (hereafter, "Claimants") must
establish standing, meaning they must show an injury to a legally protected
right or interest. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no
Claimant may assert a Claim based on an alleged injury or detriment to another
Person, nor may any Claimant assert an injury that is abstract, hypothetical or
yet to occur. For example, no Claim may be asserted by a Vendor with respect to
a Tax that has not been paid or remitted to the City. Such a Claim may only be
asserted if the Tax in question has been paid or remitted.
      3.   Within ten (10) calendar days after the Claim is filed with the
City's Clerk, the Claimant must submit all evidence and argument he, she or it
has in support of the Claim to the City's Clerk. No evidence submitted after
the ten (10) day period has expired will be considered. Any statement offered
as evidence must be made and offered under penalty of perjury, and if not, will
be disregarded.
      4.   Within ten (10) days after the Claimant's evidence and argument is
filed with the City's Clerk, responsible City personnel must submit all
evidence and argument they have in response to the Claim to the City's Clerk.
No evidence submitted after the ten (10) day period has expired will be
considered. Any statement offered as evidence must be made and offered under
penalty of perjury, and if not, will be disregarded.
      5.   All argument and evidence submitted to the City's Clerk shall be
delivered to the City Manager, who shall issue a decision, in writing,
respecting the Claim within fifteen (15) days following his or her receipt of
the argument and evidence. At his or her discretion, the City Manager may hold
a hearing on the Claim, and at that hearing may receive argument and testimony
from witnesses, provided that no person may testify as a witness unless he or
she has submitted a statement in compliance with sub-section (iii) or (iv), and
no witness may testify regarding any subject not addressed in his or her
statement.
      6.   The Claimant or the City may appeal the City Manager's decision to
the Council by filing a notice of appeal with the City's Clerk within five (5)
calendar days after the City Manager issues his or her decision. The Council
may hear and decide the appeal at any regular or special meeting occurring
within thirty (30) days after the notice of appeal is filed with the City's
Clerk. The Council's review on appeal shall be limited to the record made
before the City Manager. No new testimony or argument will be received or
considered. The Council shall make its decision at the hearing, and its
decision shall be final for all purposes. (Ord. C2025-2, 4-8-2025)
3-2C-10: USE OF LODGER'S TAX:
The City may use the proceeds of the Tax imposed by this article in any manner,
and for any and all purposes, expressly or implicitly permitted under the Act.
(Ord. C2025-2, 4-8-2025)
3-2C-11: VENDOR AUDITS:
   A.   Selection: The Council shall select for annual random audits one or
more Vendors to ensure that the full tax owed by each Vendor has been paid and
collected.
   B.   Performance Of Audit: The audits shall be performed by the City's Chief
Financial Officer or another designee of the Council.
   C.   Act: All audits shall be conducted and reported in compliance with the
Act, including NMSA 3-38-17.1, as amended. (Ord. C2025-2, 4-8-2025)
3-2C-12: CONFIDENTIALITY OF RETURN AND AUDIT:
No City employee shall disclose to any Person not an employee of the City any
information contained in a tax return or audit of any taxpayer, including a
Vendor, except (1) pursuant an order issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction, (2) to the taxpayer ; or (3) as otherwise required or permitted
by law. (Ord. C2025-2, 4-8-2025)
3-2C-13: CRIMINAL PENALTY:
Any Person shown to have violated a provision of this article shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in an amount not exceeding five hundred
dollars ($500), imprisoned for not more than ninety days, or both. (Ord. C2025-
2, 4-8-2025)
3-2C-14: SUPREMACY OF ACT:
This article shall be construed, applied and enforced in all respects in a
manner consistent with the Act. In the event of any conflict between this
article and the Act, the Act shall control. (Ord. C2025-2, 4-8-2025)
ARTICLE D. GASOLINE TAX  1
SECTION:
3-2D-1: Definitions
3-2D-2: Applicability
3-2D-3: Tax Imposed
3-2D-4: Exemptions
3-2D-5: Consideration Of Other License Taxes
3-2D-6: Reporting Requirements
3-2D-7: Refunds; Credits
3-2D-8: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 7-13-1.
3-2D-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DISTRIBUTOR OF GASOLINE: Any person, except a person engaged in selling
exclusively in interstate commerce, engaged in the business of selling gasoline
or motor fuel in this state from refineries, tank farms, drums or other
containers in quantities exceeding fifty six (56) gallons in any one sale and
delivery.
GASOLINE: Gasoline or any other inflammable liquid, by whatever name such
liquid may be known and sold, the chief use of which is as fuel for the
propulsion of motor vehicles, motor boats or aircraft; provided however, the
term gasoline shall not include products specially prepared and sold for the
use in turbo prop or jet engines.
RETAIL DEALER OF GASOLINE: A person, other than a distributor of gasoline, who
sells gasoline and motor fuel in this state in quantities of less than fifty
six (56) gallons.
TAXABLE SALE:
   A.   The sale by the distributor of gasoline, if, within the boundary of the
city, the gasoline or motor fuel is sold by a distributor of gasoline to a
retail dealer in gasoline to the consumer; or
   B.   The sale by the retail dealer, if the sale from the distributor of
gasoline to the retailer dealer takes place outside the boundary of the city
and the sale from the retail dealer to the consumer takes place within the
boundary of the city. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
3-2D-2: APPLICABILITY:
Where gasoline or motor fuel is sold within the city by a distributor of
gasoline to a retail dealer in gasoline and subsequently sold within the city
by the retail dealer of gasoline to the consumer, the sale by the distributor
of gasoline shall be construed as the taxable sale for the purposes of this
article and the subsequent sale by the retail dealer in gasoline shall not be
taxed. Where the sale from the distributor in gasoline to the retail dealer in
gasoline to the consumer takes place outside the limits of the city, the latter
sale shall be construed as the taxable sale for the purpose of this article.
(1961 Code § 5-10-3)
3-2D-3: TAX IMPOSED:
There shall be payable to the city from every distributor of gasoline a tax of
one cent ($0.01) per gallon on each gallon of gasoline sold within the city.
(1961 Code § 5-10-2)
3-2D-4: EXEMPTIONS:
There is exempt from this tax, gasoline which is sold within the city by the
distributor of gasoline to the retail dealer in gasoline and is sold outside
the city by the retail dealer in gasoline to the consumer. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-
1966)
3-2D-5: CONSIDERATION OF OTHER LICENSE TAXES:
The tax imposed by the provisions of this article shall be in lieu of any other
license or occupation tax against distributors and retail dealers in gasoline,
insofar as such other and additional license may apply exclusively to such
gasoline business. (1961 Code § 5-10-8)
3-2D-6: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
Every distributor of gasoline and every retail dealer in gasoline shall, on or
before the fifteenth day of each month, make a complete report upon forms to be
furnished by the city of all gasoline sold during the preceding month either to
consumers or retail dealers within the city and shall remit with such report,
payment to cover the tax due upon the basis as specified in section
3-2D-3 of this article. (1961 Code § 5-10-7)
3-2D-7: REFUNDS; CREDITS:
Any person who shall erroneously pay a gasoline tax shall be entitled to a
refund. Such refund shall be limited to a period of one year to the discovery
of the erroneous gasoline tax payment. Upon demand for refund, the city council
shall pay the refund or, if the case is one of continuing tax liability, may
issue a credit memorandum in the amount of the refund against a future gasoline
tax due from the taxpayer. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
3-2D-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966; amd. 2006 Code)
ARTICLE E. GROSS RECEIPTS INVESTMENT POLICY (GRIP)
SECTION:
3-2E-1: Short Title
3-2E-2: Purpose
3-2E-3: Business Qualifications
3-2E-4: Authorized Projects
3-2E-5: Public Hearing
3-2E-6: Repayment And Special Fund
3-2E-7: Expedited Permit Procedures
3-2E-8: Terms Of The Agreement
3-2E-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article may be referred to as the GROSS RECEIPTS INVESTMENT POLICY OR
GRIP. (Ord. 2017-6, 6-13-2017)
3-2E-2: PURPOSE:
This article establishes standards and procedures for financing, through the
refund of Gross Receipts Taxes, the development and construction of
infrastructure necessary to secure the location of new, large-scale retail and
certain, targeted commercial businesses within the City. There is hereby
established a Gross Receipts Investment Program within the City intended to
attract new businesses, including retail, or commercial activities or to
encourage the expansion of an existing business, including retail, or
commercial activity whose gross receipts are subject to the imposition of Gross
Receipts Tax, thereby creating new job opportunities for the citizens of the
City while promoting the economic growth and welfare of the City, and to
improve the City through the development of public infrastructure and, to the
extent permitted by law, new construction or the rehabilitation of existing
commercial or industrial property, thereby encouraging the revitalization of
the City while enhancing the area by increasing land values and providing an
overall aesthetic improvement. To accomplish this purpose, the City, by written
agreement, may reimburse certain Gross Receipts Taxes directly attributable to
the development of public infrastructure and, to the extent permitted by law,
construction activities associated with the construction or expansion of a
business or commercial activity and the purchase of tangible personal property
that will become an ingredient or component part of such a construction
project, where the reimbursement thereof is instrumental in bringing the
business or commercial activity to the City or retaining its presence within
the City. By written agreements between the City and a business for GRIP
developments shall be submitted to the Governing Body for approval. (Ord. 2017-
6, 6-13-2017)
3-2E-3: BUSINESS QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   GRIP is to be used to facilitate the attraction of large-scale retail
or targeted commercial development, including malls; regional sports and
entertainment venues or complexes; large-volume, destination restaurants,
including nationally recognized chain outlets, not yet existing within the
Municipal boundaries and meeting criteria set forth below; destination hotel/
conference centers; automobile dealerships or auto malls; regional health
centers; central office or headquarters of large-scale or regional professional
or technical firms, including architects, engineers, attorneys, accountants,
and/or physicians; and other mixed-use centers consisting of multiple retail
and commercial businesses operating on a single site. However, small scale
retail or targeted commercial businesses or developments can be approved for a
GRIP project if the Governing Body determines that the project qualifies under
one (1) or more established criteria and is in the public interest. Developers
must demonstrate financial responsibility and provide a performance bond or
other acceptable guarantee for the satisfactory completion of infrastructure
construction.
   B.   "Development" shall include, to the extent permitted by law, any of the
following activities on real property located within the corporate boundaries
of the City:
      1.   The new construction of a facility for use by an establishment or
place of business whose receipts are partially subject to Gross Receipts Tax,
or a commercial activity whose services are partially subject to Gross Receipts
Tax; or
      2.   The substantial expansion of an existing facility being used by an
establishment or place of business primarily engaged in selling goods directly
to the consumer, where such goods are generally available for immediate
purchase and removal from the premises by the purchaser, and whose receipts are
partially subject to Gross Receipts Tax, or a commercial activity whose
services are partially subject to Gross Receipts Tax. For purposes of this
program, it shall not be necessary to meet any specified level or percentage of
receipts that are subject to Gross Receipts Tax. An establishment, place of
business or a commercial activity need only show that a portion of its receipts
are subject to Gross Receipts Tax.
   C.   For a business to qualify under the GRIP, it must demonstrate one (1)
or more of the following:
      1.   The retail or professional services will generate or draw regional
customers or customers who reside beyond twenty (20) miles from the Municipal
boundaries of the City;
      2.   The sales volume is projected to meet or exceed three million
dollars ($3,000,000.00) per year after three (3) years of operation;
      3.   The business is a food service or restaurant with a seating capacity
of not less than two hundred (200) persons;
      4.   The business is a full service hotel of not less than two hundred
(200) rooms;
      5.   The business will provide employment for at least forty (40)
employees;
      6.   The business is a car dealership with estimated minimum annual
volume of sales of five hundred (500) units;
      7.   The business represents a substantial expansion of an existing
business operation within the City limits of Gallup, at least doubling existing
square footage or increasing retail space by fifty thousand (50,000) square
feet, whichever is less;
      8.   The business must have, or establish, and maintain a physical
presence in the City sufficient to subject the development to local option
Gross Receipts Tax; and
      9.   The business, wherever possible, must give preference and priority
to local manufacturers, suppliers, vendors, contractors and labor, except where
not reasonably possible to do so without significant added expense, substantial
inconvenience, or sacrifice in operating efficiency. For purposes of
determining eligibility, the value of the project shall be equal to the
valuation assigned to a project by the Construction Industries Division of the
State Regulation and Licensing Department pursuant to 14.5.5.10 NMAC for
purposes of establishing a building permit fee. (Ord. 2017-6, 6-13-2017)
3-2E-4: AUTHORIZED PROJECTS:
The City is authorized to enter into a GRIP agreement for any one (1) or more
of the following:
   A.   The acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, construction of
additions or making of any improvements to City-owned parking lots;
   B.   The acquisition, extension, enlargement, repair or other improvement of
or maintenance of storm sewers and other drainage improvements, sanitary
sewers, sewage treatment plants or other water utility infrastructure,
including but not limited to the acquisition of rights-of-way and water rights,
or any combination of the foregoing;
   C.   The purchase, acquisition, or rehabilitation of fire-fighting equipment
or any combination of the foregoing;
   D.   The reconstruction, extension, resurfacing, maintenance, repair or
otherwise improvement of existing alleys, streets, roads, or any combination of
the foregoing, or for the construction or acquisition of new alleys, streets,
roads, or any combination thereof, inclusive of acquisition of any rights-of-
way and public transportation transfer facilities;
   E.   The purchase, acquisition, or clearing of any land, or the purchase or
acquisition and beautification of land for open space and trails;
   F.   The acquisition, construction, equipping, furnishing, making additions
to, renovating, rehabilitating, beautifying or otherwise improving public
parks, public recreational facilities, civic, conference, or convention
centers, sports stadiums or arenas, or any combination thereof;
   G.   The acquisition or construction of any other related infrastructure
that enhances and encourages the location of new retail or commercial business
within the City limits, and may be undertaken by the City pursuant to the
Constitution and the laws of the State of New Mexico and ordinances of the
City. (Ord. 2017-6, 6-13-2017)
3-2E-5: PUBLIC HEARING:
Prior to the initiation of a GRIP funded project, the Governing Body shall hold
a public hearing in which the developer must present a reasonable estimate of
projected Gross Receipts Tax revenues due the City from the planned
development. The estimated tax revenues must be supported by an independent
economic analysis. The purpose of the hearing is to determine if the project
qualifies as a project under the GRIP, is in the public interest and justifies
a GRIP agreement. (Ord. 2017-6, 6-13-2017)
3-2E-6: REPAYMENT AND SPECIAL FUND:
Upon a finding that the proposed GRIP project qualifies as a project under the
GRIP and is in the public interest, the City and developer may enter into an
agreement wherein the City shall pay to the developer up to seventy five
percent (75%) of the City's share of total Gross Receipts Taxes directly
attributable to sales from the new business, less any amount dedicated to other
special purposes, received by the City each year for a specified number of
years. Such payments shall not exceed the actual cost expended for the
development of the public infrastructure. The collection and pledge of
allocated Gross Receipts Tax revenues from the new business constitutes a
special fund and is the sole and only source pledged or otherwise available for
the repayment of the GRIP project. The Governing Body shall by ordinance
approve the agreement providing for the contingent liability of the GRIP
project payments prior to the agreement becoming effective. (Ord. 2017-6, 6-13-
2017)
3-2E-7: EXPEDITED PERMIT PROCEDURES:
The City Development Department shall provide for the expedited review of all
permits and approvals necessary for both the construction of the new business
and associated GRIP developments. Prior payment of all fees and receipt of all
relevant building permits are prerequisites to eligibility for reimbursement
under GRIP. (Ord. 2017-6, 6-13-2017)
3-2E-8: TERMS OF THE AGREEMENT:
Any agreement entered into pursuant to the GRIP must contain provisions for the
following:
   A.   The developer must pay all necessary and required fees for all permits,
licenses, inspections, approvals, and authorizations necessary for the
construction of the project;
   B.   At its own expense and on behalf of and for the City's benefit, the
developer must construct or otherwise acquire the reasonable and necessary
infrastructure approved by the Governing Body as the qualifying GRIP project;
   C.   The developer shall adhere to statutory and ordinance requirements,
including labor and employment laws and the City's Procurement Code, which
would otherwise apply if the City were undertaking the construction of the
infrastructure;
   D.   The developer shall dedicate the public infrastructure and associated
land to the City upon completion or acquisition of such infrastructure;
   E.   The developer shall pay all costs of acquisition if the City must
assist in the acquisition of land for the public infrastructure through its
power of condemnation or otherwise;
   F.   The developer shall agree that its only recourse for payment of the
GRIP project costs is the special fund created by revenues collected from the
Gross Receipts Taxes paid by the developer's new retail business pursuant to
the agreement and that the City has no other liability of whatever kind,
whether in law or equity, to the developer;
   G.   The developer shall provide specific proof of financial responsibility
and such proof shall be incorporated into the agreement, as well as evidence of
a performance bond or other guarantee;
   H.   The developer shall provide for an acceptable method of reporting
applicable retail sales or gross operating receipts to the City in order to
administer compliance with the agreement and shall agree to an annual audit by
the City;
   I.   The developer must report and pay Gross Receipts Taxes on all receipts
associated with the development that are subject to the Gross Receipts Tax;
   J.   The developer shall agree that its only recourse for payment of the
GRIP reimbursement payments is the special fund created by the resolution
approving the GRIP application and that the City has no other liability of
whatever kind, whether in law or equity, to the developer;
   K.   A provision requiring the applicant, on at least a quarterly basis, and
at applicant's cost, to allow the full examination by City or its designated
representative(s) of all documents necessary for City to assure that best
efforts have been used by applicant to utilize local labor, subcontractors,
vendors and suppliers. The City will also require that such contracts contain
provisions binding the engineering/construction firms utilized as general
contractors on the project to the terms of the GRIP agreement; and
   L.   The developer shall agree to an acceptable means by which the City can
administer compliance with the agreement, including any necessary audits of the
developer's books, accounts and financial transactions associated with the
development. (Ord. 2017-6, 6-13-2017)
ARTICLE F. BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
3-2F-1: Short Title
3-2F-2: Purpose
3-2F-3: Definitions
3-2F-4: Management Committee; Creation; Duties
3-2F-5: District Benefit Fee Assessment
3-2F-6: BID District Plan; Annual Performance Review; City Matching Funds;
Replacement of Management Committee
3-2F-7: Issuance and Sale of Bonds
3-2F-8: Friends of the BID
3-2F-9: Interpretation of Authority:
3-2F-10: BID Term; District Review; Expiration of the BID Article
3-2F-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Article may be referred to as the BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT. (Ord.
C2020-1, 2-18-2020)
3-2F-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the Business Improvement District Article is to:
   A.   Promote and restore the economic vitality of the area within the
Business Improvement District (BID) by creating a district to provide for the
administration and financing of additional and extended services to businesses
within the district;
   B.   Finance local improvements within the BID; and
   C.   Provide the City and entrepreneurs a more flexible and proactive
vehicle to collaborate in revitalization efforts in the District. (Ord. C2020-
1, 2-18-2020)
3-2F-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in the Business Improvement District Act:
 
             Means a fixed place of business where one (1) or more persons are
             employed or engaged in the purchase, sale, provision or manufacturing of
BUSINESS:    commodities, products or services, and includes the ownership of
             unoccupied real property that is held for commercial investment purposes,
             for sale or for lease;
COUNCIL:     Means the Gallup City Council;
             Means any one or any combination of services or projects in one or more
IMPROVEMENT: locations authorized pursuant to the Business Improvement District
             Article;
MANAGEMENT   Means the district management committee as established pursuant to the
COMMITTEE:   Business Improvement District Article;
MEMBER:      Means any real property or business owner that is located within the
             district's geographic boundaries and includes "friends of the BID”; and
             Means real property that is used to engage in the purchase, sale,
REAL         provision or manufacturing of commodities, products or services and
PROPERTY:    unoccupied real property that is held for commercial investment purposes,
             for sale or for lease. (Ord. C2020-1, 2-18-2020)
 
3-2F-4: MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE; CREATION; DUTIES:
   A.   The BID shall be administered by a seven (7) person management
committee appointed by the City Council from nominees submitted by the members
of the BID. Two (2) representatives from the City appointed by the Mayor with
the approval of the Council shall serve as ex-officio, non-voting members. The
voting members of the management committee shall serve initial terms of three
(3) years beginning on January 1, 2019 with five (5) of those members
continuing to serve two (2) additional years. Thereafter, terms shall be for a
period of four (4) years. A new member appointed to fill the vacancy of a
member with an unexpired term will serve the remainder of the unexpired term.
City members shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
   B.   The management committee shall be a nonprofit corporation that is
incorporated pursuant to the New Mexico Nonprofit Corporation Act. A nonprofit
corporation created pursuant to subsection A of this section shall comply with
the applicable requirements of that act.
   C.   The management committee shall be responsible for the operation of the
BID and shall administer all improvements within the district. Unless the
management committee is replaced by an existing non-profit organization
pursuant to subsection E of this section, the by-laws and any amendments
thereto are subject to the approval of the council.
   D.   The management committee shall hold a meeting at least annually, on or
before March 1, of the members of the BID for the purpose of obtaining input
from the members concerning the projects and improvements to be submitted to
the council for its approval. Notice of such meeting shall be mailed to each
member at least thirty (30) days prior to the meeting. The Executive Director
of the BID shall individually contact and communicate with each owner of real
property within the district to obtain input regarding the projects and
improvements to be submitted to the council for approval. The Executive
Director shall also send a monthly communique or newsletter to all members of
the BID.
   E.   Should the council exercise its authority to terminate the management
committee pursuant to section
3-2F-6, the council shall appoint an existing downtown, community or central
business district revitalization nonprofit corporation that operates within the
boundaries of the district, to assume the position of management committee to
administer and implement the business improvement district plan. (Ord. C2020-1,
2-18-2020)
3-2F-5: DISTRICT BENEFIT FEE ASSESSMENT:
   A.   The BID shall assess a business improvement benefit fee on any real
property or business located within the district. The district benefit fee
assessment schedule shall not include:
      (1)   governmentally owned real property;
      (2)   residential real property that is not multifamily residential
rental property with at least four (4) units or homeowners associations of
multifamily ownership properties;
      (3)   real property owned by a nonprofit corporation; or
      (4)   residential real property, located within an existing district,
that became eligible for a business improvement benefit fee assessment after
the district was created, unless the ordinance that created the district is
amended to include the new business or property after notice is provided and a
hearing is held in accordance with NMSA §3-63-10.
   B.   Each tract of real property within the BID overlay shall be subject to
annual property assessments in the amount of one percent (1%) of the assessed
value for said property under the 2006 real property tax assessment of said
property as shown by the assessment of said property done by the McKinley
County assessor's office. Said assessments shall be mailed to each property
owner within the BID overlay semiannually the last week of each February and
August with one-half (1/2) of the total annual assessment being due and payable
to the City of Gallup on or before March 10 and September 10 of each year
respectively. Should any property owner fail to remit the assessment when due,
the unpaid amount shall constitute a lien on the subject property which may be
foreclosed upon by the City as provided by NMSA 1978 Chapter 3, Article 36. The
office of the City Clerk shall prepare and mail out the BID assessments. The
office of the City Clerk shall collect all payments received for BID
assessments from the subject property owners and remit said funds to the City
finance department.
   C.   The aforementioned assessment shall be based on the 2006 valuations
through the end of Fiscal Year 2021.The real property tax year that the BID
assessments are based on shall be re-determined by the council on or before
April 30, 2021 and biennially thereafter on or before April 30 of each
subsequent two (2) year period.
   D.   The City shall segregate the BID assessment payments and its matching
funds in a separate account to be used solely for BID purposes. Disbursements
of assessments collected by the City and any matching funds provided by the
City shall be made to the BID during the months of January and July.
   E.   The assessments made on commercial property within the BID overlay may
be passed on by the subject property owners to their individual commercial
tenants in an amount not to exceed seventy-five percent (75%) of the total
annual fee. If a subject property owner elects to pass on said portion of the
BID annual assessment fee he shall notify in writing the City Clerk on or
before February 20 of each year that the tenant shall be paying a portion of
fee and the City Clerk shall send duplicate assessments to both the designated
tenant and owner. Should the tenant fail to remit the assessment fee in a
timely manner, the City Clerk shall notify the subject property owner in
writing of said failure to remit and the subject property owner shall remit the
full amount of the assessment fee to the City Clerk within thirty (30) days of
the mailing of the notice or the subject property shall have a lien placed upon
it for collection.
   F.   The BID is authorized to apply for and receive monetary grants from any
source to supplement its funds generated by assessments and City matching
funds. (Ord. C2020-1, 2-18-2020)
3-2F-6: BID DISTRICT PLAN; ANNUAL PERFORMANCE REVIEW; CITY MATCHING FUNDS;
REPLACEMENT OF MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:
   A.   On or before March 30, 2020, and within sixty (60) of the adoption of
an ordinance re-authorizing the BID pursuant to section
3-2F-10, the management committee of the BID shall submit to the council for
its approval a five (5) year plan for BID operation which shall include a list
of proposed projects to be undertaken by the BID, the improvements to be made
by each BID project, the estimated amount of benefit that each tract of real
property within the BID shall have conferred upon it by the BID project, a
legal description of each property to be assessed within the BID overlay along
with the physical address of each property and the mailing address of the
property owner as shown on the records of the McKinley County assessor's
office, and the amount of the initial assessment on each subject property
within the BID district. No BID project or program may duplicate services,
projects, or services of the City. The council may approve the five (5) year
plan as submitted, or may amend the plan. The five (5) year plan, as approved
by the council, shall be incorporated into a special ordinance which shall
include: a list of improvements to be provided by the district, the amount of
benefit estimated to be conferred on each tract or parcel of real property, a
description of the real property or businesses to be assessed a business
improvement benefit fee, and the amount of the assessment to be imposed on each
real property owner.
   B.   Annually, on or before March 30, the management committee shall submit
to the council for its approval, a budget proposal for the next fiscal year.
The budget proposal shall include any recommended changes to the five (5) year
plan, include a list of proposed projects to be undertaken by the BID, the
improvements to be made by each BID project, and the estimated amount of
benefit that each tract of real property within the BID shall have conferred
upon it by the BID. It shall also include recommendations for projects and
improvements made to the BID management committee or the Executive Director by
the members of the BID. The council may approve the budget as submitted, or may
amend the budget.
   C.   Subject to the provisions of Subsection E of this Section, the council
may match the revenue raised by the BID assessments up to a dollar for dollar
match. The City shall not charge against its matching funds more than ten
percent (10%) of its annual match as in-kind services for administering the BID
funds and providing other support to the BID. The City shall disburse the
revenues collected as BID assessments plus the City's match (less the
administrative fee) to the BID management committee during the month of January
for the first half-year assessments and July for the second half-year
assessments.
   D.   Annually, on or before August 15, the management committee shall submit
to the council for its review, a progress report detailing the projects
administered by the BID during the previous fiscal year. The progress report
shall include a complete set of financial statements setting forth the BID's
assets, liabilities, income, operating expenses, and detailing the benefits
conferred by the BID projects to the individual property and business owners
located within the BID district.
   E.   On or before September 30, the council shall review the progress report
and determine by council action the amount the City will match the revenue
received from benefit fees assessed to property and business owners. The
council may terminate the existing BID management committee and appoint an
existing downtown, community or central business district revitalization
nonprofit corporation that operates within the boundaries of the district to
assume the position of management committee to administer and implement the
business improvement district plan. (Ord. C2020-1, 2-18-2020)
3-2F-7: ISSUANCE AND SALE OF BONDS:
   A.   Upon recommendation of the management committee, the council may issue
business improvement district revenue bonds from time to time in its discretion
to finance the undertaking of any improvement within the district or the
exercise of any power, authorized or delegated to the City under the Business
Improvement District Act, including but not limited to the issuance of bonds to
pay the costs of installation, acquisition, construction or reconstruction of
any public facility within the district's area of operation. The council may
also issue refunding bonds for the payment or retirement of bonds previously
issued by it pursuant to this section. These bonds shall be made payable as to
both principal and interest solely from the income, proceeds, revenues and
funds of the City of Gallup derived from or held in connection with its
undertakings and carrying out of authorized improvements within the district or
activities under the Business Improvement District Act. Payment of these bonds,
both as to principal and interest, may be further secured by a pledge of any
loan, grant or contribution from the federal government or other source in aid
of any improvements within a district under the Business Improvement District
Act and by a mortgage or pledge of any of the real property acquired within the
district or otherwise pursuant to the authority granted to the City by the
Business Improvement District Act.
   B.   Bonds issued pursuant to this section shall not constitute an
indebtedness within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt
limitation or restriction and shall not be subject to the provisions of any
other law or charter relating to the authorization, issuance or sale of bonds.
Bonds issued pursuant to this section are declared to be issued for an
essential public and governmental purpose and the bonds and interest and income
from them shall be exempted from all taxes.
   C.   Bonds issued pursuant to this section shall be authorized by ordinance
of the council if the authorization and planned issuance of the bonds was
included in an improvement approved by the council and may be issued in one or
more series and shall bear a date or dates, be payable upon demand or mature at
a time or times, bear interest at a rate or rates not exceeding the legally
authorized rate, be in a denomination or denominations, be in the form provided
by the Supplemental Public Securities Act as to registration, have rank or
priority, be executed in a manner, be payable in a medium of payment at a place
or places, be subject to the terms of redemption, with or without premium, be
secured in a manner and have the other characteristics as may be provided by
the resolution or trust indenture or mortgage issued pursuant thereto.
   D.   The bonds or any portion of the bonds may be sold at not less than par
at public sales held after notice published prior to the sale in a newspaper
having a general circulation in the district's area of operation and in any
other medium of publication as the council may determine. The bonds may be
exchanged for other bonds on the basis of par. The bonds may be sold to the
federal government or to the state at private sale at not less than par, and,
in the event less than all of the authorized principal amount of the bonds is
sold to the federal government or to the state, the balance may be sold at
private sale at not less than par at an interest cost to the City of Gallup of
not to exceed the interest cost to the City of the portion of the bonds sold to
the federal government.
   E.   In case any of the public officials of the City of Gallup whose
signatures appear on any bonds or coupons issued under the Business Improvement
District Act shall cease to be public officials before the delivery of the
bonds, the signatures shall, nevertheless, be valid and sufficient for all
purposes, the same as if the officials had remained in office until delivery.
Any bonds issued pursuant to this section shall be fully negotiable.
   F.   In any suit, action or proceeding involving the validity or
enforceability of any bond issued pursuant to this section or the security
therefor, any bond reciting in substance that it has been issued by the City of
Gallup in connection with authorized improvements within the district shall be
conclusively deemed to have been issued for that purpose, and the project shall
be conclusively deemed to have been planned, located and carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Business Improvement District Act. (Ord.
C2020-1, 2-18-2020)
3-2F-8: FRIENDS OF THE BID:
Commercial property owners adjacent to the BID overlay boundaries shall be
allowed to be included in BID projects as a "friend of the BID" if they submit
a written request to the BID management committee and pay the full amount of
property assessment required of property owners within the BID overlay
boundaries. Any property owner who becomes a "friend of the BID" must remain
subject to the BID property assessment for a minimum of five (5) years. All
provisions of this section which apply to BID overlay property owners shall be
binding on a "friend of the BID." (Ord. C2020-1, 2-18-2020)
3-2F-9: INTERPRETATION OF AUTHORITY:
It is the intention of the council to authorize the broadest discretion in the
BID management committee to accomplish its goals, limited only by the express
terms of the Business Improvement District Act and this Article. (Ord. C2020-1,
2-18-2020)
3-2F-10: BID TERM; DISTRICT REVIEW; EXPIRATION OF THE BID ORDINANCE:
The business improvement district that was created by Ordinance No. C2018-15
and amended and extended by Ordinance No. C2020-1, shall remain in existence
until December 31, 2028. Prior to that date, and prior to the issuance of
business improvement district revenue bonds, the council shall review the BID
and determine if it shall remain in existence. The BID Ordinance will expire
automatically on that date unless affirmatively extended by a majority vote of
the council. If a majority of the council decides that the purpose for which
the district was created has been served and that it is in the best interest
for the district, the council shall terminate the district's status by
ordinance or resolution and record this with the municipal clerk. If upon
termination of a district's status there is an outstanding revenue bond
obligation, the municipality shall continue to assess the business improvement
benefit fee for the life of the outstanding bond. (Ord. C2020-1, 2-18-2020;
amd. Ord. C2023-6, 12-12-2023)
ARTICLE G. CANNABIS TAX USE
SECTION:
3-2G-1: Title
3-2G-2: Definitions
3-2G-3: Use Of Cannabis Tax
3-2G-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the Cannabis Tax Use Ordinance. (Ord. C2023-3,
6-13-2023)
3-2G-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms have the following meanings:
 
                                       Means and refers to that portion of the
                                       tax, net of fees, administrative cost
                                       and offsets, generated by the Cannabis
                                       Tax Act (NMSA 7-42-1 through 7-42-5)
CANNABIS TAX REVENUE:                  distributed to the City of Gallup by the
                                       Taxation and Revenue Department of the
                                       State of New Mexico pursuant to
                                       applicable provisions of NMSA Chapter 7,
                                       Article 1, including NMSA 7-1-6.1, 7-1-
                                       6.15 and 7-1-6.68.
                                       Means and refers to parks and recreation
                                       facilities owned, equipped and operated
GALLUP PARK AND RECREATION FACILITIES: by the City of Gallup and open to and
                                       accessible for use by all members of the
                                       public. (Ord. C2023-3, 6-13-2023)
 
3-2G-3: USE OF CANNABIS TAX:
On and after July 1, 2023, all Cannabis Tax Revenue received by the City shall
be budgeted and used solely to obtain and install capital equipment for and
improvements to Gallup Park and Recreation Facilities and/or to pay
indebtedness incurred by the City to obtain and install capital equipment for
and improvements to Gallup Park and Recreation Facilities, and for no other
purpose. (Ord. C2023-3, 6-13-2023)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR CONTROL  1
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Compliance Required
3-3-3: Tax Imposed; Term
3-3-4: Payment Provisions
3-3-5: Special Dispenser Permits
3-3-6: Approval Of Issuance And Transfer
3-3-7: Refund Of Tax
3-3-8: Offenses
3-3-9: Premises Inspection
3-3-10: Penalty
3-3-11: Hours Of Sale Of Alcoholic Beverages In Unbroken Packages
 
Notes
  1. NMSA § 60-3A-1 et seq. See section
1 1-4-5 of this Code for penalty provisions regarding sales of alcoholic
  beverages without a license.
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS: Any and all distilled or rectified spirits, potable alcohol,
brandy, whiskey, rum, gin, aromatic bitters bearing the Federal Internal
Revenue strip stamps or any similar alcoholic beverages, dilutions or mixtures
of one (1) or more of the foregoing containing more than one-half of one
percent (0.5%) alcohol, excluding medicinal bitters, but including "spirituous
liquors", "beer" and "wine" as defined by the laws of the State.
CLUB: Any organization of persons organized and operated under the laws of this
State, organized for nonprofit to members, with a membership of not less than
fifty (50) regularly admitted and enrolled members who have paid membership
dues at the rate of not less than five dollars ($5.00) per year, which is the
owner, lessee or occupant of premises used exclusively for club purposes and
which the Chief of the Division of Liquor Control shall find is operated solely
for recreation, social, patriotic, political, benevolent or athletic purposes.
DISPENSER: Any person selling, offering for sale or having in his possession
with intent to sell, alcoholic liquors by the drink or in packages containing
less than five (5) gallons.
PACKAGE: Any immediate container of alcoholic liquors, beer or wine which is
filled or packed by the manufacturer or bottler thereof for sale by such
manufacturer or bottler to manufacturers, wholesalers, retailers, dispensers
and/or clubs.
PERSON: Any male or female, corporation, firm, copartnership or association,
and shall include both the singular and plural numbers.
RETAILER: Any person selling, offering for sale or having in his possession
with the intent to sell, any alcoholic liquors for consumption off of the
premises of the licensee and in unbroken packages containing less than five (5)
gallons. (1961 Code § 5-11-1)
3-3-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
The sale or possession for sale, or offering for sale, of alcoholic liquors in
the City is hereby prohibited except upon the terms and conditions of this
chapter specified. (1961 Code § 5-11-2)
3-3-3: TAX IMPOSED; TERM:
   A.   Specified: There is hereby imposed an annual license tax upon the
privilege of persons holding State licenses under the provisions of the New
Mexico liquor control act 1  to operate as retailers, dispensers, canopy
licensees, restaurant licensees or club licensees, within the corporate limits
of the city. This license tax is hereby fixed at two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) per annum.
   B.   License Tax Periods:
      1.   The license tax period shall begin July 1 of each year and continue
through June 30 of the following year for persons holding state licenses under
the provisions of the New Mexico liquor control act and operating as retailers,
dispensers and canopy licensees within the corporate limits of the city.
      2.   The license tax period shall begin November 1 of each year and
continue through October 31 of the following year for persons holding state
licenses under the provisions of the New Mexico liquor control act and
operating as restaurant licensees and club licensees within the corporate
limits of the city.
   C.   No Proration: The license tax as herein provided shall be subject to
the full amount of the license tax, regardless of the date of any transfer of
said license. (Ord. 2016-5, 4-26-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 60-3A-1 et seq., 1978.
3-3-4: PAYMENT PROVISIONS:
   A.   Required: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to
operate as a retailer, dispenser or club in the city without having first paid
the license tax as herein provided, and any police officer of the city, upon
the written order of the city council duly entered, shall forthwith close up
the place of business of any retailer, dispenser or club who has not paid or
tendered the city license tax according to the terms of this chapter imposing
the same.
   B.   Due:
      1.   The license tax imposed on persons operating as retailers,
dispensers and canopy licensees within the corporate limits of the city, shall
be paid in full on or before July 1 of each year.
      2.   The license tax imposed on persons operating as restaurant licensees
and club licensees shall be paid in full on or before November 1 of each year.
(Ord. 2016-5, 4-26-2016)
3-3-5: SPECIAL DISPENSER PERMITS:
Any person holding a dispenser's license within the city, when a dance, fair or
other type of public celebration is to be held in the city limits and when such
dispenser has received a concession from the city council, may dispense
alcoholic liquors at such celebration upon obtaining a special permit therefor
from the state of New Mexico regulation and licensing department, alcohol and
gaming division, upon payment to the city of a special license tax in the
amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each day the permittee is to
dispense liquor. Such special fee shall be payable in advance for the full
period of time of such special operation. All fees collected may be used to
fund "free ride home programs". (Ord. C93-5, 4-27-1993)
3-3-6: APPROVAL OF ISSUANCE AND TRANSFER:
Prior to the issuance or transfer of any license, and within thirty (30) days
after receipt of notice from the chief of the division of liquor control, the
city council shall consider such issuance or transfer, and by a majority vote
of the total membership, at any regular or special meeting, approve or
disapprove the said proposed issuance or transfer. The city clerk shall
forthwith, and in no event later than five (5) days after such action, notify
the chief of the division of liquor control of such action. (1961 Code § 5-11-
10)
3-3-7: REFUND OF TAX:
   A.   Revocation Or Suspension: The revocation or suspension of any retail,
dispensary or club license, or the closing down or discontinuance of the
business of any retailer, dispenser or club, for any reason, shall not entitle
the licensee to the refund of any portion of the license tax herein imposed
which the licensee has paid or relieve such licensee of the obligation for the
payment of any deferred installment thereof. (1961 Code § 5-11-8)
   B.   Assignment Or Transfer: In the case of the assignment and transfer of
ownership of any license under the provisions of the law in such case made and
provided, no refund shall be made to the original licensee for the unexpired
portion of such license but such assignment and transfer shall vest in the
assignee and transferee the right to operate under the license tax so paid by
the original licensee for the period covered by the paid license tax and to pay
the balance of such license tax upon the same terms and conditions as the
original licensee. (1961 Code § 5-11-9)
3-3-8: OFFENSES:
For the purpose of regulating the sale of alcoholic liquors and for the
preservation of the public peace and order, it is hereby provided that:
   A.   Unlicensed Manufacture Or Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person who
is not the holder of a license permitting the same, or whose license has been
suspended or revoked, to manufacture for the purpose of resale, possess for the
purpose of resale, to offer for sale or to sell any alcoholic liquor in the
city.
   B.   Retailer; Unlicensed Premises: It shall be unlawful for any retailer to
allow or permit any alcoholic liquors to be drunk or consumed on his licensed
premises; to maintain or keep in close proximity to such licensed premises any
place for the consumption of alcoholic liquors purchased from him; to sell any
alcoholic liquors at any place other than his licensed premises.
   C.   Dispenser; Unlicensed Premises: It shall be unlawful for any dispenser
to sell, possess for the purpose of sale or to bottle any bulk wine, for sale
other than by the drink for immediate consumption on his premises; to do any of
the things which a retailer is prohibited from doing under this chapter, to
sell, or possess for the purpose of sale, any alcoholic liquors at any location
or place except his licensed premises or the location permitted under this
chapter.
   D.   Public Places: It shall be unlawful to drink or consume alcoholic
liquors, or for any person who is the owner or proprietor to sell, serve,
furnish or permit the drinking or consumption of alcoholic liquors in any
public dance hall, pool room, bowling alley, street, state or federal building
or in any other public place, except establishments having a license to
dispense alcoholic liquors. It shall also be unlawful for any licensee to give
any kind of "curb service" of alcoholic liquors except in unbroken packages,
outside of the building or premises at which the licensee's business is
operated, except to customers seated at tables. (1961 Code § 5-11-12)
   E.   Furnishing To Minors: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
club, retailer, dispenser, bartender, waiter or servant or employee of any
club, retailer or dispenser, for any taxi driver, hotel employee or any other
person, except the parent or guardian or adult spouse of any minor, or adult
person into whose custody any court has committed such minor for the time
outside of the actual visible presence of such minor's parent or guardian, or
adult spouse or the adult person into whose custody any court has committed
such minor for the time, to do any of the following acts:
      1.   To sell, serve or give any alcoholic liquor to a minor.
      2.   To buy alcoholic liquor for, or to procure the sale or services of
alcoholic liquor to a minor.
      3.   To deliver alcoholic liquor to a minor.
      4.   To aid or assist a minor to buy, procure or be served with alcoholic
liquor.
   F.   Minors Receiving Or Possessing: It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any minor to buy, receive, possess or permit himself to be served with any
alcoholic liquor except when accompanied by his parent, guardian, adult spouse
or an adult person into whose custody he has been committed for the time by
some court who is actually, visibly and personally present at the time such
alcoholic liquor is bought or received by him or possessed or served or
delivered to him.
   G.   Other Person Misrepresenting Minor's Age: In the event any person,
except a minor, shall procure any other person to sell, serve or deliver any
alcoholic liquor to a minor by actual or constructive misrepresentation of any
facts calculated to cause, or by the concealment of any facts, the concealment
of which is calculated to cause the person selling, serving or delivering
alcoholic liquors to such minor, to believe that such minor is legally entitled
to be sold, served or delivered alcoholic liquors, and actually deceiving him
by such misrepresentation or concealment, then that person, and not the person
so deceived by such misrepresentation or concealment, shall have violated this
chapter.
   H.   Presence Of Parent; Defense Established: In any proceedings under
subsection E1 of this section, it shall not be necessary for the prosecution,
or any person, official or party urging or contending that such subsection has
been violated, to allege or prove that the parent, guardian, adult spouse or
any adult person into whose custody any such minor has been committed by any
court, was not actually, visibly and personally present at the time of the
alleged violation, but such matters are matters of defense to be established
and proved by the person against whom the prosecution or proceedings is
brought.
   I.   Minor Defined: The term "minor", as used in this chapter, shall mean
any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
   J.   Habitual Drunkards; Persons Of Unsound Mind: It shall be unlawful for
any person to sell, serve, give or deliver any alcoholic liquors to, or to
procure or aid in the procurement of any alcoholic liquors for any habitual
drunkard or person of unsound mind knowing that the person buying, receiving or
receiving service of such alcoholic liquors is an habitual drunkard or lunatic.
It shall also be unlawful for any person to sell, serve, give or deliver any
alcoholic liquors, or to procure or aid in the procurement of any alcoholic
liquors for any person in an obviously drunken condition.
   K.   Employment Of Minor: It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to
employ any person under the age of twenty one (21) years in the sale and
service of alcoholic liquors.
   L.   False Identification Presented By Minor: Any minor who presents,
displays or offers to any retailer, dispenser, club licensee or any other
person any written, printed or photostatic evidence of age or identity which is
forged, false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own for the purpose of
ordering, purchasing, attempting to purchase or otherwise procuring or
attempting to procure the serving of any alcoholic beverage or liquor, shall
have violated this chapter.
   M.   Patrons Remaining On Premises After Hours: It is a violation of this
chapter for any club, retailer or dispenser to permit other than the owners,
bartenders, waiters, servants and employees of the liquor establishment to be
on the licensed premises after hours as permitted by State law. (Ord. C66-28,
8-1968; amd. 2006 Code)
   N.   Vehicles: No person shall transport, carry, possess or have any
alcoholic beverage in any motor vehicle on any street or place open to the
public except:
      1.   In its original unopened container with any seal unbroken; or
      2.   In a locked, outside compartment or other place inaccessible to any
occupant of the vehicle.
   Without limitation, any person violates this provision if the alcoholic
beverage is in the vehicle within his reach and a driver is in violation if he
operates the vehicle knowing the alcoholic beverage is in the vehicle, though
in the exclusive possession of another. (Ord. C86-3, 4-22-1986)
3-3-9: PREMISES INSPECTION:
The Chief of Police shall cause every licensee and his place of business to be
inspected by a police officer not less than once a week to determine if the
premises are being conducted in the manner required by this chapter, other
ordinances and State law. Such inspection shall include examining the owner and
his employees to determine if they are familiar with the various provisions of
this chapter, other ordinances and State law. (1961 Code § 5-11-14)
3-3-10: PENALTY:
Any persons violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor; provided, that any person violating subsections 3-3-
8A, E, G or L of this chapter, upon conviction shall be fined three hundred
dollars ($300.00) or confined in the City Jail for a period of ninety (90)
days; and provided further, that any person violating section
3-3-8F of this chapter: (Ord. C66-44, 7-29-1969; amd. 2006 Code)
   A.   First Conviction: Upon conviction the first time, shall be fined
seventy dollars ($70.00) or confined in the City Jail for a period of twenty
one (21) days; or
   B.   Second Conviction: Upon conviction the second time, shall be fined one
hundred forty dollars ($140.00) or confined in the City Jail for a period of
forty two (42) days; or
   C.   All Subsequent Convictions: Upon all subsequent convictions, shall be
fined three hundred dollars ($300.00) or confined in the City Jail for a period
of ninety (90) days. (Ord. C66-44, 7-29-1969)
3-3-11: HOURS OF SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN UNBROKEN PACKAGES:
   A.   In addition to the restrictions provided by the Liquor Control Act of
the State of New Mexico on the sale of alcoholic beverages, the City of Gallup
further prohibits the hours of sale during which a dispenser or retailer may
sell alcoholic beverages in unbroken packages for consumption off the licensed
premises and not for resale until ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
   B.   The City specifically prohibits the sale of alcoholic beverages in
unbroken packages for consumption off the licensed premises and not for resale
from the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. (Ord.
2017-7, 7-25-2017; amd. Ord. C2021-2, 5-25-2021)
ARTICLE A. BAN ON SALE OF CERTAIN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN GLASS CONTAINERS  1
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Definitions
3-3A-2: Ban Of Glass Containers
3-3A-3: Penalty
3-3A-4: Effective Date
 
Notes
1 1. Renewed indefinitely by ordinance C2005-2, passed on May 24, 2005.
3-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER: The individual, separate, sealed glass container
containing an alcoholic beverage, beer, wine or fortified wine.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: Distilled or rectified spirits, potable alcohol, brandy,
whiskey, rum, gin and aromatic bitters bearing the federal internal revenue
strip stamps or any similar alcoholic beverage, including blended or fermented
beverages, dilutions or mixtures of one or more of the foregoing, containing
more than one-half of one percent (0.5%) alcohol, but excluding medicinal
bitters.
BEER: An alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or
decoction of barley, malt and hops or other cereals in water, and includes
porter, beer, ale and stout.
CONSUMER: A person who purchases an alcoholic beverage in a glass beverage
container for use or consumption.
EXEMPT BEVERAGE CONTAINER: Individual, separate sealed glass containers
containing any of the following products:
         A. "Distilled spirits" as defined by the New Mexico liquor control
act;
         B. Beer, including those commonly known as "malt beverages" in
containers of less than twenty three (23) ounces;
         C. "Wines" and "fortified wines", as defined by the New Mexico liquor
control act;
         D. Vermouth and sherry.
FORTIFIED WINE: Wine containing more than fourteen percent (14%) alcohol by
volume when bottled or packaged by the manufacturer, but does not include:
         A. Wine that is sealed or capped by cork closure and aged two (2)
years or more;
         B. Wine that contains more than fourteen percent (14%) alcohol by
volume solely as a result of the natural fermentation process and has not been
produced with the addition of wine spirits, brandy or alcohol; or
         C. Vermouth and sherry.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: The location at which a dealer sells or offers for sale
alcoholic beverages in glass beverage containers to consumers.
WINE: Includes the words "fruit juices" and means alcoholic beverages obtained
by the fermentation of the natural sugar contained in fruit or other
agricultural products, with or without the addition of sugar or other products,
that do not contain less than one-half of one percent (0.5%) nor more than
twenty one percent (21%) alcohol by volume. (Ord. C2004-6, 6-8-2004)
3-3A-2: BAN OF GLASS CONTAINERS:
   A.   To promote the public safety and welfare of the citizens of Gallup, all
alcoholic beverages, except those exempted under section
3-3A-1 of this article, sold to a consumer in the corporate limits of the city
of by any business, restaurant, convenience store, grocery store or other place
of business, shall be sold in nonglass containers only.
   B.   All alcoholic beverage containers sold in the city to consumers, except
those listed in section
3-3A-1 of this article shall be made of aluminum, plastic or other nonbreakable
material.
   C.   It shall not be illegal to sell alcoholic beverages in glass containers
of any size at wholesale to bars and restaurants for resale by the drink to
consumers.
   D.   Nothing in this article is intended to prohibit the sale of any
alcoholic beverage, beer, wine, fortified wine or any other beverage controlled
by the New Mexico liquor control act in containers made of plastic, aluminum or
other nonbreakable material. (Ord. C2004-6, 6-8-2004)
3-3A-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall, upon conviction,
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each separate violation shall constitute a separate offense
and every day on which any violation exists shall constitute a separate
violation and offense. (Ord. C2004-6, 6-8-2004; amd. 2006 Code)
3-3A-4: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall become effective ninety (90) days after the date of
enactment by the city council as to those properties, sites, building
structures or incidental appurtenances already in existence at the time of
adoption hereof, and as to all others who shall construct, or cause to be
erected, any structure on or in the ground after the enactment hereof. (Ord.
C2004-6, 6-8-2004)
CHAPTER 4
VENDORS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose; Intent
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: License Required
3-4-4: Application For License
3-4-5: Health Inspection Certificate
3-4-6: Issuance, Duration, And Fees For Licenses
3-4-7: Special Events
3-4-8: Display Of Identification Licenses
3-4-9: Notification Of Name Or Address Change
3-4-10: Exemptions
3-4-11: Claims Of Exemption
3-4-12: Hours Of Operation
3-4-13: Littering; Trash Removal
3-4-14: Vending Restrictions
3-4-15: New Mexico Tax Identification Number
3-4-16: Renewals
3-4-17: Prohibited Conduct
3-4-18:Suspension And Revocation Of License
3-4-19: Appeals
3-4-20: Director's Authority
3-4-21: Enforcement And Penalty
3-4-1: PURPOSE; INTENT:
   A.   It is the intent of the Council in enacting this chapter to:
      1.   Serve and protect the health, safety and welfare of the public;
      2.   Establish a set of rules and regulations that is fair and equitable
for Vendors;
      3.   Develop a Vending system that will enhance the overall appearance
and environment in the community on public property, privately owned commercial
property, and in certain residential areas;
      4.   Provide economic development opportunities to small entrepreneurs in
the City and allow for temporary uses by local civic, charitable, and
educational organizations for community fundraising; and
      5.   Promote stable Vendors who will enrich the City's ambiance and be
assets to the public.
   B.   The regulations contained in this Chapter are not intended to prohibit
or hamper speech protected by the First Amendment of the United States
Constitution or Article II, Section 17 of the New Mexico Constitution, but
merely to regulate specific commercial activities. (Ord. C2023-5, 12-12-2023)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following words, terms, and phrases and their
derivations, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
                         A person or entity that controls, is controlled by or
                         is under common control with a Vendor, is a partner
                         or joint venturer of a Vendor, or who is related to a
AFFILIATE or SURROGATE:  Vendor within the third degree of consanguinity. The
                         Director of Licensing's determination whether a
                         person or entity is an Affiliate or Surrogate of a
                         Vendor shall be final and conclusive.
                         A person who goes from place to place, selling or
                         taking orders for, or offering to sell or take orders
                         for, authentic handcrafted, Native American arts and
                         crafts items made by the person selling or offering
                         to sell the item or items. Subject to the
AUTHENTIC HANDCRAFTED    requirements of Section
NATIVE AMERICAN ARTS AND 3-4-11 below, Authentic Handcrafted Native American
CRAFTS VENDOR:           Arts and Crafts Vendors are exempt from the licensure
                         and other requirements imposed by this Chapter.
                         However, the City reserves the right, through the
                         Director of Licensing, to determine whether a person
                         satisfies the definition of an Authentic Handcrafted
                         Native American Arts and Crafts Vendor.
                         A person engaged in selling or taking orders for, or
                         offering to sell or take orders for, Goods, Wares or
                         Merchandise, from place to place, or from a
                         semipermanent fixed location on private property, for
                         the purpose of raising funds for local non-profit
CIVIC, CHARITABLE,       civic, charitable, and educational organizations. The
EDUCATIONAL VENDOR:      Director of Licensing may require any such Vendor to
                         offer satisfactory proof that his, her or its
                         activity satisfies the foregoing definition,
                         including proof respecting the civic, charitable, or
                         educational organization for which he, she or it will
                         raise funds and the non-profit status of any such
                         organization.
                         A person engaged in selling or taking orders for, or
COMMERCIAL VENDOR:       offering to sell or take orders for, Goods, Wares or
                         Merchandise from a semipermanent fixed location on
                         private property.
                         Includes any public or privately owned vehicle,
                         method or means of transporting people, any bicycle,
CONVEYANCE:              motorized or nonmotorized vehicle, any handcart,
                         pushcart, lunch wagon, or any other mobile or
                         moveable device or thing, whether or not mounted on
                         wheels.
DEPARTMENT:              The City Clerk.
DIRECTOR OF LICENSING or The City Clerk, including the Clerk's authorized
DIRECTOR:                representative.
                         Anything in liquid form intended for human
DRINK:                   consumption, including water, milk, carbonated water,
                         soda and juice, but not including anything containing
                         alcohol in any concentration or form.
EXEMPT VENDOR:           A Vendor that is exempt from the licensing
                         requirements of this Chapter.
                         Anything fit and intended for human consumption and
                         nourishment. FOOD is FROZEN FOOD if, at the time it
                         is sold, its surface temperature does not exceed 35°
                         Fahrenheit, and includes frozen dairy products,
                         frozen meat, poultry, fish and game, popsicles and
                         frozen juices, and snow cones. FOOD is PRE-PREPARED
                         FOOD if it is cooked or otherwise prepared for sale
                         and consumption before the Vendor opens for business
FOOD:                    and is not heated or kept warm after the Vendor opens
                         for business. FOOD is PREPARED FOOD if it is cooked
                         or otherwise prepared for sale and consumption after
                         the Vendor opens for business, or is heated or kept
                         warm after the Vendor opens for business. FOOD is
                         PRODUCE if it consists solely of whole fruits (fresh
                         or dried), vegetables, tubers or roots, nuts (raw or
                         roasted) or grains, and has not been processed prior
                         to sale other than by drying (in the case of fruits)
                         and roasting (in the case of nuts).
                         Is any Vendor that sells, offers for sale, or takes
FOOD VENDOR:             orders for, Frozen Food, Pre- Prepared Food, Prepared
                         Food and/or Produce, with or without Drink.
                         Include, but are not limited to, plants, appliances,
GOODS, WARES and         wearing apparel, jewelry, ornaments, artwork,
MERCHANDISE:             cosmetics and beauty aids, vitamins, supplements and
                         other health products, household needs, appliances,
                         publications, wood, coal, and furnishings.
                         A person who goes from place to place selling or
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR:      taking orders for, or offering to sell or take orders
                         for, Frozen Food, Produce and/or Drink.
                         A person who goes from place to place selling or
MOBILE GOODS VENDOR:     taking orders for, or offering to sell or take orders
                         for, Goods, Wares or Merchandise, or any services
                         that do not require a license.
                         A person who holds a valid food handler's certificate
MOBILE PREPARED FOOD     and who goes from place to place selling Pre-Prepared
VENDOR:                  and/or Prepared Food from a Vehicle, Conveyance,
                         Stand or portable container.
                         Any person engaged in the act of selling or taking
PRODUCE VENDOR:          orders for, or offering to sell or take orders for,
                         Produce from a semipermanent location.
                         A space owned or leased by, or granted or dedicated
PUBLIC SPACE:            to, the City of Gallup. Public Space includes all
                         city-owned parks and all property within street, road
                         or alley rights of way, and all sidewalks.
PUBLIC WAY:              Any street, sidewalk, path, roadway, highway, parkway
                         or alley qualifying as Public Space.
                         All that area legally open to public use as a
SIDEWALK:                pedestrian Public Way between the curb line and the
                         building line of the abutting property.
                         Any occasion, including, but not limited to, fairs,
                         shows, exhibitions, citywide celebrations, and
SPECIAL EVENT:           festivals, taking place at and within a specific area
                         of the City for a period of time not to exceed seven
                         (7) days.
                         A showcase, table, bench, rack, handcart, pushcart,
                         stall or any other fixture or device that is used to
STAND:                   display, exhibit, carry, transport, store, sell or
                         offer for sale any Food, Drink, Goods, Wares or
                         Merchandise.
STREET:                  Any area open to public use for transport by vehicle.
                         Every device in, upon, or by which a person or
                         property may be transported or drawn upon a street or
VEHICLE:                 sidewalk, including, but not limited to, vehicles
                         required to be licensed and registered under state
                         law and devices moved by human power.
                         The act of selling or taking orders for, or offering
VENDING:                 to sell or take orders for, Drink, Food, Goods, Wares
                         or Merchandise.
                         A person engaged in Vending as a Civic, Charitable,
                         Educational Vendor, a Commercial Vendor, a Food
                         Vendor, a Mobile Food Vendor, a Mobile Goods Vendor,
                         a Mobile Prepared Food Vendor, a Produce Vendor, and/
VENDOR:                  or an Authentic Handcrafted Native American Arts and
                         Crafts Vendor. One person or firm may qualify as more
                         than one type of Vendor and, if so, must obtain any
                         license required for each type of Vendor. The term
                         Vendor includes all employes, agents, affiliates and
                         surrogates of a Vendor. (Ord. C2023-5, 12-12-2023)
 
3-4-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Unless exempt under the provisions of this Chapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person to engage in the business of Vending unless he, she or it has first
obtained a license from the Department. All licenses shall be issued according
to this Chapter and any supplemental regulations established by the Director.
(Ord. C2023-5, 12-12-2023)
3-4-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for a Vending license shall contain all information relevant
and necessary to determine whether a particular license may be issued,
including, but not limited to:
   A.   The applicant's full name, current address, telephone number and proof
of identity, together with two (2) full face photographs of the applicant, not
less than two inches (2") square, nor more than three inches (3") square;
   B.   A brief description of the nature, character and quality of the Food,
Drink, Goods, Wares and/or Merchandise to be offered for sale or order;
   C.   The period of time the applicant proposes to engage in business within
the City;
   D.   The specific location, if any, at which the applicant intends to
conduct business, including, in the case of a semipermanent location, a site
plan for the location;
   E.   A letter or other document signed by the owner of the land where sales
are to be conducted, giving permission for use of the land by applicant;
   F.   Certificates of insurance and certificates of inspection issued by the
New Mexico Environment Department;
   G.   If a Vehicle, Conveyance or Stand is to be used, a description of the
Vehicle, Conveyance or Stand, including any registration number and license
number; and
   H.   A complete listing of any other licenses or permits issued to the
applicant by the City within the five (5) years immediately preceding the date
of the application. (Ord. C2023-5, 12-12-2023)
3-4-5: HEALTH INSPECTION CERTIFICATE:
Any application for a Vending license to engage in the sale of Food or Drink
shall also be referred to the state of New Mexico Environment Department for
approval and issuance of a certificate in addition to the Vending license. The
applicant's equipment shall be subject to inspections by the state of New
Mexico Environment Department at the time of application and at periodic
intervals thereafter as required by state law. (Ord. C2023-5, 12-12-2023)
3-4-6: ISSUANCE, DURATION AND FEES FOR LICENSES:
   A.   Notice Of Issuance Or Denial: The applicant shall be notified, in
writing, by the Director of the City's decision to issue or deny the Vending
license not later than fourteen (14) days after the applicant has filed a
completed application with the Department.
   B.   Contents Of License: Each Vending license shall show the name and
address of the licensee, the type of license issued, the type of Drink, Food,
and/or Goods, Wares and Merchandise to be sold, the amount of the license fee,
the date of issuance, the license number, an identifying description of any
Vehicle, Conveyance and/or Stand used by the licensee plus, where applicable,
the vehicle registration number, and a photograph of the licensee not less than
two inches (2") square nor more than three inches (3") square. Each license
shall also show the expiration date of the license and the Vendor's plate
number issued by the City.
   C.   Identification Badge: In addition to the Vending license and any other
permit required by this Chapter, the Director shall issue an identification
badge to each Vendor.
   D.   Term Of License/Transferability: With the sole exception of temporary
Vending permits issued pursuant to Section
3-4-7 below, all licenses, permits and identification badges issued under this
Chapter are valid for a period of one (1) year from the date of issuance,
unless suspended or revoked. No license shall be assigned or otherwise
transferred absent the written consent of the Director.
   E.   Number of Licenses: With the sole exception of any temporary Vending
permit issues pursuant to Section
3-4-7 below, each Vendor shall be entitled to one (1) license per year. This
limit cannot and shall not be circumvented or otherwise avoided through a
Vendor's use of an Affiliate or Surrogate.
   F.   License Fees: Except as provided in Section
3-4-7, all Vendor licenses shall require payment of a fee in the amount of one
hundred dollars ($100.00), with the sole exception of licenses issued to Civic,
Charitable, Educational Vendors, which shall require payment of a fee in the
amount of fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. C2023-5, 12-12-2023)
3-4-7: SPECIAL EVENTS:
Any Vendor wishing to conduct business at a permitted Special Event shall apply
to the Department for a temporary Vending permit. Application for such a permit
must be made at least fourteen (14) days prior to the start of the Event for
which the permit is sought. The permit shall be valid only during the Special
Event and shall expire at the conclusion of the Special Event. The fee for such
a permit shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day for Civic, Charitable,
Educational Vendors and one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day for all other
Vendors. Any Vendor to whom a temporary permit is granted shall be subject to
all standards and regulations established by this Chapter. (Ord. C2023-5, 12-
12-2023)
3-4-8: DISPLAY OF IDENTIFICATION LICENSES:
   A.   Display Required: All licenses issued by the Director shall be carried
by the Vendor whenever he, she or it is engaged in Vending and, along with all
required identification and certificates of health inspection shall be
conspicuously displayed at all times while the Vendor is engaged in Vending.
   B.   Proper Method Of Display: An identification badge shall be displayed by
attachment to the outer garment of the Vendor and all employees and
representatives of the Vendor such that it is clearly visible to the public and
law enforcement officials. A certificate of health inspection shall be
displayed by attachment to the Vehicle, Conveyance and/or Stand operated by the
Vendor in a manner making it clearly visible to the public and law enforcement
officials. (Ord. C2023-5, 12-12-2023)
3-4-9: NOTIFICATION OF NAME OR ADDRESS CHANGE:
All Vendors shall assure that a current and correct name, residence address and
business address are on file with the Department of Licensing. Whenever the
name or address provided by a Vendor to the Department changes, the Vendor
shall notify the Director, in writing, within ten (10) days of such change and
provide the Director with the current name and/or address. (Ord. C2023-5, 12-
12-2023)
3-4-10: EXEMPTIONS:
In addition to Authentic Handcrafted Native American Arts and Crafts Vendors,
the provisions of this Chapter do not apply to:
   A.   Persons or entities who sell, take orders for, or offer to sell or take
orders for, Drink, Food, Goods, Wares, or Merchandise from a fixed, permanent
location;
   B.   Goods, Wares, or Merchandise temporarily deposited on a sidewalk in the
ordinary course of delivery, shipment or transfer;
   C.   The placing and maintenance of unattended, self-service stands or
devices for the sale, display or offering for sale of newspapers, magazines,
periodicals and paper bound books; and
   D.   Charitable, civic or educational organizations that obtain a written
waiver from the Director for a specific activity on specific date(s). (Ord.
C2023-5, 12-12-2023)
3-4-11: CLAIMS OF EXEMPTION:
Any person or entity claiming to be exempt from one or more of the provisions
of this Chapter shall provide the Director with the facts and information the
person or entity claims establish his, her or its entitlement to the exemption.
The decision of the Director regarding the person's or entity's claim of
exemption shall be final and conclusive. (Ord. C2023-5, 12-12-2023)
3-4-12: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Vendors may engage in Vending only between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00)
a.m. and eight o'clock (8:00) p.m. Any enlargement of the foregoing hours of
operation must be applied for in writing and may be approved or denied by the
Director in his sole and absolute discretion. No Vehicle, Conveyance or Stand
owned or used by a Vendor shall be located on any City sidewalk or other public
way during nonvending hours absent the express, written permission of the
Director, nor shall any Vehicle be parked other than in a lawful parking space
and subject to the terms and time limits attending the space. All Vehicles,
Conveyances and/or Stands used, left or parked in violation of this Section
3-4-12 shall be subject to removal, towing and/or impoundment by or at the
direction or request of City personnel. (Ord. C2023-5, 12-12-2023)
3-4-13: LITTERING; TRASH REMOVAL:
   A.   Responsibility Of Vendors: Vendors shall keep all sidewalks, roadways
and other spaces adjacent to their Vending locations clean and free of paper,
peelings and refuse of any kind relating to the operation of their Vending
business. All trash or debris within twenty feet of any Vending location shall
be collected by the Vendor and properly disposed.
   B.   Receptacle For Litter Required: Food Vendors shall affix to their
Vehicle, Conveyance or Stand a receptacle for litter that shall be maintained
and emptied regularly and marked as being for litter. (Ord. C2023-5, 12-12-
2023)
3-4-14: VENDING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No Vendor shall be permitted to operate in the following areas:
      1.   Within the triangular space adjacent to an intersection, as defined
by the City's access and view standards.
      2.   Within ten feet (10') of any street intersection or pedestrian
crosswalk.
      3.   Within ten feet (10') of any driveway, loading zone or bus stop.
      4.   In any area within twenty feet (20') of a building entrance or exit
or, in the case of a hotel or motel, within ten feet (10') of building
entrances or exits. The foregoing notwithstanding, no Mobile Prepared Food
Vendor shall operate in any area within fifty feet (50') of the entrance to a
restaurant situated in a permanent structure.
      5.   On the median strip of any divided roadway unless the strip is
designed and intended for use as a pedestrian mall or plaza.
      6.   Against display windows of fixed location businesses.
      7.   Within fifty feet (50') of any property belonging to a hospital,
college, university, elementary school, middle school or high school, unless
written permission is given by the property's administrator.
      8.   Within ten feet (10') of any fire hydrant or fire escape.
      9.   In any off-street parking space, or within ten feet (10') of any
parking space or access ramp designated for persons with disabilities.
   B.   Civic, Charitable and Educational Vendors shall be permitted to go from
place to place, or on private property (subject to all applicable zoning and
use regulations), and on or in public spaces or public ways, subject to the
restrictions in sub-section A.
   C.   Commercial Vendors and Produce Vendors shall be permitted on private
property (subject to all applicable zoning and use regulations) and on or in
public spaces or Public Ways, subject to the restrictions in sub-section A.
   D.   In all residential zones, Mobile Food Vendors and Mobile Goods Vendors
shall be permitted only on Public Ways, provided they remain mobile except when
in the process of conducting a transaction. In all other zones, Mobile Food
Vendors and Mobile Goods Vendors shall be permitted only on Sidewalks, provided
they remain mobile except when in the process of conducting a transaction.
   E.   Mobile Prepared Food Vendors shall not occupy any location on public
property where, in the opinion of the Director, use of the location could
threaten public safety or present another safety concern. Mobile Prepared Food
Vendors shall not stay at any one location on public property or on or in a
Public Way for more than eight (8) hours during any one day. Mobile Prepared
Food Vendors shall not stay at one location on private property for more than
twelve (12) hours during any one day. The Director, in his sole and absolute
discretion, may grant or deny an enlargement of the foregoing hours upon
written application.
   F.   Produce Vendors and Food Vendors shall not stay at any one location on
public property or on or in a Public Way for more than eight (8) hours during
any one day. Produce Vendors and Food Vendors shall not stay at one location on
private property for more than twelve (12) hours at a time during any one day.
The Director, in his sole and absolute discretion, may grant or deny an
enlargement of the foregoing hours upon written application. (Ord. C2023-5, 12-
12-2023)
3-4-15: NEW MEXICO TAX IDENTIFICATION NUMBER:
Prior to applying for any license under this Chapter, a Vendor shall obtain a
New Mexico tax identification number, and shall provide the same to the
Director. (Ord. C2023-5, 12-12-2023)
3-4-16: RENEWALS:
A Vending license may be renewed, provided an application for renewal and
required license fees are received by the Department no later than ten (10)
business days before the expiration date of the current license. Any
application received after that date may be processed as a new application and/
or a late fee may be imposed. The Director will review each application for
renewal, and upon determining that the applicant and the application are in
full compliance with the provisions of this Chapter, will issue a renewed or
new license. (Ord. C2023-5, 12-12-2023)
3-4-17: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
No person, nor any Affiliate or Surrogate of any person, may engage in Vending
within the jurisdiction of the City unless licensed to do so pursuant to this
Chapter, or unless exempt from the licensing requirements of this Chapter. Any
person, and any Affiliate or Surrogate of any person, engaged in Vending within
the jurisdiction of the City shall, unless exempt, hold all licenses required
by this Chapter, and shall otherwise comply with all requirements set forth in
this Chapter.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no person licensed under this
Chapter, or exempt from such licensing, shall do any of the following:
   A.   Obstruct pedestrian or traffic flow, except a Vendor may have up to ten
(10) minutes to load and unload Vending equipment and/or merchandise.
   B.   Obstruct traffic signals or signs.
   C.   Stop, stand or park any Vehicle, Conveyance or Stand upon any street
during the hours when parking, stopping and standing have been prohibited by
signs or curb markings.
   D.   Leave any Vehicle, Conveyance or Stand unattended at any time during
Vending hours, or store, park, or leave any Vehicle, Conveyance or Stand in a
public space overnight.
   E.   Use a pushcart having dimensions that exceed four feet (4') in width,
six feet (6') in length, and four feet (4') in height.
   F.   Use any Stand having dimensions that exceed four feet (4') in width,
six feet (6') in length, and three feet (3') in height.
   G.   Use any Conveyance that, when fully loaded, cannot be easily moved and
maintained under control by the Vendor.
   H.   Engage in Vending within any district or on any street where Vending
has been proscribed or limited by zoning, or by resolution or ordinance adopted
by the City Council.
   I.   Use any sound-making device, including any loudspeaker, horn, amplifier
or public address system, to attract attention.
   J.   Restrict or interfere with ingress or egress to or from any abutting or
nearby property, create a nuisance as defined in the City's ordinances,
increase traffic congestion or delay, create a hazard to traffic, life or
property, or obstruct access by police, emergency and/or sanitation vehicles.
(Ord. C2023-5, 12-12-2023)
3-4-18: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Grounds For Suspension Or Revocation: In addition to the conduct
prohibited by Section 17 of this Chapter, any license issued to a Vendor under
this Chapter may be suspended or revoked on any of the following grounds:
      1.   Misrepresentation or nondisclosure in the application for the
license;
      2.   Misrepresentation, nondisclosure, or any other illegal or proscribed
conduct in the course of the Vending business;
      3.   Conduct of the Vendor contrary to the terms and conditions of the
license;
      4.   Conduct of the Vendor that creates a nuisance, a breach of the
peace, a danger to the public health, safety, welfare or morals, and/or
interferes with abutting or nearby property; or
      5.   Cancellation or suspension of any authorization or permit required
for the Vendor's business or activities.
   B.   Notice Of Suspension Or Revocation: The Director shall provide the
Vendor with written notice of the suspension or revocation, including a brief
statement setting forth the grounds for suspension or revocation and notifying
the Vendor of his right of appeal under Section 19 of this Chapter. Such notice
shall be mailed to the Vendor's address shown on the records of the Department
by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall be
effective three (3) business days following the date of mailing.
   C.   Application For New License: A Vendor whose license has been revoked
under this Chapter may not apply for a new license for a period of one year
from the date the revocation took effect. A Vendor whose license has been
suspended under this Chapter may not apply for reinstatement of the license for
a period of ninety (90) days from the date the suspension took effect. (Ord.
C2023-5, 12-12-2023)
3-4-19: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeal To City Manager: If the Director denies the issuance of a
license, or suspends or revokes a license, the applicant or Vendor may appeal
the decision to the City Manager by filing a written statement of appeal,
including all grounds for appeal, with the Director within five (5) business
days following the date of the Director's denial, or the date on which the
Director's suspension or revocation takes effect.
   B.   Determination of Appeal: The filing of an appeal shall not stay the
denial, suspension or revocation. However, the City Manager may, for good
cause, stay a suspension or revocation (but not a denial) pending determination
of the appeal. The City Manager shall hear the appeal, and shall issue a
written decision affirming or denying the appeal in whole or in part and
directing such further action as may be appropriate within thirty (30) days
following the date the appeal is filed, or on such later date as the City
Manager deems appropriate. The decision of the City Manager shall be final and
conclusive. (Ord. C2023-5, 12-12-2023)
3-4-20: DIRECTOR'S AUTHORITY:
The Director shall have all authority expressly granted by this Chapter and all
authority necessary or appropriate to carry out such express authority. In
addition, the Director shall have the authority to reasonably interpret the
provisions of this Chapter, and to adopt and publish procedures, rules and
standards to implement and carry out the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord.
C2023-5, 12-12-2023)
3-4-21: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
All provisions of this Chapter shall be enforceable through an action in the
Municipal Court initiated pursuant to Title I, Chapter 13 of the City Code, or
as otherwise prescribed by the Municipal Court. The Municipal Court shall have
the authority to issue appropriate orders concerning any alleged violation of
or non-compliance with this Chapter, including injunctive orders, specific
decrees or other appropriate declarations or orders and may, upon proper
showing, penalize or impose sanctions for any violation of the requirements of
this Chapter, including through imposition of the penalty provided for in
Section
1-4-1 of the City Code. (Ord. C2023-5, 12-12-2023)
CHAPTER 5
PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Standards
3-5-3: Fee For License
3-5-4: Penalty
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
PAWNBROKER: A person engaged in the business of making pawn transactions.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, corporation, joint venture, trust,
association or any other legal entity however organized. (Ord. 2016-2, 2-23-
2016)
3-5-2: STANDARDS:
All pawnbrokers who are engaged in such business operated within the city shall
comply with the pawnbrokers act of the state of New Mexico and all regulations
thereunder. (Ord. 2016-2, 2-23-2016)
3-5-3: FEE FOR LICENSE:
Every person establishing, carrying on or conducting the business of pawnbroker
shall pay an annual license fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), which
said license shall be payable annually in advance, and shall expire on June 30
next succeeding. Any license first obtained after January 1 of any year shall
be issued at one-half (1/2) the license fee above provided, and shall expire on
June 30 next succeeding. A licensee under this chapter shall pay occupation tax
as provided in this code. (Ord. 2016-2, 2-23-2016)
3-5-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2016-2, 2-23-2016)
CHAPTER 6
SECONDHAND AND JUNK DEALERS  1
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Fee For License
3-6-3: Storage Of Merchandise
3-6-4: Nuisances Prohibited
3-6-5: Records Maintenance; Reporting
3-6-6: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-18-24.
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall be given the
meanings herein assigned to them:
DEALERS IN SECONDHAND MERCHANDISE: All persons, firms or corporations buying,
selling or trading in used articles of any nature whatsoever not included
within the terms of the definition "junk dealer" below.
JUNK DEALER: All persons, firms or corporations engaged in the business of
buying, selling or trading scrap metals, rubber, cotton or woolen goods, scrap
paper, bones or any other articles commonly known as junk. (1961 Code § 5-5-1)
3-6-2: FEE FOR LICENSE:
No junk dealers or dealers in secondhand merchandise shall engage in business
within the city without paying an annual license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
(Ord. C66-197, 4-13-1982)
3-6-3: STORAGE OF MERCHANDISE:
No junk dealer or dealer in secondhand merchandise shall store his junk or
secondhand merchandise within the city limits unless such junk or secondhand
merchandise be concealed from the view of the public streets by a fence or wall
at least eight feet (8') in height; provided however, that this regulation
shall not apply to articles displayed within a store building having a glass
front. (1961 Code § 5-5-3)
3-6-4: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No junk dealer shall permit foul, nauseous or unsanitary odors, gases, fluids
or smoke to emit from his premises, nor shall he conduct his business in such
manner as to disturb the adjoining property owners or occupants by reason of
excessive noises or unsanitary conditions. Any violation of this section is
hereby declared to be a nuisance and it shall be the duty of the chief of
police to demand the immediate abatement of the same. (1961 Code § 5-5-4)
3-6-5: RECORDS MAINTENANCE; REPORTING:
All junk dealers and dealers in secondhand merchandise within the city limits
shall keep on forms to be provided by the police department full and complete
records of articles purchased, which records shall show the date of purchase,
the name of the person from whom purchased, a description of the article by
trade name and identifying number or such other distinguishing mark of
identification, and in the case of the sale of such article, the date of sale,
the description of such article, and to whom sold. Such records shall be
submitted by the dealer to the police department monthly or at such more
frequent times as the chief of police may demand. (1961 Code § 5-5-2)
3-6-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1961 Code § 5-5-6, amd. Ord. C66-197, 4-13-1982; 2006
Code)
CHAPTER 7
CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Applicability
3-7-2: Fee For License
3-7-3: Authorized Personnel
3-7-4: Penalty
3-7-1: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall not apply to the authorized construction, repair or
alteration by the government of the United States, the state or any of its
political subdivisions, to highway and railroad construction, to farming,
dairying, stock or poultry raising, nor to construction, alteration and repair
by property owners on their own property, whether personally occupied or held
for rental purposes, nor shall this chapter apply to regularly established
merchants engaged in the sale of furniture, fixtures or furnishings, other than
electrical or plumbing fixtures, who incident to the sale of these items,
perform services in the installation thereof, and include the cost of such
installation in the sale price thereof. (1961 Code § 5-12-3)
3-7-2: FEE FOR LICENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, natural or artificial, for a fixed sum,
price, fee, percentage or other compensation, other than wages, within the city
limits, to be a "contractor" as defined in New Mexico Statutes Annotated
section 60-13-3, or successor law, without first having paid an annual twenty
five dollar ($25.00) license fee for each permanent business location in the
city or, if there is no permanent office or location, one annual twenty five
dollar ($25.00) license fee. A contractor shall also keep on the job site, for
display to any person of authority, the license fee receipt and any trade
license and tax registration and identification required by the state for a
contractor, plumber, electrician or other person engaging in construction.
(Ord. C66-154, 11-22-1977, eff. 1-1-1978)
3-7-3: AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL:
Any person for whom a state license is required under section
3-7-2 of this chapter shall maintain, at all times, at each construction site
until final inspection has taken place, a list of all authorized contractors,
subcontractors and personnel of any type authorized to work on the particular
job, together with the nature and license number of each state license and the
registration and identification number for each state tax and city occupation
tax permit. All wage earners, whether permanent or temporary, shall be listed
under their designated licensed employers. (Ord. C66-154, 11-22-1977, eff. 1-1-
1978)
3-7-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and for so long as a violation exists, be subject to:
   A.   Stop Work Order: A stop work order as if he were violating provisions
of the uniform building code.
   B.   Refusal Of Utility Extension: A refusal by the city to extend temporary
or permanent electric, water or sewer service to the construction site. (Ord.
C66-154, 11-22-1977, eff. 1-1-1978)
CHAPTER 8
TAXICABS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Defined
3-8-2: Rules And Standards
3-8-3: Fees And Licenses
3-8-4: Penalty
3-8-1: DEFINED:
For the purpose of this chapter:
TAXICAB: Shall be defined as including any and all vehicles maintained and
operated in the business of transportation for a municipality.
TAXICAB SERVICE: A taxicab service that deploys vehicles at all times of the
day and year as defined by the motor carrier act of the state of New Mexico.
(Ord. 2016-3, 2-23-2016)
3-8-2: RULES AND STANDARDS:
All taxicabs operated within the city shall comply with the motor carrier act
of the state of New Mexico and all regulations thereunder. (Ord. 2016-3, 2-23-
2016)
3-8-3: FEES AND LICENSES:
All taxicabs operating with the city shall pay an annual license fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 2016-3, 2-23-2016)
3-8-4: PENALTY:
Any person or entity violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2016-3, 2-23-2016)
CHAPTER 9
TRAILER COURTS OR PARKS  1
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: Administration; Enforcement
3-9-3: License Application; Hearing; EIA Approval
3-9-4: Fee For License
3-9-5: Present Owners Exempt
3-9-6: Alterations Require Permit
3-9-7: Inspections
3-9-8: Rules, Regulations And Requirements
3-9-9: Notice Of Violation
3-9-10: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also applicable provisions in chapter 10 of this title.
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall be applicable:
MOBILE HOME OR HOUSE TRAILER: Any unit used for living or sleeping purposes and
which is equipped or suited to be equipped with wheels for the purpose of
transporting it from place to place by motive or other power, which unit, when
so equipped, shall be capable of being operated as a vehicle upon public
thoroughfares, either under its own power or by power supplied by another motor
vehicle.
TRAILER COURT OR PARK: Any place, area or tract of land within the city upon
which is located five (5) or more mobile homes or house trailers. (Ord. C66-95,
9-18-1973, eff. 10-18-1973)
3-9-2: ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT:
The administration and the enforcement of this chapter shall be the function of
the building inspector or any of his duly authorized representatives. The
building inspector shall have the right and is hereby empowered to enter upon
any trailer court or park now or hereafter operating within the city to inspect
the same in the administration and enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. C66-32,
10-1-1968)
3-9-3: LICENSE APPLICATION; HEARING; EIA APPROVAL:
   A.   Application; Information Required: Any person proposing to establish
and operate a trailer court or park in the city shall file an application for a
license therefor with the city clerk. Such application shall accurately
describe the premises upon which it is proposed to locate such trailer court or
park, the number of mobile homes or house trailers proposed to be located
thereon, and shall contain a description of utility connections and facilities
for such trailer court or park, a description of washing, toilet and bathing
facilities to be installed in the area of the said site, and the maximum number
of persons to inhabit such trailer court or park. Such application shall be
accompanied by a statement of the number of spaces and trailers to be placed
upon the site.
   B.   Fee: The application shall be accompanied by the sum of fifty dollars
($50.00) as the filing fee.
   C.   Public Hearing; Notice:
      1.   Hearing Required: Upon receipt of such application, the same shall
be presented to the city council at its regular session next following such
filing, and the city council shall fix a time and place for the conducting of a
public hearing to determine whether such application should be granted.
      2.   Notice Of Hearing:
         a.   Publication: Notice of such hearing shall be published once a
week for two (2) consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city, the last publication of which shall not be less than ten (10) days prior
to the date set for such hearing, which notice shall give details of such
application and advise any persons interested to appear before the city council
in person or by agent or attorney and be heard thereon.
         b.   Cost Of Publication: Cost of such publication shall be paid from
the fee above provided.
      3.   Council Action: At the time of such hearing, the city council shall
hear such matter and shall determine whether such license shall be issued, and
the city council may, for the purpose of regulation, refuse to issue such
license when it deems such refusal to be in the best interest of the public.
      4.   Environmental Improvement Agency (EIA) Approval Required: No such
license shall issue unless and until the location of and plans for the trailer
court or park have received the approval of someone authorized to act upon
behalf of the New Mexico environmental improvement agency. (Ord. C66-135, 9-23-
1975; amd. 2006 Code)
3-9-4: FEE FOR LICENSE:
As partial compensation for the regulatory duties imposed upon the city, the
owner or operator of any trailer court or park now existing or hereafter
granted a license shall pay an annual license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
(Ord. C66-197, 4-13-1982)
3-9-5: PRESENT OWNERS EXEMPT:
Any person now operating a trailer court or park in the city shall be entitled
to the issuance of a license therefor upon the payment of the annual license
fee as herein provided, without hearing, provided the said owner or applicant
shall file an application setting forth the information required in section
3-9-3 of this chapter, and the same shall otherwise conform to the requirements
of this chapter. This section is specifically made subject to the provisions of
the city zoning regulations concerning nonconforming uses. (Ord. C66-95, 9-18-
1973, eff. 10-18-1973; amd. 2006 Code)
3-9-6: ALTERATIONS REQUIRE PERMIT:
The owner or operator of any trailer court or park operating under a license
pursuant to an application made under this chapter, who proposes to change the
location of such trailer court or park, to increase the number of mobile homes
or house trailers proposed to be located thereon, to alter its utility
connections or facilities, to decrease its washing, toilet or bathing
facilities, to increase the area of said site or to increase the maximum number
of persons to inhabit such trailer court or park, shall make a new application
in strict accordance with the provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful
for any such operator to make any such change without strict compliance with
the provisions of the chapter. (Ord. C66-95, 9-18-1973, eff. 10-18-1973)
3-9-7: INSPECTIONS:
The building inspector shall make periodic inspections at least twice a year to
determine whether each trailer court or park has complied with the requirements
of this chapter and if any trailer court or park has not complied with such
chapter, the building inspector shall thereupon institute appropriate
proceedings for the revocation of the trailer court or park license. The
building inspector shall make an inspection of all trailer courts and parks
applying for the first time for a license under this chapter and no license
shall be issued until the building inspector advises the city clerk, in
writing, that the trailer court or park has complied with the requirements of
this chapter. (Ord. C66-32, 10-1-1968)
3-9-8: RULES, REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Posted: The license to operate a trailer court or park shall be
at all times posted in a conspicuous place upon the premises. Such license
shall be transferable upon written application to the city clerk. (1961 Code §
5-6-8)
   B.   Parking Outside Trailer Court Or Park: No person shall use or occupy
any mobile home or house trailer for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes,
except for temporary purposes, unless such mobile home or house trailer is
located within the confines of a trailer court or park heretofore or hereafter
lawfully established and maintained.
   C.   Location Restrictions: No mobile home or house trailer used for living
or sleeping purposes in any trailer court or park now existing or that may
hereafter be established shall be located within eight feet (8') of any other
mobile home or house trailer, nor shall any mobile home or house trailer be
located within thirty six inches (36") of any property line, and said mobile
home or house trailer shall be not less than six feet (6') from buildings
provided as private bathhouses for such mobile homes or house trailers. Mobile
homes or house trailers shall be arranged in rows abutting or facing on a
driveway or clear unoccupied space of not less than fifteen feet (15') in
width, which space shall have unobstructed access to a public street or alley.
(Ord. C66-95, 9-18-1973, eff. 10-18-1973)
   D.   Drainage: Every trailer court or park hereafter established shall be
located on a well drained area and the premises of every trailer court or park,
now existing or hereafter established, shall be maintained in a sanitary
condition and shall be properly graded so as to prevent the accumulation of
liquid wastes. (1961 Code § 5-6-11)
   E.   Water Supply: An adequate supply of pure water for drinking and
domestic purposes shall be supplied to meet the requirements of said trailer
court or park. Said water supply shall be obtained from faucets only and no
dipping vessels or common cups shall be permitted. (1961 Code § 5-6-12)
   F.   Removal Of Wheels: It shall be unlawful for any person owning or
occupying a mobile home or house trailer located in a trailer court or park to
remove or have removed the wheels or any similar transporting device from said
mobile home or house trailer or to otherwise permanently affix it to the ground
in a manner that would prevent the removal of said mobile home or house
trailer; provided however, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to
prohibit construction or installation of fences, winter insulation or other
types of under pinning, provided, the same shall not prevent the mobile home or
house trailer from being mobile; and provided further, that the insulation or
underpinning shall be of noninflammable material and of sectional construction.
(Ord. C66-95, 9-18-1973; amd. 2006 Code)
3-9-9: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
In the event the inspection of any trailer court or park by the building
inspector as hereinabove provided, shall disclose that any trailer court or
park is not being conducted in conformity with the provisions of this chapter,
written notice shall be forthwith given by the building inspector to the owner
or the operator of such trailer court or park at the address at which said
trailer court or park is situated, setting forth the particulars in which the
provisions of this chapter are being violated and advising such owner or
operator that upon his failure to satisfactorily arrange for the elimination of
such violations of this chapter within three (3) days of the receipt of such
notice, the permit for the operation of such trailer court or park will be
revoked. Upon the failure of the owner or operator of such trailer court or
park to comply with the provisions of such notice according to the terms
thereof, the license of such owner or operator shall be subject to revocation
after hearing, after notice thereof duly given to such owner or operator. (1961
Code § 5-6-7; amd. 2006 Code)
3-9-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1961 Code § 5-6-19; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 10
LODGING FACILITIES
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: Enforcement
3-10-3: License Required; Term
3-10-4: Application, Fee For License
3-10-5: Location And Building Regulations
3-10-6: Hearing Requirements
3-10-7: Management Of Facility
3-10-8: Advertised Rates
3-10-9: Health And Sanitation
3-10-10: Temperature Maintained Within Units
3-10-11: Water And Energy Conservation
3-10-12: Revocation And Suspension Of License
3-10-13: Remedies Not Exclusive
3-10-14: Penalty
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACCOMMODATION: Any unit or combination of units set aside as a rental unit.
ADVERTISING SIGN: Any sign visible to the passerby, on the outside of or
separate from the lodging but within the city limits, advertising rates and
other information pertaining to the lodging for accommodation offered by the
lodging.
LODGING: One or more attached or detached dwelling units with separate
entrances operated as a single business, containing individual sleeping or
living units with individual bathrooms (except in rooming houses or guest
houses) and clothes hanging area, with or without kitchens, designed for or
used by tourists and transients and includes a hotel, tourist home, bed and
breakfast facility, apartment hotel, apartment house, lodge, lodging house,
rooming house, motor hotel, guest house, guest ranch, ranch resort, guest
resort, mobile home, motor court, auto court, trailer court, trailer park,
cabin or other premises used for lodging (except vacant space used by persons
bringing tents, trailers, recreational vehicles, or other accommodations not
furnished with the premises); and maintained and held out to the public as
accommodations for tourists and transients, by the day, week or any period less
than a month, whether a charge is made or not.
OWNER OR OPERATOR: The owner, manager, tenant or any person owning or in charge
of the lodging.
PERSON: Any natural or artificial person, tenant, owner, lessee or licensee,
and any agent, successor or assign of a person.
SHALL: Always mandatory and not merely directory.
UNIT: A room or suite of rooms in a lodging occupied or designed for occupation
for living or sleeping purposes. (Ord. C66-203, 10-26-1982; amd. Ord. C66-225,
3-13-1984)
3-10-2: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Board Of Investigators Created: A board of investigators consisting of
the fire chief, police chief, building inspector and a designee of the city
manager qualified to investigate health and sanitary conditions, is hereby
created with the fire chief as chairman. The chairman shall, with the approval
of the members of the board and city manager, appoint a secretary for the board
among present employees of the city.
   B.   Powers And Duties Of Board: It is hereby the duty of the board to
enforce all provisions of this chapter and related laws, ordinances and
regulations. Board members and their designees are hereby empowered to enter
upon any premises on which any lodging is located, or is about to be located,
and, at any reasonable time, to inspect it and all accommodations connected
with it. The board is further empowered to issue orders granting, renewing and
revoking permits and licenses provided for in this chapter in the manner
provided.
   C.   Cumulative Provisions: These enforcement provisions are cumulative.
(Ord. C66-203, 10-26-1982)
3-10-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; TERM:
It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate or maintain, or
permit to be established, operated or maintained upon any property owned or
controlled by him, any lodging within the city limits without having first
secured a license from the board of investigators. Any license shall expire
December 31 of each year and may be renewed under the provisions of this
chapter for additional periods of one year. Licenses shall not be transferable
from one person to another. (Ord. C66-203, 10-26-1982)
3-10-4: APPLICATION, FEE FOR LICENSE:
The application for a license or its renewal for each new or existing lodging
shall be filed with the city clerk and shall be accompanied by a fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) (in lieu of a business registration fee). The fifty dollar
($50.00) fee may not be prorated for applications any time after January 1 of
each year. The application for a license or renewal shall be made on printed
forms furnished by the board of investigators and shall include the name and
address of the owner, lessee or verified agent and the address of the premises,
including a legal description on the first application. (Ord. C66-203, 10-26-
1982; amd. 2006 Code)
3-10-5: LOCATION AND BUILDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Zoning Compliance: Before such license may be issued, the location of
the lodging must be in a proper zoning district (or an established
nonconforming use) and the premises must be inspected and approved by each of
the members of the board of investigators, or its designee, as complying with
this and all other ordinances of the city. At least two (2) board members shall
sign a certificate so stating, which shall be delivered to the city clerk.
(Ord. C66-225, 3-13-1984)
   B.   Building Code: Licenses issued hereunder apply only to the operation of
a lodging and do not waive any requirements of the building code, construction
industries division licensing requirements, need for building permits and
inspections, or any other federal, state or local law or regulation. (Ord. C66-
203, 10-26-1982)
3-10-6: HEARING REQUIREMENTS:
No license shall be denied, revoked or not renewed, except upon recommendation
by the board of investigators and hearing before the city council with at least
fifteen (15) days' prior written notice to the licensee. The city council may
also give notice of the hearing to other persons directly interested in the
proceedings. At such hearing, the city council shall determine whether any
license should be suspended, revoked, not granted or not renewed because of
violation of this chapter or health and sanitation resolution. (Ord. C66-225,
3-13-1984)
3-10-7: MANAGEMENT OF FACILITY:
   A.   Office Required; Register: In every lodging premises there shall be an
office in which shall be located the person in charge. A copy of the lodging
license and of this chapter shall be posted therein and the lodging register
shall at all times be kept in the office. (Ord. C66-203, 10-26-1982)
   B.   Duties Of Attendant Or Person In Charge: It is hereby made the duty of
the attendant or person in charge, together with the licensee to:
      1.   Maintain Register: Keep, at all times, a register of guests open to
inspection by peace officers when allowed by law and by city inspectors to
verify occupancy at times of inspection. The register shall show:
         a.   Name and address of each guest registering for accommodation and
number in party.
         b.   Dates of entrance and departure.
         c.   License number, make and type of all automobiles.
         d.   State issuing such automobile license. (Ord. C66-225, 3-13-1984)
      2.   Maintenance Of Lodging: Maintain the lodging in a clean, orderly and
sanitary condition at all times.
      3.   Compliance With Chapter; Report Violations: See that the provisions
of this chapter are complied with and enforced and report promptly to the
proper authorities any violations of this chapter or any other violations of
law which may come to his attention.
      4.   Animal Control: Exercise reasonable diligence to prevent the running
loose of dogs, cats or other animals or pets of lodging guests.
      5.   Fire Extinguishers: Maintain in convenient places, approved by the
fire department, hand operated fire extinguishers in good operating condition
in the number and location required by law.
      6.   Open Fires: Prohibit the lighting of open fires on the premises,
except in fireplaces complying with fire and building codes.
      7.   Maximum Occupancy; Guests: Prohibit the use of any lodging unit or
suite by a greater number of overnight occupants than it is designed to
accommodate and post in the office or rooms the time when guests of occupants
must leave. (Ord. C66-203, 10-26-1982)
      8.   Smoke Detectors Or Alarms: Install and maintain in working condition
in each unit smoke detectors or smoke alarms or other fire prevention and
warning systems, (such as sprinklers), approved by the state fire marshal.
(Ord. C66-225, 3-13-1984; amd. 2006 Code)
      9.   Exit Lights: Maintain exit lights at the end of each interior
hallway indicating the nearest exit in case of an emergency.
      10.   Portable Heaters: Prohibit the use of any portable heater, sun
lamp, heat lamp or infrared device, unless it is a permanently mounted fixture.
      11.   Locks; Door Enclosures: Maintain in a working condition locks and
door closures in each unit. (Ord. C66-225, 3-13-1984)
      12.   Sign Indicating Inspection By City: Maintain at or near the
registration desk a sign visible to guests stating "This establishment is
inspected and approved by the City of Gallup, Second and Aztec Avenue, Gallup,
NM, phone: 722-4195". (Ord. C66-225, 3-3-1984; amd. 2006 Code)
      13.   Artificial Lighting: Maintain in each unit and in halls, walkways,
porches and parking areas, sufficient artificial light when natural light is
inadequate.
      14.   Telephone Services: If units contain telephones, maintain twenty
four (24) hour outgoing local telephone service or conspicuously post at or
near the registration desk or in each unit with a telephone a notice of when
phone service is not provided and the location of the nearest pay phone. The
cost of local service shall be similarly posted. Nothing in this provision
shall prohibit a lodging from discontinuing phone service to a unit whose
occupant has abused credit extended for long distance phone calls or uses the
phone to create a nuisance.
      15.   Inspection By Prospective Guest: Accompany any prospective guest
who wants to inspect a unit or else allow a full refund if he is dissatisfied
after an unaccompanied inspection of no longer than ten (10) minutes. If a
refund is requested, the owner or his designee may first inspect the unit to
assure that no facilities such as beds or towels have been used and may declare
the unit rented if any such facilities have been used.
      16.   Operator Or Manager On Premises; Exception: Maintain, at all times,
a person on the premises to act as operator or manager, unless all of the
following conditions exist:
         a.   There are no registered guests on or off the premises.
         b.   All interior and exterior signs are darkened, covered or turned
off and a conspicuous sign informs the public that the lodging is closed for
business.
      17.   Cooking; Refrigeration: Prohibit cooking of any kind in any unit
unless it is equipped with a permanently installed kitchenette, kept clean and
maintained in working condition. No hot plates or portable cooking units shall
be allowed. Any refrigeration shall be kept clean and free from odors. (Ord.
C66-225, 3-13-1984)
3-10-8: ADVERTISED RATES:
   A.   Charging Greater Than Advertised Price: It shall be unlawful for any
owner or operator of any lodging to charge a price greater than the lodging's
accommodation price advertised on the outdoor signs, or as advertised in any
manner whatsoever, or as set out on the rate signs displayed in each room.
   B.   Availability For Advertised Rate: It shall be unlawful for any owner or
operator of a lodging to post or allow to remain posted on any outdoor
advertising sign, any rate for accommodation in such lodging unless there is
available for immediate occupancy accommodation at the rate posted.
Accommodation for immediate occupancy shall be available at the monetary rate
advertised despite the use of the prefix "from", or suffix "and up", or similar
notation.
   C.   Advertised Rate Different Than Posted Rate: It shall be unlawful for
any owner or operator of a lodging to post, authorize the position, or to allow
to remain posted an outdoor advertising sign on which the rates for
accommodation are different than the rate signs posted in each unit. (Ord. C66-
203, 10-26-1982)
3-10-9: HEALTH AND SANITATION:
   A.   Inspections; Reporting Requirements: The city manager's health and
sanitation designee, or his representative, shall inspect all lodgings as often
as requests therefor shall be made, or whenever he shall deem it necessary, and
in any event, as often as once in each year. If such inspection discloses that
a lodging is being conducted in an unclean or unsanitary manner or in violation
of this chapter or any of the ordinances of the city as to the public health or
safety, he shall make a full report thereof to the board of investigators.
(Ord. C66-203, 10-26-1982)
   B.   Bathroom Facilities:
      1.   Each Unit: Except in rooming houses, each unit shall have a complete
bathroom, including a functional flush toilet, sink and bath or shower. Each
bathroom shall be provided with an adequate supply of hot and cold running
water, soap, clean linen, toilet paper and sanitary drinking containers at all
times. Bar soap or liquid soap containers shall be replaced or refilled daily.
Waste containers shall be provided in each unit and emptied daily. Tubs, sinks
and showers shall have working and flowing drains. Sinks and tubs shall have a
working plug to retain water.
      2.   Public Restrooms: Any public restroom shall contain the same
facilities and supplies, except linens, bath or shower, and drinking
containers, but paper towels or a mechanical dryer shall be furnished or
maintained.
      3.   Rooming Houses: Rooming houses shall contain at least one bathroom
for each ten (10) residents with the same requirements as in subsection B1 of
this section, except that drinking containers and towels shall be furnished in
each room. (Ord. C66-225, 3-13-1984)
3-10-10: TEMPERATURE MAINTAINED WITHIN UNITS:
Each occupied lodging unit shall be kept heated when the time of year requires
to a temperature of not less than sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit (68°F) between
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M., and not less than fifty
five degrees Fahrenheit (55°F) at all other hours. (Ord. C66-203, 10-26-1982)
3-10-11: WATER AND ENERGY CONSERVATION:
Each shower, lavatory and sink spigot in each lodging unit and elsewhere on the
premises, shall be equipped with water and energy saving devices designed to
limit flow to a maximum of three (3) gallons per minute and each water closet
shall be designed or converted to allow no more than four (4) gallons per
flush. (Ord. C66-203, 10-26-1982; amd. 2006 Code)
3-10-12: REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
The board of investigators is hereby authorized to recommend to the city
council suspension or revocation of any license issued pursuant to this chapter
if, after due investigation, it determines that the holder thereof has violated
any of the provisions of this chapter or that any lodging is being maintained
in an unhealthy, unsanitary or unsafe manner, or is a nuisance; provided, that
no lodging shall be considered maintained in an unhealthy or unsanitary manner
unless there is a violation of a written rule or regulation on health or
sanitation adopted after public hearing by resolution of the city council, any
of which rules or regulations shall be considered part of this chapter and
enforceable in the same manner. (Ord. C66-225, 3-13-1984)
3-10-13: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Nothing in sections
3-10-6 and
3-10-12 of this chapter shall prevent the city from enforcing any provision of
this chapter or health and sanitation resolution in any manner provided by law
for enforcement of ordinances, nor shall such special remedy herein be
considered prerequisite to other enforcement action. (Ord. C66-225, 3-13-1984)
3-10-14: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. C66-203, 3-13-1984; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 11
PRIVATE SECURITY GUARD BUSINESS
SECTION:
3-11-1: License Required
3-11-2: Application, Fee For License
3-11-3: State License Required
3-11-4: Issuance
3-11-5: Term Of License; Renewal
3-11-6: Employees; Registration Required
3-11-7: Penalty
3-11-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall hereafter conduct a private patrol or security guard business
without first securing a license so to do and without complying with all of the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-1, 3-26-2013)
3-11-2: APPLICATION, FEE FOR LICENSE:
Application for such license shall be in writing, filed with the city clerk,
and shall be supplemented with the sworn statement of the applicant as to the
details of the organization of such business and personal data as to the
principals of said organization, and such policemen and patrolmen as will serve
on patrol. Said application shall specify the area and the places of business
within the city which the applicant desires to patrol. The application shall be
accompanied by a fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) to pay part of the
expense of enforcing this chapter. (Ord. 2013-1, 3-26-2013)
3-11-3: STATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
Before the license is issued, the applicant shall furnish the city clerk with
satisfactory evidence that the applicant has been duly licensed under the
private investigations act of the state of New Mexico section 61-27B-1 et seq.
to the extent required by said act to conduct the services authorized by this
license. The applicant shall furnish the city clerk with a duplicate copy of
all licenses he has from the state under the act. Suspension or revocation of
the required state license required herein shall automatically suspend the
license of the applicant under this chapter until such suspension or revocation
has been removed by the state. (Ord. 2013-1, 3-26-2013)
3-11-4: ISSUANCE:
The city clerk shall transmit the application to the chief of police, who
determines whether the public convenience and necessity would be served by the
issuance of the license applied for and shall certify these findings to the
city council. If, in the opinion of the city council, the applicant meets the
qualifications for a private patrol or security guard business and that the
public convenience and necessity would be served by the issuance of the license
applied for, the city clerk shall issue such license to the applicant. If, on
the other hand, a contrary finding is made by the city council, said license
shall not be issued and the application fee shall be refunded to the applicant.
(Ord. 2013-1, 3-26-2013)
3-11-5: TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWAL:
The license herein provided for shall be valid for one year. Application for
renewal shall be subject to current state license of the applicant and as to
public convenience and necessity in like manner as original applications and
shall be accompanied with the same fee. (Ord. 2013-1, 3-26-2013)
3-11-6: EMPLOYEES; REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
No person holding a license under this chapter may employ in connection with
this occupation other persons who are not registered under this chapter, and
the person licensed hereunder shall promptly report to the chief of police the
name and residence address of any person and shall furnish the chief of police
evidence that each such employee has been licensed under the private
investigations act of the state of New Mexico section 61-27B-1 et seq. by the
state of New Mexico. (Ord. 2013-1, 3-26-2013)
3-11-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2013-1, 3-26-2013)
CHAPTER 12
PROFESSIONAL BAIL BONDSMEN
SECTION:
3-12-1: Definitions
3-12-2: License And Qualification Required
3-12-3: Fees
3-12-4: Application Or Affidavit Notarized
3-12-5: Financial Statement Requirements
3-12-6: Qualifications Of Applicant
3-12-7: Persons Not Qualified For License
3-12-8: Issuance And Renewal Of License
3-12-9: Records Maintained
3-12-10: Rules, Regulations And Requirements
3-12-11: List Of Licensed Bondsmen Posted
3-12-12: Prohibited Acts And Activities
3-12-13: Revocation Or Suspension; Appeal
3-12-14: Penalty
3-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
PROFESSIONAL BAIL BONDSMAN: Every individual conducting, proposing or engaged
in the bail bond business in connection with criminal judicial proceedings who
as surety principal or agent, or as an individual or who, under power of
attorney, assumes the obligation to execute bail and who receives or is
promised money or other things of pecuniary value thereof.
RUNNER: Any person employed by a bail bondsman for the purpose of presenting
the defendant in court or assisting the bail bondsmen in apprehension and
surrender of a defendant to the court, or keeping a defendant under
surveillance, running errands and doing odd jobs such as answering the
telephone, bookkeeping, picking up cancelled bonds, but in no event shall the
runner solicit bail bond business or execute bail bonds. This does not affect
the right of a bail bondsman to employ counsel or to hire private detectives or
to ask law enforcement officers for assistance. (1961 Code § 5-14-1; amd. Ord.
C86-5, 8-7-1986)
3-12-2: LICENSE AND QUALIFICATION REQUIRED:
No person shall act in the capacity of a professional bail bondsman or runner,
or perform any of the functions, duties or powers prescribed for professional
bondsmen or runners herein unless that person be qualified and licensed as
provided for in this chapter. (1961 Code § 5-14-3; amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-7-1986)
3-12-3: FEES:
   A.   Investigation And Administration: A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
shall be submitted to the municipal judge with each application, which shall be
used by the city council to defray the costs of conducting investigation and
administerial costs. (1961 Code § 5-14-8; amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-7-1986)
   B.   License: The bail bondsman license fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00),
payable at the time the license is issued. (1961 Code § 5-14-8; amd. Ord. C86-
5, 8-7-1986)
3-12-4: APPLICATION OR AFFIDAVIT NOTARIZED:
All applications and affidavits in connection with and material to, effecting
or obtaining any license herein, shall be made under oath before a notary
public, and any material misstatement on the application form by the applicant
shall be cause to deny a license or to revoke a license. (1961 Code § 5-14-7;
amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-7-1986)
3-12-5: FINANCIAL STATEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Rating Plan; Power Of Attorney: In addition to the application for
qualification for a professional bail bondsman license, the applicant must
furnish to the municipal judge a detailed financial statement under oath
reflecting the rating plan he will use in writing bail bonds and must furnish a
copy of any power of attorney authorizing him as agent to execute bail bonds.
   B.   Real Estate: Applicant shall file a verified statement listing all real
estate owned by him in the county and the state, listing the street address,
legal description, county in which recorded, giving deed record number and page
number, the current assessed value, the date and from whom title acquired, the
purchase price and how paid, that property is not encumbered, and if married,
disclose wife's interest in title, if he intends to use said real estate as
collateral in his bail bond business. (1961 Code § 5-14-5; amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-
7-1986)
3-12-6: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT:
   A.   Bondsmen: The issuance of any professional bail bondsman license in
accordance with this chapter shall be subject to the following conditions and
qualifications:
      1.   Application for qualification for professional bail bondsmen shall
be submitted on forms provided by the municipal judge.
      2.   To qualify as a professional bail bondsman it must affirmatively
appear:
         a.   Applicant is a natural person who has reached the age of twenty
one (21) years.
         b.   Applicant is a citizen of the United States and has been a bona
fide and continuous resident of the state for a period of one year last past.
         c.   Applicant will actively engage in the bail bond business.
         d.   Applicant has knowledge, experience or instruction in the bail
bond business or has been engaged as a licensed runner for a period of one year
within the past two (2) years, or has held a valid all lines fire and casualty
agent's license for one year within the past two (2) years or he has been
employed by a company or business engaged in writing bail bonds in which field
he has specialized for at least one year of the past two (2) years.
         e.   Applicant can be vouched for and recommended upon sworn statement
by at least three (3) reputable citizens who are residents of the county.
         f.   Applicant shall be a person of good moral character and
integrity.
         g.   Applicant shall not have been convicted of a felony; however, the
municipal judge may reserve the right to investigate, review and rule on each
case.
      3.   Applicant shall have his fingerprints taken at the identification
bureau of the police department and shall file documentary proof of the same
with his application, along with a recent bust photograph, size one and one-
half inches by one and one-half inches (1 1/2" x 1 1/2"). (1961 Code § 5-14-4;
amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-7-1986)
   B.   Runners: The issuance of any runner's license in accordance with this
chapter shall be subject to the following conditions and qualifications:
      1.   Application for qualification for a runner shall be submitted on
forms furnished by the municipal judge.
      2.   To qualify as a runner it must affirmatively appear:
         a.   Applicant is a natural person who has reached the age of twenty
one (21) years.
         b.   Applicant is a citizen of the United States and has been a bona
fide and continuous resident of the state for a period of one year last past.
         c.   Applicant can be vouched for and recommended upon sworn statement
by at least three (3) reputable citizens who are residents of the county.
         d.   Applicant shall be a person of good moral character and
integrity.
         e.   Applicant shall not have been convicted of a felony; however, the
municipal judge may reserve the right to investigate, review and rule on each
case.
      3.   Applicant shall have his fingerprints taken at the identification
bureau of the police department and shall file documentary proof of same with
his application, along with a bust photograph, size one and one-half inches by
one and one-half inches (1 1/2" x 1 1/2"). (1961 Code § 5-14-10; amd. Ord. C86-
5, 8-7-1986)
3-12-7: PERSONS NOT QUALIFIED FOR LICENSE:
The following persons or classes shall not be licensed as bail bondsmen or
runners and shall not directly or indirectly receive any benefits from the
execution of any bail bond:
   A.   Jailers.
   B.   Any peace officer.
   C.   Any public official or any public employee.
   D.   No attorney at law and no official authorized to admit to bail, nor any
state, municipal or county official or officer shall become surety on any bail
bond, except in cases of need for such surety in his respective immediate
family.
   E.   A bail bondsman shall not sign nor countersign in blank any bond for
bail, nor shall he give power of attorney to or otherwise authorize anyone to
countersign his name to bonds, unless the person so authorized is a licensed
bondsman, directly employed by the bondsman giving such power or authority.
(1961 Code § 5-14-15; amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-7-1986)
3-12-8: ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
The municipal judge shall have full power and authority to administer the
provisions of this chapter and to that end, to adopt, promulgate and enforce
rules and regulations necessary and proper to effectuate and enforce the
purposes and provisions of this chapter; provided, that before such rules and
regulations are passed, each licensed bail bondsman that would be affected by
such rules and regulations or changes thereof shall be notified, in writing,
ten (10) days prior thereto, and a time and place should be set where such
changes, rules and regulations shall be discussed openly with the licensed bail
bondsmen in order that their interests and views may be heard and considered.
   A.   Compliance Required: No license shall be issued except in compliance
with this chapter and none shall be issued except to an individual. No firm, as
such, shall be licensed, but may employ licensed agents or bail bondsmen.
   B.   Satisfaction Of Qualification: The municipal judge shall not issue nor
renew, nor permit to exist, any license for any individual deemed to be
untrustworthy or incompetent, or who has not established to the satisfaction of
the municipal judge that he is qualified therefor in compliance with this
chapter, and he may conduct any reasonable inquiry or investigation he sees
fit, relative to the determination of the applicant's fitness to be licensed or
to continue to be licensed.
   C.   Term: All licenses issued shall expire annually on January 1 of each
year unless revoked or suspended prior thereto by the municipal judge.
   D.   Renewal: A renewal of license may be issued by the municipal judge upon
receipt of written application on forms provided by him to any licensee who has
continuously maintained his license in effect without further examination and
upon payment of the license fee as hereinafter provided, but such licensee
shall in all respects be required to comply with and be subject to the
provisions of this chapter. (1961 Code § 5-14-2; amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-7-1986)
3-12-9: RECORDS MAINTAINED:
All professional bail bondsmen shall maintain and keep an accurate record of
all bail bonds made and executed, which records shall be subject to inspection
by the municipal judge at all times, and such records shall be submitted to the
municipal judge upon demand. These records shall be maintained for a period of
three (3) years. The bail bondsman's records shall contain the following data:
   A.   Name, Address: The full name and address of the person (defendant) for
whom the bond is executed and the full name and address of his employer, if
any.
   B.   Offense Charged: The offense with which the defendant is charged.
   C.   Admission To Bail Authority: The name of the court or officer
authorizing the defendant's admission to bail.
   D.   Amount: The amount of the bond.
   E.   Charge; Premium: The amount of the bondsman's charge and premium paid
for executing the bond.
   F.   Manner Of Payment: The manner of payment of such charge.
   G.   Caption And Number Of Cause: The caption and number of the cause
wherein the bond is given.
   H.   Discharge: Whether or not the bond has been discharged.
   I.   Forfeitures: The date of any and all forfeitures and the amount of
forfeiture, amount paid, date, name of defendant and the court and number of
the cause wherein the bond was given. (1961 Code § 5-14-22; amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-
7-1986)
3-12-10: RULES, REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Forfeiture Of Bail Bond: The licensee shall report all forfeiture of
bail bonds to the municipal judge within ten (10) days from the date of
rendering judgment of forfeiture on forms prescribed by the municipal judge.
(1961 Code § 5-14-6; amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-7-1986)
   B.   Display Of License: Professional bail bondsmen and runners shall
display their licenses in conspicuous places where the license can be observed
at all times. (1961 Code § 5-14-9; amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-7-1986)
   C.   Supervision Of Runners: A runner shall be employed by a professional
bail bondsman who will supervise the work of the applicant and be responsible
for the runner's conduct, and the runner's application must be endorsed by his
employer, who shall supervise the runner's activities in his behalf. (1961 Code
§ 5-14-11; amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-7-1986)
   D.   Receipts Required:
      1.   Collateral Of Bailee:
         a.   When a bail bondsman accepts collateral on bail security, he
shall give a written receipt for same, which receipt shall itemize in detail a
full account of the collateral received, which collateral shall be returned to
its respective owner on final termination of liability.
         b.   A copy of such collateral receipt shall be attached to and
accompany the bail bond power or proper document. One copy shall be given to
the defendant and one copy shall be attached to and remain a permanent part of
the bail bondsman's record. (1961 Code § 5-14-14; amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-7-1986)
      2.   Bond Premium: All licensees hereunder shall give receipts to the
bailee showing amount of bond, amount of premium fee, amount of premium fee
received and balance of premium fee due, and shall show the case or cause
number and court, and such receipts shall become a part of the permanent
records of the licensee and shall be produced and submitted to the municipal
judge on demand. (1961 Code § 5-14-20; amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-7-1986)
   E.   Compensation: The compensation for any and all forms of criminal court
bail bonds shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the amount of such bond;
provided, that a minimum charge not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) may be
made. Any amounts received in excess shall be a violation of this chapter and
cause for revocation or suspension of the licensee's license. Anything received
having a pecuniary value shall be deemed compensation for the purposes of this
section. (Ord. C86-5, 8-7-1986)
3-12-11: LIST OF LICENSED BONDSMEN POSTED:
The municipal judge shall cause to be posted in the turnkey's office and in
plain view of persons in custody to see, and in such other places in the city
jail where needed to permit persons to see it who are seeking the services of a
bail bondsman, a sign made of white cardboard with black lettering, size eight
and one-half inches by ten and one-half inches (8 1/2" x 10 1/2") listing the
names, addresses and telephone numbers of all licensed bail bondsmen. Said
signs may be placed at such other places as designated by the municipal judge,
from time to time. (1961 Code § 5-14-17; amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-7-1986)
3-12-12: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Soliciting And Rebating: No professional bail bondsman or runner shall:
      1.   Suggest or advise the employment of or name for employment of any
particular attorney, law firm or association of attorneys to represent his
principal.
      2.   Solicit business in or about any place where prisoners are confined.
      3.   Pay a fee or rebate or give or promise anything of value to any city
employee, or any person who has the power to arrest or to hold in custody, or
to any public official or public employee in order to secure a settlement,
compromise, remission or reduction of the amount of any bail bond or forfeiture
thereof; however, this subsection does not preclude the right of a bondsman or
runner to employ the services of an attorney.
      4.   Pay a fee or rebate or give anything of value to any attorney, law
firm or association of attorneys in bail bond matters, except in defense of any
action on a bond, or to prosecute an action to recover loss occurring out of a
bail bond forfeiture.
      5.   Participate in the capacity of an attorney at a trial or hearing of
one on whose bond he is surety or agent for the surety. (1961 Code § 5-14-13;
amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-7-1986)
   B.   Recommendation Of Bondsman: It shall be unlawful for an employee of the
city or any peace officer having power of arrest to directly or indirectly
recommend a professional bail bondsman to any person being held in custody.
(1961 Code § 5-14-16; amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-7-1986)
   C.   Fee Splitting: It shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder to
divide or split fees with anyone who is not registered hereunder as a licensed
professional bail bondsman, registered as an agent or acting under power of
attorney of such licensee; provided, that no municipal, county, state or
federal employee can act as agent or act under power of attorney for such
licensee. (1961 Code § 5-14-18; amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-7-1986)
3-12-13: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION; APPEAL:
Any license revoked by the municipal judge shall not be resubmitted for a
period of six (6) months from termination date of revocation thereof. Appeals
for a review of the revocation or suspension of any license hereunder shall be
submitted to the municipal judge within ten (10) days from the date of such
revocation or suspension of the license. (1961 Code § 5-14-21; amd. Ord. C86-5,
8-7-1986)
3-12-14: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall upon
conviction be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1961 Code § 5-14-23; amd. Ord. C86-5, 8-7-1986; 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 13
VENDING MACHINES
SECTION:
3-13-1: Definitions
3-13-2: License Required
3-13-3: License Fee
3-13-4: Inspection
3-13-5: Display Of License
3-13-6: Inventory; Transfer Of Machines
3-13-7: Prohibited Acts And Activities
3-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AMUSEMENT MACHINE: Any and all machines of automatic operation, whereby the
operator, by the insertion of a coin or coins, receives any amusement,
pleasure, information or test of skill. Such terms shall include, but not be
limited to, fortune telling machines, pinball, bumper, flasher or racing
machines and coin operated phonographs, radios and pianos.
MERCHANDISE VENDING MACHINE: Any and all machines of automatic operation,
whereby the operator, by the insertion of a coin, may receive, including, but
not limited to, cigarettes, soft drinks, candy, chewing gum, peanuts or an
indication of weight. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1965)
3-13-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall maintain or offer to the public for use any merchandise vending
machine or amusement machine within the city limits without having first
secured a license to do so. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1965; amd. 2006 Code)
3-13-3: LICENSE FEE:
Any person offering to the public the use of any automatic machine shall pay
the city an annual license fee of fifty cents ($0.50) for each and every
machine for one or more license stickers as required herein. (Ord. C66-197, 4-
13-1982)
3-13-4: INSPECTION:
The police department shall regulate and periodically inspect each and every
machine licensed under this chapter to assure the compliance of such machine
and the operation thereof with this and other provisions of this code and the
laws of the state, and to determine the proper mechanical operations thereof
and that such machines as are not in proper operating condition shall be
clearly marked as "out of operation" or shall be promptly repaired or removed.
(1961 Code § 5-8-7; amd. Ord. C66-154, 11-22-1977, eff. 1-1-1978)
3-13-5: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every machine licensed by the city shall have prominently displayed upon it its
license, and the nonappearance of such license shall be deemed prima facie
evidence that such machine has not been licensed, and any and all such machines
shall be seized and impounded by the chief of police to be held until a license
fee and the cost of impounding has been paid. (1961 Code § 5-8-4)
3-13-6: INVENTORY; TRANSFER OF MACHINES:
Licensees under this chapter may transfer machines from one location to
another, but shall maintain with the police department and city clerk a current
list of all machines by sticker number and location whether or not transfers
take place. (Ord. C66-154, 11-22-1977, eff. 1-1-1978)
3-13-7: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Gambling: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to
permit the maintenance of any amusement machine for the purpose of gambling,
and no machine constructed to return to the player cash, coins, tokens, chips,
tickets or any other thing of value or any device which is the equivalent of or
may be redeemed for cash or merchandise, or which indicates in any manner that
cash or merchandise is due the player, shall be licensed by the city. Any and
all machines whether licensed or not and which are used for gambling may be
seized, condemned and destroyed by the chief of police, and nothing herein
contained shall be construed to limit, modify, repeal or in any way affect the
existing provisions of this code relating to gambling. (1961 Code § 5-8-5)
   B.   Token Operated Machines:
      1.   Findings:
         a.   Because of its large trade area, the city has a
disproportionately large number of vending machines and other machines which
dispense services, nearly all of which use United States currency.
         b.   There are a small number of vending machines within the city
limits which use tokens that may be substituted for U.S. coins in nearly all
the vending machines in the city.
         c.   The practice of using tokens in vending or other machines
designed for coins, although illegal, cannot practicably be stopped by the
criminal law or city offense code because vending machines are designed to be
operated without continuous observation or supervision by the owners of the
machines or proprietors of the businesses where they are located, and the
placing of a token in a machine may happen so rapidly that it cannot be
detected even when observed.
         d.   Tokens which are not the same size and weight as U.S. coins and
do not purport to be U.S. coins are apparently not in violation of any state or
federal laws.
         e.   Possession of tokens which do not violate state or federal law
should not be made a criminal offense except where there is intent to use them
illegally.
         f.   The only realistic way to prevent or greatly reduce the use of
tokens in coin machines in the city is to outlaw vending machines which are
designed to be activated by tokens usable in machines designed for U.S.
currency.
         g.   The burden placed upon business establishments to redesign
machines for the use of U.S. coins or tokens not usable as coins is in the long
run less than the financial burden placed upon coin machine owners and banks in
sorting tokens from legitimate coins and from being defrauded out of
merchandise and services.
         h.   The city is a home rule city and the authority to prohibit token
operated vending machines is not denied by general law or charter.
      2.   Prohibited; Exception:
         a.   Merchandise vending machines, amusement machines and other
commercial machines which use other than U.S. currency for their operation are
unlawful and prohibited. No owner, lessee or person in charge of any premises
shall allow the placement of such a machine on his premises for use by the
public or invitees.
         b.   Subsection B2a of this section shall not apply to any merchandise
vending machine, amusement machine or other commercial machine which is
activated by a token so different in size or weight from any U.S. currency that
it cannot activate a machine designed for U.S. currency.
      3.   Possession Of Token With Intent To Use: It is unlawful for any
person to possess any token with the intention of using it in a merchandise
vending machine, amusement machine or other commercial machine activated by
U.S. currency. (Ord. C66-208, 4-26-1983)
CHAPTER 14
CABLE TELEVISION
SECTION:
3-14-1: Definitions
3-14-2: Initial Review Of Basic Cable Rates
3-14-3: Review Of Request For Increase In Basic Cable Rates
3-14-4: Cable Operator Information
3-14-5: Automatic Rate Adjustments
3-14-6: Enforcement; Refund, Penalty
3-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BASIC CABLE RATES: The monthly charges for a subscription to the basic service
tier and the associated equipment.
BASIC SERVICE TIER: A separately available service tier to which subscription
is required for access to any other tier of service, including as a minimum,
but not limited to, all must- carry signals, all PEG channels and all domestic
television signals other than superstations.
BENCHMARK: A per channel rate of charge for cable service and associated
equipment which the FCC has determined is reasonable.
CABLE ACT OF 1992: The cable television consumer protection and competition act
of 1992.
CABLE OPERATOR: Any person or group of persons:
   A. Who provide cable service over a cable system and directly or through one
or more affiliates owns a significant interest in such a cable system; or
   B. Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any arrangement,
the management and operation of such a cable system.
CHANNEL: A unit of cable service identified and selected by a channel number or
similar designation.
COST OF SERVICE SHOWING: A filing in which the cable operator attempts to show
that the benchmark rate or the price cap is not sufficient to allow the cable
operator to fully recover the costs of providing the basic service tier and to
continue to attract capital.
FCC: The federal communications commission.
INITIAL BASIC CABLE RATES: The rates that the cable operator is charging for
the basic service tier, including charges for associated equipment, at the time
the city notifies the cable operator of the city's qualification and intent to
regulate basic cable rates.
MUST-CARRY SIGNAL: The signal of any local broadcast station (except
superstations) which is required to be carried on the basic service tier.
PEG CHANNEL: The channel capacity designated for public, educational or
governmental use, and facilities and equipment for the use of that channel
capacity.
PRICE CAP: The ceiling set by the FCC on future increases in basic cable
regulated by the city, based on a formula using the GNP fixed weight price
index, reflecting general increases in the cost of doing business and changes
in overall inflation.
REASONABLE RATE STANDARD: A per channel rate that is at, or below, the
benchmark or price cap level.
SUPERSTATION: Any nonlocal broadcast signal secondarily transmitted by
satellite. (Ord. C94-4, 2-22-1994)
3-14-2: INITIAL REVIEW OF BASIC CABLE RATES:
   A.   Notice: Upon the adoption of this chapter and the certification of the
city by the FCC, the city shall immediately notify all cable operators in the
city, by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the city intends to
regulate subscriber rates charged for the basic service tier and associated
equipment as authorized by the cable act of 1992.
   B.   Cable Operator Response: Within thirty (30) days of receiving notice
from the city, a cable operator shall file with the city, its current rates for
the basic service tier and associated equipment and any supporting material
concerning the reasonableness of its rates.
   C.   Expedited Determination And Public Hearing:
      1.   If the city council is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator's rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment are
within the FCC reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable
benchmark, the city council shall:
         a.   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         b.   Act to approve the rates within thirty (30) days from the date
the cable operator filed its basic cable rates with the city.
      2.   If the city council takes no action within thirty (30) days from the
date the cable operator filed its basic cable rates with the city, the proposed
rates will continue in effect.
   D.   Extended Review Period:
      1.   If the city council is unable to determine whether the rates in
issue are within the FCC reasonable rate standard based on the material before
it, or if the cable operator submits a cost of service showing, the city
council shall, within thirty (30) days from the date the cable operator filed
its basic cable rates with the city and by adoption of a formal resolution,
invoke the following additional periods of time, as applicable to make a final
determination:
         a.   Ninety (90) days if the city council needs more time to ensure
that a rate is within the FCC reasonable rate standard; or
         b.   One hundred fifty (150) days if the cable operator has submitted
a cost of service showing seeking to justify a rate above the applicable
benchmark.
      2.   If the city council has not made a decision within the ninety (90)
or one hundred fifty (150) day period, the city council shall issue a brief
written order at the end of the period requesting the cable operator to keep
accurate account of all amounts received by reason of the proposed rate and on
whose behalf the amounts are paid.
   E.   Public Hearing: During the extended review period and before taking
action on the proposed rate, the city council shall hold at least one public
hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   F.   Objections: An interested person who wishes to make an objection to the
proposed initial basic rate may request the city clerk to record the objection
during the public hearing or may submit the objection, in writing, any time
before the decision resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to be made
part of the record, the objector must provide the city clerk with the
objector's name and address.
   G.   Benchmark Analysis: If a cable operator submits its current basic cable
rate schedule as being in compliance with the FCC reasonable rate standard, the
city council shall review the rates using the benchmark analysis in accordance
with the standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on the city council's
findings, the initial basic cable rates shall be established as follows:
      1.   If the current basic cable rates are below the benchmark, those
rates shall become the initial basic cable rates and the cable operator's rates
will be capped at that level.
      2.   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, the rates
shall be the greater of the cable operator's per channel rate on September 30,
1992, reduced by ten percent (10%), or the applicable benchmark, adjusted for
inflation, and any change in the number of channels occurring between September
30, 1992 and the initial date of regulation.
      3.   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, but the cable
operator's per channel rate was below the benchmark on September 30, 1992, the
initial basic cable rate shall be the benchmark, adjusted for inflation.
   H.   Cost Of Service Showings: If a cable operator does not wish to reduce
the rates to the permitted level, the cable operator shall have the opportunity
to submit a cost of service showing in an attempt to justify initial basic
cable rates above the FCC reasonable rate standard. The city council will
review a cost of service submission pursuant to FCC standards for cost of
service review. The city council may approve initial basic cable rates above
the benchmark if the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a
cost of service determination resulting in rates below the benchmark or below
the cable operator's September 30, 1992 rates, minus ten percent (10%), will
prescribe the cable operator's new rates.
   I.   Decision:
      1.   By Formal Resolution: After completion of its review of the cable
operator's proposed rates, the city council shall adopt its decision by formal
resolution. The decision shall include one of the following:
         a.   If the proposal is within the FCC reasonable rate standard or is
justified by a cost of service analysis, the city council shall approve the
initial basic cable rates proposed by the cable operator; or
         b.   If the proposal is not within the FCC reasonable rate standard
and the cost of service analysis, if any, does not justify the proposed rates,
the city council shall establish initial basic cable rates that are within the
FCC reasonable rate standard or that are justified by a cost of service
analysis.
      2.   Rollbacks And Refunds: If the city council determines that the
initial basic cable rates as submitted exceed the reasonable rate standard or
that the cable operator cost of service showing justified lower rates, the city
council may order the rates reduced in accordance with subsections G or H of
this section, as applicable. In addition, the city council may order the cable
operator to pay to subscribers, refunds of the excessive portion of the rates
with interest (computed at applicable rates published by the internal revenue
service for tax refunds and additional tax payments), retroactive to September
1, 1993. The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with FCC regulations as directed in the city council's decision
resolution.
      3.   Statement Of Reasons For Decision And Public Notice: If rates
proposed by a cable operator are disapproved in whole or in part, or if there
were objections made by other parties to the proposed rates, the resolution
must state the reasons for the decision, and the city council must give public
notice of its decision. Public notice will be given by advertisement once in
the official newspaper of the city.
   J.   Appeal: The city council's decision concerning rates for the basic
service tier or associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance
with applicable federal regulations. (Ord. C94-4, 2-22-1994)
3-14-3: REVIEW OF REQUEST FOR INCREASE IN BASIC CABLE RATES:
   A.   Notice: A cable operator in the city who wishes to increase the rates
for the basic service tier or associated equipment shall file a request with
the city and notify all subscribers at least thirty (30) days before the cable
operator desires the increase to take effect. This notice may not be given more
often than annually and not until at least one year after the determination of
the initial basic cable rates.
   B.   Expedited Determination And Public Hearing:
      1.   If the city council is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator's rate increase request for basic cable service is within the
FCC reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable price cap, the
city council shall:
         a.   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         b.   Act to approve the rate increase within thirty (30) days from the
date the cable operator filed its request with the city.
      2.   If the city council takes no action within thirty (30) days from the
date the cable operator filed its request with the city, the proposed rates
will go into effect.
   C.   Extended Review Period:
      1.   If the city council is unable to determine whether the rate increase
is within the FCC reasonable rate standard based on the material before it, or
if the cable operator submits a cost of service showing, the city council
shall, by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the following additional
periods of time, as applicable, to make a final determination:
         a.   Ninety (90) days, if the city council needs more time to ensure
that the requested increase is within the FCC reasonable rate standard as
determined by the applicable price cap; and
         b.   One hundred fifty (150) days if the cable operator has submitted
a cost of service showing seeking to justify a rate increase above the
applicable price cap.
      2.   The proposed rate increase is tolled during the extended review
period.
      3.   If the city council has not made a decision within the ninety (90)
or one hundred fifty (150) day period, the city council shall issue a brief
written order at the end of the period requesting the cable operator to keep
accurate accounts of all amounts received by reason of the proposed rate
increase and on whose behalf the amounts are paid.
   D.   Public Hearing: During the extended review period and before taking
action on the requested rate increase, the city council shall hold at least one
public hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   E.   Objections: An interested person who wishes to make an objection to the
proposed rate increase may request the city clerk to record the objection
during the public hearing or may submit the objection, in writing, any time
before the decision resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to be made
part of the record, the objector must provide the city clerk with the
objector's name and address.
   F.   Delayed Determination: If the city council is unable to make a final
determination concerning a requested rate increase within the extended time
period, the cable operator may put the increase into effect, subject to
subsequent refund if the city council later issues a decision disapproving any
portion of the increase.
   G.   Price Cap Analysis: If a cable operator presents its request for a rate
increase as being in compliance with FCC price cap, the city council shall
review the rate using the price cap analysis in accordance with the standard
form authorized by the FCC. Based on the city council's findings, the basic
cable rates shall be established as follows:
      1.   If the proposed basic cable rate increase is within the price cap
established by the FCC, the proposed rates shall become the new basic cable
rates.
      2.   If the proposed basic cable rate increase exceeds the price cap
established by the FCC, the city council shall disapprove the proposed rate
increase and order an increase that is in compliance with the price cap.
   H.   Cost Of Service Showings: If a cable operator submits a cost of service
showing in an attempt to justify a rate increase above the price cap, the city
council will review the submission pursuant to the FCC standards for cost of
service review. The city council may approve a rate increase above the price
cap if the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a cost of
service determination resulting in a rate below the price cap or below the
cable operator's then current rate will prescribe the cable operator's new
rate.
   I.   Decision: The city council's decision concerning the requested rate
increase, shall be adopted by formal resolution. If a rate increase proposed by
a cable operator is disapproved in whole or in part, or if objections were made
by other parties to the proposed rate increase, the resolution must state the
reasons for the decision. Objections may be made at the public hearing by a
person requesting the city clerk to record the objection or may be submitted,
in writing, at any time before the decision resolution is adopted.
   J.   Refunds:
      1.   The city council may order refunds of subscriber rate payments with
interest if:
         a.   The city council was unable to make a decision within the
extended time period as described in subsection C of this section; and
         b.   The cable operator implemented the rate increase at the end of
the extended review period; and
         c.   The city council determines that the rate increase as submitted
exceeds the applicable price cap or that the cable operator failed to justify
the rate increase by a cost of service showing, and the city council
disapproves any portion of the rate increase.
      2.   The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with FCC regulations as directed in the city council's decision
resolution.
   K.   Appeal: The city council's decision concerning rates for the basic
service tier or associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance
with applicable federal regulations. (Ord. C94-4, 2-22-1994)
3-14-4: CABLE OPERATOR INFORMATION:
   A.   City May Require:
      1.   In those cases when the cable operator has submitted initial rates
or proposed an increase that exceeds the reasonable rate standard, the city
council may require the cable operator to produce information in addition to
that submitted, including proprietary information, if needed to make a rate
determination. In these cases, a cable operator may request the information be
kept confidential in accordance with this section.
      2.   In cases where initial or proposed rates comply with the reasonable
rate standard, the city council may request additional information only in
order to document that the cable operator's rates are in accord with the
standard.
   B.   Request For Confidentiality:
      1.   A cable operator submitting information to the city council may
request, in writing, that the information not be made routinely available for
public inspection. A copy of the request shall be attached to and cover all of
the information and all copies of the information to which it applies.
      2.   If feasible, the information to which the request applies shall be
physically separated from any information to which the request does not apply.
If this is not feasible, the portion of the information to which the request
applies shall be identified.
      3.   Each request shall contain a statement of the reasons for
withholding inspection and a statement of the facts upon which those reasons
are based.
      4.   Casual requests which do not comply with the requirements of this
subsection shall not be considered.
   C.   City Council Action: Requests which comply with the requirements of
subsection B of this section will be acted upon by the city council. The city
council will grant the request if the cable operator presents, by a
preponderance of the evidence, a case for nondisclosure consistent with
applicable federal regulations. If the request is granted, the ruling will be
placed in a public file in lieu of the information withheld from public
inspection. If the city council denies the request, the city council shall take
one or the following actions:
      1.   If the information has been submitted voluntarily without any
direction from the city, the cable operator may request that the city return
the information without considering it. Ordinarily, the city will comply with
this request. Only in the unusual instance that the public interest so
requires, will the information be made available for public inspection.
      2.   If the information was required to be submitted by the city council,
the information will be made available for public inspection.
   D.   Appeal: If the city council denies the request for confidentiality, the
cable operator may seek review of that decision from the FCC within five (5)
working days of the city council's decision, and the release of the information
will be stayed pending review. (Ord. C94-4, 2-22-1994)
3-14-5: AUTOMATIC RATE ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   Annual Inflation Adjustment: In accordance with FCC regulations, the
cable operator may adjust its capped base per channel rate for the basic
service tier annually by the final GNP-PI index.
   B.   Other External Costs:
      1.   The FCC regulations also allow the cable operator to increase its
rates for the basic service tier automatically to reflect certain external cost
factors to the extent that the increase in cost of those factors exceeds the
GNP-PI. These factors include retransmission consent fees, programming costs,
state and local taxes applicable to the provision of cable television service
and costs of franchise requirements. The total cost of an increase in a
franchise fee may be automatically added to the base per channel rate, without
regard to its relation to the GNP-PI.
      2.   For all categories of external costs other than retransmission
consent and franchise fees, the starting date for measuring changes in external
costs for which the basic service per channel rate may be adjusted will be the
date on which the basic service tier becomes subject to regulation or February
28, 1994, whichever occurs first. The permitted per channel charge may not be
adjusted for costs of retransmission consent fees or changes in those fees
incurred before October 6, 1994.
   C.   Notification And Review: The cable operator shall notify the city at
least thirty (30) days in advance of a rate increase based on automatic
adjustment items. The city shall review the increase to determine whether the
item or items qualify as automatic adjustments. If the city makes no objection
within thirty (30) days of receiving notice of the increase, the increase may
go into effect. (Ord. C94-4, 2-22-1994)
3-14-6: ENFORCEMENT; REFUND, PENALTY:
   A.   Refunds: The city may order the cable operator to refund to subscribers
a portion of previously paid rates under the following circumstances:
      1.   A portion of the previously paid rates have been determined to be in
excess of the permitted tier charge or above the actual cost of equipment; or
      2.   The cable operator has failed to comply with a valid rate order
issued by the city.
   B.   Fines: If the cable operator fails to comply with a rate decision or
refund order, the cable operator shall be subject to a fine of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each day the cable operator fails to comply. (Ord. C94-4,
2-22-1994)
CHAPTER 15
AEROSOL SPRAY PAINT, SALE AND DISPLAY
SECTION:
3-15-1: Short Title
3-15-2: Sale Or Providing Prohibited
3-15-3: Posting Required
3-15-4: Enforcement
3-15-5: Penalty
3-15-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter, enacted pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-17-1,
1978 comp., is called and may be cited as the SALE AND DISPLAY OF AEROSOL SPRAY
PAINT ORDINANCE for the city of Gallup, New Mexico. (Ord. C2005-8, 9-13-2005)
3-15-2: SALE OR PROVIDING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Parent Or Guardian: No person other than a parent, guardian or other
adult person acting in their place shall sell or otherwise provide aerosol
spray paint or glass etching cream to any person under eighteen (18) years of
age, and no person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall buy or attempt to
buy any aerosol spray paint or glass etching cream. A New Mexico driver's
license, an identification card issued to a member of the armed forces, or an
identity card issued pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 60-10-17
shall be prima facie proof of age. (Ord. C2005-8, 9-13-2005)
   B.   Owner, Manager Or Operator Of Business: Every person who owns, manages
or operates a place of business selling aerosol spray paint or glass etching
cream shall store or cause such spray paint and glass etching cream to be
stored in an area viewable by the public, but not accessible to the public in
the regular course of business without employee assistance and secured in a
locked case, pending legal sale or disposition of such spray painting or glass
etching cream. (Ord. 2007-05, 6-12-2007)
3-15-3: POSTING REQUIRED:
Any person who owns, manages or operates a place of business wherein aerosol
spray paint or glass etching cream is sold shall conspicuously post:
   A.   At or near the aerosol spray paint or glass etching cream display, in
clear public view, a sign stating:
      GRAFFITI IS A CRIME. THE DEFACING OF PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY IS
PUNISHABLE BY A FINE OR IMPRISONMENT.
   B.   At or near the aerosol spray paint or glass etching cream display, in
clear public view, a sign stating:
      NO SPRAY PAINT OR GLASS ETCHING CREAM SOLD TO MINORS. SELLING SPRAY PAINT
OR GLASS ETCHING CREAM TO OR PURCHASE OF SPRAY PAINT OR GLASS ETCHING CREAM BY
PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE IS AGAINST THE LAW. VIOLATORS CAN BE FINED UP TO
$250.00.
   C.   At each cash register or other point of customer payment, in clear view
of the person accepting customer payment, a sign stating:
      NO SPRAY PAINT OR GLASS ETCHING CREAM SOLD TO MINORS. THE LAW FORBIDS
SELLING SPRAY PAINT OR GLASS ETCHING CREAM TO PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE.
WHEN IN DOUBT, ASK FOR PROOF OF AGE. ACCEPT ONLY IDENTIFICATION ISSUED BY THE
FEDERAL, STATE OR LOCAL GOVERNMENT.
   D.   As used in this chapter "glass etching cream" shall mean any cream or
solution containing sulfuric acid and ammonium bifluoride, or hydrofluoric
acid, and is manufactured for the purpose of etching glass. (Ord. C2005-8, 9-
13-2005)
3-15-4: ENFORCEMENT:
Enforcement of this chapter shall be by the city police department and city
fire department.
   A.   Notice of these regulations shall be given to all applicants for a
business license.
   B.   Enforcement of the signage required in business establishment under
this chapter shall be implemented by the fire chief or his designee. (Ord.
C2005-8, 9-13-2005)
3-15-5: PENALTY:
The penalties for violation of this chapter shall be as follows:
   A.   Individual: Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each violation.
   B.   Owner-Operator Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful for any person
who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls the use of any business
subject to regulation under this chapter to fail to comply with any of the
requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Subject To Fine: Any person who owns, manages or operates a place of
business subject to this chapter who fail(s) to comply with this chapter, and
is cited for three (3) or more violations may be subject to both:
      1.   A fine of up to two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each day a
violation continues; and
      2.   Suspension of any license issued by the city for that business for a
period of up to thirty (30) days for each day of noncompliance. (Ord. C2005-8,
9-13-2005)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCE ABATEMENT AND PROBLEM PROPERTY FORFEITURE  1
SECTION:
4-1-1: Short Title
4-1-2: Intent
4-1-3: Definitions
4-1-4: Criminal Abatement
4-1-4-1: Public Nuisances Prohibited
4-1-4-2: Penalty
4-1-5: Civil Abatement
4-1-5-1: Intent
4-1-5-2: Procedure
4-1-5-3: Remedies For Public Nuisances
4-1-5-4: Judgment For Costs And Attorney Fees
4-1-5-5: Supplementary Remedies
4-1-5-6: Lien For Judgments
4-1-5-7: Stipulated Alternative Remedies
4-1-5-8: Other Seizures, Closures, Forfeitures And Confiscations
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-4-10 of this code.
4-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the GALLUP NUISANCE ABATEMENT AND PROBLEM PROPERTY
FORFEITURE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2012-4, 6-12-2012)
4-1-2: INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to prevent the use of any property, residential,
commercial, industrial, or otherwise as a public nuisance. (Ord. 2012-4, 6-12-
2012)
4-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
ABATE: To bring to a halt, eliminate or, where that is not possible or
feasible, to suppress, reduce, and minimize.
BUILDING: A structure which is enclosed with walls and a roof so that there are
no sides left open.
CLOSE, TO CLOSE, OR CLOSURE: To seize the property and remove all owners,
tenants, occupants and other persons and animals from the real property,
vehicle, or personal property, or a specified discrete portion thereof, and to
lock, board, bar, or otherwise close and prohibit all entry, access, and use of
the real property, vehicle, or other personal property, or a specified discrete
portion thereof, except such access and use as may be specifically ordered by
the court for purposes of inventory, maintenance, storage, security, and other
purposes, and to vest the sole right of possession and control of the real
property, vehicle, or personal property, or a specified discrete portion
thereof, in the city for a limited period of time defined by court order. In
the case of a vehicle, closure includes impoundment.
CONTRABAND: Any personal property which is illegal to own.
COUNCIL'S DESIGNEE: The person(s) or entity(ies) appointed by the city council
to enforce this chapter.
FLIGHT: To flee, escape, or leave the place where the public nuisance activity
was committed or conducted.
LEGAL OR EQUITABLE INTEREST OR RIGHT OF POSSESSION: Every legal or equitable
interest, title, estate, tenancy, or right of possession recognized by law and
equity, including, but not limited to, freeholds, life estates, future
interests, condominium rights, timeshare rights, leaseholds, easements,
licenses, liens, deeds of trust, contractual rights, mortgages, security
interests, and any right or obligation to manage or act as agent or trustee for
any person holding any of the foregoing.
PARCEL: Any lot or other unit of real property or any combination of contiguous
lots or units owned by the same "person" as defined herein.
PERSON: Natural persons and every legal entity whatsoever, including, but not
limited to, sole proprietors, corporations, limited liability companies,
partnerships, limited partnerships, and associations.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: All property of every kind and nature whatsoever, including
cash, vehicles, animals, intangible property and contraband, but not including
real property of any kind.
PROPERTY: Property of all kinds, including "real property" and "personal
property" as defined herein.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: Any parcel of real property, commercial or residential, any
personal property, or any vehicle on or in which any of the following illegal
activities occurs, or which is used to commit, conduct, promote, facilitate, or
aid the commission of or flight from any of the following activities. For
purposes of this definition, the illegal activity shall have the same
definition as that contained in the section of the New Mexico Statutes
Annotated, 1978 compilation, as amended, listed after the illegal activity:
   A. Prostitution, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-9-2; patronizing
prostitutes, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-9-3; promoting
prostitution, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-9-4; or accepting
earnings of a prostitute, New Mexico Statutes Annotated subsection 30-9-4.1; or
   B. Sexual exploitation of children by prostitution, New Mexico Statutes
Annotated section 30-6A-4; or
   C. Sexual exploitation of children, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section
30-6A-3; or
   D. Trafficking in controlled substances, New Mexico Statutes Annotated
section 30-31-20; distributing controlled substances to a minor, New Mexico
Statutes Annotated section 30-31-21; distribution of a controlled substance,
New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-31-22; possession of a controlled
substance, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-31-23; distributing a
counterfeit controlled substance, New Mexico Statutes Annotated subsection 30-
31-22B; distributing, manufacture, or possession of an imitation controlled
substance, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-31A-4; sale of an imitation
controlled substance to a minor, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-31A-
5; or
   E. Unlawful possession, delivery, manufacture or delivery to a minor of drug
paraphernalia, New Mexico Statutes Annotated subsection 30-31-25.1; or
   F. Receiving stolen property, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-16-
11; or
   G. Commercial gambling, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-19-3;
permitting premises to be used for gambling, New Mexico Statutes Annotated
section 30-19-4; dealing in gambling devices, New Mexico Statutes Annotated
section 30-19-5; or
   H. Three (3) or more offenses within any one hundred eighty (180) day period
of disorderly conduct, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-20-1 and
section
5-1-10 of this code; or
   I. Unlawful carrying of a deadly weapon, New Mexico Statutes Annotated
section 30-7-2; unlawful possession of a handgun, New Mexico Statutes Annotated
subsection 30-7-2.2; negligent use of a weapon, New Mexico Statutes Annotated
section 30-7-4 and section 5-4-1 of this code; unlawful possession of a
switchblade, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-7-8; receipt,
transportation or possession by a felon of a firearm or destructive device, New
Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-7-16; unlawful possession, transfer or
sale of weapons to minors, section
5-4-5 of this code; or
   J. Possession of illegal fireworks, chapter 8 of this title; or
   K. Any criminal activity by a criminal street gang as defined herein; or
   L. Three (3) or more offenses within any one hundred eighty (180) day period
of selling, serving, giving away, disposing of, exchanging, delivering,
procuring, possessing or permitting the sale of alcoholic beverages to, for or
by any person under lawful age or to an intoxicated person, New Mexico Statutes
Annotated sections 60-7A-16 and 60-7B-1; using property to provide, offer or
permit the consumption of intoxicating liquors by three (3) or more persons who
are under the age of twenty one (21) without their parents' or guardians'
knowledge or consent or the order of a practicing physician, or as part of a
religious ceremony, or failing to use reasonable control and ordinary care to
keep persons under the age of twenty one (21) from consuming intoxicating
liquors on one's property; or
   M. The sale of alcoholic beverages at any place other than a valid (not
suspended or revoked) licensed premises, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section
60-7A-4.1; or the unlawful manufacture of alcoholic beverages, New Mexico
Statutes Annotated section 60-7A-7; or
   N. The unlawful transportation or storage of any property that is the
subject of a felony theft, misdemeanor theft, or theft by receiving, under New
Mexico Statutes Annotated chapter 30, article 16; or
   O. Assault upon a peace officer, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-
22-21; aggravated assault upon a peace officer, New Mexico Statutes Annotated
section 30-22-22; assault with intent to commit a violent felony upon a peace
officer, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-22-23; battery upon a peace
officer, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-22-24; aggravated battery
upon a peace officer, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-22-25; assisting
in assault upon a peace officer, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-22-
26; disarming a peace officer, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 30-22-27;
or
   P. Three (3) or more offenses within any one hundred eighty (180) day period
of unreasonable noises, section
5-1-24 of this code; or
   Q. The accumulation of junk, trash and refuse on property including the
sweeping, placing or throwing of solid waste or other waste materials upon
sidewalks, streets or alleys.
   R. The causing to remain in or about a premises any solid waste, weeds,
motor vehicles not in operating condition, wastewater or any conglomeration of
residue thereof, which emits odors, or serves as a feeding or breeding place of
flies, mosquitoes, insects or rodents, including the keeping of animals in such
a manner or in such a number as to annoy others.
REAL PROPERTY: Land and all improvements, buildings, and structures, and all
estates rights and interests, legal and equitable, in the same, including, but
not limited to, all forms of ownership and title, future interests, condominium
rights, timeshare rights, easements, water rights, mineral rights, oil and gas
rights, space rights, and air rights.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, erected, or placed upon real property which is
so firmly attached to the land as to be reasonably considered part of the real
estate, and includes buildings of every type and nature whatsoever.
TENANT: Any person who uses, resides in, or occupies property identified as a
public nuisance, regardless of whether the tenant has the consent of the owner
to use, reside in, or occupy the property.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, including any frame, chassis or body of
any vehicle or motor vehicle, except devices moved exclusively by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 2012-4, 6-12-2012)
4-1-4: CRIMINAL ABATEMENT:
4-1-4-1: PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, manager, tenant, lessee, occupant,
or other person having any legal or equitable interest or right of possession
in any real property, vehicle, or other personal property to intentionally,
knowingly, recklessly, or negligently commit, conduct, promote, facilitate,
permit, fail to prevent, or otherwise let happen, any public nuisance in, on or
using any property in which they hold any legal or equitable interest or right
of possession.
   B.   An owner of property whose own activities on the real property are not
a nuisance shall not be in violation of this chapter if the owner establishes
that he or she has no knowledge of the public nuisance activity and, upon
receiving notice of the activity constituting a nuisance, the owner:
      1.   Demonstrates to the city that the rental agreement for the property
contains a provision prohibiting criminal activity;
      2.   Delivers to the tenant(s) a written notice of termination of the
rental agreement as provided by the New Mexico owner-resident relations act;
      3.   Files an appropriate report with law enforcement authorities or
otherwise cooperates with such authorities in enforcing laws with respect to
tenants on the property;
      4.   Initiates legal action to remove residents involved in criminal
activity where such activity can be proven; and
      5.   Takes all reasonable and available steps to terminate the public
nuisance activity. (Ord. 2012-4, 6-12-2012)
4-1-4-2: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each separate violation shall constitute a separate
offense, and every day on which any violation exists shall constitute a
separate violation and offense.
   B.   Registration Of Violating Property: Upon conviction of violation of
this chapter, the city shall register the violating property with the city
agencies and/or the county clerk.
   C.   Conditions Of Suspended Sentences: In the event that the court chooses
to suspend any portion of the fine or sentence for a violation of this chapter,
the city shall request that the court make the suspended sentence expressly
conditional on the following terms:
      1.   The defendant must evict, remove, and permanently bar from entering
the property any persons who committed the criminal activity forming the basis
of the public nuisance, including, but not limited to, the defendant himself,
his or her family members and relatives, and owners, tenants, occupants,
guests, and other persons. This may be accomplished through forcible entry and
detainer actions, sale of the property, new leases of the property, or other
legal action as needed; and
      2.   The defendant must take steps to abate the public nuisance,
eliminate its past and continuing adverse effects on the neighborhood, and
prevent public nuisances from recurring on the property, including, but not
limited to, landlord training, tenant background checks and screening,
improvements to the property, including general repairs which will bring the
property into compliance with city building code, title 9 of this code, city
zoning code, title 10 of this code, and including fencing, lighting, and
destruction of buildings, modifications to leases, security guards, removal of
trash, junk, and graffiti, and compliance with all other applicable city codes;
and
      3.   Any other conditions the court deems appropriate.
   D.   Additional And Alternative Remedies: In addition or in the alternative
to the criminal fines, sentences, conditions of suspended sentences,
publications, posting, press and media releases, and other sanctions provided
above, the city may also seek administrative remedies against any licensee and
the revocation and/or nonissuance of a city business license and any other
civil remedies provided in this chapter. These remedies shall be cumulative,
and the city may pursue one or more of them, simultaneously or in succession.
(Ord. 2012-4, 6-12-2012)
4-1-5: CIVIL ABATEMENT:
4-1-5-1: INTENT:
   A.   The abatement of public nuisances for the protection of public health,
safety, and welfare is a matter of local concern. The purpose of this section
4-1-5 is not to punish, but to abate public nuisances. The actions provided in
this section
4-1-5 are designed to abate public nuisances by removing the property and
vehicles from criminal use and as a base of criminal operations, to ensure that
criminal activity and the use of the property for criminal purposes is
unprofitable, to require that the profits of criminal activity be disgorged, to
make property owners vigilant in preventing public nuisances on, in or using
their property and responsible for the lawful use of their property by tenants,
guests and occupants, and to deter public nuisances. The remedies provided in
this section
4-1-5 are directed at the property involved without regard to ownership, title
or right of possession and the culpability of innocence of those who hold these
rights. The remedial actions provided in this section
4-1-5 are intended to be civil in nature. The remedies of seizure, temporary
restraining order, closure, receivership, sale, and/or destruction are intended
to be in rem, against the property itself, and not against any individual
directly. However, the remedies of temporary restraining order, civil judgment,
and permanent injunction may be partially in personam.
   B.   In order to ensure that the remedies provided in this chapter are
applied in good faith and for the purposes of public nuisance abatement, the
following shall apply:
      1.   No city employee's or law enforcement officer's employment or level
of salary shall depend upon the frequency or quantity of actions and remedies
under this chapter that he or she produces.
      2.   All seizures of real property shall be made pursuant to a temporary
restraining order based upon a judicial finding of probable cause and only
after an opportunity for an adversarial hearing to contest the seizure has been
provided.
   C.   This section
4-1-5 is not intended to authorize any act expressly prohibited by state law,
nor to forbid any conduct expressly authorized by state law. The provisions of
this section
4-1-5 shall be construed to avoid any such direct and express conflict.
   D.   The sections of this section
4-1-5 are intended to provide a comprehensive scheme for civil public nuisance
abatement and should be read together. (Ord. 2012-4, 6-12-2012)
4-1-5-2: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Remedies Cumulative: The remedies provided in this section
4-1-5 are cumulative and supplementary to the criminal penalties provided in
section
4-1-4 of this chapter, the criminal remedies provided by any other criminal
ordinance or statute, other civil remedies, and any administrative proceedings
to revoke, suspend, fine, or take other action against any license. The city
may pursue the remedies provided in this section
4-1-5, the criminal penalties provided in section
4-1-4 of this chapter or other ordinances or statutes, other civil actions or
remedies, administrative proceedings against a licensee, or any one or more of
them, and may do so simultaneously or in succession.
   B.   Pursue Both Criminal And Civil Remedies: In the event that the city
pursues both the criminal penalties in section
4-1-4 of this chapter, the criminal remedies provided in any other section,
other civil remedies, or the remedies of any administrative action and the
remedies in this section
4-1-5, the civil actions provided in this section
4-1-5 shall not be delayed or held in abeyance pending the outcome of any
proceedings in the criminal, civil or administrative action, or any action
filed by any other person, unless all parties to the action under this section
4-1-5 so stipulate.
   C.   Actions Are Civil And Remedial: All actions under this section
4-1-5 are civil and remedial in nature. All seizure, closure, receivership,
sale and destruction remedies under this section
4-1-5 shall be in rem. Injunctive remedies under this section may be partly in
personam.
   D.   Actions Brought By City/District Attorney Or Citizen: Actions under
this section
4-1-5 shall be filed by the city attorney for the city of Gallup and/or by the
district attorney for the 11th judicial district. A private citizen, in the
name of the state, may also bring an action under this section
4-1-5.
   E.   Authority: Actions under this section
4-1-5 shall be in accordance with the New Mexico rules of civil procedure and
the New Mexico rules of evidence.
   F.   Affect On Real Property: Actions under this section
4-1-5 may affect the use, possession, enjoyment, and title to real property.
Accordingly, the city may file and record a notice of lis pendens against the
real property involved.
   G.   Action Commenced By Filing: An action under this section
4-1-5 shall be commenced by the filing of a verified complaint or a complaint
verified by and affidavit and a motion for temporary restraining order in
accordance with the New Mexico rules of civil procedure.
   H.   Possible Defendants Identified: The defendants to an action under this
section
4-1-5 and the persons liable for the remedies in this section may include the
property itself, any persons owning or claiming any legal or equitable interest
or right of possession in the property, all tenants and occupants at the
property, managers and agents for any persons owning or claiming a legal or
equitable interest in the property, any persons committing, conducting,
promoting, facilitating or aiding the commission of or flight from a public
nuisance, and any other persons whose involvement may be necessary to abate the
nuisance, prevent it from recurring, or to carry into effect the court's orders
for temporary restraining orders, seizures, closures, receiverships, permanent
injunctions, liens, sales and destruction. Any person holding any legal or
equitable interest or right of possession in the property who has not been
named as a defendant may intervene as a defendant.
   I.   Notification Before Filing Civil Action:
      1.   At least ten (10) calendar days before filing a civil action under
this chapter involving any seizure, closure, or receivership of real property,
the council's designee shall post a notice at the main entrances to the
buildings or at some other prominent place on the real property. The council's
designee shall also mail a notice by certified mail, return receipt requested,
to the owner(s) of the real property and to the holder(s) of the last deed of
trust recorded on the real property. The mailing of the notice shall be deemed
sufficient if mailed to the owner(s) and the holder(s) of the last recorded
deed of trust at the addresses shown on the records of the McKinley County
clerk and/or the McKinley County assessor's office. The posted and mailed
notices shall state that the real property has been identified as a public
nuisance and that a civil action under this chapter may be filed.
      2.   The council's designee is authorized to enter upon property for the
purpose of posting notice and to affix the notice in any reasonable manner to
any buildings and structures.
      3.   The council's designee shall not be required to post or mail any
notice specified in subsection I1 of this section whenever he or she
determines, in his or her sole discretion, that any of the following conditions
exist:
         a.   The public nuisance poses a threat to public safety; or
         b.   Notice could jeopardize a pending investigation of criminal or
public nuisance activity, confidential informants, or other police activity; or
         c.   Notice could result in sale, transfer, encumbrancing or
destruction of the property; or
         d.   Other emergency circumstances exist; or
         e.   The owner(s) and the holder(s) of the last recorded deed of trust
have been notified in writing within the last one hundred twenty (120) days
that the property has been identified as a public nuisance and that a civil
action under this chapter may be filed.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person other than the council's
designee to remove any notice posted under the provisions of this subsection.
(Ord. 2012-4, 6-12-2012)
4-1-5-3: REMEDIES FOR PUBLIC NUISANCES:
Where the existence of a public nuisance is established in a civil action under
this section
4-1-5, the city shall petition the court to enter permanent prohibitory and
mandatory injunctions requiring the defendants to abate the public nuisance and
take specific steps to prevent the same and other public nuisances from
occurring on the real property, in the vehicle, or use of the real property,
vehicle or other personal property. The city shall also petition the court to
order, as to any real property, vehicle or other personal property used to
commit, conduct, promote, facilitate or aid the commission of the flight from
any public nuisance, the following remedies:
   A.   Closure Of Real Property And Destruction Of Certain Structures: That
the real property be closed for a period of not less than one year and not more
than three (3) years from the date of the final judgment, plus any extension of
that period caused by failure to comply with the conditions for release of the
property set out below, and if the city requests, that certain structures upon
the real property be destroyed. The city may request the court to order the
defendants to carry out the destruction of the structures. The city shall
petition the court to order the defendant to provide for the maintenance,
utilities, insurance, and security of the property during the period of
closure, and that at the end of the closure period, the real property be
released to the owner only upon:
      1.   Payment of all expenses incurred by the city for seizure, closure,
utilities, security, access, destruction of buildings, maintenance, insurance,
and other reasonable expenses; and
      2.   Payment of all civil judgments under this section
4-1-5; and
      3.   Execution by all owners and other persons holding any legal or
equitable interest or right of possession in the real property of a complete
and unconditional release of the city and all of its employees and agents for
liability for the seizure, closure and damages to the property.
   In the event that the owners and other persons holding any legal and
equitable interest and right of possession, or any of them, fail, neglect or
refuse to pay the fees, expenses, and judgments, or to execute the release
provided above, the property shall remain closed. However, if a year expires
without the owner making payment, the property shall then forfeit to the city.
The issuance and execution of the closure order shall not be deemed a bailment
of property. The owner of the property remains responsible for the maintenance
and security of the property subject to the closure order and shall be
permitted reasonable access to the property for these purposes upon application
to the court.
   B.   Receivership Of Real Property And Destruction Of Certain Structures:
That, when the city so requests, in lieu of closure of real property, the real
property be placed into a special receivership for a period not less than one
year and not more than three (3) years from the date of final judgment, plus
any extension of that period caused by a failure to comply with the conditions
for release of the property set out below, and, if the city requests, that
certain structures be destroyed. The city may request the court to order the
defendants to carry out the destruction. The city shall petition the court to
order the defendant to provide for and pay the maintenance, utilities,
security, operating expenses, taxes, insurance, receivership fees, and other
reasonable expenses related to the property to the extent that the rents,
profits, and income of the property under receivership is insufficient to
defray these expenses, and that at the end of the receivership period, the real
property shall be released to the owner only upon:
      1.   Payment of all expenses incurred by the city for seizure, closure,
utilities, security, access, maintenance, insurance, taxes, receivership and
receivership fees, the costs of destroying structures, and other reasonable
expenses not covered by the rents, profits, and income under receivership; and
      2.   Payment of all civil judgments under this section
4-1-5; and
      3.   Execution by all owners and other persons holding any legal or
equitable interest or right of possession in the real property of a complete
and unconditional release of the city and all of its employees and agents,
including the receiver, for any liability for the seizure, closure and
receivership and damages to the property. (Ord. 2012-4, 6-12-2012)
4-1-5-4: JUDGMENT FOR COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES:
In any case in which a public nuisance is established, in addition to the
remedies provided above, the city may petition the court for a separate civil
judgment for the city's costs and attorney fees against every person who
committed, conducted, promoted, facilitated, or aided in the commission of any
public nuisance or who held any legal or equitable interest or right of
possession in any real property or vehicle on or in which any public nuisance
occurred, or any real property, vehicle or other personal property used to
commit, conduct, promote, facilitate or aid the commission of any public
nuisance. This civil judgment shall be for the purpose of compensating the city
for its costs from pursuing the remedies under this section
4-1-5. (Ord. 2012-4, 6-12-2012)
4-1-5-5: SUPPLEMENTARY REMEDIES:
In any action in which probable cause for the existence of a public nuisance is
established, in the event that the defendants, or any one of them, fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with the court's temporary restraining orders,
receiverships, closures, destruction orders, and other orders, the city may
petition the court to, in addition to or in the alternative to the remedy of
contempt, permit the city to enter upon the real property, vehicle or other
personal property, and abate the nuisance, take steps to prevent public
nuisances from occurring, and/or perform other acts required of the defendants
in the court's temporary restraining orders and other orders. (Ord. 2012-4, 6-
12-2012)
4-1-5-6: LIEN FOR JUDGMENTS:
In addition to the remedies provided in this section
4-1-5, the city shall have a lien against the real property, vehicles and other
personal property on or in which any public nuisance occurred or which was used
to commit, conduct, promote, facilitate, or aid in the commission of any public
nuisance for the total of all judgments imposed for costs and attorney fees.
The city shall record a statement of this lien with the county clerk. (Ord.
2012-4, 6-12-2012)
4-1-5-7: STIPULATED ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES:
   A.   Voluntary Stipulation: The city and any defendants to an action under
this section
4-1-5 may voluntarily stipulate to temporary restraining orders, seizures,
closures, receiverships, forfeitures, destruction, judgments, liens, and other
remedies, temporary or permanent, that are different or altered from the
remedies provided in this section
4-1-5, including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Shorter or less stringent temporary restraining orders, closures and
receiverships.
      2.   Receiverships on other terms, including, but not limited to, terms
providing for the payment of secured indebtedness on the subject property,
removal or substitution of the receiver, and other terms.
      3.   Nondestruction of buildings, other structures, vehicles and other
personal property.
      4.   Release of seized real property to the party currently entitled to
possession, or to an agent, manager, or receiver appointed under the
stipulation, after the public nuisance has been fully abated, steps have been
taken to prevent public nuisances from recurring, sufficient action has been
taken to deter public nuisances, and the public interest is protected, or a
suitable plan to accomplish these goals has been agreed to.
      5.   Reduction or waiver of civil judgments and liens.
      6.   Other reasonable stipulations designed to abate the public nuisance,
prevent public nuisances from recurring, deter public nuisance activity, and
protect the public interest.
   B.   Court Order: Any stipulations for alternative remedies shall be made by
an order of the court. (Ord. 2012-4, 6-12-2012)
4-1-5-8: OTHER SEIZURES, CLOSURES, FORFEITURES AND CONFISCATIONS:
Nothing in this section
4-1-5 shall be construed to limit or forbid the seizure, confiscation, closure,
destruction or forfeiture of property now or hereafter required, authorized or
permitted by any other provision of law. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as requiring that evidence and property seized, confiscated, closed,
forfeited or destroyed under other provisions of law be subjected to the
remedies and procedures provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2012-4, 6-12-2012)
CHAPTER 2
URBAN STRUCTURE NUISANCE  1
SECTION:
4-2-1: Title
4-2-2: Purpose
4-2-3: Definitions
4-2-4: Prohibited
4-2-5: Alternative Abatement Notice; Hearing
4-2-6: Contents Of Notice
4-2-7: Service Of Notice
4-2-8: Abatement By City
4-2-9: City's Costs Declared Lien
4-2-10: Penalty
4-2-11: Effective Date
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-4-10 of this code.
4-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter, enacted pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978 Comp.,
section 3-17-1 et seq., is called and may be cited as the CITY OF GALLUP URBAN
STRUCTURE NUISANCE ORDINANCE. (Ord. C2003-13, 11-12-2003)
4-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote, as a matter of public policy, the
preservation, protection and enhancement of those buildings, properties,
structures, sites and incidental appurtenances, in the interest of civic pride
and the general welfare of the city and nearby communities and to prevent urban
blight by:
   A.   Providing a mechanism to preserve, protect, enhance and perpetuate
those structures, properties, sites, buildings and incidental appurtenances
used for commercial purposes in designated areas.
   B.   Fostering civic pride and respect in the community's future.
   C.   Maintaining and improving property values.
   D.   Protecting and enhancing the community's attraction to tourists and
visitors.
   E.   Promoting such structures, property sites, buildings and incidental
appurtenances for the general welfare of the community.
   F.   Fostering and encouraging preservation, restoration and rehabilitation
of structures, properties, buildings, sites and incidental appurtenances
thereby preventing urban blight. (Ord. C2003-13, 11-12-2003)
4-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases in this chapter shall be
interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in common usage
and so as to give this chapter its most reasonable application:
ALTERATION: Any act or process that changes one or more of the exterior
features of a structure through the erection, construction, reconstruction,
paint or painting a part thereof.
BUILDING: Any building, site, structure or property used for commercial
purposes within the designated areas as set forth in this chapter.
CITY: The city of Gallup, New Mexico.
CITY COUNCIL: The governing body of the city of Gallup, New Mexico.
CITY MANAGER: The city manager of Gallup, New Mexico.
DISTRICT: That area within the corporate limits of the city of Gallup.
GENDER: Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter.
MAY: Permissive.
OWNER OF RECORD: The person, corporation, or other legal entity listed as owner
on the records of the county of McKinley.
PROPERTY ENHANCEMENT, PRESERVATION OR BEAUTIFICATION DIRECTOR: The city manager
or his/her designee.
REPAIR: An applied coating of paint or stain to the exterior of a structure, or
upkeep of any stucco, sheetrock, wood exterior, stone, rock or other exterior
covering of a building, site, property or structure. Any change that is not
construction, removal or alteration.
SHALL: Mandatory.
STRUCTURE, SITE, BUILDING, PROPERTY OR INCIDENTAL APPURTENANCES: Anything
already constructed, to be constructed or erected in the designated area in
this chapter, the use of which requires permanent or temporary location on or
in the ground, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
buildings, fences, gazebos, signs, radio and television antennas, including
supporting towers, and any other structure or building or activity that would
normally be allowed in the city corporate limits.
URBAN NUISANCE: Any structure, property, building, site or incidental
appurtenance which is not property maintained:
         A. Generally, the appearance and condition of the building or
structure shall be maintained to present a safe and attractive streetscape to
passersby; or
         B. A maximum of ten percent (10%) of exterior facade may exhibit
peeling paint, damaged stucco, or other deteriorated exterior visible surfaces;
or
         C. In the case of boarded up windows and/or doors, in all cases the
plywood or other covering shall be cut to precisely fit inside the entire
window frame and not merely tacked over the approximate location of the wall
opening. The covering shall be painted a dark ashen grey or black to simulate a
typical exterior window color or by some other color in keeping with the
building facade. These standards shall apply to the front and in the case of
corner structures, the side facing the avenue also. Alley exposures shall be
exempt.
         The remainder of the building surface shall present a neat attractive,
well maintained appearance, and present a base color and complimentary trim
color in addition to the color of the window covering(s); or
         D. The roof shall be maintained such that roof leaks do not threaten
interior electrical components, interior contents, or create damp interior
conditions as to promote mold, mildew nor threaten adjacent structures, to
include the host structure itself; or
         E. A building, property, site, structure or incidental appurtenance,
because of its state of disrepair, is such that could reasonably cause injury,
damage, harm, or inconvenience to a considerable portion of the community in
the use and enjoyment of surrounding property, taking into consideration the
nature and use of the properties in the area and the character of the community
in which they are situated, which condition would be substantially offensive
and annoying to persons of ordinary sensibilities, tastes, and habits living in
the community; and
         F. Any and all repairs required under this chapter shall be
specifically limited to those required specifications set forth in this
definition. (Ord. C2003-13, 11-12-2003)
4-2-4: PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any such person, corporation or entity to cause,
permit or maintain a building in need of exterior repair as above set forth.
(Ord. C2003-13, 11-12-2003)
4-2-5: ALTERNATIVE ABATEMENT NOTICE; HEARING:
   A.   Provisions Alternative To Other Provisions: The provisions of this
section shall be in the alternative to any other provisions of this chapter; in
particular, for absentee owners of structures or in cases where fines prove
ineffective in achieving compliance from resident owners.
   B.   Written Or Published Notice: Whenever an "urban nuisance" as defined in
this chapter is found to exist within the city, the city manager or his
designee shall give written or published notice to the owner, his agent, lessee
or occupant of the property upon which said urban nuisance exists or upon the
person causing or maintaining the urban nuisance; provided, however, that
failure of the city manager or his designee to give such notice shall not
constitute a defense to any action brought to enforce this action.
   C.   Abatement; Agreement To Correct Or Remove: Every person, including the
owner, his agent, tenant, lessee or occupant of the property where such urban
nuisance exists, shall abate any such urban nuisance by the correction or
removal of the urban nuisance within ten (10) days of being given notice as set
forth in subsection B of this section, or by entering into a written agreement
with the city for the correction or removal of the urban nuisance within said
ten (10) day period.
   D.   Agreement Stays Time Limitation: If an agreement is entered into within
the ten (10) day period, the time limits of this section shall be stayed. (Ord.
C2003-13, 11-12-2003)7
   E.   Request For Hearing: If the person so cited disagrees with the decision
made by the city manager or his designee, that person shall have the right to
request a hearing before the city council within a ten (10) day period after
the rendering of a decision, in writing, by the city manager or his designee.
If a request for hearing is made within the ten (10) day period, the time
limits of this section shall be stayed pending a decision by the city council.
Said person shall have ten (10) days from the decision by the city manager or
his designee, to file with the city clerk a written appeal to the city council.
(Ord. C2003-13, 11-12-2003; amd. 2006 Code)
4-2-6: CONTENTS OF NOTICE:
The notice to abate an urban nuisance issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall contain:
   A.   An order to abate the urban nuisance or to request a hearing before the
governing body of the city within ten (10) days after written or published
notice.
   B.   The location of the urban nuisance, if the same is stationary.
   C.   A description of what constitutes the urban nuisance.
   D.   A statement of acts necessary to abate the urban nuisance.
   E.   A statement that if the urban nuisance is not abated as directed and if
no request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the city may abate
such urban nuisance and assess the costs thereof against such person, or take
any other action as allowed by this chapter. (Ord. C2003-13, 11-12-2003)
4-2-7: SERVICE OF NOTICE:
A notice to abate an urban nuisance issued under the provisions of this chapter
shall be served as any other legal process may be served pursuant to law. (Ord.
C2003-13, 11-12-2003)
4-2-8: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
Upon the failure of the person upon whom notice to abate an urban nuisance was
served pursuant to the provisions of this chapter to abate the same, the
designated officer of the city may proceed to abate such urban nuisance and
shall prepare a statement of costs incurred in the abatement thereof. (Ord.
C2003-13, 11-12-2003)
4-2-9: CITY'S COSTS DECLARED LIEN:
Any and all costs incurred by the city in the abatement of an urban nuisance
under the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a lien against the
property upon which such urban nuisance existed, which lien shall be filed,
proven and collected as provided by law. Such lien shall be notice to all
persons from the time of its recording, and shall bear interest at the legal
rate thereafter until satisfied. (Ord. C2003-13, 11-12-2003)
4-2-10: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation; Penalty: Whenever in this chapter an act is prohibited or is
made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in
this chapter the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, the
violation of any such provision or the failure to perform any such act shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. C2003-13, 11-12-2003; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Continuing Violation; Separate Offense: Each day any such violation or
failure to perform such act shall continue shall constitute a separate offense
and is a separate violation of an ordinance of this city, unless otherwise
specifically provided.
   C.   Penalty Not Exclusive: The provisions of the penalties in this section
shall not be deemed a waiver of the rights of the city to invoke the equity
jurisdiction of the district court in compelling abatement of any condition
which constitutes an urban nuisance under this chapter.
   D.   Rules Of Civil Procedure: Such action for the abatement of an urban
nuisance shall be governed by the general rules of civil procedure.
   E.   Civil Action To Abate: A civil action to abate an urban nuisance of
this chapter may be brought, by verified complaint in the name of the city, by
any public officer or private citizen in the district court against any person
who shall create, perform or maintain an urban nuisance.
   F.   Court Costs; Plaintiff's Attorney Fees: When judgment is against the
defendant in an action pursuant to subsection A of this section to abate an
"urban nuisance" as defined in section
4-2-3 of this chapter, he shall be adjudged to pay all court costs and a
reasonable fee for the plaintiff's attorney. (Ord. C2003-13, 11-12-2003)
4-2-11: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall become effective thirty (30) days after the date of
enactment by the city council as to those properties, sites, buildings,
structures or incidental appurtenances already in existence at the time of
adoption hereof, and as to all others who shall construct, or cause to be
erected any structure on or in the ground after the enactment hereof
immediately. (Ord. C2003-13, 11-12-2003)
CHAPTER 3
FALSE ALARMS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Findings
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: False Alarms Prohibited; Exception
4-3-4: Penalties
4-3-1: FINDINGS:
The city council finds and determines:
   A.   The temporary failure of alarm systems, or an excessive number of
accidental alarm activations, poses a burden to the fire department, police and
emergency dispatch services.
   B.   The occurrence of false alarm poses a nuisance to the public in the
form of noise, flashing lights, disturbances of the peace and the burdening of
public safety and fire services. (Ord. C97-4, 6-10-1997, eff. 7-18-1997)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ALARM: The giving, signaling or transmitting to any public fire station, police
station or emergency dispatch center or to any officer or employee thereof,
whether by telephone, spoken word or by any mechanical or electrical "alarm
system", as defined in this section, or otherwise, information to the effect
that there is a fire, explosion, criminal activity, flood, disaster, need for
medical assistance or similar emergency at or near the place indicated by the
person or alarm system giving, signaling or transmitting such information.
ALARM SYSTEM: Any mechanical or electrical device which is designed or used for
the detection of burglary, robbery, fire or need for medical assistance within
a building, structure or facility, or for alerting others to the commission of
an unlawful act or hazard within a building, structure or facility, or both;
and which emits a sound or transmits a signal or message when actuated. Alarm
systems include, but are not limited to, direct dial telephone devices, audible
alarms and proprietor alarms. Devices which are not designed or used to
register alarms that are audible, visible or perceptible outside of the
protected building, structure or facility are not included within this
definition, nor are auxiliary devices installed by the telephone company to
protect telephone systems which might be damaged or disrupted by the use of an
alarm system. An alarm system includes all of the necessary equipment designed
and installed for the detection of burglary, robbery, fire, need for medical
assistance or other hazard in a single building, structure or facility or for
alerting others of the commission of an unlawful act within a building,
structure or facility, or both.
CHIEF: The fire chief of the city of Gallup, or his designee. (Ord. C97-4, 6-
10-1997, eff. 7-18-1997; amd. 2006 Code)
4-3-3: FALSE ALARMS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
   A.   Specified:
      1.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to give, signal or
transmit, or for any person to cause or permit to be given, signaled or
transmitted in any manner, any false alarm.
      2.   Exception: Alarm systems undergoing approved maintenance or repairs
of which the chief has received advance notice that the maintenance or repair
may cause the occurrence of a false alarm.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: The possession, keeping, use or maintenance of any
alarm which consistently fails to operate properly or which gives, signals or
transmits an unreasonable number of false alarms is declared to be a nuisance,
subject to abatement and fine or punishment as set forth in section
4-3-4 of this chapter.
   C.   Fire Drills: Nothing in this section shall prohibit the sounding of any
such signal essential for the carrying on of any fire drill. The chief may
require that he be notified in advance when such signal will be sounded. (Ord.
C97-4, 6-10-1997, eff. 7-18-1997)
4-3-4: PENALTIES:
   A.   Criminal: Any person who wilfully violates any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. C97-4, 6-10-1997; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Civil: Any violation of any provision of this chapter by any person,
whether or not wilful, is punishable by a civil penalty as follows:
      1.   First Violation: On the first violation, no penalty shall be
assessed but the violator shall be warned in a certified letter, return receipt
requested, from the chief.
      2.   Second Violation: On a second violation within one month, a civil
penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be assessed.
      3.   Third Or Subsequent Violation: On a third or subsequent violation
within two (2) months of the required letter of warning, a civil penalty of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be assessed.
   C.   Liability: Liability under this chapter shall include, but is not
limited to, owners, lessors and all other occupants of buildings where a false
alarm originates. (Ord. C97-4, 6-10-1997, eff. 7-18-1997)
CHAPTER 4
LITTER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Littering Prohibited
4-4-3: Severity Of Offenses
4-4-4: Penalty; Alternative
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
EXTREMELY HAZARDOUS LITTER: Litter which could cause death or severe disability
to others, such as dangerous containers, chemicals or rotting animal waste
which by its proximity to certain locations could cause a health hazard.
GARBAGE: Garbage is putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food of any kind and
character.
HAZARDOUS LITTER: Litter which could cause an accident or disease to humans or
animals. Examples of hazardous litter are glass in any form, nails, tacks,
hoops, wire, cans, used disposable diapers and human and animal wastes.
LITTER: Litter is scattered garbage, refuse or rubbish in public or private
locations except as authorized by law.
LITTERING: The act of scattering litter.
REFUSE: Shall include, but not be limited to, all putrescible and
nonputrescible solid wastes such as rejected or waste food, offal, swill,
carrion, ashes, dirt, slop, waste cement, wastepaper, trash, rubbish, waste or
unwholesome material of any kind, petroleum products (including gasoline,
kerosene, oil, grease and the like, whether new or used), street cleanings,
dead animals and industrial wastes.
RUBBISH: Shall include, but not be limited to, all nonputrescible solid waste
such as vehicle bodies and solid waste, combustible and noncombustible waste
such as paper, cardboard, cans, wood, yard clippings, leaves, dirt, bedding
weeds, crockery, glass, glassware and similar materials, including handbills,
except when given to persons willing to accept them, and newspapers, magazines
or political literature, unless placed in a manner preventing their being
deposited by the elements upon any public or other private location. (Ord. C66-
190, 7-28-1981)
4-4-2: LITTERING PROHIBITED:
No person shall commit littering, nor shall any person allow littering by:
   A.   A pet owned or cared for by him; or
   B.   A minor member of his family. (Ord. C66-190, 7-28-1981)
4-4-3: SEVERITY OF OFFENSES:
The severity of littering shall be considered in the following descending
order:
   A.   Class A littering is the scattering of extremely hazardous litter.
   B.   Class B littering is the scattering of hazardous litter.
   C.   Class C littering is the scattering of more than ten (10) items of
litter.
   D.   Class D littering is the scattering of two (2) to ten (10) items of
litter.
   E.   Class E littering is the scattering of one item of litter. (Ord. C66-
190, 7-28-1981)
4-4-4: PENALTY; ALTERNATIVE:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any person violating section
4-4-2 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined or sentenced to jail:
      1.   For class A littering, one hundred dollars ($100.00) to five hundred
dollars ($500.00), or four (4) to twenty (20) days' imprisonment;
      2.   For class B littering, fifty dollars ($50.00) to one hundred dollars
($100.00), or two (2) to four (4) days' imprisonment;
      3.   For class C littering, twenty five dollars ($25.00) to fifty dollars
($50.00), or one to two (2) days' imprisonment;
      4.   For class D littering, ten dollars ($10.00) to twenty five dollars
($25.00), or one to two (2) days' imprisonment;
      5.   For Class E littering, five dollars ($5.00) or one day imprisonment.
(Ord. C66-190, 7-28-1981; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Voluntary Alternative To Penalty: At the discretion of the municipal
judge, any fine or jail sentence may be suspended upon condition that the
offender voluntarily assist in supervised litter cleanup or weed control in the
city. Four (4) hours of assistance shall take the place of twenty four (24)
hours of ordered confinement or twenty five dollars ($25.00) of assessed fine.
(Ord. C66-190, 7-28-1981)
CHAPTER 5
WEED CONTROL
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Growth Or Accumulation
4-5-3: Duty Of Owner, Lessee Or Occupant
4-5-4: Method Of Removal
4-5-5: Notice To Cut And Remove
4-5-6: Failure To Comply
4-5-7: Exceptions
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   General Definitions: As used in this chapter, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, sources, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   WEEDS: All rank, noxious, poisonous, harmful, unhealthful vegetation,
deleterious to health, and shall include, but is not limited to, the following
named plant families:
         Mustard weeds (Brassicaceae)
         Pigweeds (Amaranthaceae)
         Russian thistle (Chenopodiaceae)
         Ragweeds (Asteraceae)
         Kochia (Chenopodiaceae)
   B.   Power To Add Additional Plants To Definition: The city manager is
hereby authorized and delegated the authority and duty to determine if any
other plants, due to their unhealthy or dangerous attributes or consequences,
should be placed on the list of "weeds" as defined herein and shall put such
plants on said list if, after a hearing based on the evidence before him, it
appears that such plants do come within the meaning of the term weeds as
hereinbefore set out. (Ord. C92-7, 8-25-1992)
4-5-2: GROWTH OR ACCUMULATION:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of any occupied or unoccupied lot or tract
of land within the city to permit or maintain on any such lot or tract of land,
including the area located between the property line and the middle of the
alley adjacent to the property, and the area located between the property line
and the curb, the area of any curbs or sidewalks located on the property line
where there is no curb, any growth of weeds to a greater height than eight
inches (8"), or any accumulation of weeds. (Ord. C92-7, 8-25-1992)
4-5-3: DUTY OF OWNER, LESSEE OR OCCUPANT:
It shall be the duty of any owner of any occupied or unoccupied lot or tract of
land to cut the weeds and remove the cuttings or any accumulation of weeds to
be removed as often as necessary in order to comply with the provisions set out
in section
4-5-2 of this chapter. (Ord. C92-7, 8-25-1992)
4-5-4: METHOD OF REMOVAL:
The approved method of controlling weeds shall be mowing, cutting, digging or
other methods designed to remove the weeds but do not disturb other vegetation
or unnecessarily disturb the soil. The scraping and tillage of lots and tracts
of land is prohibited unless permission of the city manager is first obtained;
except, that scraping and tillage as part of normal construction activities or
as ground preparation for agriculture or landscaping activities shall be
allowed. The city manager shall allow scraping and tillage of lots or tracts of
land when this will not detract from or violate the clear intent and purpose of
this chapter. (Ord. C92-7, 8-25-1992)
4-5-5: NOTICE TO CUT AND REMOVE:
If the provisions of the foregoing sections regarding removal of weeds or
litter are not complied with, the city manager shall notify the owner of any
occupied or unoccupied lot or tract of land to comply with the provisions of
this chapter within ten (10) days of the dated notice. If the notification to
the owner of any such lot or tract of land cannot be determined or the owner
shall be a nonresident of the city, such notice may be served by posting a copy
of the written notice upon the premises. (Ord. C92-7, 8-25-1992)
4-5-6: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
Whenever the growth of weeds advances to a condition prohibited by this
chapter, the city manager may notify such occupant or owner to remove the same.
In default of this being done, the city may remove or cause the same to be
removed and the cost thereof shall become a lien upon the property. Said lien
shall be collected as provided by law. (Ord. C92-7, 8-25-1992)
4-5-7: EXCEPTIONS:
Any lot or tract of land within the city which has never been scraped or tilled
and left in a natural state with native vegetation shall not be considered
"weeds" as defined in section
4-5-1 of this chapter. If a lot or tract of land which has been scraped, tilled
or otherwise disturbed is successfully reseeded and replanted with native
grasses, shrubs and trees and the city is notified of such action, the city
shall not consider such reclamation efforts as weeds. (Ord. C92-7, 8-25-1992)
CHAPTER 6
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT  1
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Administration
4-6-3: Collection, Disposal Of Solid Waste
4-6-4: Storage Containers
4-6-5: Bulky Waste
4-6-6: Hazardous Waste
4-6-7: Premises To Be Kept Clean
4-6-8: Collection Vehicles
4-6-9: Disposal Of Solid Waste
4-6-10: Scavenging Storage Containers
4-6-11: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-4-2. See also subsections 4-1-3Q and R of this title.
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BULKY WASTES: Solid waste whose large size precludes or complicates their
handling by normal storage, collection or disposal.
COLLECTION: Depending on usage, means the act of removing solid waste from a
storage point or the multiple acts of removing solid waste from a storage point
and then transporting the solid waste and then the disposal of the solid waste.
DIRECTOR: The city manager or his duly qualified and appointed person in charge
of the department of sanitation or either's legal representative.
DISPOSAL: The orderly process of discarding of solid waste.
INCINERATOR: An engineered apparatus used to burn combustible material so that
all the factors of combustion, temperature, retention time, turbulence and
combustion air can be controlled.
MANUAL COLLECTION: The act of removing solid waste from storage using manpower
for the removal.
MECHANIZED COLLECTION: The act of removing solid waste from storage using
mechanized power for the removal.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, company, public or private
corporation, government agency, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, or the legal representative, agent or assign of any such entity.
SALVAGE: The planned and controlled recovery of potentially valuable solid
waste.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A controlled disposal site using engineering methods to
dispose of solid waste while protecting the environment.
SCAVENGING: The unplanned, uncontrolled recovery of solid waste.
SOLID WASTE: Useless or unwanted solid or semisolid discarded material of any
kind except sewage. Solid waste includes, but is not limited to, garbage,
rejected or waste food, offal, swill, manure, carrion, ashes, dirt, slop,
trash, rubble, vegetable and animal wastes.
STORAGE: The containment of solid waste prior to collection.
TRANSPORTATION: The movement of solid waste after collection to a disposal
site. (Ord. C66-148, 7-12-1977)
4-6-2: ADMINISTRATION:
Any solid waste storage, collection and disposal within the jurisdiction of the
city shall be supervised and approved by the director in accordance with city
ordinance and applicable state or federal laws or regulations not in conflict
or otherwise controlling. No person shall collect solid waste from a public
street, alley or other public place unless authorized by the director under
section
4-6-3 of this chapter. (Ord. C66-148, 7-12-1977)
4-6-3: COLLECTION, DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE:
The city shall provide and maintain suitable collection equipment and personnel
sufficient for the collection of solid waste generated within the city and
suitable disposal equipment and personnel and a disposal site for the disposal
of solid waste generated within the city. Collection or disposal may be
provided for areas outside the city. To provide these services, the city
council may:
   A.   Provided By City: Provide for the collection or disposal of solid waste
by the city department of sanitation; or
   B.   Contract: Enter into a contract with any person authorized to perform
collection or disposal for all or part of said collection or disposal. (Ord.
C66-148, 7-12-1977)
4-6-4: STORAGE CONTAINERS:
   A.   Required: All solid waste in the city shall be stored for collection in
the manner prescribed herein. The city shall provide containers for waste
collection. Any containers provided for owners or users of land shall become
the property of the city at the time the city provides a container for such
land. (Ord. C90-5, 4-10-1990)
   B.   Approved Containers:
      1.   Clean And Sanitary: Approved storage containers shall be covered,
flyproof, rodentproof and be kept reasonably clean and sanitary; and (Ord. C66-
148, 7-12-1977)
         a.   Capacity: Gallup joint utilities division shall determine the
standard capacity of the containers used in the city; (Ord. C66-148, 7-12-1977;
amd. 2006 Code)
         b.   Metal, Plastic: Be of lightweight galvanized metal or plastic
construction;
         c.   Handles: Have safe, usable handles;
         d.   Cover: Be provided with a usable cover; or, in lieu of
subsections B1a through B1c of this section;
         e.   Bags: Be durably closed plastic or paper bags which are not
filled so they will rupture during normal collection.
      2.   Mechanically Collected Containers: Mechanically collected containers
shall not be used unless approved by the director.
   C.   Defective Containers: Containers that have become deteriorated, badly
dented or leaky or do not have handles or are without adequate cover or having
jagged or sharp edges or that do not comply with construction or size
requirements, shall be considered defective containers.
      1.   Disposal: Defective containers are deemed solid waste and shall be
placed in collection vehicles for disposal.
      2.   Log Maintained: A log of defective containers shall be kept by the
collectors describing:
         a.   The condition of the container;
         b.   The location of the container;
         c.   The date of disposal; and
         d.   Shall be signed by two (2) department employees who observed the
condition of the container. (Ord. C66-148, 7-12-1977)
4-6-5: BULKY WASTE:
Bulky wastes which cannot normally be placed inside an approved container shall
be prepared for collection as follows:
   A.   Package Containers: Package containers shall be broken down, cut or
flattened and then placed in a container or in larger boxes or made into
bundles so that safe and easy collection can be made.
   B.   Furniture, Appliances: Discarded furniture, appliances and other bulky
waste which cannot be easily broken down shall be stored for collection in a
manner which prevents unsightliness and rodent harborage.
   C.   Tree Limbs: Tree limbs shall be cut in lengths of four feet (4') or
less and neatly stacked or bundled for safe and easy collection.
   D.   Refrigerators, Freezers 1 : Airtight containers such as refrigerators
and freezers shall be stored with the doors removed or sealed by a locking
mechanism.
   E.   Approval By Director: All bulky waste storage shall be approved by the
director. (Ord. C66-148, 7-12-1977; amd. Ord. C90-5, 4-10-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-1-2 of this code.
4-6-6: HAZARDOUS WASTE:
Hazardous waste such as toxic, radioactive, pathogenic, flammable or explosive
materials which require special handling to avoid illness or injury shall not
be stored, collected or disposed of until said storage, collection or disposal
has been approved by the director. (Ord. C66-148, 7-12-1977; amd. Ord. C90-5,
4-10-1990)
4-6-7: PREMISES TO BE KEPT CLEAN:
No person owning or using property in the city shall permit or cause to remain
on or about his property any solid waste, weeds, wastewater or any residue
thereof which emits odors or serves as a feeding or breeding place for insects
or rodents or which constitutes a public nuisance or which is injurious to
public health. This provision shall not prevent the sanitary use of manure or
compost material as a fertilizer or prevent the sanitary storage of building
materials such as lumber and pipes when otherwise allowed by law. (Ord. C66-
148, 7-12-1977)
4-6-8: COLLECTION VEHICLES:
Any person who provides collection or transportation shall have collection
vehicles which:
   A.   Are leakproof;
   B.   Have covers and are constructed in a manner which prevents the solid
waste from blowing or falling from the vehicle during the transportation
process;
   C.   Are kept reasonably clean; and
   D.   Are licensed to operate on public roads. (Ord. C66-148, 7-12-1977)
4-6-9: DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE:
   A.   Site: All solid waste collected from areas within the jurisdiction of
the city shall be transported to the northwest New Mexico regional solid waste
authority for disposal, or to such other site as may be designated by the city
council.
   B.   Burning; Incineration: Certain solid waste may be burned or incinerated
if it does not cause a hazard. None may be burned or incinerated except the
types listed below and under the conditions specified 1 .
      1.   Hazardous hospital wastes may be incinerated when done with the
approval of the director in compliance with regulations of the environmental
improvement agency.
      2.   Dry weeds may be burned if 2 :
         a.   Burning is the most feasible method of disposal;
         b.   The fire department is notified;
         c.   There is no air stagnation alert; and
         d.   The burning is supervised by a reasonable person.
      3.   Dry paper products may be burned in an incinerator of a type
approved by the building inspector when such burning is in compliance with
state air quality regulations.
      4.   No new incinerators shall be constructed and no existing
incinerators shall be rebuilt or modified without the approval of the building
inspector, the environmental improvement agency and the director.
   C.   On Public Street: Solid waste which has been deposited on a public
street or other public property shall be checked for identification. Mail or
labels bearing names and addresses found in or on said waste shall be
considered prima facie evidence of the source of generation of the solid waste
and a failure to comply with subsection A of this section. (Ord. C99-7, 10-26-
1999)
   D.   Use Of Site: Use of the city disposal site shall be subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   Dead animals shall be placed in the dead animal trench and covered
immediately.
      2.   Bricks, rocks, concrete, demolition wastes, car bodies, tree limbs,
white goods (refrigerators, washers, etc.) and tires shall be placed in the
demolition disposal site.
      3.   Household wastes, loose paper, paper products, putrescible wastes,
boxes, bottles, cans, waste food, offal and garbage shall be placed in the
garbage disposal site.
      4.   All vehicles shall observe a ten (10) miles per hour speed limit.
      5.   All wastes shall be disposed of as required by the director.
      6.   Each person using the landfill shall register with the sanitation
department by completing a registered user information sheet.
   E.   Unauthorized Use Of Landfill: Scavenging, burning, littering or using
the landfill in such a manner as to disrupt its planned operation or creating a
public nuisance or hazard to health is prohibited. (Ord. C66-148, 7-12-1977)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-6-5 of this chapter.
2 2. See section
  4-5-2 of this title.
4-6-10: SCAVENGING STORAGE CONTAINERS:
   A.   Findings:
      1.   Storage containers for solid waste often contain broken glass, toxic
substances or other material which could be harmful to persons scavenging.
      2.   Scavenging through storage containers of solid waste is a major
source of littering within the city.
   B.   Scavenging Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to scavenge,
rummage through, open or disturb the solid waste container of another on
private or public property.
   C.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of scavenging the first time within a
one year period shall be punished by a fine of no more than twenty five dollars
($25.00) or a jail sentence of no more than three (3) days. (Ord. C91-2, 9-24-
1991)
4-6-11: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter by doing anything prohibited by keeping or
maintaining anything prohibited or by failing to do or provide anything
required shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. C66-148, 7-12-1977)
CHAPTER 7
AMBULANCES
SECTION:
4-7-1: Defined
4-7-2: Standards
4-7-3: Penalty
4-7-1: DEFINED:
For the purpose of this chapter, "ambulance" shall be defined as including any
and all vehicles maintained and operated in the business of transportation of
sick and injured persons. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
4-7-2: STANDARDS:
All ambulances operated within the city shall comply with the ambulance
standards act of the state of New Mexico and all regulations thereunder. (2006
Code)
4-7-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 61-52, 10-4-1966; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 8
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Findings And Purpose
4-8-2: Definitions
4-8-3: Permissible Fireworks
4-8-4: Misuse Of Fireworks
4-8-5: Seizure And Disposition Of Contraband Fireworks
4-8-6: Declaration Of Drought Or Other Emergency
4-8-7: Public Displays
4-8-8: Sales And Storage Of Fireworks
4-8-9: Permit Required For Display And Sale
4-8-10: Use Of Permissible Fireworks
4-8-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
   A.   The use of illegal fireworks and misuse of permissible fireworks has
resulted in the disturbance of city residents, injury to animals and persons,
damage to or the destruction of personal and real property, caused increased
expenditure of city funds and use of city resources, and increased fire
insurance rates and claims for private and public entities, and generally are a
public nuisance.
   B.   The sale, possession and use of fireworks within the city shall be
prohibited and made illegal, except as provided herein and in keeping with
state law at section 60-2C-1 et seq., New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978
compilation (as revised), the state fireworks licensing and safety act, and the
provisions of the federal regulations adopted by the consumer product safety
commission and department of transportation. (Ord. 2013-10, 12-10-2013)
4-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The definitions of terms as set forth in section 60-2C-2 New Mexico
Statutes Annotated, 1978 compilation (as revised), are incorporated herein by
reference, as they now exist, or as they may be amended in the future by the
New Mexico legislature. Attached to the ordinance codified herein as an
appendix are the current state statutes applicable to this chapter. (Ord. 2013-
10, 12-10-2013)
4-8-3: PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS:
   A.   Permissible fireworks within the city shall be limited to those items
set forth in section 60-2C-7 New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978 compilation
(as revised), including aerial devices. (Ord. 2013-10, 12-10-2013)
4-8-4: MISUSE OF FIREWORKS:
   A.   Misuse of permissible fireworks is the use of the same contrary to the
manufacturer's use instructions, and by using illegal or permissible fireworks
by directing the discharge of the same at any animal, person, structure,
dwelling, vehicle, personal property, vegetation or tree, in a negligent,
reckless or intentional manner that causes injury, damage to or loss of
property due to ignition or burning caused by fireworks.
   B.   Any person in possession of illegal fireworks within the city shall be
cited into the municipal court. Conviction of possession of illegal fireworks
shall carry a penalty of a fine, no less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) and no more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), plus the imposition
by the court of up to sixteen (16) hours of community service, or both. A
person convicted under this section may be placed on probation by the court for
a period not to exceed ninety (90) days on such conditions and terms the court
deems appropriate. The court may not substitute community service for the fine
enumerated herein and a mandatory minimum fine of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) shall be imposed for violation of this section.
   C.   Any person, whose negligent, reckless, or intentional misuse of
permissible fireworks or the use of illegal fireworks that causes personal
injury to another person or damage to or loss of the personal or real property
of another person shall be cited into municipal court. Conviction under this
section shall carry a penalty of a fine, no less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) and no more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), plus the imposition
of eighty (80) hours of community service, and imposition of a period of
probation of ninety (90) days. A person convicted under this section, in
addition to the aforesaid penalties, may be ordered by the court to pay
restitution to an injured party for medical expenses and property damage upon
satisfactory proof to the court documenting said financial loss, for the actual
amount of the loss, no less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and no
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). The court may not substitute
community service for the fine enumerated herein and a mandatory minimum fine
of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be imposed for violation of this
section. (Ord. 2013-10, 12-10-2013)
4-8-5: SEIZURE AND DISPOSITION OF CONTRABAND FIREWORKS:
   A.   Illegal fireworks and misused permissible fireworks are deemed to be
contraband subject to immediate confiscation by officers of the city police and
fire departments. A person so cited may only contest the legality or misuse of
the seized fireworks by filing a written notice within ten (10) days of being
cited with the municipal court requesting a hearing to determine those issues.
A hearing shall be held by the court within ninety (90) days of the filing of
the notice. If the court determines the subject fireworks to be legal or that
no misuse occurred, then said fireworks shall be forthwith returned to the
cited person. If the court determines that the subject fireworks were illegal
or were misused, then said fireworks shall be promptly destroyed. (Ord. 2013-
10, 12-10-2013)
4-8-6: DECLARATION OF DROUGHT OR OTHER EMERGENCY:
   A.   Should the city determine that conditions exist as set forth in section
60-2C-8.1 New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978 compilation (as revised), it may
effect the limitations allowed by state law under section 60-2C-8.1 on the
possession, use, and sale of all fireworks within the city, until and unless
said conditions abate to the extent that said ban should be rescinded. Upon
rescission of any ban the usual provisions of this chapter governing the
possession, use, and sale of fireworks shall be reinstated. (Ord. 2013-10, 12-
10-2013)
4-8-7: PUBLIC DISPLAYS:
   A.   Public displays of fireworks shall comply with all provisions of
sections 60-2C-9 and 60-2C-9.1 New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978 compilation
(as revised). In addition to the terms of the aforesaid statutes and entity
desiring to conduct a public fireworks display shall apply for and be issued a
permit by the city fire chief or his designee and pay a fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) to the city clerk. The city fire chief may establish
regulations and procedures for the issuance of permits and the conduct of
public fireworks displays in accordance with this chapter. Any entity wishing
to conduct a public fireworks display shall provide to the city fire chief and
city clerk a certificate of general liability insurance coverage in an amount
of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) designating the city as a named insured
in addition to the entity staging the public display.
   B.   The entity staging or conducting a public fireworks display shall make
suitable advance arrangements for the presence of city fire department
personnel and equipment during any such display. The city may impose a
reasonable fee for the actual cost of said standby firefighting service, not to
exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). Said fee may be waived
for civic or charitable organizations under the express written authority of
the city manager.
   C.   Any fireworks which are not fired off during the public display shall
either be disposed of in a safe manner by city authorities or returned to the
display organizer in the discretion of the city fire chief. (Ord. 2013-10, 12-
10-2013)
4-8-8: SALES AND STORAGE OF FIREWORKS:
   A.   All fireworks shall be sold and stored in accordance with section 60-
2C-8 New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978 compilation (as revised). All federal
and state law and regulations governing the sale and storage of fireworks must
be strictly complied with and violations of those laws or regulations shall
subject those fireworks which are not in compliance with those provisions to be
seized and destroyed as provided by section
4-8-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-10, 12-10-2013)
4-8-9: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR DISPLAY AND SALE:
   A.   Any person intending to sell, offer to sell or store for sale any safe
and sane fireworks shall first obtain a permit by:
      1.   Filing a written application on a form approved by the fire
department which shall include the name and address of the wholesaler or jobber
selling the fireworks and by paying a fee to the city clerk in the following
amounts:
         a.   Wholesalers: Twenty five dollars ($25.00); and
         b.   Retailers: Twenty five dollars ($25.00);
      2.   Demonstrating to the satisfaction of the fire department that the
items to be handled under the permit comply with the terms and intent of this
section; and
      3.   Certifying that no person under the age of sixteen (16) years shall
be permitted by the applicant to sell or offer to sell any fireworks.
   B.   Any permit granted under this section to any person, wholesaler or
jobber shall be for a period of one year.
   C.   Any permit granted under this section to any person other than a
wholesaler or jobber shall authorize the possession of safe and sane fireworks
for the period of June 10 through July 15 of each year and the sale and display
of such fireworks for the period of June 20 through July 6 of each year, and
during other periods allowed by 60-2C-8L, New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978
compilation.
   D.   Any permit granted hereunder shall be valid only for the calendar year
in which issued and only for the premises or location for which issued. No
permit shall be transferable, assignable or automatically renewable.
   E.   It is unlawful to sell, offer to sell or give any fireworks to any
person under sixteen (16) years unless he is accompanied by a parent or
guardian. (Ord. 2013-10, 12-10-2013)
4-8-10: USE OF PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS:
The use of any permissible fireworks not prohibited by this chapter should be
confined to areas that are paved or barren or that have a readily accessible
source of water for use by the homeowner or the general public. (Ord. 2013-10,
12-10-2013)
CHAPTER 9
CLEAN INDOOR AIR
SECTION:
4-9-1: Short Title
4-9-2: Purpose
4-9-3: Definitions
4-9-4: Smoking Prohibited
4-9-5: Smoking; Permitted Areas
4-9-6: Prohibition Of Smoking Near Certain Areas
4-9-7: Responsibility Of Employers
4-9-8: Posted Smoke Free And Smoking Permitted Areas
4-9-9: Enforcement
4-9-10: Violations
4-9-11: Penalties
4-9-12: Nonretaliation; Nonwaiver
4-9-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the CITY OF GALLUP CLEAN INDOOR AIR ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 2007-09, 8-14-2007)
4-9-2: PURPOSE:
Whereas one of the duties of government is to protect the public health, safety
and welfare of its citizens, the Gallup city council recognizes environmental
tobacco smoke as detrimental to the public health and declares as the purpose
of this chapter to protect the public health and safety by prohibiting smoking
in indoor public places and indoor workplaces. (Ord. 2007-09, 8-14-2007)
4-9-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
BAR: An establishment that is devoted to the selling or serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption by patrons on the premises and in which the serving
of food is only incidental to the consumption of those beverages, including
taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges and cabarets.
CIGAR BAR: An establishment that:
         A. Is a "bar" as defined in this section; and
         B. Is engaged in the business of selling cigars for consumption by
patrons on the premises and generates ten percent (10%) or more of its total
annual gross revenue or at least ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) in annual
sales from the sale of cigars, not including any sales from vending machines. A
cigar bar that fails to generate at least ten percent (10%) of its total annual
sales from the sale of cigars in the calendar year after December 31, 2006, not
including sales from vending machines, shall not be defined as a cigar bar and
shall not thereafter be known as such regardless of sales figures. A cigar bar
shall agree to provide adequate information to demonstrate to the city of
Gallup satisfactory compliance with this definition.
DEPARTMENT: The department of health.
DESIGNATED OUTDOOR SMOKING AREA: An area where smoking may be permitted,
designated by an employer or manager, outside an indoor workplace or indoor
public place; provided that the following conditions are maintained:
         A. Smoking shall not be permitted near any building entrance,
including a door, window or ventilation system of any facility where smoking is
prohibited under the provisions of this chapter, so as to prevent secondhand
smoke from entering the indoor workplace or indoor public place; and
         B. Employees or members of the general public are not required to walk
through the smoking area to gain entrance to the indoor workplace or indoor
public place.
EMPLOYER: An individual, a partnership, a corporation or the state that employs
the services of one or more individuals and includes the city of Gallup.
ENCLOSED: Any interior space predominantly or totally bounded on all sides and
above by physical barriers, regardless of whether such barriers consist of or
include uncovered openings, screened or otherwise partially covered openings or
open or closed windows.
INDOOR PUBLIC PLACE: The enclosed area within any governmental or
nongovernmental place to which the public is invited or in which the public is
permitted regardless of whether work or public business, meetings or hearings
occur at any given time.
INDOOR WORKPLACE: Any enclosed place where one or more persons engage in work
including lobbies, reception areas, offices, conference and meeting rooms,
employee cafeterias and lunchrooms, break rooms and employee lounges,
classrooms, auditoriums, hallways, stairways, waiting areas, elevators and
restrooms and includes all indoor workplaces and enclosed parts regardless of
whether work occurs at any given time.
PRIVATE CLUB: An organization, whether incorporated or not, that is the owner,
lessee or occupant of a building or portion thereof used exclusively for the
organization's purpose at all times, that is operated solely for recreational,
fraternal, social, patriotic, political, benevolent or athletic purposes, but
not for pecuniary gain, and that only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to
its operation. The organization shall establish bylaws or a constitution to
govern its activities and shall have been granted an exemption as a club under
the provisions of section 501 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended.
RESTAURANT: A coffee shop, cafeteria, private or public school cafeteria or
eating establishment and any other eating establishment that gives or offers
for sale food to the public, patrons or employees, including kitchens and
catering facilities in which food is prepared on the premises for servicing
elsewhere or a bar area within or attached to the premises.
RETAIL TOBACCO STORE: A retail store used primarily for the sale of tobacco
products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is merely
incidental, including smoke shops, cigar shops or hookah lounges, and does not
include establishments that offer for sale alcoholic beverages for consumption
by patrons on the premises.
SECONDHAND SMOKE: Smoke emitted from lighted, smoldering or burning tobacco
when the smoker is not inhaling, smoke emitted at the mouthpiece during puff
drawing and smoke exhales by the smoker.
SMOKE FREE AREA: Any building or other enclosed space where smoking is
prohibited.
SMOKING: Inhaling, exhaling, burning, carrying or holding any lighted tobacco
product, including all types of cigarettes, cigars and pipes and any other
lighted tobacco product.
SMOKING; PERMITTED AREA: Any building or other enclosed space where smoking may
be permitted; provided that secondhand smoke does not infiltrate any area where
smoking is prohibited pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2007-09, 8-14-2007)
4-9-4: SMOKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for a person to smoke in any indoor workplace or indoor
public place or in buses, taxicabs or other means of public transit not
specifically exempted pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2007-09, 8-14-2007)
4-9-5: SMOKING; PERMITTED AREAS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, smoking permitted areas
include the following:
   A.   A private residence, except during hours of business operation while it
is being used commercially to provide childcare, adultcare or healthcare or any
combination of those activities;
   B.   A retail tobacco store;
   C.   A cigar bar;
   D.   The facilities of a tobacco manufacturing company licensed by the
United States to manufacture tobacco products that are operated by the company
in its own name and that are used exclusively by the company in its business of
manufacturing, marketing or distributing its tobacco products; provided that
smoke does not infiltrate other indoor workplaces or other indoor public places
where smoking is otherwise prohibited under this chapter;
   E.   A state licensed gaming facility, casino or bingo parlor;
   F.   An indoor workplace to the extent that tobacco smoking is an integral
part of a smoking cessation program that is approved by the department or of
medical scientific research that is conducted in the indoor workplace and in
which each room of the indoor workplace in which tobacco smoking is permitted
complies with signage requirements;
   G.   Designated outdoor smoking areas;
   H.   Private clubs;
   I.   A limousine under private hire;
   J.   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking permitted rooms; provided that not more than twenty five percent (25%)
of rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated;
   K.   Enclosed areas within restaurants, bars, hotel and motel conference or
meeting rooms while these places are being used for private functions; provided
that none of these areas are open to the general public while the private
functions are occurring and provided that smoke does not infiltrate other
indoor workplaces or indoor public places where smoking is otherwise prohibited
under this chapter;
   L.   A site that is being used in connection with the practice of cultural
or ceremonial activities by Native Americans and that is in accordance with the
federal American Indian religious freedom act, 42 USC 1996 and 1996a;
   M.   A business of a sole proprietor or a business with fewer than two (2)
employees that is not commonly accessible to the public; provided that:
      1.   The business is not a restaurant or bar;
      2.   The employer or manager of such business shall provide a smoke free
work environment for each employee requesting a smoke free work environment;
and
      3.   Cigarette smoke does not infiltrate other smoke free work
environments as provided for in this chapter; and
   N.   A theatrical stage or a motion picture or television production set
when it is necessary for performers to smoke as part of the production. (Ord.
2007-09, 8-14-2007)
4-9-6: PROHIBITION OF SMOKING NEAR CERTAIN AREAS:
Smoking is prohibited near entrances, windows and ventilation systems of all
workplaces and public places where smoking is prohibited by this chapter. An
individual who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls the use of any
premises subject to the provisions of this chapter shall establish a smoke free
area that extends a reasonable distance from any entrances, windows and
ventilation systems to any enclosed areas where smoking is prohibited. The
reasonable distance shall be a distance sufficient to ensure that persons
entering or leaving the building or facility shall not be subjected to
breathing tobacco smoke and to ensure that tobacco smoke does not enter the
building or facility through entrances, windows, ventilation systems or any
other means. (Ord. 2007-09, 8-14-2007)
4-9-7: RESPONSIBILITY OF EMPLOYERS:
   A.   Employers shall provide that their places of employment meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   B.   An employer shall adopt, implement, post and maintain a written smoking
policy pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2007-09, 8-14-2007)
4-9-8: POSTED SMOKE FREE AND SMOKING PERMITTED AREAS:
   A.   To advise persons of the existence of smoke free areas or smoking
permitted areas, signs shall be posted as follows:
      1.   For each indoor workplace or indoor public place where smoking is
prohibited pursuant to this chapter, a "NO SMOKING" sign shall be posted where
it is clear, conspicuous and easily legible at each public entrance. Posting of
"NO SMOKING" signs is the responsibility of the owner, operator, manager or
other person having control of the indoor workplace or indoor public place; and
      2.   For each indoor workplace or indoor public place where smoking is
permitted pursuant to this chapter, a "SMOKING PERMITTED" sign shall be posted
where it is clear, conspicuous and easily legible at each public entrance,
unless an owner, operator or manager chooses to prohibit smoking in all or part
of an indoor workplace or indoor public place where smoking is otherwise
permitted.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed so as to require the posting
of signs at a residence, except during the hours of business operation while it
is being used commercially to provide childcare, adultcare or healthcare or any
combination of those activities. (Ord. 2007-09, 8-14-2007)
4-9-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement of this chapter shall be by citation from the fire
department, police department and code enforcement officers.
   B.   A person may register a complaint regarding an alleged violation
pursuant to this chapter to initiate enforcement with the fire or police
department.
   C.   The designated enforcement agencies may inspect an establishment for
compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 2007-09, 8-14-2007)
4-9-10: VIOLATIONS:
It is unlawful for a person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls
the use of premises subject to regulation under this chapter to violate its
provisions. The owner, manager or operator of premises subject to regulation
shall not be subject to a penalty if a person on the premises is in violation
of this chapter as long as the owner, manager or operator has posted signs,
implemented the appropriate policy and informed the person that the person is
in violation. (Ord. 2007-09, 8-14-2007)
4-9-11: PENALTIES:
A person eighteen (18) years of age or older who violates a provision of this
chapter is subject to:
   A.   A fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first
violation;
   B.   A fine not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second
violation within any consecutive twelve (12) month period of the first
violation; and
   C.   A fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the third and
each subsequent violation within any consecutive twelve (12) month period of a
previous violation. (Ord. 2007-09, 8-14-2007)
4-9-12: NONRETALIATION; NONWAIVER:
   A.   A person or employer shall not discharge, refuse to hire or in any
manner retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment or patron
because that employee, applicant or patron exercises any rights afforded by
this chapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this chapter.
   B.   An employee who works in a setting where an employer allows smoking
does not waive or otherwise surrender any legal rights the employee may have
against the employer or any other party. (Ord. 2007-09, 8-14-2007)
CHAPTER 10
CITY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-10-1: City Abatement Of Nuisances Or Other Hazards
4-10-2: Notice Of Abatement
4-10-3: Contents Of Notice
4-10-4: Right To Hearing
4-10-5: Service Of Notice
4-10-6: Abatement By City
4-10-7: City's Costs Declared A Lien
4-10-8: Alternative Method Of Abatement
4-10-9: Severability
4-10-1: CITY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES OR OTHER HAZARDS:
Notwithstanding all the penalties for abating nuisances that may be imposed by
this title, if any person, corporation or other entity fails to abate any
nuisance or allows weeds, litter, refuse, rubbish, or abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled or inoperable motor vehicles, or any other nuisance as defined in
this title to remain on property that is determined to be hazardous to the
health, safety and welfare of the community, the city may take the action set
forth herein to abate the nuisance and charge the property owner. (Ord. 2012-6,
6-26-2012)
4-10-2: NOTICE OF ABATEMENT:
Whenever a nuisance, or other hazard is found to exist that endangers the
health, safety and welfare of the community, located within the city limits,
the city manager or other duly designated officer of the city may issue a ten
(10) day written notice to abate the nuisance to be given to the owner, his
agent or occupant of the property upon which such nuisance or hazard exists or
upon the person causing or maintaining the nuisance. (Ord. 2012-6, 6-26-2012)
4-10-3: CONTENTS OF NOTICE:
The notice to abate a nuisance shall be issued and shall contain the following:
   A.   An order to abate the nuisance within ten (10) days or a reasonable
time.
   B.   The location of the nuisance, if the nuisance is stationary.
   C.   Description of what constitutes the nuisance.
   D.   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance.
   E.   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the city will abate
such nuisance and assess the cost thereof against such person.
   F.   A statement of a right to hearing. (Ord. 2012-6, 6-26-2012)
4-10-4: RIGHT TO HEARING:
Any person receiving notice of an order to abate a nuisance may request a
hearing before the city council on such matter within one month from the date
of filing the notice. Any notice of abatement served by the city shall advise
the person allegedly committing the nuisance of his right to request a hearing
before the city council. (Ord. 2012-6, 6-26-2012)
4-10-5: SERVICE OF NOTICE:
The notice to abate a nuisance shall be served as any other legal process may
be served pursuant to law. (Ord. 2012-6, 6-26-2012)
4-10-6: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
Upon the failure of the person, upon who notice to abate a nuisance was served
pursuant to this chapter, to abate the nuisance, the designated officer of the
city shall proceed to abate such nuisance and shall prepare a statement of
costs incurred in the abatement thereof, and serve the statement of cost upon
the person. (Ord. 2012-6, 6-26-2012)
4-10-7: CITY'S COSTS DECLARED A LIEN:
Any and all costs incurred by the city in the abatement of a nuisance under
this chapter shall be a debt owed to the city, and shall constitute a lien
against the property upon which such nuisance existed, which lien shall be
filed, proven and collected as provided by law. The method for collection of
costs to the city may include, but shall not be limited to, a lien pursuant to
section 3-36-1 New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978 compilation. (Ord. 2012-6,
6-26-2012)
4-10-8: ALTERNATIVE METHOD OF ABATEMENT:
Except as provided in this chapter, an action for the abatement of a public
nuisance shall be governed by the general rules of civil procedure for the
state of New Mexico and are provided under section 30-8-8 New Mexico Statutes
Annotated, 1978 compilation.
   A.   A civil action to abate a public nuisance may be brought by verified
complaint in the name of the city without cost, by any public officer or
private citizen, in the district court of McKinley County against any person
who shall create, perform or maintain a public nuisance.
   B.   When judgment is against the defendant in an action to abate a public
nuisance, he shall be adjudged to pay all court costs and a reasonable fee for
the complainant's attorney, when the suit is not prosecuted exclusively by the
city attorney. (Ord. 2012-6, 6-26-2012)
4-10-9: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter should be held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity or
constitutionality of any other section, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter. (Ord. 2012-6, 6-26-2012)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Abandonment Of Children
5-1-2: Abandonment Of Dangerous Objects
5-1-3: Aid To An Offense
5-1-4: Assault
5-1-5: Assault Upon Peace Officer
5-1-6: Barbed Wire And Electric Fences
5-1-7: Battery
5-1-8: Billposting And Advertising
5-1-9: Concealing Identity
5-1-10: Disorderly Conduct
5-1-11: Destroying, Damaging Or Defacing Property
5-1-12: Drug Paraphernalia
5-1-13: Encouraging Delinquency
5-1-14: Escape Of Prisoners
5-1-15: Failure To Report Treatment Of Wounds
5-1-16: False Reports
5-1-17: Falsely Obtaining Services Or Accommodations
5-1-18: Gambling
5-1-19: Impersonating An Officer
5-1-20: Lewd, Immoral Or Obscene Acts
5-1-21: Library Property
5-1-22: Marijuana, Smoking In A Public Place Prohibited
5-1-23: Negligent Use Of Weapon
5-1-24: Noises, Unnecessary
5-1-25: Pedestrian Safety
5-1-26: Petty Larceny, Conversion, Embezzlement, Fraud
5-1-27: Propelling Of Missiles
5-1-28: Pseudoscientists
5-1-29: Radio Microwaves
5-1-30: Receiving Stolen Property
5-1-31: Refusing To Aid An Officer
5-1-32: Removal Of Barricades
5-1-33: Removal Of Earth
5-1-34: Resisting, Evading Or Obstructing An Officer
5-1-35: Sale, Delivery Or Gift Of Glues Or Cements To Minors
5-1-36: Solicitation (Rep. by Ord. 2018-4, 3-13-2018)
5-1-37: Shoplifting
5-1-38: Tampering With Motor Vehicle
5-1-39: Trespass
5-1-40: Unauthorized Use Of Certain Words And Insignia
5-1-41: Unauthorized Utility Connection
5-1-42: Unlawful Carrying Of Deadly Weapon
5-1-43: Unsafe Flying Practices
5-1-44: Water Flowing Upon Streets
5-1-45: Window Peeping
5-1-46: Wrongful Use Of Public Property
5-1-47: Supervision Of Minors
5-1-48: Social Hosting
5-1-49: Synthetic Intoxicants
5-1-1: ABANDONMENT OF CHILDREN:
It is unlawful for the parent, guardian or custodian of a child to
intentionally leave the child or abandon him under circumstances whereby the
child may or does suffer neglect. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-2: ABANDONMENT OF DANGEROUS OBJECTS:
   A.   Containers 1 : It is unlawful to abandon, discard or keep in any place
accessible to children any refrigerator, icebox, freezer, airtight container,
cabinet or similar container of a capacity of one and one-half (1 1/2) cubic
feet or more which is no longer in use without sealing or removing the doors or
other entrances so as to make it impossible for any child to be imprisoned
therein, or being the owner, lessee or operator of any premises to permit such
articles to remain upon such premises in a condition whereby a child may be
imprisoned therein.
   B.   Plastic Bags: It is unlawful for any person to abandon, expose, leave
in any place accessible to children or permit upon premises under his control
any plastic bag without first tearing the same sufficiently to render it no
longer dangerous to a child. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  4-6-5D of this Code.
5-1-3: AID TO AN OFFENSE:
It is unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to aid, abet, counsel,
advise or encourage any other person in the violation of a city ordinance.
(Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-4: ASSAULT:
It is unlawful for any person to commit a battery upon the person of another,
nor shall any person, by any unlawful act, threat, or menacing conduct, cause
another person to believe he is in danger of receiving an immediate battery.
(Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-5: ASSAULT UPON PEACE OFFICER 1 :
It is unlawful for any person to commit assault upon a peace officer. Assault
upon a peace officer consists of:
   A.   An attempt to commit a battery upon the person of a peace officer while
he is in the lawful discharge of his duties; or
   B.   Any unlawful act, threat or menacing conduct which causes a peace
officer while he is in the lawful discharge of his duties to reasonably believe
that he is in danger of receiving an immediate battery. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-
1982)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section
  5-1-31 of this chapter.
5-1-6: BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES:
It is unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any electric fence or to use
barbed wire in a fence or as a guard less than six feet (6') above the ground.
(Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-7: BATTERY:
It is unlawful for any person to beat, strike, wound, inflict violence or apply
force to the person of another in a rude, insolent, angry or hostile manner
except in connection with an exhibition duly authorized and licensed under law,
or in lawful self defense, or in the line of duty as a duly authorized police
officer as circumstances warrant. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-8: BILLPOSTING AND ADVERTISING:
   A.   Posting Prohibited; Exception: It shall be unlawful for any person to
paste, post, point, print or nail any handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or
notice of any kind within the city on any curbstone, flagstone or light post,
hitching post, telegraph pole, telephone post or hydrant, or upon any wall,
door, gate or fence, or other property, without the consent of the owner,
agent, board or manager of the premises; provided, that this article shall not
apply to legal notices. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964; amd. Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966)
   B.   Fraudulent Practices: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or
offer for sale any product or service in any manner so as to deceive or tend to
deceive the purchaser as to the price, nature, quality or identity thereof.
(Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964; amd. Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966; 2006 Code)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. C61-18, 3-19-1963; amd. Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964; Ord.
C61-52, 10-4-1966; 2006 Code)
5-1-9: CONCEALING IDENTITY:
It is unlawful for any person to conceal his true name or identity, or disguise
himself with intent to obstruct the due execution of the law or with intent to
intimidate, hinder or interrupt any public officer or any other person in a
legal performance of his duty or the exercise of his rights under the laws of
the United States or of this state; provided, this provision shall not be used
to deny any person's privilege against self-incrimination. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-
1982)
5-1-10: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
Disorderly conduct is unlawful. A person is guilty of disorderly conduct if he
or she:
   A.   Creates a disturbance of the public order by an act of violence or by
any act likely to produce violence; or
   B.   Engages in fighting or in violent, threatening or tumultuous behavior;
or
   C.   Makes any unreasonably loud noise; or
   D.   Addresses abusive language or threats to any person present which
creates a clear and present danger of violence; or
   E.   Causes likelihood of harm or serious inconvenience by failing to obey a
lawful order of dispersal by a police officer, where three (3) or more persons
are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity; or
   F.   Damages, befouls or disturbs public property or property of another so
as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive condition; or
   G.   Makes a telephone call with intent to annoy another, whether or not
conversation ensues; or
   H.   Disturbs, threatens or in any insolent manner, intentionally touches
any house or vehicle occupied by any person. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-11: DESTROYING, DAMAGING OR DEFACING PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully, maliciously or wantonly destroy,
damage, remove, tamper with or deface real property or improvements thereto or
personal property, either public or private. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-12: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Use Or Possession: It is unlawful for any person to use or possess with
intent to use drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the controlled
substances act 1  or successor legislation.
   B.   Deliver Or Manufacture: It is unlawful for any person to deliver,
possess with intent to deliver, or manufacture with the intent to deliver, drug
paraphernalia with knowledge or under circumstances where one reasonably should
know that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the controlled
substances act or successor legislation.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who violates this section with respect to:
      1.   Subsection A of this section shall, upon conviction, be punished by
a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00), nor more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00), or by imprisonment for a definite term of not more than
ninety (90) days, or both.
      2.   Subsection B of this section shall, upon conviction, be punished by
a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00), or by imprisonment for a definite term of not more
than ninety (90) days, or both.
   D.   Minors: Any person eighteen (18) years of age or over who violates the
provisions of subsection B of this section by delivering drug paraphernalia to
a person under eighteen (18) years of age and who is not more than three (3)
years his junior, shall be additionally charged with violation of section
5-1-13 of this chapter. (Ord. C66-228, 6-26-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 30-31-1 et seq.
5-1-13: ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY:
It is unlawful for any person to commit any act, or omit the performance of any
duty, which act or omission causes or tends to cause or encourage, any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years:
   A.   To consume any alcoholic beverage;
   B.   To commit any violation of city ordinance;
   C.   To commit any crime not amounting to a felony; or
   D.   Subject to the compulsory school attendance law, to leave school or not
attend and instead engage in any activity mentioned in subsections A through C
of this section.
This section shall not make unlawful under city ordinance any acts or omissions
which are punishable as a felony under New Mexico Statutes Annotated section
30-6-3, or successor legislation. (Ord. C66-202, 8-10-1982)
5-1-14: ESCAPE OF PRISONERS:
   A.   Escape From Jail Or Custody: It is unlawful for any person, while a
prisoner of the city or otherwise in the custody of or confined by the city, to
escape or attempt to escape from such custody or confinement.
   B.   Assisting Escape: It is unlawful for any person to assist, attempt to
assist or offer to assist any person in custody of or confined under the
authority of the city to escape from jail, place of confinement or custody.
(Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-15: FAILURE TO REPORT TREATMENT OF WOUNDS:
It is unlawful for any physician, surgeon or other practitioner of the healing
arts licensed by the state to fail to immediately report to the police
department his treatment of any person in the city for a wound inflicted by a
deadly weapon of any kind. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-16: FALSE REPORTS:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly make or file with the police
department any false, misleading or unfounded report or statement concerning
the commission or alleged commission of any crime or to knowingly give any
peace officer in the discharge of his duties any false, misleading or unfounded
information; provided, this provision shall not be used to deny any person's
privilege against self-incrimination. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-17: FALSELY OBTAINING SERVICES OR ACCOMMODATIONS:
   A.   Unlawful; Value Specified: It is unlawful for any person to obtain any
service, food, entertainment or accommodation of value of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) or less without paying therefor, and with the intent to cheat
or defraud the owner or person supplying such service, food, entertainment or
accommodation. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Arrest Without Warrant: Any law enforcement officer may arrest, without
warrant, any person he has probable cause for believing has committed the crime
of falsely obtaining "services" or "accommodations" as defined in this section.
Any merchant, owner or proprietor who causes such an arrest shall not be
criminally or civilly liable if he has actual knowledge that the person so
arrested has committed the crime of falsely obtaining services or
accommodations. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-18: GAMBLING:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to play at, run, operate or own any
game or games of chance played with dice, cards, punch boards, slot machines or
any other gambling device by whatsoever name known, for money or anything of
value. (1961 Code § 6-8-1)
   B.   Operator Of Game: Any person or the members of any organization or club
who manages, controls or banks any such game of chance, or who takes or
receives any money or thing of value, or anything representing value, for
himself, themselves or such organization or club, or for any other person from
any such game of chance to buy drinks, cards, chips or markers, or for expenses
of the game or the running of such game, or for any other like or similar
purpose shall be deemed operator of such game. (1961 Code § 6-8-2)
   C.   Public Nuisance Declared: The existence of any gaming house, gambling
tables, banking games, punch boards, slot machines, dice or any kind of
equipment of a gambling house is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and
such gambling tables and paraphernalia mentioned in this section may be ordered
destroyed by the municipal judge upon a hearing. (1961 Code § 6-8-3)
   D.   Violators Designated: Any person who is the owner or possessor of any
game mentioned in subsection C of this section or any person engaged in
operation of any such game, or knowingly supplying any such game with cards,
dice or other device, or who is in actual control as owner, lessee or otherwise
of the premises upon which any such game is run or operated, or who shall
knowingly lease premises so to be used, or who having leased such premises,
knowingly permits same to be so used, or any person who shall play at any game
of chance mentioned in subsection C of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of this code. (1961 Code § 6-8-4)
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1961 Code § 6-8-5; amd. 2006 Code)
5-1-19: IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person, other than a duly commissioned police officer,
to wear or carry the uniform, apparel, badge, identification card or other
insignia of office, the same, similar or a colorable imitation of that adopted
and worn or carried by duly commissioned police officers, unless acting in the
course of regular business and with the permission of the city or, without
authority, to exercise or attempt to exercise the functions of or pretend to be
a peace officer or judge. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-20: LEWD, IMMORAL OR OBSCENE ACTS:
The following acts are lewd, immoral, or obscene and their commission is
unlawful:
   A.   Prostitution, which means knowingly engaging in or offering to engage
in sexual penetration for hire.
   B.   Entering or remaining in a house of prostitution or any other place
where prostitution is practiced, encouraged or allowed, with intent to engage
in sexual penetration with a prostitute.
   C.   Knowingly hiring or offering to hire a prostitute to engage in sexual
penetration with the actor or another. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
   D.   In a public or semipublic place:
      1.   Appear nude or knowingly and indecently expose a person's sex organs
to public view; or
      2.   To urinate or defecate except in areas designed for such activities.
(Ord. C66-230, 7-10-1984)
   E.   As used in this section, "sexual penetration" means sexual intercourse,
cunnilingus, fellatio and intercourse, or the causing of penetration to any
extent and with any object of the genital or anal opening of another, whether
or not there is an emission, and shall include the massaging of the genitals of
another. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-21: LIBRARY PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to carry away without authority, misuse, cut,
write upon, injure, deface, tear or destroy any book, periodical, map,
newspaper or any other property devoted to public library use. (Ord. C66-194,
3-9-1982)
5-1-22: MARIJUANA, SMOKING IN A PUBLIC PLACE PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to smoke cannabis products in a public
place, except in a designated cannabis consumption area.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
 
                           All parts of the plant genus Cannabis containing a
                           delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more
                           than three-tenths percent on a dry weight basis,
CANNABIS:                  whether growing or not; the seeds of the plant; the
                           resin extracted from any part of the plant; and
                           every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
                           mixture or preparation of the plant, its seeds or
                           its resin.
                           An area on licensed premises where cannabis products
CANNABIS CONSUMPTION AREA: may legally be served and consumed pursuant to the
                           New Mexico Cannabis Regulation Act.
                           A product that is or that contains cannabis or
CANNABIS PRODUCT:          cannabis extract, including edible or topical
                           products that may also contain other ingredients.
                           A location that includes:
                           A. All enclosed public and private areas at the
                           location that are used in the business and includes
                           offices, kitchens, restrooms and storerooms;
                           B. All areas outside of a building that are
                           specifically included in the license for the
LICENSED PREMISES:         production, manufacturing, wholesale sale or retail
                           sale of cannabis products; and
                           C. With respect to a location that is specifically
                           licensed for the production of cannabis outside of a
                           building, the entire unit of land that is created by
                           subsection or partition of land that the licensee
                           owns, leases or has a right to occupy.
                           Any place to which the general public has access and
                           includes hallways, lobbies and other parts of
                           apartment houses and hotels that do not constitute
PUBLIC PLACE:              rooms or apartments designed for actual residence;
                           highways; streets; schools; places of amusement;
                           parks; playgrounds; and places used in connection
                           with public passenger transportation.
                           To inhale, exhale, burn or carry any lighted or
SMOKE:                     heated device or pipe or any other lighted or heated
                           cannabis products intended for inhalation, whether
                           natural or synthetic, in any manner or in any form.
 
   C.   Penalty: A person who violates this section shall be subject to a civil
penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00). Court costs and fees shall not be assessed.
(Ord. C66-195, 3-23-1982, eff. 4-8-1982; amd. Ord. C66-219, 12-27-1983; Ord.
C66-228, 6-26-1984; 2006 Code; Ord. C2021-3, 5-25-2021)
5-1-23: NEGLIGENT USE OF WEAPON:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Unlawful Discharge: Unlawfully discharge a firearm in the proximity of
a building or into any building, or into any building or vehicle so as to
knowingly endanger a person or his property;
   B.   Carrying While Under Influence: Carry a firearm while under the
influence of an intoxicant or narcotic; or
   C.   Negligence: Endanger the safety of another or his property by handling
or using a firearm or other deadly weapon in a negligent manner. (Ord. C66-194,
3-9-1982)
5-1-24: NOISES, UNNECESSARY:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or
cause to be made or continued, any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any
noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace or safety of others within the limits of the city. (1961 Code §
6-5-1)
   B.   Noises Constituting Violation: The following acts, among others, are
declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this
section, but said enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      1.   Horns, Signaling Devices: The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public
place of the city, except as a danger warning; the creation by means of any
such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding
of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
      2.   Radios, Phonographs: The using, operating or permitting to be
played, used or operated any radio receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound
in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring
inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient
hearing for the person or persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in
which such machine or device is operated and who are voluntary listeners
thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or
device between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00
A.M.) in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of fifty feet
(50') from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be
prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
      3.   Loudspeakers, Amplifiers For Advertising: The using, operating or
permitting to be played, used or operated any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public
streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention
of the public to any building or structure; provided, that a permit may be
issued to any person or organization by the city clerk for the use of any radio
receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or
other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound, if the city
clerk shall find that such use will not impair the public health, comfort,
convenience, safety or welfare of the city, said permit to be for a period not
to exceed five (5) days.
      4.   Yelling, Shouting: Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing
on the public streets, particularly between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., or at any time or place so as to annoy or
disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office or in any
dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
      5.   Animals, Birds: The keeping of any animal or bird, which by causing
frequent or long continuous noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any
person in the vicinity.
      6.   Steam Whistles: The blowing of any locomotive steam whistle or steam
whistle attached to any stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to
begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon the request of
proper city authorities.
      7.   Exhausts: The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat or motor
vehicle except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent
loud or explosive noises therefrom.
      8.   Defect In Vehicle Or Load: The use of any automobile, motorcycle or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
      9.   Loading, Unloading, Opening Boxes: The creation of a loud and
excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the
opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers.
      10.   Construction Or Repairing Of Buildings: The erection, including
excavating, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or other types of
construction or demolition, other than between the hours of seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on weekdays, except in case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only with a
permit from the City Clerk, which permit may be granted for a period not to
exceed three (3) days or less while the emergency continues. If the City Clerk
should determine that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the
erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or the excavation of
streets and highways within the hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. on weekdays or Sunday, and if he shall further determine
that loss or inconvenience would result to any party in interest, he may grant
permission for such work to be done within the hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on weekdays or Sunday upon application being made
at the time the permit for the work is awarded or during the progress of the
work 1 .
      11.   Schools, Courts, Churches, Hospitals: The creation of any excessive
noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or
court while the same is in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably
interferes with the workings of such institution, or which disturbs or unduly
annoys patients in the hospital; provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in
such streets indicating that the same is a school, hospital or court street.
      12.   Hawkers, Peddlers: The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and
vendors which disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
      13.   Drums: The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the
purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance, show
or sale.
      14.   Metal Rails, Pillars And Columns, Transportation: The
transportation of rails, pillars or columns of iron, steel or other material
over and along streets and other public places upon carts, drays, cars, trucks
or in any other manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or as to disturb the
peace and quiet of such streets or other public places.
      15.   Blowers: The operation of any noise creating blower or power fan or
any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the
explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or
fan is muffled and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to
deaden such noise. (1961 Code § 6-5-2)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1961 Code § 6-5-3; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  7-3-7R of this Code.
5-1-25: PEDESTRIAN SAFETY:
This section shall be known and may be cited as the PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
ORDINANCE.
   A.   Pedestrian In Roadway: No pedestrian shall stand in or enter upon a
roadway in a manner that endangers the safety of him or herself or others. A
"roadway" is a public street, road, or highway used for vehicular travel and
extending from one curb or edge of pavement to the opposite curb or edge of
pavement, including lanes commonly used for parking and including center
medians and lane dividers. Public safety personnel engaged in the lawful
performance of their duties are exempt from this section.
   B.   Obstructing Sidewalks: No person shall intentionally prevent another
person from traveling along a sidewalk by moving in such a manner as to
physically prevent the other person from traveling on the sidewalk in the
direction that he/she desires to travel and which serves no lawful purpose.
   C.   Obstructing Entrance To Buildings: No person shall lie, sit, or stand
around the entrance of a church, theater, public building or other place of
public assemblage in a manner so as to unreasonably obstruct such entrance and
which serves no lawful purpose.
   D.   Intimidating A Pedestrian: No person shall intentionally walk
alongside, behind, or in front of another person in a manner that is intended
to cause the pedestrian to fear the commission of a crime upon his/her person
and which serves no lawful purpose.
   E.   Intimidating An ATM Customer: No person shall intentionally or
knowingly engage in conduct directed at a person who is using, has just
completed using, or is waiting to use an automated teller machine that is
intended to cause the recipient to fear the commission of a crime upon his/her
person and which serves no lawful purpose.
   F.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor subject to the penalties specified in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   G.   Severability: If any part of this section is found to be invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such finding shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this section. (Ord. 2018-3, 3-
13-2018)
5-1-26: PETTY LARCENY, CONVERSION, EMBEZZLEMENT, FRAUD:
It is unlawful for any person to steal, convert, embezzle or acquire by fraud
the property of another of value of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or less,
including any money, goods, chattels, bank notes, bonds, promissory notes,
bills of exchange, other bills, orders, certificates or any books of account
for or concerning money due or to become due and to be delivered. (Ord. C66-
194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-27: PROPELLING OF MISSILES:
It is unlawful for any person to shoot, sling or throw any stone, rock or other
propellant, missile or substance in any manner as to be reasonably likely to
cause injury to any person or property. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-28: PSEUDOSCIENTISTS:
It is unlawful for any person or professor to practice the business of telling
fortunes or prediction of the future by the use of any craft, means or device,
including palmistry, phrenology, numerology, crystal gazing, cards, tea leaves,
spiritualistic seances or any and all forms of clairvoyance or prediction.
(Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-29: RADIO MICROWAVES:
   A.   Speed Check As Evidence: The speed of any motor vehicle may be checked
by the use of radio microwave or any other electrical device. The results of
such checks shall be accepted as prima facie evidence of the speed of such
motor vehicle in the Municipal Court as legal proceedings when the speed of the
motor vehicle is at issue. The driver of any such motor vehicle may be arrested
without warrant under this section; provided, the arresting officer is in
uniform or displays his badge of authority; provided further, that such officer
has observed the record of the speed of such motor vehicle by the radio
microwaves or other electrical device, or has received a radio message from the
officer who observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the radio
microwaves or other electrical device. (1961 Code § 6-13-1)
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1961 Code § 6-13-1; amd. 2006 Code)
5-1-30: RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY:
It is unlawful to buy, procure, receive or conceal anything of value of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) or less knowing the same to have been stolen,
converted, embezzled or acquired by fraud. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-31: REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to refuse to assist any peace officer in the
preservation of the peace when called upon by such officer in the name of the
United States or the State. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-32: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
It is unlawful to remove, destroy or interfere with any barrier, guard or light
placed before or in any dangerous place near the streets, sidewalks or other
public ways of the City for the purpose of warning or protecting travelers from
injury or danger; provided, that removal after the danger has ceased and
temporary removal to allow the passage of a vehicle with immediate subsequent
replacement shall not be considered unlawful. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-33: REMOVAL OF EARTH:
It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to move, distribute or take away any
earth, stone or other material from any public street, way, alley, park or
public ground. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-34: RESISTING, EVADING OR OBSTRUCTING AN OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Knowingly obstruct, resist or oppose any officer of this State or any
other duly authorized person serving or attempting to serve or execute any
process or any rule or order of any of the courts of this State or any other
judicial writ or process;
   B.   Intentionally flee, attempt to evade or evade an officer of this State
when the person committing the act of fleeing, attempting to evade or evasion
has knowledge that the officer is attempting to apprehend or arrest him;
   C.   Wilfully refuse to bring a vehicle to a stop when given a visual or
audible signal to stop, whether by hand, voice, emergency light, flashing
light, siren or other signal, by a uniformed officer in an appropriately marked
police vehicle; or
   D.   Resist or abuse any Judge, Magistrate or peace officer in the lawful
discharge of his duties. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-35: SALE, DELIVERY OR GIFT OF GLUES OR CEMENTS TO MINORS:
   A.   Prohibited Conveyance: It is unlawful to sell, offer for sale, deliver
or give to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years any glue or cement
commonly known as model airplane glue, plastic cement, household cement, cement
or any other similar substance, if such glue, cement or substance contains one
or more of the following volatile solvents: hexane, benzene, toluol, toluene,
xylene, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, ethylene dichloride, acetone,
cyclohexanonel, methyl ethyl ketone, methylisobutyl ketone, amyl acetate, butyl
acetate, ethyl acetate, tricresyl phosphate, butyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol,
isopropyl alcohol, methylcellosolve acetate, trichloroethane or ether.
   B.   Exception: The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not
apply when the glue or cement is sold, delivered or given simultaneously with
as part of a kit used for the construction of model airplanes, model boats,
model automobiles, model trains or other similar models. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-
1982)
5-1-36: SOLICITATION:
(Rep. by Ord. 2018-4, 3-13-2018)
5-1-37: SHOPLIFTING:
   A.   Acts Constituting: Shoplifting consists of any one or more of the
following acts:
      1.   Wilfully taking possession of any merchandise with the intention of
converting it without paying for it;
      2.   Wilfully concealing any merchandise with the intention of converting
it without paying for it;
      3.   Wilfully altering any label, price tag or marking upon any
merchandise with the intention of depriving the merchant of all or some part of
the value of it; or
      4.   Wilfully transferring any merchandise from the container in or on
which it is displayed to any other container with the intention of depriving
the merchant of all or some part of the value of it. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
   B.   Unlawful; Value Specified: It is unlawful and considered to be
shoplifting when the value of the merchandise shoplifted is not more than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Separate Or Additional Offense; Same Transaction: Any individual
charged with a violation of this section shall not be charged with a separate
or additional offense arising out of the same transaction.
   D.   Presumptions Created: Any person who wilfully conceals merchandise on
his person or on the person of another, or among his belongings or the
belongings of another, or on or outside the premises of the store, shall be
prima facie presumed to have concealed the merchandise with the intention of
converting it without paying for it. If any merchandise is found concealed upon
any person or among his belongings, it shall be prima facie evidence of wilful
concealment.
   E.   Reasonable Detention: If any law enforcement officer, special officer
or merchant has probable cause for believing that a person has wilfully taken
possession of any merchandise with the intention of converting it without
paying for it, or has wilfully concealed merchandise, and that he can recover
the merchandise by detaining the person or taking him into custody, the law
enforcement officer, special officer or merchant may, for the purpose of
attempting to effect a recovery of merchandise, take the person into custody
and detain him in a reasonable manner for a reasonable time. Such taking into
custody or detention shall not subject the officer or merchant to any criminal
or civil liability.
   F.   Arrest Without Warrant: Any law enforcement officer may arrest without
warrant any person he has probable cause for believing has committed the crime
of shoplifting. Any merchant who causes such an arrest shall not be criminally
or civilly liable if he has probable cause for believing the person so arrested
has committed the crime of shoplifting. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-38: TAMPERING WITH MOTOR VEHICLE:
It is unlawful for any person, not the owner or operator thereof and without
the owner's permission, to tamper, meddle or interfere with any automobile,
motorcycle or other vehicle, or to start the machinery thereof while the same
is standing still, or to puncture or otherwise deface the body or apparatus
thereof, or to take or remove property from said automobile or other motor
vehicle; or to throw, cast or hurl any stone, rock, glass or other missile at
any automobile or motor vehicle or the occupants thereof. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-
1982)
5-1-39: TRESPASS:
It is unlawful to commit a trespass on private or public property. "Trespass",
for the purpose of this chapter, shall mean:
   A.   Entering upon or refusing to leave any property of another, either
where such property has been posted with "no trespassing" signs, or where prior
to such entry, or subsequent thereto, notice is given by the owner or occupant,
orally or in writing, that such entry or continued presence is prohibited.
   B.   Entering upon or refusing to leave any public property in violation of
regulations promulgated by the official charged with the security, care or
maintenance of the property and approved by the governing body of the public
agency owning the property, where such regulations have been conspicuously
posted or where prior to such entry, or subsequent thereto, such regulations
are made known by the official charged with the security, care or maintenance
of the property, his agent or a police officer. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-40: UNAUTHORIZED USE OF CERTAIN WORDS AND INSIGNIA:
It is unlawful to display on any vehicle or sign, without authority of the
city, the words "Police", "Police Department", or words or insignia of similar
import, whose design or form is such that it appears to be an official vehicle
or sign of the fire or police departments of the city; provided, that nothing
contained herein shall apply to any state or county vehicle. (Ord. C66-194, 3-
9-1982)
5-1-41: UNAUTHORIZED UTILITY CONNECTION:
It is unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made any splice or tap to
or connection of any kind with any cable, wire, pipe or other service line or
property of any utility operated by the city or of any person operating in the
streets, alleys and other public ways of the city under franchise or other
authority granted by the city without first obtaining the consent of such
utility, person, firm or corporation. Each day such unlawful splice, tap or
connection exists shall be a separate offense. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-42: UNLAWFUL CARRYING OF DEADLY WEAPON:
   A.   Defined: "Carry a weapon" means to be armed with a weapon by having it
on the person, or in close proximity thereto, so that the weapon is readily
accessible for use.
   B.   Exception: It is unlawful for any person to carry a concealed loaded
firearm or any other type of deadly weapon anywhere, except in the following
cases:
      1.   In the person's residence or on real property belonging to him as
owner, lessee, tenant or licensee;
      2.   In a private automobile or other private means of conveyance for
lawful protection of the person or another person or property; or
      3.   By a peace officer in the lawful discharge of his duties.
   C.   Unloaded Firearm: Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent
the carrying of any unloaded firearm. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-43: UNSAFE FLYING PRACTICES 1 :
A. Imperiling Property: No pilot or operator of any aircraft shall so operate
such aircraft in such a manner as to imperil the safety of the inhabitants of
the city, or to imperil property within the city. (1961 Code § 6-6-1)
   B.   Height Of Flying: Anyone operating or piloting any aircraft over the
city at a height of less than five hundred feet (500') above the housetops
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1961 Code § 6-6-2; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Stunt Flying: Anyone operating or piloting any aircraft over the city
in a reckless manner, or cavorting the same into spirals, loops, tailspins or
other such actions commonly called stunt flying shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1961 Code § 6-6-3; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 7, chapter 5 of this code for airport regulations.
5-1-44: WATER FLOWING UPON STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to allow any water to flow into or upon any
public thoroughfare. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-45: WINDOW PEEPING:
It is unlawful for any person to enter upon any private property and look, peer
or peep into or be found around or within the view of any window or other means
of viewing into any occupied building, other than his own residence, with the
intent of observing a person or persons undressed, dressing or undressing or
engaging in sexual acts. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-46: WRONGFUL USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to commit unlawful use of public property by
knowingly entering any public property without permission of the lawful
custodian or his representative when the public property is not open to the
public, or remaining in or occupying any public property after having been
requested to leave by the lawful custodian, or his representative, who has
determined that the public property is being used or occupied contrary to its
intended or customary use or that the public property may be damaged or
destroyed by the use. (Ord. C66-194, 3-9-1982)
5-1-47: SUPERVISION OF MINORS:
   A.   Proper Adult Supervision Required: Parent and child responsibility
should be encouraged to limit activity which endangers the public health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of Gallup, New Mexico, and therefore proper
adult supervision of minor children should be required.
   B.   Curfew For Minors In Commercial Areas: Minor children under the age of
twelve (12) years shall not be unsupervised in any public or private commercial
area within the city of Gallup after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Minor children
from the age of twelve (12) years up to the age of fifteen (15) years shall not
be unsupervised in any public or private commercial area within the city of
Gallup after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. Minor children from the age of fifteen
(15) years to under the age of eighteen (18) years shall not be unsupervised in
any public or private commercial area within the city of Gallup after twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight.
   C.   Detainment Of Unsupervised Minors: The city of Gallup police department
is hereby authorized to detain any minor child found unsupervised in any public
or private commercial area within the city of Gallup and to notify the parent,
legal guardian, or adult custodian to immediately come to the location where
the subject child is found or to the Gallup police department public safety
building to take possession of the child and return them to their home. If no
parent, legal guardian, or adult custodian of the subject child can be
contacted within a reasonable period of time the Gallup police shall inform the
state children, youth and families department and turn the child over to said
agency.
   D.   Offenses: Any parent, legal guardian, or adult custodian of an
unsupervised minor child found to be in violation of this section shall for a
first offense be issued a warning citation. For second and subsequent offenses
the parent, legal guardian, or adult custodian shall be summoned into municipal
court and if found guilty of violation of this section be fined an amount not
to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). In addition to any fine and court
costs imposed by the municipal court, the court may refer the subject family to
the state department of children, youth and families for such action as that
agency deems proper.
   E.   Compliance With Probationary Orders: The municipal court may order the
subject child, parent, legal guardian, or adult custodian, as a condition of
probation, which shall not exceed ninety (90) days, to engage in approved
family or individual counseling, such as parenting classes. Should any person
fail to comply with counseling or other probationary orders of the municipal
court, the court may enforce such orders by the use of its powers of contempt,
after notice and hearing.
   F.   Warning Citation On File: When a warning citation is issued to any
parent, legal guardian, or adult custodian who fails to comply with this
section it shall be maintained on file with the municipal court for a period of
five (5) years.
   G.   Penalty Provisions: The penalty for a subsequent violation shall be a
fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) and/or ninety (90) days
probation upon such conditions the court deems fit.
   H.   Definition: "Supervision" is defined as being in the actual physical
presence of the subject minor child.
   I.   Exemptions: Exemptions from prosecution are when the subject minor
child is: 1) within their private residential dwelling or yard thereof; 2) in a
hotel or motel room rented to the parent, legal guardian, or adult custodian of
the subject child and said adult is physically present in said room; 3) in a
group of minor children at an organized sponsored school, recreational, or
religious activity and some responsible adult is monitoring said activity or;
4) gainfully employed on the premises of a private commercial business.
   J.   Affirmative Defense: A parent, legal guardian, or adult custodian may
assert as an affirmative defense to prosecution hereunder that the subject
child wilfully and intentionally left the physical proximity of said adult or
wilfully and intentionally disobeyed the express instructions of said adult to
remain at an exempt location or participate in an exempt activity. (Ord. 2008-
6, 12-9-2008)
5-1-48: SOCIAL HOSTING:
   A.   Definitions: The following terms shall have the following meanings:
   ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains one-
half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage
purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other
substances.
   DRUG: A drug or substance listed in schedules I through V of the controlled
substance act of the state of New Mexico.
   LOUD OR UNRULY GATHERING: A party or gathering of two (2) or more persons at
or on a residence, other private property, or public property where a license
for it has not been obtained upon which loud or unruly conduct occurs. A loud
or unruly gathering shall constitute a public nuisance. Loud or unruly conduct
includes, without limitation:
   1. Excessive noise;
   2. Excessive traffic;
   3. Obstruction of public streets or crowds that have spilled into public
streets;
   4. Public drunkenness or unlawful public consumption of alcohol or alcoholic
beverages;
   5. Service to or consumption of alcohol or alcoholic beverages by any
underage person, except as permitted by law;
   6. Consumption of drugs contrary to the laws of the state of New Mexico;
   7. Assaults, batteries, fights, domestic violence or other disturbances of
the peace;
   8. Vandalism;
   9. Litter; and
   10. Any other conduct which constitutes a threat to public health, safety,
quiet enjoyments of residential property or general welfare.
   RESIDENCE OR OTHER PRIVATE PROPERTY: A home, yard, apartment, condominium,
hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting room, whether
occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling,
party or other social function, and whether owned, leased, rented, or used with
or without compensation.
   RESPONSE COSTS: The costs associated with responses by law enforcement, fire
and other emergency response providers to loud or unruly gatherings, including,
but not limited to:
   1. Salaries and benefits of law enforcement, fire or other emergency
response personnel for the amount of time spent responding to, remaining at, or
otherwise dealing with loud or unruly gatherings, and the administrative costs
attributable to such response(s).
   2. The cost of any medical treatment to or for any law enforcement, fire or
other emergency response personnel injured responding to, remaining at or
leaving the scene of a loud or unruly gathering;
   3. The cost of repairing any city equipment or property damaged, and the
cost of the use of any such equipment, in responding to, remaining at or
leaving the scene of a loud or unruly gathering.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON/HOST: A person or persons with a right of possession in
the residence, other private property or public property on which a loud or
unruly gathering is conducted, including, without limitation:
         1. An owner of the residence or other private property;
         2. A tenant or lessee of the residence or other private property;
         3. The landlord of another person responsible for the gathering;
         4. The person(s) in charge of the residence or other private property;
and
         5. The person(s) who organizes, supervises, officiates, conducts or
controls the gathering or any other person(s) accepting responsibility for such
a gathering.
   UNDERAGE PERSON: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
   B.   Responsibility:
      1.   Every owner, occupant, lessee, licensee or holder of any possessory
interest of a residence, other private or public property within the city of
Gallup is required to maintain, manage and supervise the property and all
persons thereon in a manner so as not to violate the provisions of this
section. The host remains liable for such violations regardless of any contract
or agreement with any third party regarding the property.
      2.   The host shall not conduct, aid, allow, permit or condone a loud or
unruly gathering at a residence or other private property.
      3.   If the host of the gathering is under the age of eighteen (18), then
his/her parents or guardians and the person under the age of eighteen (18) are
jointly and severally liable for the response costs incurred pursuant to this
section.
      4.   To incur liability for response costs imposed by this section, the
host of the loud or unruly gathering need not be present at such gathering
resulting in the response giving rise to the imposition of response costs. This
section therefore imposes vicarious as well as direct liability upon a
responsible person.
   C.   Warning Issued:
      1.   When a law enforcement, fire or other emergency response provider
official makes an initial response to a loud or unruly gathering at a residence
or other private or public property within the city of Gallup, the official
shall inform any responsible person(s) for the gathering at the scene that:
         a.   The official has determined that a loud or unruly gathering
exists; and
         b.   Hosts will be charged for any response costs required for
subsequent responses to the scene for a loud or unruly gathering within a
twelve (12) month period. Only one warning will be given to a host pursuant to
this section before the city of Gallup assesses response costs. If a host
cannot be identified at the scene, the official may subsequently return to the
premises and issue the warning to a then present host. Warnings given to a host
who does not reside at the premises in question shall be delivered by certified
mail.
         c.   A warning given pursuant to this section shall remain in effect
for the premises at a given address until a full twelve (12) month period has
elapsed during which there have been no responses to a loud or unruly gathering
at that premises.
   D.   Recover Of Response Costs:
      1.   When a law enforcement, fire or other emergency response provider
responds to a loud or unruly gathering at a premises within the city within a
twelve (12) month period of a warning given to a host for a loud or unruly
gathering, all responsible persons shall be jointly and severally liable for
the city's costs of providing response and for all subsequent responses during
the warning period according to the schedule of cost for recovery established
by the police department. The cost recovery schedule shall be available at the
city's police department and at the city clerk's office.
   E.   Billing And Collection:
      1.   The amount of response costs shall be deemed a debt owed to the city
of Gallup by the host responsible for the loud or unruly gathering. Notice of
the costs for which the host is liable shall be mailed via certified mail
within fourteen (14) days of the response giving rise to such costs. The notice
shall contain the following information:
         a.   The name of the person(s) being held liable for the payment of
such costs;
         b.   The premises address of the loud or unruly gathering;
         c.   The date and time of the response;
         d.   The law enforcement, fire or emergency service provider who
responded;
         e.   The date and time of any previous warning given pursuant to this
section and/or previous warning given pursuant to this section and/or previous
responses to loud or unruly gatherings at the residence or other private
property in question within the previous twelve (12) months; and
         f.   The recovery cost assessed as set forth in the cost recovery
schedule.
      2.   The host shall remit payment of the notice response cost to the city
of Gallup within thirty (30) days of the date of the notice.
   F.   Reservation Of Legal Options: Nothing in this section shall be
construed as a waiver by the city of Gallup of any right to seek reimbursement
for actual costs of response services through other legal remedies or
procedures. The procedures provided for in this section are in addition to any
other statute, ordinance or law, civil or criminal. This section in no way
limits the authority of peace officers or private citizens to make arrests for
any criminal offense arising out of conduct regulated by this section.
   G.   Appeals: Any person upon whom is imposed response costs shall have the
right to petition district court for writ of certiorari pursuant to rule 1-075
NMRA. (Ord. 2011-7, 12-13-2011, eff. 1-13-2012)
5-1-49: SYNTHETIC INTOXICANTS:
   A.   Short Title: This section shall be known and may be cited as SYNTHETIC
INTOXICANT ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose And Intent:
      1.   A product commonly referred to as "spice" is sold by local
businesses. Spice typically appears as a packaged dried plant product or
leaves, and is sold at gas stations, liquor stores, convenience stores, smoke
shops and other outlets. While spice sometimes has a label warning against
human consumption, that is its intended use. Businesses that sell spice openly
solicit the product by claiming that, when smoked, spice causes a marijuana
like high. Spice is a green leafy product sprayed with synthetic substances
that mimic the effects of marijuana when smoked. Spice is marketed under
numerous brand names, including spice, spice silver, spice gold, spice diamond,
spice tropical synergy, spice artic synergy, spice gold spirit, PEP spice,
PEPpourri, K2, genie, Yucatan fire dream, ex-ses, blaze, spike 99, spark,
fusion, magma, hard core, and deliverance, as well as other names.
      2.   The use of substituted cathinones, commonly called "bath salts", has
significantly increased throughout the United States and the United States drug
enforcement administration (DEA) used its emergency scheduling authority to
temporarily control mephedrone, methylenedioxypyrovalerone (MDPV), methylone,
and other chemical compounds found in "bath salts" finding that ingestion of
these substances can cause serious injury and death. The city council also
finds that death and serious injury can be caused by bath salts.
      3.   Spice and bath salts are synthetic intoxicants that endanger the
public. While distribution of these products is a violation of state law,
available penalties do not appear to adequately deter vendors because the
profitability from the sale of these products may outweigh the risks associated
with prosecution. Manufacturers and vendors of synthetic intoxicants change the
names, labeling, or chemical composition of the products to avoid prosecution.
Consumers, including minors, quickly learn the name of the new mock substance
by word of mouth or on the internet. Businesses that distribute synthetic
intoxicants create a public nuisance in the city as defined by state law and
city ordinances.
      4.   Emergency room physicians report that users of these products
experience serious side effects, including convulsions, anxiety, dangerously
elevated heart rates, increase blood pressure, vomiting, and disorientation.
According to the February 8, 2012, date from the American Association Of Poison
Control Centers, in one year there has been a greater than two (2) fold
increase in the number of calls about exposure to synthetic intoxicants.
      5.   Field testing technology is inadequate in many cases and the
products being sold to the public have been seized from the vendor and lab
tested. Lab testing is costly and time consuming. If a particular brand name
product is determined to be an illegal substance, that substance will often be
repackaged or relabeled by the time the police return to the business. This
subterfuge wastes police resources and further endangers the public.
      6.   Synthetic intoxicants tend to avoid drug testing methods used to
determine whether a person has consumed a controlled substance. Some of the
most dangerous consumers, those prohibited from consumption of illicit drugs or
alcohol by court orders or terms of probation, gravitate toward these products
because they are difficult to detect or undetectable.
      7.   Synthetic intoxicants endanger the health and safety of the
community. This section is remedial, promulgated pursuant to the city's home
rule authority.
   C.   Definitions:
   BATH SALTS: The substance defined by New Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978
section 30-31-6C(20) - (25) and the addition of substances by state regulation,
including, but not limited to, 16.19.20 New Mexico administrative code, section
65 as amended from time to time.
   BUSINESS: The premises, whether it be a main business location or an outlet,
branch or other location thereof, temporary or otherwise, to which the public
is expressly or impliedly invited for the purpose of transacting business. The
term "business" includes the salespersons on site.
   BUSINESS DAY: Regular business hours Monday through Friday. The day the
business receives a cease and desist order and notice of violation does not
count as a business day. If the business has irregular hours or the hours are
not posted, a business day shall be the next two (2) full twenty four (24) hour
weekdays after receipt of a cease and desist order and notice of violation.
   BUSINESS OPERATOR: The person or persons on site at the business in actual
or apparent control of the business during business hours.
   BUSINESS REGISTRATION: The privilege to register to do business and the
registration of a business as set out in city ordinance.
   CEASE AND DESIST ORDER AND NOTICE OF VIOLATION: Documentation delivered to
the business operator ordering the business closed for inspection and testing.
   FINAL CEASE AND DESIST ORDER AND NOTICE OF VIOLATION: A cease and desist
order and notice of violation that was not appealed or was affirmed by a
hearing officer or court.
   LEGAL HOLIDAYS: The days as determined by federal and state governmental
bodies.
   MAYOR: The mayor of the city of Gallup or any person with authority from the
mayor to enforce this section. The term includes, without limitation, the
mayor's agents, the city manager, and any city employee authorized by law to
commence a criminal action in the magistrate court.
   PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   POLICE OFFICER: A sworn member of the Gallup police department, the McKinley
County sheriff's office or the New Mexico state police.
   SALESPERSON: Any agent or independent contractor of the business employed or
engaged to transact business with the public on the premises.
   SPICE: A synthetic cannabinoid as defined by New Mexico Statutes Annotated
1978, section 30-31-6 (2011), or substances added to the definition of a
synthetic cannabinoid by state regulation, including, but not limited to,
16.19.20 New Mexico administrative code, section 65 as amended from time to
time.
   SYNTHETIC INTOXICANT: Bath salts or spice.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A BUSINESS: 1. The sale, lease, or
sublease of the business;
         2. The transfer of securities that constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
         3. The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
that transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
   D.   Violation: It is a violation of this section for a business to
manufacture, stock, sell, distribute, dispense, possess, purchase, advertise
for sale, publicly display for sale, give, trade, offer to sell, order, or
offer to order a synthetic intoxicant.
   E.   Enforcement:
      1.   If the mayor or a police officer has probable cause to believe a
violation has occurred, the mayor or the police officer shall obtain a sample
of the substance believed to be a synthetic intoxicant. The sample shall be
tested by methods commonly utilized by law enforcement labs to determine
whether a substance is a synthetic intoxicant. If the test determines that the
substance is a synthetic intoxicant, the mayor or the police officer shall
issue and deliver a cease and desist order and notice of violation upon the
business operator and seize the entire inventory of the synthetic intoxicant
from the business. The cease and desist order and notice of violation shall be
filed with the city clerk. When the cease and desist order and notice of
violation is delivered to the business, if the mayor or a police officer has
probable cause to believe that the synthetic intoxicant has been relabeled,
repackaged or incorporated into other substances, those substances shall also
be seized and tested. If the test is negative, the inventory shall be returned
to the business. The transfer of ownership or control of the business does not
avoid the seizure authorized by this subsection.
      2.   Upon receipt of the cease and desist order and notice of violation
by the business operator, the business shall immediately allow and not
interfere with the seizure of the inventory which is a synthetic intoxicant or
is reasonably believed to be a synthetic intoxicant that has been relabeled,
repackaged or incorporated into other substances.
      3.   If a business is assessed a second final cease and desist order and
notice of violation within five (5) years of a first final cease and desist
order and notice of violation, the business shall close and cease transacting
business for three (3) business days after the second final cease and desist
order and notice of violation is assessed. During the three (3) day closure,
the mayor or a police officer, in cooperation with other agencies if required,
shall inspect the premises, find and seize any remaining synthetic intoxicants
or precursor chemicals or materials on site. The transfer of ownership or
control of the business does not avoid the process authorized by this
subsection. No inventory, merchandise, personal property, chattel property or
other property shall be received by or taken off the business premises during
closure unless authorized by a police officer or the mayor.
      4.   If a business is assessed a third final cease and desist order and
notice of violation within five (5) years of a second final cease and desist
order and notice of violation, the business shall cease conducting business in
the city and will be barred from business registration for a period of one year
from the date the third final cease and desist order and notice of violation is
assessed. The transfer of ownership or control of the business does not avoid
the operation of this subsection.
      5.   The city of Gallup shall have the authority to seek an injunction to
compel compliance with this section on grounds that the business is causing
irreparable harm to the community by distributing synthetic intoxicants.
   F.   Appeal:
      1.   Upon delivery of a cease and desist order and notice of violation,
the business has ten (10) days to appeal to a hearing officer under this code.
      2.   The decision of the hearing officer may be appealed to a court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2013-2, 3-26-2013)
CHAPTER 2
PROTECTIVE CUSTODY
SECTION:
5-2-1: Intoxicated Persons; Extension Of Protective Custody
5-2-1: INTOXICATED PERSONS; EXTENSION OF PROTECTIVE CUSTODY:
An intoxicated person may be held in protective custody up to a maximum of
seventy two (72) hours from the time of his arrival at the jail, provided:
   A.   Certification By Physician: Within twenty four (24) hours of the
original custody, a licensed physician or a physician's assistant or registered
nurse functioning directly under standards established by a licensed physician,
certifies that extension of the term of protective custody up to a maximum of
seventy two (72) hours is in the best medical interest of the person in
protective custody; and
   B.   Facility: Upon certification according to subsection A of this section,
the intoxicated person may be retained in protective custody only in a
"detoxification facility" or "regional alcoholism treatment center" as defined
in New Mexico Statutes Annotated for the remainder of the seventy two (72)
hours. (Ord. C92-3, 3-10-1992; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Release; Alcohol Concentration: In no event shall an intoxicated person
held in protective custody be released until the alcohol concentration in the
person's blood or breath is less than 0.05. (Ord. C94-1, 1-11-1994)
CHAPTER 3
GALLUP-METRO ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Short Title
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Rules And Regulations
5-3-4: Procedures For Complaints
5-3-5: Procedure For City Manager And Animal Protection Officers
5-3-6: Waiver
5-3-7: Fees, Permits And Licenses
5-3-8: City Animal Protection Facilities
5-3-9: Impounding Animals
5-3-10: Seizure And Disposition Of Animals
5-3-11: Retention Of Strays Or Owner Surrendered Animals
5-3-12: General Provisions
5-3-13: Shelter-Refuge-Professional Animal Permit And Hobby Breeder Permit
5-3-14: Pet Store
5-3-15: Guard Dog Site
5-3-16: Litter Permit
5-3-17: Reduced Cost Spay And Neuter Program
5-3-18: Discount Spay Or Neuter Certificates
5-3-19: Adoption Of Dogs And Cats
5-3-20: Animals Biting Persons
5-3-21: Animal License
5-3-22: Number Of Animals Allowed
5-3-23: Multiple Animal Site Permit
5-3-24: Restraint Of Dogs
5-3-25: Vaccinations
5-3-26: Abandonment
5-3-27: Admission Of Qualified Assistance Animals To Public Places
5-3-28: Animals Disturbing The Peace
5-3-29: Animals Killing Or Injuring Livestock Or Protected Wildlife
5-3-30: Dogs Or Livestock On Unenclosed Properties
5-3-31: Animal Poisoning
5-3-32: Dogs Or Livestock Running At Large
5-3-33: Injury To Animals By Motorists
5-3-34: Animals Transported In Vehicles
5-3-35: Animal Waste
5-3-36: Breaking Into Animal Protection Facilities Or Vehicles
5-3-37: Care And Maintenance
5-3-38: Confinement Of Female Dogs Or Cats In Mating Season
5-3-39: Concealment Of Animal
5-3-40: Fights
5-3-41: Fowl; Impounding Or Crating
5-3-42: Interference With The Animal Protection Officer In The Performance Of
His Duties
5-3-43: Keeping A Seriously Sick Or Injured Animal
5-3-44: Keeping Domesticated Livestock And Fowl
5-3-45: Sale And Display Of Animals
5-3-46: Sterilization Agreements/Contracts
5-3-47: Unlawful Use Of Rabies Tag
5-3-48: Improper Disposal Of Animals
5-3-49: Vicious Animals
5-3-50: Dangerous Animals
5-3-51: Wild Animals; Canine Hybrids; Vietnamese Potbellied Pigs
5-3-51-1: Wild Animals
5-3-51-2: Canine Hybrids
5-3-51-3: Vietnamese Potbellied Pigs Or Potbellied Pigs
5-3-52: Penalties
5-3-52-1: Penalty
5-3-52-2: Suspensions, Revocations Of Permits
5-3-52-3: Appeal Procedures For Permit Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Or
Determination That An Animal Is Dangerous Or Vicious
5-3-52-4: Severability Clause
5-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the GALLUP-METRO ANIMAL
ORDINANCE.
It is the intent of the city council that enactment of this chapter will
protect animals from neglect and abuse, will protect residents from annoyance
and injury, will encourage responsible ownership of animals as pets, will
assist in providing housing for animals in an adoption center and will
partially finance the animal control division's functions of adopting, housing,
licensing, enforcement and recovery. It is the intent of the city council to
organize and utilize advisory groups to assist with improving public awareness
about subjects pertaining to the enactment of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-
13-2012)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
ABANDON: To leave an animal for more than twenty four (24) hours without making
effective provisions for its proper feeding and care.
ANIMAL: Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom except humans.
ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA: Equipment that any reasonable person would
ascertain is used for animal fighting purposes which includes, but is not
limited to:
   A. Instruments designed to be attached to the leg of a bird, such as boxing
gloves, knife, gaff, or other sharp instrument;
   B. Items to train and condition animals to fight including, but not limited
to, hides or other material used as hanging devices to strengthen and/or
condition dogs, wooden sticks or handles used to pry open dog's jaws,
performance enhancing drugs or substances, or food or water additives; and
   C. The presence of any animal that appears to be a fighting animal alone or
together with animals suspected of being used as bait animals including, but
not limited to, rabbits, cats, and other dogs.
ANIMAL PROTECTION: The staff, facility, programs, kennels, lot, premises, and
buildings maintained by the city for the implementation of the protection and
care of animals.
ANIMAL PROTECTION OFFICER: A city of Gallup animal protection officer or
supervisor.
BAIT ANIMAL: An animal used to train and/or condition other animals to fight
and includes, but is not limited to, dogs, cats, and rabbits exposed to attack
by other animals used or trained to be used in fighting or to make the
attacking animal more confident and aggressive.
BITE: An actual puncture or tear of the skin inflicted by the teeth of an
animal.
BONA FIDE ANIMAL SHOW: Includes events sanctioned by organizations such as the
American Kennel Club (AKC) or North American Dog Agility Council (NADAC),
generally organized by local clubs, and including conformation events or
performance events such as obedience, agility, and tracking.
BREEDING: Permitting, either intentionally or unintentionally, a female dog or
cat to produce offspring.
CANINE HYBRID:
   A.   Any canine which has or had a pure wolf or pure coyote as a parent or
grandparent; or
   B.   An animal represented by its owner to an animal protection officer, law
enforcement officer, or to a veterinarian to be the offspring, cross, mix, or
hybrid of a wolf or coyote within the preceding two (2) generations.
CITY: The area within the jurisdictional boundaries of the city of Gallup,
including privately owned land, excluding the area within the jurisdiction of
the United States government or the state of New Mexico.
CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city of Gallup or his designated
representative(s).
CONFINEMENT: Detainment or isolation of an animal.
COUNCIL: The mayor and city councilors.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any of the following:
         A. An animal which, when unprovoked, engages in behavior that requires
a defensive action by a person to prevent bodily injury to a person or another
animal which is off the property of the owner of the animal in question.
         B. An animal which, when unprovoked, injures a person in a manner
which does not result in muscle tears or disfiguring lacerations, or require
extensive corrective or cosmetic surgery.
         C. An animal which, because of its poisonous sting or bite, would
constitute a significant hazard to the public.
DESIGNEE OR DESIGNATED REPRESENTATIVE: The Animal Protection Supervisor or
other appropriate staff.
ENCLOSED: A parcel of land completely surrounded at the perimeter by a wall or
fence of sufficient height and strength to contain animals within, or by an
electric or invisible fencing that has been approved by the City Manager.
ESTABLISHMENT: A place of business together with its grounds and equipment.
FINDER: A person that takes a stray animal into his/her possession.
FOWL: Turkeys, geese, ducks, guineas, chickens and all other domesticated fowl.
GROOMING PARLOR: An establishment or part thereof maintained for the purposes
of performing cosmetological services for animals.
GUARD DOG: A dog that is used to protect a commercial property, but excludes a
dog used exclusively to guard livestock.
HOBBY BREEDER SITE: A noncommercial animal facility or premises operated by a
person involved in voluntary or involuntary breeding of dogs or cats and the
resultant offspring are not sold for resale to commercial outlets or for the
purpose of research, testing, or laboratory experimentation.
HOUSEHOLD: The collection of individuals, related or not, who reside at one
street address.
KENNEL: A commercial establishment operating for intended profit where dogs or
cats are boarded, kept, or maintained.
KENNEL AREA: A secure space within which an animal is housed that is of
sufficient height and strength to contain the animal within and provide
sufficient room for the animal to comfortably move around within the structure.
This includes all area available to the animal during a twenty four (24) hour
period.
LICENSED VETERINARIAN: An individual with a doctor of veterinary medicine
degree who is licensed to practice in the State.
LIVESTOCK: Horses, cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, rabbits, fowl, or any other
domestic animals typically used in the production of food, fiber, or other
products or activities defined by the City Manager as agricultural.
LOT: A parcel or plot of ground with common ownership. To be one lot all the
ground contained within said plot or parcel must be contiguous.
MULTIPLE ANIMAL SITE PERMIT: Permit issued to an individual/household who does
not qualify as a shelter, refuge, professional animal establishment, or hobby
breeder but who wishes to keep dogs or cats in excess of the maximum allowed
under this title.
OWNER: A person eighteen (18) years of age or older or the parent or guardian
of a person under eighteen (18) years of age who owns, harbors, keeps an
animal, has one in his care, or permits an animal to remain on or about the
premises owned or controlled by him.
PERMITTED PREMISES: The establishment, household, property or site for which a
valid permit has been issued by the City for use as a kennel, grooming parlor,
pet shop, refuge, shelter, hobby breeder site or multiple animal site.
PERSON: An individual, household, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
society, association or legal entity, and every officer, agent or employee
thereof.
PET SHOP: Any premises, or part thereof, open to the public which engages in
the purchase, sale, exchange or hire of animals of any type, except the term
shall not apply to premises used exclusively for the sale of livestock.
PREMISES: A parcel of land and the structures thereon.
PROFESSIONAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT: Any kennel, grooming parlor, or pet shop,
with the exception of State inspected veterinary hospitals and Federally
inspected laboratory facilities and zoos.
QUALIFIED ASSISTANCE ANIMAL: An animal recognized as a service animal pursuant
to the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990 or the New Mexico Service Animal
Act. A service animal is any dog or miniature horse that is individually
trained to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a
disability, including a physical, sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or other
mental disability. Other species of animals, whether wild or domestic, trained
or untrained, are not considered service animals. Emotional support animals,
comfort animals or therapy animals are not considered service animals and are
not protected under the New Mexico Service Animal Act or the Americans With
Disabilities Act.
QUARANTINE: Detention or isolation of an animal in order to observe for rabies
or other communicable diseases.
REFUGE: An establishment owned or operated by a nonprofit organization whose
sole function is to aid and comfort more than four (4) animals, and where
animals are not bred.
RESCUE ANIMAL: Animals that are rescued by a bona fide humane society or other
recognized rescue organization or by an individual who received prior written
recognition by the City Manager to rescue and temporarily care for animals in
order to place them into permanent homes.
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD: An area where at least ninety percent (90%) of the
lots in the block containing the subject lot and the block facing the subject
lot are single- or multi-family residences or vacant.
SHELTER: A nonprofit animal facility operated by an individual or group or
member of a recognized animal humane association for the purpose of bringing
aid and comfort to dogs or cats, and where animals are not bred.
SHOW ANIMAL: A dog or cat, which is registered with a recognized registry
organization, or is a member of a breed which is not eligible to be registered
if that breed has been approved by the City Manager and which is involved in
bona fide animal shows.
STERILIZED: To be rendered permanently incapable of reproduction.
STRAY: A dog, canine hybrid or livestock found running at large.
SUPERVISOR: The Supervisor of the Animal Control Division.
TO RUN OR RUNNING AT LARGE: Any dog, canine hybrid or livestock free from
physical restraint beyond the boundaries of the owner's premises.
TRAP, NEUTER AND RETURN (TNR): The practice of humanely trapping unowned cats,
having them evaluated, vaccinated, sterilized and ear tipped by a veterinarian
and returning them to the location where they were trapped.
TROLLEY: A cable strung between two (2) fixed and stable points, to which a dog
on a tether is attached, allowing for freedom of movement.
VACCINATION: Protection provided against rabies by inoculation with a vaccine
as required by New Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978, section 77-1-3 (1979).
VICIOUS ANIMAL: An animal which kills or seriously injures a person or
domesticated animal resulting in muscle tears or disfiguring lacerations,
requiring multiple sutures or extensive corrective or cosmetic surgery.
WEATHERPROOF ENCLOSURE: An enclosure designed to protect the animal against
disagreeable or harmful atmospheric conditions, i.e., storm, rain, snow, etc.
(Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012; amd. Ord. 2017-10, 12-12-2017; Ord. C2021-1, 5-11-
2021)
5-3-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Reasonable rules and regulations may be prescribed by the City Manager
to carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter, pursuant to standards
created by this chapter. The City Manager may delegate such authority to the
Supervisor as he or she may deem expedient.
   B.   The City Manager may prescribe rules and regulations concerning animals
present upon City owned parks and recreation facilities. Such rules and
regulations shall be posted at vehicular or pedestrian entry points to said
facilities or otherwise in a conspicuous place.
   C.   Violation of any rule or regulation adopted and properly posted
pursuant to subsection B of this section shall be a misdemeanor punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012; amd. Ord. C2021-1, 5-11-2021)
5-3-4: PROCEDURES FOR COMPLAINTS:
   A.   A complaint alleging any violation of this chapter may be filed with
the City by a person who has personal knowledge of such violation and who can
identify the owner of the animal involved or the premises where the animal is
located. The City may require the complainant to provide his name and address
and swear to and affirm the complaint.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to intentionally make a report to the
City, which that person knows to be false at the time of making it, alleging a
violation by another person of any violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-10,
12-12-2017)
5-3-5: PROCEDURE FOR CITY MANAGER AND ANIMAL PROTECTION OFFICERS:
   A.   The City Manager, Supervisor and animal protection officers shall have
the authority, and are directed to investigate any alleged violation of this
chapter or of any law of the State of New Mexico relating to the care,
treatment, control and prevention of cruelty to animals.
   B.   Animal protection officers are authorized to inspect premises as
necessary to perform their duties. If the owner or occupant of the premises
objects to inspection, a warrant shall be obtained from a court of competent
jurisdiction prior to inspection. No warrant shall be necessary if probable
cause exists to believe that there is an emergency requiring such inspection or
investigation.
   C.   Whenever an animal protection officer has probable cause to believe
that a person has violated this chapter, the officer may prepare a criminal
complaint to be filed with the appropriate court or prepare a citation for the
alleged violator to appear in court. The citation shall contain the name,
address and telephone number, if known, of the person violating this chapter,
the driver's license number of such violator, if known, the Code section
allegedly violated, and the date and place when and where such person allegedly
committed the violation, and the location where such person shall appear in
court and the deadline for appearance. The officer shall present the citation
to the person he has probable cause to believe violated the Code section in
order to secure the alleged violator's written promise to appear in court by
having the alleged violator sign a copy of the citation. The officer shall
deliver a copy of the citation to the person promising to appear.
   D.   If the alleged violator refuses to give his written promise to appear,
the officer shall file a criminal complaint with the City of Gallup Municipal
Court. (Ord. 2017-10, 12-12-2017)
5-3-6: WAIVER:
   A.   The City Manager shall have the authority to grant waivers.
   B.   Any person seeking a waiver pursuant to this chapter shall file a
written application with the City Manager. The written application shall
contain information which describes the ordinance section for which a waiver is
requested and the reason for the waiver.
   C.   Any person seeking a waiver shall indicate in his application to the
City Manager the specific reason why he should not be required to meet the
established ordinance criteria. The applicant shall also include a written
statement that he has personally contacted all residents and owners of
properties within four hundred feet (400') of the property in question and none
oppose the waiver being requested.
   D.   In determining whether to grant or deny the application, the City
Manager shall balance the hardship to the applicant, the community and other
persons of not granting the waiver against the potential adverse impact on the
animals and residents affected.
   E.   Waivers shall be granted by notice to the applicant and all residents
and owners of properties within four hundred feet (400') and may include all
necessary conditions, including time limits, on the permitted activity. The
waiver shall not become effective until all conditions are agreed to by the
applicant. Noncompliance with any condition of the waiver shall terminate it
and subject the person holding it to those provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-7: FEES, PERMITS AND LICENSES:
   A.   Fees for licenses, services and permits required pursuant to this
chapter shall be established through resolution adopted by Council.
   B.   A permit is not a property right.
   C.   The City Manager can refuse to issue, revoke, suspend or modify permits
and impose conditions or limits upon the issuance of permits, including the
declaration of moratoria regarding issuance of permits.
   D.   Permits expire on December 31 of each year, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this chapter.
   E.   Permit fees paid after July 1 in initial year of purchase will be
prorated by the month. Permit renewals shall not be prorated. (Ord. 2012-10,
11-13-2012)
   F.   A late fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be charged for all permit
renewals after January 31 of each year. (Ord. 2013-3, 4-9-2013)
   G.   Permits are not refundable or transferable except as provided for in
this chapter. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-8: CITY ANIMAL PROTECTION FACILITIES:
   A.   There are established one or more City animal protection facilities
which shall be located in such numbers and at such sites as shall be designated
by the Manager. (Ord. 2013-3, 4-9-2013)
   B.   The animal protection facilities shall be operated to provide service
to the general public during the hours set by the City Manager. (Ord. 2012-10,
11-13-2012)
5-3-9: IMPOUNDING ANIMALS:
   A.   An animal protection officer may take up and impound in any designated
animal protection facility stray animals or livestock or any animal or
livestock kept or maintained contrary to the requirements of this Code. An
animal protection officer may go upon private property to seize and impound an
animal unless permission to make such entry is explicitly refused by the owner
or occupant of the property. If consent to enter the property is refused by the
owner or occupant, the officer may obtain a warrant pursuant to the procedures
set forth in section
5-3-10 of this chapter. An officer may not enter a private building or
residence to seize and impound an animal without the explicit consent of the
owner or occupant or without obtaining a warrant.
   B.   An impounded animal shall be confined in accordance with the City's
regulations. An animal protection officer that impounds an animal pursuant to
this section shall make all reasonable efforts to identify the owner of the
animal and provide written notice of the facts that justified the impoundment
of the animal.
   C.   The owner shall be responsible for all impound fees, boarding fees and
other costs whether or not the animal is reclaimed.
   D.   Reclaim of animal and payment of fees or presentment of valid permit
does not waive prosecution for violations under this chapter.
   E.   The owner shall be required to pay impound fees as set by resolution of
City Council from time to time to reclaim an animal.
      1.   Canine hybrid will not be released unsterilized.
      2.   Owner must provide proof that they possess a current City license
(or proof of nonresidency) and rabies vaccination for the animal.
   F.   A sterilized dog with current rabies vaccination, current City license,
and a microchip may be reclaimed without owner being cited for running at large
once each calendar year. Owner shall be responsible for impound and boarding
fees.
   G.   Except for livestock, any animal which is not reclaimed within five (5)
days becomes the property of the City and may be placed for adoption or
humanely destroyed in accordance with City's policy and procedures.
   H.   When livestock is impounded by an animal protection officer, a notice
of the description of any such livestock will be posted in the local newspaper
for five (5) days and any livestock not reclaimed by the owner within five (5)
days shall become the property of the City. The Animal Control Division is
authorized to place the unclaimed livestock for adoption or with an approved
livestock rescue.
   If the animal is claimed, proof of ownership will be required and owner
shall be responsible for all impound fees, boarding fees and medical costs, if
any. The Animal Control Division may require inspection of enclosures for
livestock prior to reclaim.
      1.   Adoption of horses or cattle may be done after submitting a sealed
bid to the Animal Control Division.
      2.   Adoption of all other livestock may be done after paying an adoption
fee to the Animal Control Division.
   I.   A cruelly treated animal that has been impounded pursuant to section
5-3-10 or an animal that has been impounded pursuant to section
5-3-37 due to the failure of the owner to provide adequate care or maintenance
shall not be returned to the owner until there has been dismissal of criminal
charge(s) by the City, a decision by the City not to pursue criminal charges,
or a dismissal of the criminal charge(s) by the court. An animal that has been
impounded pursuant to section
5-3-49 as a vicious animal shall not be returned to the owner unless there is a
determination by the Animal Control Division Supervisor or a Hearing Officer or
City Council that the animal is not vicious. An animal that has been impounded
pursuant to section
5-3-50 as a dangerous animal shall not be returned to the owner until a
dangerous animal permit has been obtained or there is a determination by the
Animal Control Division Supervisor or a Hearing Officer or City Council that
the animal is not dangerous. An animal that has been impounded for observation
pursuant to section     shall not be returned until the observation period has
expired.
   J.   The Supervisor shall maintain, for a reasonable period of time or as
required by law, a record of all animals impounded. At least the following
information shall be included:
      1.   Complete description of the animal;
      2.   Manner and date of its acquisition;
      3.   Date, manner, and place of impoundment;
      4.   Impoundment number;
      5.   Date, manner, and description of final disposition.
   K.   An owner, finder, or guardian relinquishing an animal shall be required
to complete a release form at the time of impoundment.
   L.   An animal protection officer may take possession of a stray animal not
wearing a current rabies tag, if required, who is deemed critically injured or
critically ill for euthanizing.
   M.   Whenever an animal protection officer finds that any animal is or will
be without adequate care because of injury, illness, incarceration or other
absence of the owner or person responsible for the care of such animal, the
officer may take up such animal for protective care. The owner of the animal
may reclaim the animal after paying all required fees and costs imposed by the
City. If the animal is unclaimed at the end of the protective custody period,
the animal will become the property of the City and may be placed for adoption,
be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the City. (Ord. 2017-10, 12-
12-2017; amd. Ord. C2021-1, 5-11-2021)
5-3-10: SEIZURE AND DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Search Warrant And Seizure Of Animals Without Warrants: A peace officer
or animal protection officer who reasonably believes that the life or health of
an animal is endangered due to cruel treatment or any animal or livestock is
being kept or maintained contrary to the requirements of this Code may apply to
the District Court or the Municipal Court for a warrant to search for and seize
an animal or animals. An animal protection officer may also seize such an
animal without a warrant if the officer has probable cause to believe that
there is an imminent threat to the life of the animal such that the animal may
die or suffer serious injury before a warrant can be obtained.
   B.   Issuance Of Warrant: If the court finds probable cause that the animal
is being cruelly treated, the court shall issue a warrant for the seizure of
the animal. Unless the owner signs a written release form relinquishing the
animal to the City, it shall not be returned to the owner until there has been
dismissal of criminal charges by the City, a decision by the City not to pursue
criminal charges, or a judicial determination that the impounded animal has not
been cruelly treated.
   C.   Warrant Copies Provided To Owner: The officer seizing animals under the
warrant shall give a copy of the affidavit for the search warrant, the search
warrant, and a copy of the inventory of the animal or animals seized to the
person from whose possession or premises the animals were taken.
   D.   Warrant Copies Posted: If the owner of the animal cannot be located or
cannot be determined, a copy of the affidavit for the search warrant, the
search warrant, and the inventory of the animals seized shall be conspicuously
posted at the place where the animals were seized at the time the seizure
occurs.
   E.   Examination By Licensed Veterinarian: At the option and expense of the
owner, the seized animals may be examined by a licensed veterinarian of the
owner's choice.
   F.   Findings That Animal Is Not Being Cruelly Treated: If the court finds
that the seized animal is not being cruelly treated, and the animal's owner is
able to adequately provide for the animal in a manner consistent with this
chapter, the court shall return the animal to its owner.
   G.   Findings That Animal Is Being Cruelly Treated: If the court finds that
the seized animal is being cruelly treated or that the animal's owner is unable
to adequately provide for the animal in a manner consistent with this chapter;
the court shall hold a hearing to determine the disposition of the animal.
   H.   Adoption Or Humane Destruction Of Animal: Upon conviction, the court
may place the animal for adoption with the City Animal Adoption Center Program
or provide for humane destruction of the animal.
   I.   Defendant's Liability Of Costs: Upon conviction, the defendant shall be
liable for the cost of boarding the animal and all necessary veterinary
examinations and care provided to the animal.
   J.   Persons Convicted Of Cruelty To Animals: Any person with a conviction
for cruelty to animals cannot own, possess, harbor, keep or have custody of any
animal or allow, cause, or permit any animal to be harbored or kept on his
property within the City limits. Animal protection officers shall immediately
remove any animal found to be harbored or kept for any reason upon said
person's property. A seized animal will be handled pursuant to section
5-3-9, "Impounding Animals", of this chapter.
   K.   City's Liability Of Costs: In the absence of a conviction, the City
shall bear the cost of boarding the animal and all necessary veterinary
examinations and care during the pendency of the proceedings.
   L.   Cruelty To Animals:
      1.   It is unlawful for a person to recklessly, wilfully or maliciously
kill, maim, disfigure or torture; beat with a stick, chain, club or other
object; mutilate, burn or scald with any substance, overwork, torment, harass
or otherwise cruelly set upon any animal, except that reasonable force may be
used to drive off vicious, dangerous or trespassing animals.
      2.   It is unlawful for a person to fail to provide necessary sustenance,
fail to provide necessary basic or emergency medical care, maintain an animal
in an enclosed environment without adequate provisions to prevent pain or
suffering, and perform procedures such as ear cropping, debarking, tail docking
on an animal, or otherwise endanger an animal's well being. Procedures
completed by a licensed veterinarian in accordance to their standard practices
shall not be considered cruelty. (Ord. 2017-10, 12-12-2017)
5-3-11: RETENTION OF STRAYS OR OWNER SURRENDERED ANIMALS:
   A.   No person shall, without the knowledge and consent of the owner, hold
or retain possession of any animal for more than twenty four (24) hours without
first reporting the possession of the animal to the Animal Control Division.
      1.   The report shall contain the person's name and address, a true and
complete statement of the circumstances under which he took up the animal, and
the precise location where the animal is confined.
      2.   No person having such an animal in his possession shall refuse to
immediately surrender the animal to an animal protection officer upon demand.
      3.   Any person not notifying the Animal Control Division as required
herein and maintaining possession of an animal for longer than forty eight (48)
hours assumes responsibility of ownership of the animal.
   B.   Duly incorporated humane societies or the rescue arms of accredited dog
and cat clubs or horse organizations capable of providing proper confinement,
shelter, and care for stray, lost or owner surrendered animals shall be allowed
to assume the care of such animals.
      1.   Reasonable attempts (2 attempts) shall be made to notify the owner
of a stray animal wearing a rabies tag or other form of identification at the
address and/or phone number on animal's ID.
      2.   If the owner is not located within five (5) working days the humane
society or the rescue arm of accredited dog and cat club or horse organization
having possession of the animal may assume responsibility for finding the
animal a new home. (Ord. 2017-5, 4-11-2017)
5-3-12: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   No person shall operate a hobby breeder site, shelter, refuge or
professional animal establishment, without a valid permit. A person may obtain
an annual permit under the following conditions:
      1.   Payment of an annual permit fee at the Office of the Animal Control
Division. Failure to renew the permit within thirty (30) days of the expiration
date shall result in the assessment of a penalty fee in addition to the cost of
the permit.
      2.   The permit application shall contain the following information at a
minimum:
         a.   Name of applicant/organization;
         b.   Address of applicant/organization;
         c.   Telephone number of applicant/organization;
         d.   Federal tax identification number (not applicable to hobby
breeder);
         e.   The location where the animals will be kept;
         f.   Maximum number of animals expected to be kept on site;
         g.   Plot plan of location showing placement and sizing of kennel area
and runs;
         h.   The City Manager may require such other information as is deemed
necessary in order to determine whether to approve or deny a permit under this
chapter.
      3.   Upon presenting proper identification and at a reasonable hour, a
representative of the Animal Control Division shall be allowed access to any
permitted premises for the purpose of inspection on an annual basis or upon
reasonable notice. Permits may be suspended for failure to comply with the
requirements of this chapter, as well as for violation of other applicable
laws, regulations, and ordinances.
      4.   Kennel area facilities shall be structurally sound and constructed
of nontoxic materials. Interior floors shall be smooth, easily cleanable
construction and impervious to water. The premises shall be kept clean,
sanitary and in good repair in a manner which will protect animals from disease
and injury.
      5.   Animals maintained in pens, cages or runs for periods exceeding
twenty four (24) hours shall be provided with adequate space to prevent
overcrowding and to maintain normal exercise according to species. Such cages
holding cats must contain a litter box.
      6.   Permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises.
      7.   Permits are not transferable.
      8.   Adequate weatherproof housing shall be provided in all permitted
premises with proper ventilation and temperature, and sufficient lighting and
shade.
      9.   Outside housing shall protect animals from weather that may be
detrimental to the health of the animals.
      10.   Restraint of animals shall be accomplished by adequate pens, cages,
runs or fencing maintained at all times to contain the animals.
      11.   Provisions shall be made for the removal and proper disposal of
animal and food waste, soiled bedding, dead animals and debris. Animals shall
be removed from cages and protected from water and cleaning agents during
cleaning. Disposal facilities shall be operated in a manner which will minimize
vermin infestation, odors and disease. Adequate drainage shall be maintained.
      12.   Excessive and nighttime noise shall be eliminated.
      13.   Unsterilized adult animals shall be segregated by sex when in
mating season, except where otherwise indicated for health, welfare or breeding
purposes. Animals shall be housed in compatible groups.
      14.   Vicious, diseased or injured animals and animals that have bitten a
person shall be individually caged.
      15.   Animals shall be provided with clean, fresh, sufficient and
wholesome food and water. Food and water containers shall be kept clean.
      16.   Sanitary, pest free storage of food and bedding shall be provided.
      17.   Each animal shall be observed daily by the person in charge.
Programs for disease control and prevention shall be maintained and available
for examination by an animal protection officer. Sick, diseased, injured, lame
or blind animals shall be provided with appropriate veterinary care. Humane
euthanasia will be provided when necessary in accordance with New Mexico
administrative code, title 16, chapter 24, parts 1 through 5. The person in
charge who suspects an animal of being rabid shall immediately notify the city
manager and segregate the animal.
      18.   Every dog or cat offered for sale, adoption, barter, to be given
away or any other transfer or conveyance shall have been given age appropriate
vaccinations by a veterinarian. A certificate providing the name of the
veterinarian and the date of treatment must be provided to the recipient at the
time of transfer. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-13: SHELTER-REFUGE-PROFESSIONAL ANIMAL PERMIT AND HOBBY BREEDER PERMIT:
   A.   The number of adult dogs or cats, or any combination thereof, which a
hobby breeder site may keep is established by the following factors:
      1.   The area of the permitted hobby breeder site shall be limited to ten
percent (10%) of the total area of the premises.
      2.   Within the kennel area of a hobby breeder site, seventy five (75)
square feet of area shall be provided for each dog weighing less than thirty
(30) pounds; one hundred (100) square feet for each dog weighing between thirty
(30) and fifty nine (59) pounds, one hundred twenty five (125) square feet per
dog sixty (60) pounds and over, and twenty five (25) square feet of space per
cat excluding the area occupied by the litter box.
      3.   In the kennel area the animal must be able to stand and walk freely
and have room for shelter (for outdoor facilities), food, water, and litter
boxes for cats.
   B.   The number of adult dogs or cats, or any combination thereof, which a
shelter- refuge-professional animal site may keep is established by the
following factors:
      1.   The kennel area must provide at least seventy five (75) square feet
of area for each dog weighing less than thirty (30) pounds; one hundred (100)
square feet for each dog weighing between thirty (30) and fifty nine (59)
pounds, one hundred twenty five (125) square feet per dog sixty (60) pounds and
over, and twenty five (25) square feet of space per cat excluding the area
occupied by the litter box.
      2.   In the kennel area the animal must be able to stand and walk freely
and have room for shelter (for outdoor facilities), food, water, and litter
boxes for cats.
      3.   A record shall be kept of animal inventory, disposition, and
inoculations and shall be available for examination by an animal protection
officer.
   C.   Hobby breeders must continue to care for or otherwise provide for
adoption, rescue or some other type of sanctuary for animals no longer being
used for breeding. Site records must reflect compliance with this provision.
(Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-14: PET STORE:
   A.   Pet stores shall not sell dogs, canine hybrids or cats but may sell
other living creatures including, but not limited to, fish, birds, rodents,
insects, arachnids, reptiles and other permissible exotic animals.
   B.   No pet store shall conduct business in the city without a shelter-
refuge-professional animal site permit.
   C.   Applicant for a permit must have a valid New Mexico tax ID number and a
city business registration.
   D.   Animals must be kept and maintained in a humane manner with adequate
food, water and shelter. Animals must be housed and displayed in such a way to
provide adequate enclosure space based on the size and habitat requirements of
the animal.
   E.   No permit holder may sell or offer for sale any animal from a mobile
facility or at a site away from the permitted site without obtaining a mobile
business registration from the city clerk.
   F.   A permit holder shall be liable for the medical costs including
medicine, up to the amount received for the sale of the animal, for any animal
that is diagnosed as sick by a veterinarian qualified for the species within
one week from the date of sale.
      1.   Permit holder shall reimburse purchaser the costs associated with
the sick animal.
      2.   Purchaser shall be allowed to keep the animal.
      3.   Permit holder or purchaser may appeal to the city manager if there
is a dispute regarding the fact or the illness or the amount of the charges.
   G.   Permit holder shall keep thorough and accurate records for each animal
sold. Records shall be kept for three (3) years. Records shall be made
available for inspection upon demand by the city manager. Records shall
include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Date of sale.
      2.   Purchaser's name, address and telephone number.
      3.   Description and picture of animal.
      4.   Origin of animal.
   H.   Animals with known or suspected communicable diseases shall be
isolated, as appropriate, and treated as soon as possible.
   I.   The daily use of antibiotics for preventative purposes, and not to
treat a specific illness or condition, is prohibited whether administered in
food, water or by any other method. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-15: GUARD DOG SITE:
   A.   A guard dog may be used at commercial property only.
   B.   No person shall use a guard dog without having a New Mexico tax ID
number and a Gallup business registration.
   C.   Owner of an unsterilized guard dog must have a hobby breeder permit.
   D.   A guard dog shall not be used for property in a residential
neighborhood or within two hundred fifty feet (250') of a school.
   E.   The area where the guard dog is to be used shall be secured in such a
manner as to prevent its escape.
      1.   The outside area where the guard dog is on duty must be enclosed by
a secure fence at least six feet (6') in height with a forty five degree (45°)
angled top which extends back into the enclosure. Such extension shall not be
included in the measurement of the fence height and shall not be made of barbed
wire or other similar material which would harm the dog. Enclosure shall be
designed to effectively contain the animal at all times.
      2.   The doors, windows, and all other openings to the outside of a
building in which a guard dog is on duty shall be secured to prevent its
escape.
   F.   The property using a guard dog shall be posted with warning signs at
least twenty four by twelve inches (24 x 12") with three inch (3") letters.
      1.   The warning signs shall state "Guard Dog" and "Guardia" and shall
show a picture of an aggressive dog.
      2.   The warning signs shall be posted not more than fifty feet (50')
apart on the exterior of the fences or walls surrounding the property and shall
be posted at all exterior corners of the site and at every entrance to the
site.
   G.   The escape of a guard dog from a guard dog site is a violation of this
section and can constitute a basis for seizure of the dog.
   H.   A guard dog shall have a current rabies tag and a valid license tag
securely affixed to its collar or harness.
   I.   If the city manager determines it is necessary to control noise at the
guard dog site, the city manager may require the owner of the site or owner of
the guard dog to construct a barrier which breaks the guard dog's line of sight
to the exterior and adequately buffers the noise.
   J.   Vehicles used to transport guard dogs shall be secured so the public is
protected from injury, shall be constructed or modified to ensure that the
guard dog is transported in a safe and humane manner that does not violate this
chapter, and shall be posted with warning signs on each side of the vehicle.
   K.   No breeding of animals is allowed at a guard dog site. (Ord. 2012-10,
11-13-2012)
5-3-16: LITTER PERMIT:
   A.   An owner who intentionally or unintentionally breeds a dog or cat and
who does not have a current shelter-refuge-professional animal permit or hobby
breeder permit shall purchase a litter permit for each litter. A female dog or
cat shall have no more than one litter and each household shall be limited to
no more than two (2) litters in any calendar year. A litter permit will not be
issued and owner will be in violation of this section, if found to have had a
female dog or cat with more than one litter or more than two (2) litters in the
household in a calendar year. (Ord. 2013-3, 4-9-2013)
   B.   The litter permit application shall contain the following information
at a minimum:
      1.   Name of applicant.
      2.   Address of applicant.
      3.   Telephone number of applicant.
      4.   Description and picture of female animal.
      5.   The city manager may require such other information as is deemed
necessary in order to determine whether to approve or deny a license under this
chapter.
   C.   Litter permit is good for six (6) months from date of issue and must be
obtained no later than one week after the birth of the litter.
   D.   The owner shall not advertise, barter for, sell, or give away any puppy
or kitten unless the applicable permit number is displayed legibly in all
advertisements. The owner shall furnish the litter permit number to any
potential recipient upon request. Failure to list permit number or advertising
without prior purchase of permit is a violation of this section.
   E.   Puppies and kittens can only be bartered for, sold, given away or other
transfer or conveyance from the applicant's address as listed on the litter
permit. Puppies or kittens being bartered for, sold, given away or other
transfer or conveyance on public or commercial property even with the property
owner's permission are in violation of this chapter.
   F.   Every dog or cat offered for sale, barter, given away, adopted or any
other transfer or conveyance will have been given age appropriate vaccinations
by a veterinarian. A certificate providing the name of the veterinarian and the
date of treatment must be provided to the recipient at the time of transfer.
(Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-17: REDUCED COST SPAY AND NEUTER PROGRAM:
The city of Gallup through the McKinley County Humane Society has a targeted
dog or cat spay and neuter program aimed at assisting those citizens most in
need: the elderly, disabled, or very low income. (Ord. 2013-3, 4-9-2013)
   A.   Participants must meet one of following requirements (income
information is subject to verification):
      1.   Elderly (70 or more years of age);
      2.   Disabled (qualify for Social Security disability income payments);
or
      3.   Low income (eligible for LIHEAP). (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
   B.   Cost to participants required pursuant to this section shall be
established by the McKinley County Humane Society or by resolutions of City
Council.
   C.   Spay and neuter program includes the surgery, and return visit for
suture removal, if needed. Vaccinations can be provided at an additional cost.
(Ord. 2013-3, 4-9-2013)
   D.   There shall be a charge to participants who fail to keep an appointment
or do not provide four (4) business days' notice to cancel an appointment. This
charge shall be established and adopted through resolution.
   E.   Minimum age of dog or cat at time of surgery is three (3) months.
   F.   Dogs must be restrained on a leash and cats must be in a carrier upon
arrival at the Gallup Animal Adoption Center.
   G.   If the animal needs to be treated for flea and tick infestation prior
to surgery, the additional days of care will be charged the "boarding fee"
rate. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
   H.   City Manager or his representative reserves the right to postpone
surgery or refuse to perform surgery if the animal is not healthy enough to
undergo surgery. (Ord. 2013-3, 4-9-2013)
5-3-18: DISCOUNT SPAY OR NEUTER CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Animal Control Division shall make available to citizens of Gallup,
upon funding by City Council, a certificate to spay or neuter one cat or dog
which may be used at any veterinary clinic accepting such certificate. (Ord.
2013-3, 4-9-2013)
   B.   Certificate shall be limited to one per household per year based on
availability of annual funding.
   C.   Certificate shall expire sixty (60) days after issue and shall not be
renewed.
   D.   Proof of City residency is required. Acceptable proof includes, but is
not limited to:
      1.   Current utility bill showing service address within Gallup City
limits.
      2.   Voter registration card showing Gallup address.
      3.   Written statement from a City Councilor verifying residency within
their district.
   E.   Proof of current rabies vaccination and valid City license is required
for dog or cat to be sterilized.
   F.   Certificate holder is responsible for contacting veterinary clinic to
arrange for surgery.
   G.   Certificate holder is liable to veterinary clinic for all charges and
services in excess of face value of certificate. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-19: ADOPTION OF DOGS AND CATS:
   A.   No dog or cat over the age of three (3) months shall be adopted unless
it has been spayed or neutered.
   B.   Persons adopting a dog or cat under three (3) months of age will make
arrangements with animal control for the sterilization date. (Ord. 2017-10, 12-
12-2017)
5-3-20: ANIMALS BITING PERSONS:
   A.   The owner of an animal that bites a person and a person bitten by an
animal have a duty to report that occurrence to the Animal Control Division
within twenty four (24) hours of the occurrence. The owner of an animal that
bites a person shall surrender said animal to an animal protection officer if
the officer deems it necessary to impound said animal for a period of
observation.
   B.   A physician who renders professional treatment to a person bitten by an
animal shall report to the Animal Control Division that he has rendered
professional treatment within twenty four (24) hours of his first professional
attendance. The physician shall report the name and address of the person
bitten as well as the type and location of the bite. The physician shall report
the name and address of the owner of the animal that inflicted the bite, if
known and any other facts or details that may assist the animal protection
officer in ascertaining the immunization status of the animal.
   C.   An animal that bites a person shall be confined and observed for a
period of ten (10) days from the date of the bite at the Animal Adoption
Center, a veterinary hospital or an approved kennel. However, if the animal has
a current vaccination for rabies, the Animal Control Division may permit
quarantine of such animal at the owner's home. Home confinement shall not be
permitted unless the premises have been inspected and approved for such purpose
by the animal protection officer. If observance of the animal is denied or
prevented, the animal shall immediately be confined at the Animal Adoption
Center for the remainder of the quarantine period. The owner of the animal
shall bear the cost of confinement. The owner of the animal shall be required
to enter into an indemnity agreement on a form approved and prescribed by the
City Manager for such home confinement.
   D.   If the animal shows signs of sickness, abnormal behavior, or if the
animal escapes confinement, the person shall immediately notify the Animal
Control Division. The person having custody of an animal that dies during the
confinement period shall notify the Animal Control Division and surrender the
carcass of the animal to an animal protection officer.
   E.   If an officer deems it necessary to impound an animal for observation
for violation of the above conditions and/or severity of the bite, the owner
cannot remove the animal from observation until the observation period is
complete. The owner shall bear the cost of confinement.
   F.   The owner of any animal over three (3) months of age that has bitten a
person shall be required to pay the reclaim fee, sterilization fee or provide
proof of sterilization before the animal will be released from impound
restrictions.
   G.   It is unlawful for a person to keep an animal known to have bitten any
person on two (2) separate incidents. The owner has a duty to destroy said
animal humanely or surrender such an animal to the Animal Control Division for
proper humane euthanizing upon the order of the court. This does not include an
animal which bites, attacks, or injures a person unlawfully upon its owner's
premises, or where provoked. (Ord. 2017-10, 12-12-2017)
5-3-21: ANIMAL LICENSE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to own or harbor a dog, canine hybrid or
cat over the age of three (3) months without obtaining a license for such
animal. Persons who are not City residents and who keep such an animal in the
City for less than fifteen (15) consecutive days or less than thirty (30) days
in a calendar year shall be exempt from this license requirement.
   B.   Applications for licenses shall be made on forms provided by the Animal
Control Division. All applications shall include the name of the legal owner of
the animal, the mailing address and physical address of the owner. It is
unlawful for any person to knowingly falsify information concerning animal
ownership, the owner's address, animal description, or any other information
required on the application.
   C.   Licenses shall be purchased for one year. A three (3) year license may
be purchased if the animal has a current three (3) year rabies certificate,
which is good for at least two-thirds (2/3) of the licensing period. A one year
or three (3) year license must be renewed upon its expiration date. Failure to
renew the license within thirty (30) days of the expiration date shall result
in the assessment of a penalty fee in addition to the cost of the license.
   D.   A current rabies certificate must be presented at the time of applying
for a license.
   E.   Pet identification is mandatory. Identification techniques may be used
that reflect technological advances, such as microchip technology, if owner
information is obtainable by an animal protection officer, shelter,
veterinarian, or other appropriate organization. Methods of identification
should include one of the following, but is not limited to, microchip, license
tags, identification tags, or tattoos applied by a veterinarian.
      1.   If the only means of identification used is a tag, the current
license tag shall be securely affixed to the collar or harness which shall be
worn by the animal at all times unless the animal is being housed in a kennel
or veterinary hospital, or appearing in a bona fide animal show, or is being
trained; provided, however, that the person who is training the animal shall
have in his personal possession a valid license tag for each animal and shall
immediately display the license upon request by the Animal Control Division.
      2.   Identification methods must be kept up to date and current with
owner information.
   F.   License tags shall not be transferred from animal to animal.
   G.   The license fee shall not apply to qualified service animals. All other
licensing requirements shall apply.
   H.   Shelter facilities, refuge establishments and approved rescue foster
homes are exempt.
   I.   License expires December 31 of year purchased or third year as
applicable. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-22: NUMBER OF ANIMALS ALLOWED:
   A.   No person or household shall own, harbor or keep more than a combined
total of four (4) dogs or cats or any combination thereof over the age of three
(3) months without a valid shelter-refuge-professional animal permit, hobby
breeder site permit or multiple animal site permit.
      1.   A household may have up to four (4) dogs or cats or any combination
thereof provided that all of the animals shall be sterilized.
         a.   A medical waiver certificate may be acceptable in cases when the
sterilization of an animal would pose a substantial threat to the health of the
animal. The certificate shall be on official letterhead from a licensed
veterinarian and shall contain the name and address of the owner of the animal,
a description of the animal, the medical condition prohibiting sterilization,
and the date upon which the animal may be sterilized. A medical waiver
certificate must be resubmitted annually. This does not waive the reclaim fee.
      2.   No person or household shall permit or allow the breeding of a dog
or cat in the absence of a valid hobby breeder site permit or litter permit.
      3.   No person or household may own, harbor or keep more than two (2)
canine hybrids, all of which must be sterilized, and such ownership of canine
hybrids shall not result in a combined number of dogs, cats or canine hybrids
totaling more than three (3). (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-23: MULTIPLE ANIMAL SITE PERMIT:
   A.   Any person intending to exceed the maximum limit of dogs and cats in a
household as defined in section
5-3-22 of this chapter shall obtain a multiple animal site permit.
   B.   All dogs and cats at a multiple animal site shall be licensed, spayed
or neutered and have current vaccinations. The only exception would be an
animal which is unable to be sterilized due to medical reasons. The owner must
present valid veterinary certificate as defined in subsection
5-3-22A1a of this chapter. This does not waive the reclaim fee.
   C.   Fostering a pregnant dog or cat and her eventual offspring is a
temporary exception to this rule.
   D.   Adjoining property owners may petition the City Manager for a
revocation, modification or suspension of a multiple animal site permit if the
adjoining property owner is reasonably aggrieved by any effects of the multiple
animal site.
   E.   No person shall keep or maintain more than eight (8) dogs or cats or
any combination thereof at any multiple animal site permit location, no more
than two (2) of which can be unsterilized.
   F.   The area provided for the dogs and cats whether in secure runs, kennels
or security perimeter fence must be as follows:
      1.   Seventy five (75) square feet of area shall be provided for each dog
weighing less than thirty (30) pounds;
      2.   One hundred (100) square feet for each dog weighing between thirty
(30) and fifty nine (59) pounds;
      3.   One hundred twenty five (125) square feet per dog sixty (60) pounds
and over; and
      4.   Twenty five (25) square feet of space per cat excluding the area
occupied by the litter box.
   G.   Dogs kept at a multiple animal site may not be secured on a trolley
system.
   H.   Upon presenting proper identification and at a reasonable hour, a
representative of the Animal Control Division shall be allowed access to any
permitted premises for the purpose of inspection on an annual basis or upon
reasonable notice. Permits may be suspended for failure to comply with the
requirements of this chapter, as well as for violation of other applicable
laws, regulations, and ordinances.
   I.   Rescue animals shall be exempt from the fee for a multiple animal site
permit while in the custody and care of the rescue organization or individual.
Accurate records shall be kept and maintained by the rescue organization or
individual, and a City of Gallup animal protection officer or other City
official shall be permitted at any reasonable time to inspect such records and
the rescue animals' living conditions. (Ord. 2017-10, 12-12-2017)
5-3-24: RESTRAINT OF DOGS:
   A.   A person owning or having charge, custody, care, or control over a dog,
shall keep the dog upon his or her own premises by either a secure run or
kennel area, an enclosure surrounding the perimeter of the property, or on a
trolley device, or any other acceptable means. Direct point chaining to
stationary objects is prohibited. Any dog not deemed dangerous and not within a
secure enclosure may be restrained by means of a trolley system, or a tether
attached to a pulley on a cable run on its owner's property, subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   No canine hybrid can be tethered to a trolley system.
      2.   Trolley system shall not be used for any dog that has not been
sterilized.
      3.   Only one dog per household may be tethered to a trolley system.
      4.   There must be a swivel on each end of the tether to minimize
tangling.
      5.   The tether and cable run must be of adequate size and strength to
effectively restrain the dog. The size and weight of the tether must not be
excessive, as determined by the animal protection officer, considering the age,
size and health of the dog.
      6.   The cable run must be at least ten feet (10') in length and mounted
either at ground level or at least four feet (4') above ground level.
      7.   The trolley system must be designed to prevent the dog from being
within four feet (4') of the property boundary.
      8.   A dog attached to a trolley system shall be surrounded by a barrier
on each side adjoining a public access. The barrier shall be sufficient to
prevent children from accidentally coming into contact with the dog.
      9.   The tether must be at least ten feet (10') in length unless such
length allows the dog to move within four feet (4') of the legal boundary of
the property, in which case the tether shall be no less than eight feet (8') in
length. If the size of the property will not allow a tether of no less than
eight feet (8'), a trolley system shall not be used.
      10.   The tether must be affixed to the dog by use of a nonabrasive,
comfortably fitted harness. Prong type, pinch type, or choke collars shall not
be used.
      11.   The device must be fastened so that the dog can sit, walk, and lie
down comfortably, and must be unobstructed by objects that may cause the device
or dog to become entangled or strangled.
      12.   The dog must have easy access to adequate shelter, shade, food, and
potable water.
      13.   The area where the dog is confined must be kept free of garbage and
other debris that might endanger the animal's health or safety. Feces shall be
cleaned up daily.
      14.   The area where the dog is confined must be kept free of insect
infestation, such as anthills, wasps' nests, and infestations of fleas, ticks
or maggots.
   B.   Any dog deemed dangerous shall be confined as defined in section
5-3-50 of this chapter, but does not include chaining, restraining, or
otherwise affixing the animal to a stationary object.
   C.   The use of a crate is prohibited as a means of outdoor confinement.
   D.   Secure run or kennel area must provide, as a minimum, seventy five (75)
square feet of area for each dog weighing less than thirty (30) pounds; one
hundred (100) square feet for each dog weighing between thirty (30) and fifty
nine (59) pounds, one hundred twenty five (125) square feet per dog sixty (60)
pounds and over.
   E.   A dog is permitted on the street and in other public places only if on
a secure leash not exceeding six feet (6') in length. Longer retractable
leashes may be used, provided the person with the dog is capable of controlling
the dog. All other animals must be secured in a fashion acceptable for the
species of animal. A person physically capable of controlling and restraining
the animal must exercise immediate custody. This section does not apply when an
animal is participating in a bona fide animal show authorized by the City or
appropriate authorities.
   F.   Nothing in this section shall be construed as allowing any animal under
physical restraint to commit any act defined as unlawful in this chapter.
   G.   A person who uses electric or invisible fencing designed to confine an
animal to his property must clearly post a notice in two (2) separate locations
upon the property that such a device is in use. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-25: VACCINATIONS:
   A.   It is the duty of a person owning or keeping a dog or cat over the age
of three (3) months to have the animal vaccinated against rabies as prescribed
by New Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978, section 77-1-3 (1979). The City Manager
may require that other animals have annual rabies vaccinations.
   B.   The veterinarian administering antirabies vaccines to any animal shall
issue the owner or keeper of the animal a numbered vaccination certificate. The
certificate shall contain the name and address of the owner of the animal, a
description of the animal vaccinated, the date of vaccination, and the date
immunity expires.
   C.   The veterinarian shall also furnish the owner or keeper with a metal
tag bearing the certificate number. A current rabies tag shall be affixed by
the owner or keeper to a collar or harness worn by the animal at all times
unless the animal is being kept in an approved kennel or veterinary hospital,
is being trained by a professional trainer or is appearing in an approved show.
   D.   It is unlawful for the owner of any dog or cat or any other member of
the canine or feline family to fail to exhibit its certificate of vaccination
upon demand by the City Manager. This subsection does not apply to any animal
under control of the shelters.
   E.   For licensing purposes a medical waiver certificate may be acceptable
in cases when the rabies vaccination of an animal would pose a substantial
threat to the health of the animal. The certificate shall be on official
letterhead from a licensed veterinarian and shall contain the name and address
of the owner of the animal, a description of the animal, the medical condition
prohibiting vaccination, and the date upon which a vaccination may be given. A
medical waiver certificate must be resubmitted annually. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-
2012)
5-3-26: ABANDONMENT:
It is unlawful for a person to abandon an animal. Abandonment does not apply to
the trap, neuter and return (TNR) of feral cats. A person or organization
managing unowned cats by trap, neuter and return is not deemed the owner,
keeper, holder or possessor of such cats. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-27: ADMISSION OF QUALIFIED ASSISTANCE ANIMALS TO PUBLIC PLACES:
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a qualified assistance animal shall
be admitted to any building open to the public and to all public accommodations
such as restaurants, hotels, hospitals, swimming pools, stores, common carriers
and theaters; provided that the qualified assistance animal is under the
control of a person with a disability or a trainer of assistance animals. No
person shall be required to pay any additional charges for his qualified
assistance animal, but shall be liable for any damage done by his qualified
assistance animal. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-28: ANIMALS DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   It is unlawful for a person to allow an animal to persistently or
continuously bark, howl or make noise common to their species or otherwise
disturb the peace and quiet of inhabitants of the City. Persistent, continuous
or loud intermittent noise between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. which can be heard more than fifty feet (50') from
the source of the noise is prima facie evidence of violation of this
subsection.
   B.   It is unlawful to keep or maintain an animal in such an unclean or
unsanitary manner that it disturbs others by noxious or offensive odors.
   C.   An animal that is permitted to disturb the peace and quiet of the
inhabitants of the City in violation of subsection A of this section is
declared to be a nuisance and may be seized and impounded pursuant to the
procedures set forth in sections 5-3-9 and 5-3-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-
10, 12-12-2017)
5-3-29: ANIMALS KILLING OR INJURING LIVESTOCK OR PROTECTED WILDLIFE:
   A.   It is unlawful for a person to keep an animal known to have killed or
injured livestock or protected wildlife. The owner has a duty to destroy said
animal humanely or surrender such an animal to the Animal Control Division for
proper humane euthanizing upon the order of the court.
   B.   An owner of livestock shall have the right to kill an animal that has
injured or killed livestock or protected wildlife while it is upon property
controlled by the owner of the livestock. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-30: DOGS OR LIVESTOCK ON UNENCLOSED PROPERTIES:
It is unlawful for a person to harbor, tether, stake out, or herd a dog or
livestock on an unenclosed premises in such a manner that may allow the animal
to go beyond the property line. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-31: ANIMAL POISONING:
   A.   It is unlawful for a person to make accessible to any animal, with the
intent to cause harm or death, any substance which has been treated or prepared
with a harmful poisonous substance.
   B.   This section does not apply to placement of such substance(s) in order
to control vermin of significance to the public health. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-
2012)
5-3-32: DOGS OR LIVESTOCK RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   It is unlawful for a person to allow or permit any dog or livestock to
run at large in or on any alley, street, sidewalk, vacant lot, public property,
other unenclosed place in the City, or private property without the permission
of the property owner.
   B.   A dog or livestock permitted to run at large in violation of this
section is declared to be a nuisance and a menace to the public health and
safety. Such animal may be seized and impounded pursuant to the procedures set
forth in sections 5-3-9 and 5-3-10 of this chapter.
      1.   First time that an animal other than livestock is picked up running
at large, owner is given a warning citation.
      2.   Second time that an animal other than livestock is picked up running
at large, owner is given a second warning citation.
      3.   Third time that an animal other than livestock, or the first time
that livestock is picked up running at large, the animal will be seized by an
animal control officer and the disposition of the animal will be in accordance
with section
5-3-9 of this chapter.
   C.   A working dog performing such acts as herding or search and rescue that
is under the control and supervision of the owner or handler shall not be
considered as unleashed while performing its duties. A hunting, obedience,
tracking or show dog that is under the control and supervision of the owner or
handler shall not be considered as unleashed while performing in those
capacities.
   D.   It is unlawful for an owner, manager, agent, or governing board of any
multiple- dwelling unit, including mobile home parks and gated communities, to
permit any animal to run at large upon the common areas of the multiple-
dwelling unit. (Ord. 2017-10, 12-12-2017)
5-3-33: INJURY TO ANIMALS BY MOTORISTS:
Every operator of a motor or self-propelled vehicle upon the streets and ways
of the City shall immediately upon injuring, striking, maiming or running down
any animal provide immediate notification to the Animal Control Division,
furnishing sufficient facts relative to the incident. Such animal shall be
deemed an uncared for animal within the meaning of subsection
5-3-9M of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-34: ANIMALS TRANSPORTED IN VEHICLES:
Animals must be kept safe during transport.
   A.   Pickup Trucks: Animals that are transported in the bed of a pickup
truck must be protected from extreme temperatures and provided with a nonmetal
surface to sit or stand on.
      1.   Crate: If an animal is put in a crate or other enclosure, the crate
or enclosure must be securely fastened to the bed or sides of the truck so that
the crate or enclosure cannot slide, turn over or fall out.
      2.   Protection From Weather: No animal shall be left in the bed of a
truck whether in a crate or not when the weather is such that the animal will
be exposed to extreme heat, cold or rain.
   B.   Cars, Vans And RVs: Animals riding inside vehicles that are not in
crates or other enclosures must not be allowed access to a window opened wide
enough for the animal to jump or fall. Animals riding in open topped or open
sided vehicles must be secured in a humane manner to ensure the animal cannot
jump or fall.
   C.   Transporting More Than One Animal: In addition to all other regulations
in this section, animals should never be overcrowded when being transported. If
the animals are crated or kept in any enclosure, they may be allowed to share a
crate but each animal should be able to stand up, move around, lie down and
stretch out naturally. If crates or enclosures are stacked, they must be
attached securely to prevent the crates or enclosures from falling or turning
over. If crates or other enclosures are stacked, the crates or enclosures must
have solid bottoms to prevent urine or feces from passing between crates and
enclosures. (Ord. 2017-10, 12-12-2017)
   D.   Unattended Animals: No person shall intentionally, knowingly or
recklessly leave an animal unattended in a closed vehicle for any length of
time without providing adequate ventilation to prevent the temperature in the
vehicle from rising high enough such that any reasonable person would know that
the animal would suffer from heat exposure. An animal left in a closed vehicle
without the interior of the vehicle being air conditioned when the interior
temperature of the vehicle is over eighty degrees (80°), shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this chapter. If an animal protection officer
determines that an animal in a vehicle is in immediate danger, the animal
protection officer or police officer may enter the vehicle by whatever means
necessary, without being liable to the owner of the vehicle for any damage, and
seize the animal. The animal's owner shall be responsible for all expenses
related to the removal of the animal, emergency veterinary treatment and
impoundment. If the animal protection officer or police officer cannot
determine who confined the animal, the registered owner of the vehicle will be
cited.
   E.   Driving Recklessly Or While Intoxicated: No person shall transport an
animal in a motor vehicle or a towed vehicle while operating the motor vehicle
in a reckless manner or while under the influence of an intoxication liquor or
drugs.
   F.   Violation: An animal transported in violation of this section may be
impounded pursuant to section
5-3-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-18, 11-13-2018)
5-3-35: ANIMAL WASTE:
It is unlawful to permit an animal to defecate on public or private property
other than the property of the owner of the animal unless such animal waste is
immediately removed and properly disposed of by the person having custody of
the animal. The provision of this section does not apply to guide dogs or other
service dogs assisting a person with a disability. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-36: BREAKING INTO ANIMAL PROTECTION FACILITIES OR VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for a person to break into any pound, center, facility, kennel
or vehicle wherein animals are impounded, or to in any manner remove or assist
in the removal of any animal or equipment from such. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-37: CARE AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   It is unlawful for a person to fail, refuse or neglect to provide any
animal in his charge or custody such care and husbandry as to maintain the good
health and well being of the animal. Such care and husbandry shall include, but
not be limited to, adequate food appropriate to species, potable water,
adequate living area, professional veterinary care and necessary grooming to
maintain good health and protection from extreme weather elements. Animals
shall be provided adequate space to prevent overcrowding and to maintain normal
exercise according to species, size and temperament.
      1.   First time welfare check, owner is given a warning citation with a
specific time to correct the problems given by the officer.
      2.   Second welfare check, if conditions have not been corrected, owner
will be given a second warning with a specific time given by the officer to
correct the problem.
      3.   Third welfare check, if conditions have still not been corrected the
animal will be seized by an animal control officer and the disposition of the
animal will be in accordance with section
5-3-9 of this chapter.
   B.   Any animal habitually kept outside shall be provided with a
structurally sound, weatherproof enclosure, large enough to accommodate the
animal and to provide proper ventilation, temperature and sufficient shade.
   C.   For livestock, it is unlawful for a person to fail, refuse and/or
neglect to provide any livestock in his charge or custody with such care and
husbandry as to maintain the good health and well being of the animal. Such
care and husbandry shall include, but not be limited to, nutritious food in
sufficient quantity provided daily, fresh clean potable water available at all
times, clean adequate space, necessary veterinary care, necessary hoof care,
and a proper shelter or protection from weather. (Ord. 2017-10, 12-12-2017)
5-3-38: CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE DOGS OR CATS IN MATING SEASON:
   A.   A person in control of a female dog or cat in mating season shall
confine such dog or cat so as to prevent other dogs or cats from attacking or
being attracted to such female animal, except for intentional breeding
purposes.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to maintain a female dog or cat in mating season
in any manner that creates a public nuisance. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-39: CONCEALMENT OF ANIMAL:
It is unlawful for any person to conceal any animal from the officers charged
with the enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-40: FIGHTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for a person to promote, stage, hold, manage, conduct,
carry on or attend any game, exhibition, contest or fight in which one or more
animals are engaged for the purpose of injuring, killing, maiming or destroying
themselves or any other animal.
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to sell, receive, possess, transport,
loan, or give away any animal fighting paraphernalia.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to raise, train, condition, sell,
receive, possess, transport, loan, or give away animals for fighting purposes
whether or not the fight is to be conducted inside or outside the jurisdiction
of the City of Gallup.
      3.   No person shall provoke or entice an animal from the property of its
owner for the purpose of engaging the animal in an animal fight.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person from engaging in legal
hunting practices as allowed by State wildlife authorities. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-
13-2012)
5-3-41: FOWL; IMPOUNDING OR CRATING:
It is unlawful for a person to confine any wild or domestic fowl or birds
unless provisions are made by such person for the proper feeding and the
furnishing of water to such fowl or birds at intervals not longer than twelve
(12) hours. No person shall impound wild or domestic fowl or birds in a crate,
box or other enclosure unless such fowl or bird is in a natural erect position
unless such position causes injury or damage to the fowl or bird. (Ord. 2012-
10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-42: INTERFERENCE WITH THE ANIMAL PROTECTION OFFICER IN THE PERFORMANCE OF
HIS DUTIES:
   A.   No person shall attack, assault or in any way threaten or interfere
with the animal protection officer in the performance of the duties required by
this chapter.
   B.   No person shall conceal one's true name or identity or disguise oneself
with the intent to obstruct due execution of the law or with the intent to
intimidate, hinder or interrupt an animal protection officer in the legal
performance of his or her duties.
   C.   No person shall interfere with or tamper with any equipment used by
animal protection officers, including release of animals contained in such
equipment.
   D.   No person shall engage in conduct that would agitate, obstruct, oppose,
or distract an animal protection officer in the legal performance of his or her
duties. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-43: KEEPING A SERIOUSLY SICK OR INJURED ANIMAL:
   A.   It is unlawful for a person to have, keep or harbor an animal which is
seriously sick or injured, including starvation, without providing proper
veterinary care.
   B.   The City Manager may require the owner to provide a letter of health
evaluation from a licensed veterinarian describing the condition of the animal
and the treatment provided. The Animal Control Division may evaluate the
condition of an animal.
   C.   In the absence of proper veterinary care, the City Manager may impound
such a seriously sick or injured animal in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   D.   Any such animal impounded may be destroyed humanely or otherwise
disposed of according to the normal procedures of the impound facility as soon
thereafter as is conveniently possible. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-44: KEEPING DOMESTICATED LIVESTOCK AND FOWL:
   A.   It is unlawful to keep, harbor or maintain within the City limits any
horses, mules, burros, cows, pigs, goats, sheep, swine and all other
domesticated animals used in the production of food, or other products except
as provided in Rural Residential (RR) Zoning Districts.
   B.   It is unlawful to keep fowl except as provided in subsection C of this
section.
   C.   Backyard chicken hens (chickens kept on a residential lot), are allowed
under the following conditions, however, all other poultry or fowl prohibited.
No person may own or keep any other fowl, including ducks, quail, geese,
turkeys, pigeons or peacocks.
      1.   No more than four (4) backyard chicken hens are permitted per lot.
Roosters are prohibited.
      2.   Backyard chicken hens are restricted to the rear or backyard of any
lot in the Rural Residential (RR) and Single-Family Residential, Detached (SFR)
Zoning Districts. Backyard chicken hens may not free range and are restricted
to the coop and run.
      3.   All backyard chicken hen coops shall meet the following
requirements:
         a.   Be predator-proof with a solid top.
         b.   Provide water at all times.
         c.   Are limited to a maximum of one hundred twenty (120) square feet
(includes coop space and chicken run).
         d.   Provide at least four (4) square feet of space per chicken hen
for the coop and run.
         e.   Be no taller than seven feet (7') at the highest point of the
roof.
         f.   Be at least ten feet (10') from any other structure and at least
five feet (5') from any side or rear property line.
         g.   All coops shall be regularly cleaned to control dust, odor, and
waste and not constitute a nuisance, safety hazard, or health problem to
surrounding properties.
      4.   Backyard chicken hens are only allowed in SFR and RR Zoning
Districts and in such districts shall not be deemed as "agricultural
operations" as may be stated in other section of this Code. Any person that
owns or maintains backyard chicken hens is required to obtain a permit from the
Animal Control Division. There shall be no charge to obtain the permit. The
permit will remain effective for so long as the applicant owns or maintains
chicken hens at the location listed on the permit. The permit shall list the
requirements contained in this section to own or maintain chickens.
      5.   Nothing herein shall permit keeping an animal, as the laws and
regulations of the State of New Mexico or the United States otherwise prohibit
or restrict.
      6.   Keeping of backyard chicken hens are subject to this Code's nuisance
provisions, which shall supersede and take precedence over this provision of
this chapter. (Ord. 2018-17, 11-13-2018)
5-3-45: SALE AND DISPLAY OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Address On Permit: A person shall only sell, offer for sale, barter,
give away or otherwise dispose of an animal at the physical address listed on
the appropriate permit issued by the City. The applicable permit number is to
be displayed legibly in all advertisements and furnished to any potential
recipient upon request. Shelters shall be allowed off site adoption events,
with permission of site owner and while preserving appropriate care and
maintenance of animals. (Ord. 2017-10, 12-12-2017)
   B.   Turtles: No person shall offer for sale, sell, barter or give away
turtles except in conformance with the appropriate Federal regulations.
   C.   Animals As Prizes: No person shall offer an animal as a prize, giveaway
or award for a contest, game, sport or as an incentive to purchase merchandise.
   D.   Animal Exhibits:
      1.   No person shall operate, conduct, or maintain a permanent or
temporary commercial animal show, circus, animal exhibition, animal ride,
petting zoo or carnival without first having obtained a permit from the Animal
Control Division. Conditions for permit approval include provisions for the
humane care and treatment of the animals and the protection of public safety.
Permits shall not be issued upon verification that within the preceding twelve
(12) months the applicant has been convicted of charges of animal cruelty,
abuse, or neglect, or has violated the Federal Animal Welfare Act.
      2.   No person shall operate, conduct or maintain any animal exhibit
under conditions that pose a danger to the public or the animals. Specific
requirements shall be available upon request to the Animal Control Division.
      3.   The following are exempt from the requirements of this section:
         a.   Individuals or groups holding a State of New Mexico regulated
permit or a Federally regulated permit.
         b.   Events sponsored by a Municipal zoo or aquarium facility.
         c.   Competitive sporting events.
      4.   Persons involved in these exempt activities shall comply with all
other applicable sections of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-46: STERILIZATION AGREEMENTS/CONTRACTS:
It shall be unlawful for a person to possess any unsterilized animal when such
animal is required to be sterilized under the terms of any applicable
sterilization agreement or contract originating from any Municipal or nonprofit
shelter. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-47: UNLAWFUL USE OF RABIES TAG:
It is unlawful for any person to remove or transfer any rabies tag from one
animal to another. It is unlawful for any person to manufacture or cause to be
manufactured or to have in his possession or under his control a stolen,
counterfeit or forged animal license tag, rabies tag, vaccination certificate
or other form of licensing or permitting required under this chapter. (Ord.
2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-48: IMPROPER DISPOSAL OF ANIMALS:
Deceased animals shall be properly disposed of in accordance with this chapter.
Following the death of an animal, the owner shall be responsible for removing
the corpse immediately and disposing of the body by either private burial or
taking the animal to the Gallup Animal Adoption Center. It is unlawful to
dispose of the body of any animal by dumping the corpse on public or private
property, roads or rights-of-way. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-49: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   No person shall keep or harbor a vicious animal.
   B.   If an animal protection officer and/or peace officer investigates and
determines that an animal is vicious, the animal protection officer and/or
peace officer shall immediately impound, or cause to be impounded, the animal
and deliver to the owner of the animal written notice of that determination on
a standardized form that provides notice of the right to appeal the
designation, instructions for filing an appeal, and a notice of appeal to be
filed with the City Clerk.
   C.   The owner of the animal may contest the designation of an animal as a
vicious animal by an animal protection officer and/or peace officer, by filing
the notice of appeal with the City Clerk within five (5) calendar days of
notification of the designation. Such hearing shall be conducted according to
the procedures set forth in section
5-3-52-3. Failure of the owner to file a notice of appeal shall result in the
animal being declared vicious and humanely destroyed.
   D.   In determining whether or not an animal shall be declared vicious, the
animal protection officer, peace officer or Hearing Officer may consider, as a
mitigating factor or factors, whether at the time of the injury, attack or
behavior, the person or animal suffering the injury, attack or behavior for
which the animal is being determined vicious:
      1.   Provoked, tormented, teased, abused or assaulted the animal thereby
causing or contributing to the alleged behavior;
      2.   Committed a willful trespass or other tort upon the private property
of the owner or caretaker of the animal;
      3.   Threatened or committed an unjustified attack or assault against the
owner, caretaker or person in control of the animal; or
      4.   Any other mitigating factors deemed appropriate for consideration by
the animal protection officer, peace officer or Hearing Officer. (Ord. 2017-10,
12-12-2017; amd. Ord. C2021-1, 5-11-2021)
5-3-50: DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Dangerous Animal Permit Required:
      1.   No person shall keep or harbor an animal designated under the
provisions of this chapter as dangerous without having obtained a dangerous
animal permit. The animal owner shall comply with all conditions of the
dangerous animal permit including, but not limited to, all requirements of this
section. Any animal which is determined to be dangerous under this chapter and
for which a permit has not been obtained shall be surrendered to an animal
protection officer for appropriate disposition including humane destruction.
      2.   If an animal protection officer or peace officer investigates and
determines that an animal is dangerous, the animal protection officer and/or
peace officer shall deliver written notice of such determination to the owner
of the animal on a standardized form that provides notice of the right to
appeal the designation, instructions for filing an appeal, and a notice of
appeal to be filed with the City Clerk. Should the animal pose an immediate
threat to the public health and safety, an animal protection officer may
impound the animal.
      3.   In determining whether or not an animal shall be declared dangerous,
the animal protection officer, peace officer or Hearing Officer appointed
pursuant to section
5-3-52-3, may consider, as a mitigating factor or factors, whether, at the time
of the injury, attack or molestation, the person or animal suffering the
injury, attack or molestation:
         a.   Provoked, tormented, teased, abused or assaulted the animal,
thereby causing or contributing to the alleged behavior;
         b.   Committed a willful trespass or other tort upon the private
property of the owner or caretaker of the animal;
         c.   Threatened or committed an unjustified attack or assault against
the owner, caretaker or person in control of the animal;
         d.   Or any other mitigating factors deemed appropriate for
consideration by the animal protection officer, peace officer or Hearing
Officer.
      4.   The owner of the animal may contest the designation of an animal as
a dangerous animal by an animal protection officer and/or peace officer, by
filing the notice of appeal with the City Clerk within five (5) calendar days
of notification of the designation. Such hearing shall be conducted according
to the procedures set forth in section
5-3-52-3. If a notice of appeal is not timely filed, the hearing process shall
be deemed waived by the owner, and the dangerous animal declaration will be
considered final.
      5.   Unless a notice of appeal is timely filed, upon receipt of written
notification by the animal protection officer and/or peace officer that an
animal has been designated as dangerous, the owner shall submit an application
for a dangerous animal permit within seven (7) calendar days of notification of
the designation, or within seven (7) calendar days of the determination by a
Hearing Officer that the animal is dangerous. The application for a permit
shall contain the name of the applicant, applicant's address, the applicant's
home and business phone numbers, the address and description of the proposed
location of where the animal will be kept, if different from applicant's, and a
complete description and photograph of the animal. The permit shall contain all
of the requirements of this section and any additional conditions or
requirements deemed necessary by the Supervisor of Animal Protection to protect
the public health or safety.
      6.   No permit obtained under this section is transferable. If the
owner's address or the location where the animal is kept changes or the owner
transfers ownership of the animal, the permit shall become null and void and an
application for a new permit must be submitted to the Animal Protection
Division.
      7.   A permit issued under this chapter is subject to renewal and
approval each year and is subject to conditions and requirements existing as of
the date of renewal. The permittee shall pay an annual fee for this permit
pursuant to the procedures established by the Animal Protection Division. If
permittee fails to file an application for renewal or pay the permit fee prior
to the permit anniversary date the permit shall automatically become void.
      8.   If the owner or permittee has a history of multiple violations of
this chapter or of the conditions of any previously issued dangerous animal
permit, the Animal Protection Division or Hearing Officer may deny the permit
and impound the animal for appropriate disposition as determined by the Animal
Protection Division or Hearing Officer.
   B.   Dangerous Animal Permit Requirements: Any owner of a dangerous animal
shall insure compliance with the following rules and regulations which shall be
mandatory requirements for any dangerous animal permit:
      1.   When the animal is off the property of its owner, the owner must
ensure that the animal is restrained with a leash not to exceed four (4) feet
in length and having a minimum tensile strength of three hundred (300) pounds
and shall be under the direct control and supervision of the owner or a person
of such age, size and strength as can easily control such animal. Extraordinary
care shall be taken by the owner to ensure that such restraint is sufficient to
control the animal in a manner which it will not endanger other persons or
animals.
      2.   The owner shall maintain the animal so that it is not a threat to
any mail carrier, sanitation worker, meter person, or other person who has the
lawful right to enter the property.
      3.   The owner shall ensure that the animal is not kept upon any
unenclosed premise unless it is leashed and controlled by a person capable of
controlling such animal. The owner shall ensure that the animal is not
tethered, tied or staked at any unenclosed premise. The owner shall ensure that
the animal is not kept in a house or structure when the windows or doors are
open, or screen doors are the only obstacle preventing the animal from exiting
the structure.
      4.   The owner shall ensure that the animal is kept in a fenced yard,
police grade kennel, run or other enclosure approved by the Animal Protection
Division. The owner shall ensure that all structures used to confine the
animals are locked with a key or combination lock when such animals are within
the structure. The owner shall regularly inspect the fenced yard, kennel, run
or enclosure to ensure that it is secure to maintain the animal.
      5.   The owner shall open premises upon which an animal is maintained at
any reasonable hour for inspection by an animal protection officer.
      6.   The owner of the dangerous animal shall post the entrances to the
property where the animal is kept with a legible sign conspicuous to the
public, warning persons of the presence of a dangerous animal.
      7.   The owner of any dangerous animal must advise all members who reside
in the same household and on the same premises of the conditions established by
the permit for keeping or maintaining said dangerous animal.
      8.   The owner shall strictly comply with all local and state laws
regarding the care, use, control and maintenance of animals.
      9.   In addition to a license, the owner shall ensure the dangerous
animal be microchipped and registered with the Animal Protection Division
within thirty (30) calendar days from the date the permit was issued.
      10.   The owner shall have the animal spayed or neutered by a licensed
veterinarian, at the owner's expense, within thirty (30) calendar days from the
date the permit was issued. The owner shall present written proof to the Animal
Protection Division that the surgery was performed. In the event an animal
cannot be safely spayed or neutered due to medical reasons, the owner shall
present written proof from a licensed practicing veterinarian that said animal
cannot be spayed or neutered.
      11.   The owner may not sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of such
animal to another County or City without notifying Animal Control at least
twenty-four (24) hours before such sale, transfer or disposal. Animal
Protection will notify the proper authorities of the jurisdiction to which the
dangerous animal is transferred. Should the owner of a dangerous animal wish to
transfer ownership of the animal to another individual within the McKinley
County, the new owner must submit to a property inspection, apply for and
obtain a new dangerous animal permit, pay all requisite fees, and comply with
all provisions of this chapter and the requirements of the permit.
      12.   No more than two (2) dangerous animals may be kept at any one
household.
      13.   The owner of a dangerous animal must notify the Animal Protection
Division of the animal's death within twenty-four (24) hours and shall produce
the animal's body for verification upon request. The owner of a dangerous
animal must notify the Animal Protection Division immediately in the event the
animal becomes lost or stolen.
   C.   Revocation Or Modification Of Permit:
      1.   Subject to the provision of subsection (2) of this section, any
permit issued pursuant to this section may be revoked or modified by the
inclusion of additional requirements, if the Animal Protection Division has
reasonable cause to believe any of the following to be true:
         a.   The dangerous animal owner or any person the owner has allowed to
have possession of the animal has violated any local animal ordinances, or is
in violation of any zoning, health and safety or building ordinance or Criminal
Code section relating to the keeping, care or use of any animals;
         b.   The owner or any person the owner has allowed to have possession
of the animal has violated any rules, regulations or conditions of this chapter
including, but not limited to, dangerous animal permit conditions, or any
requirement imposed by the Animal Protection Division or Hearing Officer as
necessary to insure the animal will not endanger the peace, health or safety of
any person or property; or
         c.   The owner has changed the location of his residence or his place
of business or sells, assigns, transfers, donates, leases, or otherwise
disposes of the animal for which the permit was issued.
      2.   In the event that it is reasonably necessary to protect against a
threat to the health or safety of the public, or of any animal, an animal
protection officer or peace officer may impound or cause to be impounded the
animal while an investigation is taking place.
      3.   If, after investigation, the animal protection officer or peace
officer concludes that it is probable that one or more of the above grounds for
revocation or modification of the permit has occurred, the officer shall cause
written notice thereof to be transmitted to the owner. Said notice shall
specify the grounds of revocation or modification of the permit. Should the
owner of the animal wish to contest the revocation or modification of the
permit, he/she may request a hearing to be held before a Hearing Officer within
five (5) calendar days of receiving the notice of intent to modify or revoke
permit. Said hearing date shall be not less than five (5) working days or more
than fifteen (15) working days subsequent to the date the request for hearing
is received. The hearing shall be conducted as set forth in section
5-3-52-3 of this chapter. After the hearing, the officer conducting the hearing
may modify the terms of the permit or revoke the permit depending upon the
owner's ability to comply with the requirements of this chapter and to control
the animal so that the health, safety and property of the public are protected.
      4.   Upon written notification by the Animal Control Division of any
modifications to a dangerous animal permit, the owner shall immediately comply
with such modified permit requirements.
      5.   Upon written notification by the Animal Control Division of the
revocation of a permit for a dangerous animal, the owner of such animal shall,
within two (2) calendar days of such notification, surrender said animal to an
animal protection officer. (Ord. C2021-1, 5-11-2021)
5-3-51: WILD ANIMALS; CANINE HYBRIDS; VIETNAMESE POTBELLIED PIGS:
5-3-51-1: WILD ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for a person to own, harbor, keep or exhibit on
any private or public property in the City any wild animal of a species that in
its natural life is dangerous or ferocious. Such animals, though they may be
trained and domesticated, remain a danger to others, and include:
      1.   Wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and other members of the
nondomestic canine families.
      2.   Lions, pumas, panthers, mountain lions, wild cats, and other members
of the nondomestic feline families.
      3.   All bears (ursidae), including grizzly bears, black bears, brown
bears, etc.
      4.   Raccoons (procynnidae), including eastern raccoon, desert raccoon,
ring tailed cat, etc.
      5.   Primates (hominidae), including all nonhuman great apes other than
qualified service animals.
      6.   Skunks.
      7.   Bats.
      8.   Nonindigenous poisonous snakes.
      9.   Alligators, crocodiles, caimans, or poisonous lizards.
      10.   Venomous fish and piranha.
   B.   This section shall not apply to Municipal zoos and aquarium facilities,
veterinary facilities, or individuals or organizations holding a State of New
Mexico regulated permit. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-51-2: CANINE HYBRIDS:
   A.   No person shall purchase, sell, offer for sale, or advertise for sale
any animal that is represented to be the offspring, cross, mix, or hybrid of a
wolf or coyote.
   B.   No person shall possess a canine hybrid without a valid canine hybrid
permit. A person may apply for such a permit under the following conditions:
      1.   Submission of a permit application.
      2.   Submission of written proof from a licensed veterinarian that all
animals over the age of six (6) months for which a permit is requested have
been spayed or neutered.
      3.   All owners of permitted property shall grant reasonable access to
permitted premises. Upon presenting proper identification and at a reasonable
hour, a representative of the Animal Control Division shall be allowed access
to any permitted premises for the purpose of inspection. Permits may be
suspended for failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter, as well
as for violation of other applicable laws, regulations, and ordinances.
      4.   Payment of the annual permit fee, if applicable.
   C.   A permit shall not be issued until the applicant provides an adequate
physical enclosure that completely and effectively confines all animals to the
property of the owner. An animal protection officer shall determine the
adequacy of the enclosure. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
      1.   A minimum livable area of four hundred (400) square feet must be
provided for up to two (2) canine hybrids. An exception to this subsection may
be granted if the animal owner submits a written plan of adequate housing and
exercise to the Animal Control Division and such plan is approved by the
department. (Ord. 2013-3, 4-9-2013)
      2.   Permanent chaining or tethering may not be used as a method to
contain a canine hybrid to the property of the owner. The canine hybrid must be
contained with the use of a kennel, run or secure perimeter fencing. (Ord.
2012-10, 11-13-2012)
   D.   A canine hybrid permit will not be issued for the ownership of more
than two (2) canine hybrids. (Ord. 2013-3, 4-9-2013)
   E.   Each canine hybrid must wear a collar or harness displaying an
identification tag bearing the name, address, and phone number of the owner at
all times while it is on and off of the owner's premises. While off of the
owner's premises the hybrid shall be on a secure leash not more than six feet
(6') in length and in the immediate custody of a person physically capable of
controlling and restraining the animal.
   F.   Nothing in this section shall relieve the holder of a permit from
complying with all other applicable sections of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-10,
11-13-2012)
5-3-51-3: VIETNAMESE POTBELLIED PIGS OR POTBELLIED PIGS:
It is unlawful for any person to receive, purchase, own, maintain, harbor or
keep Vietnamese potbellied pigs or potbellied pigs. (Ord. 2017-10, 12-12-2017)
5-3-52: PENALTIES:
5-3-52-1: PENALTY:
A person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter, section
5-3-1 et seq., shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
5-3-52-2: SUSPENSIONS, REVOCATIONS OF PERMITS:
   A.   When an animal protection officer discovers that a permitted premises
is in violation of this chapter, he shall give notice of the violations to the
permit holder, operator or person in charge on a standardized form that
provides notice of the right to appeal the designation, instructions for filing
an appeal, and a notice of appeal to be filed with the City Clerk. The
notification shall:
      1.   Set forth each specific violation.
      2.   If appropriate, establish a specific and reasonable period of time
for the correction of the violation(s) and that failure to comply may result in
immediate suspension or revocation of the permit.
      3.   State that an opportunity for appeal from a notice or inspection
findings will be provided if a written request for a hearing is filed with the
City Clerk within five (5) days of receipt of the notice.
      4.   Notices under this section shall be deemed properly served and
received when the original inspection report or other notice has been
personally served on the person in charge, or sent by registered or certified
mail to the last known address of the permit holder.
      5.   Permits may be suspended for failure of the holder to comply with
the requirements of this chapter or other applicable laws, ordinances or
regulations. The suspension may be lifted when the Supervisor determines the
violations have been corrected.
      6.   Permits may be revoked for serious or repeated violations of the
requirements of this chapter, or for violation of other applicable laws,
ordinances or regulations. A permit shall be revoked for one year. The permit
shall be surrendered to the City Manager upon suspension or revocation.
         a.   A person whose permit has been suspended may apply for an
inspection of the premises for the purpose of reinstating the permit. If the
applicant and the site are in compliance with the requirements of this chapter
and all other applicable laws, ordinances and regulations, the permit shall be
reinstated. The reinstated permit shall expire on the date of expiration of the
previously suspended permit.
         b.   If an exotic or wild animal permit is suspended or revoked, all
animals received, purchased, owned or kept under the authority of the permit
shall be surrendered to the Animal Control Division for impoundment. After a
period of at least seven (7) days, if the violations of this chapter which
resulted in suspension or revocation of the permit have not been corrected, the
Animal Control Division may sell or dispose of the animal(s) as provided in
this chapter. The applicant may appeal the suspension or revocation in the
manner provided in this section
5-3-52. (Ord. 2017-10, 12-12-2017; amd. Ord. C2021-1, 5-11-2021)
5-3-52-3: APPEAL PROCEDURES FOR PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OR
DETERMINATION THAT AN ANIMAL IS DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS:
   A.   A person whose application for a permit or permit renewal has been
approved on condition or denied and a permit holder, whose permit has been
suspended or revoked, or who wishes to appeal the decision of the Animal
Protection Division that an animal is dangerous or vicious may submit to the
City Clerk a written request for a hearing. The written request must be
received within five (5) days of the applicant’s receipt of the written notice
from the city. The hearing shall be conducted within fifteen (15) days after
the City Clerk receives the request for a hearing or as otherwise specified by
this chapter.
   B.   Hearings shall be conducted by a Hearing Officer that is appointed by
the City Manager at a time and place designated by the Hearing Officer and
shall be recorded. All witnesses shall be sworn or affirmed. Written notice of
the time and place of the hearing shall be mailed to the applicant and the
Supervisor of the Animal Control Division.
   C.   The applicant shall be afforded a fair hearing which provides the basic
safeguards of due process which shall include:
      1.   The opportunity to examine before the hearing and, at the expense of
the applicant, to copy all documents, records and regulations that are relevant
to the hearing.
      2.   The right to be represented by counsel or other persons chosen as
his representative.
      3.   The right to present evidence and arguments in support of his appeal
to controvert evidence relied on by the City, and to confront and cross examine
all witnesses on whose testimony or information the City relies.
      4.   A decision based solely and exclusively upon the facts presented at
the hearing.
   D.   The Hearing Officer shall prepare a written report of his findings and
decision within three (3) days after the hearing and shall provide copies to
the parties.
   E.   A party who is aggrieved by the decision of the Hearing Officer may
appeal to the City Council.
      1.   The notice of appeal shall be filed in the Office of the City Clerk
within five (5) days after the written decision is issued. If notice is filed
by mail, date of receipt by Clerk shall control timeliness of appeal.
      2.   A copy of the appeal shall be forwarded by the City Clerk to the
Animal Control Division Supervisor.
      3.   The Council shall set a date for a hearing on the appeal as soon as
practicable, but in any event within thirty (30) days of receipt of notice by
the City Clerk.
      4.   The Council shall review the written findings and decision of the
Hearing Officer, review the evidence for and against the decision and, if
necessary, hear statements from the aggrieved party and the prevailing party.
      5.   The Council shall determine if the decision should be affirmed or
rescinded.
      6.   The decision of the Council shall be final. (Ord. 2017-10, 12-12-
2017; amd. Ord. C2021-1, 5-11-2021)
5-3-52-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, word or phrase of this chapter is
for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
provisions of this chapter. The Council hereby declares that it would have
passed this chapter and each division, section, paragraph, sentence, clause,
word or phrase thereof irrespective of any provision being declared
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid. (Ord. 2012-10, 11-13-2012)
CHAPTER 4
FIREARMS AND WEAPONS  1
SECTION:
5-4-1: Discharging Or Firing Prohibited
5-4-2: Exceptions
5-4-3: Guardian Of Minor Liable
5-4-4: Duty Of Police
5-4-5: Sale Of Firearms To Minors Prohibited
5-4-6: Penalty
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection
1 4-1-3, definition of "Public Nuisance", subsection I and sections 5-1-27 and
  5-1-42 of this code.
5-4-1: DISCHARGING OR FIRING PROHIBITED:
The firing or discharging of shotguns, rifles, pistols, BB guns or pistols, air
rifles or air pistols, spring guns, air guns, slingshots or any other weapon
for the purpose of throwing or projecting missiles of any kind by any means
whatsoever, within the corporate limits of the city, except as hereafter
provided, is hereby prohibited and declared to be a misdemeanor. (1961 Code §
6-4-1)
5-4-2: EXCEPTIONS:
The prohibition of section
5-4-1 of this chapter shall not apply to licensed shooting galleries or on
private grounds or premises under circumstances when such instrument can be
fired, discharged or operated in such a manner as not to endanger persons or
property, and also in such manner as to prevent the projectile from traversing
any grounds or space outside the limits of such gallery, grounds or residence.
(1961 Code § 6-4-2)
5-4-3: GUARDIAN OF MINOR LIABLE:
Any parent or guardian of any minor who permits said minor or ward to possess
or have in his custody any weapon mentioned in section
5-4-1 of this chapter, which is thereafter fired or discharged in violation of
this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1961 Code § 6-4-3)
5-4-4: DUTY OF POLICE:
The police officers of the city are hereby authorized and directed to seize and
hold any shotgun, rifle, pistol, BB gun or pistol, air rifle or air pistol,
spring gun, air gun, slingshot or any other weapon for the purpose of throwing
or projecting missiles of any kind by any means whatsoever used in violation of
this chapter, and to deliver the same to the municipal judge for disposition by
him upon determination of the case. The municipal judge is authorized, in case
of conviction, to cause the seized weapon to be destroyed. (1961 Code § 6-4-4)
5-4-5: SALE OF FIREARMS TO MINORS PROHIBITED:
The giving, selling, trading, bartering or exchanging for anything of value of
any "firearm" as defined in section
5-4-1 of this chapter, or of any ammunition for any firearm, to any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years, within the corporate limits of the city,
is hereby prohibited and declared to be a misdemeanor; provided however, that
nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit any parent or legal
guardian from purchasing such a weapon for his child or ward, or from giving
such a weapon to his child or ward, subject to the provisions of section
5-4-3 of this chapter. (Ord. C66-91, 1-3-1973)
5-4-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1961 Code § 6-4-6; amd. Ord. C66-91, 1-3-1973; 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 5
FAIR HOUSING  1
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Acts Prohibited
5-5-3: Exemptions
5-5-4: Fair Housing Board
5-5-5: Procedure Before Board
5-5-6: Board Findings And Orders
5-5-7: Cumulative Legal Effect
5-5-8: Unlawful Intimidation
5-5-9: Further Remedy
5-5-10: Service Of Notice And Orders
5-5-11: Severability
5-5-12: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 28-1-1.
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACCOMMODATION: Private housing of any type suitable for habitation by human
beings, including one-family dwellings, apartment houses and rooming houses
with more than three (3) rented rooms.
PRIVATE CLUB: Any organization chartered under the laws of the state of New
Mexico, which receives annual membership dues, and which has been in operation
for more than one year.
PUBLIC MEDIA: Newspapers, radio and television broadcasting stations, or other
media such as signs read by the general public, which announce to the general
public the availability of accommodations for residential use.
REAL ESTATE AGENT: Any individual or group of individuals engaged in the
business of selling, renting, leasing or managing accommodations for
residential use. (Ord. C66-40, 4-15-1969)
5-5-2: ACTS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful:
   A.   Sell, Lease Or Rent: To refuse to sell, lease, rent, assign or
otherwise transfer the title or other interest in any housing or real property
upon which residential housing is to be constructed to any person, or to
discriminate in the terms or conditions of the sale, rental or leasing of any
residential housing unit, because of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, disability or familial status.
   B.   Negotiate: To refuse to negotiate with any person for the sale, rental
or leasing of any residential property, or to represent that such property is
not available for inspection, sale, rental or lease when in fact, it is so
available because of such person's race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
disability or familial status.
   C.   Solicit: To solicit or induce or attempt to solicit or induce any
person owning any interest in any residential housing to sell, rent, or lease,
or not to sell, rent or lease such housing to any person on the ground of loss
of value due to the present or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a
person or persons of another race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
disability or familial status either by direct solicitation or inducement or by
the purchase of other property in the neighborhood for the purpose of such
inducement; or to distribute, or cause to be distributed, material or making
statements designed to induce a residential property owner to sell or lease his
property due to such change in neighborhood. (Ord. C95-5, 4-25-1995; amd. 2006
Code)
   D.   False Complaint: To file a complaint alleging a violation of this
chapter with knowledge that such complaint is false in any material respect, or
to file such complaint for the sole purpose of harassment. (Ord. C66-40, 4-15-
1969)
   E.   Loan Companies: For any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other person whose business consists in whole or in part of the
making of commercial or residential real estate loans, to deny a loan or other
financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling; or to
discriminate against any such person in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, brokerage points, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or
other financial assistance; because of:
      1.   The race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability or
familial status of any person associated with him in connection with such loan
or other financial assistance; or
      2.   The race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability or
familial status of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or
occupants of the dwelling or dwellings for which such loan or other financial
assistance is to be made or given.
   F.   Access, Membership Or Participation: For any person to deny access to
or membership or participation in any multiple listing service, real estate
brokers' organization or other service, organization or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting of dwellings, or to discriminate in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, or familial status.
(Ord. C95-5, 4-25-1995)
5-5-3: EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing herein shall apply:
   A.   Preference Not Discriminatory: To prohibit persons from giving
preference to prospective buyers or tenants for any reason other than race,
color, religion or national origin.
   B.   Not Offered Through Public Media: To the sale, rental or lease of a
dwelling or other accommodation which has not been offered through the "public
media" to the general public, as defined in section
5-5-1 of this chapter.
   C.   Religious Or Fraternal Organizations; Private Clubs: To the sale,
rental or lease of accommodations owned by religious or fraternal
organizations, or "private clubs", as defined in section
5-5-1 of this chapter, which are not offered for sale, rental or lease through
the public media to the general public.
   D.   Rooms In Private Dwellings: To the rental of rooms in a private
dwelling occupied in part by the owner or members of his family, in which no
more than two (2) rooms are rented to nonmembers of the family.
   E.   Occupied Two-Family House: To the rental or lease of accommodations in
a two-family house in which one-half (1/2) of the building is occupied by the
owner or his family. (Ord. C66-40, 4-15-1969)
5-5-4: FAIR HOUSING BOARD:
   A.   Created; Membership; Appointment:
      1.   Created; Appointment Of Members: A fair housing board is hereby
created consisting of five (5) members appointed by the city council and
hereafter referred to as the board. The improving neighborhood and community
housing (INCH) advisory committee shall serve as the board.
      2.   Officers: The board shall elect its chairman from among its members
at the first meeting held after January 1 of each year. The board shall
designate one of its members as vice chairman to preside in the absence or
incapacity of the chairman. The zoning division shall be secretary to the board
to record minutes of its meetings, keep its records, and carry on
correspondence necessary to the operation of the board. (Ord. C95-5, 4-25-1995;
amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Term Of Office: The term of office of each member is for four (4)
years; provided, that of the members first appointed, two (2) shall be
appointed for a term of two (2) years, two (2) for a term of three (3) years
and one for a term of four (4) years. Any vacancy on the board shall be filled
by appointment of the city council for the unexpired term of such board member.
   C.   Quorum: Three (3) or more board members shall constitute a quorum to
conduct business.
   D.   Duties Of Fair Housing Board: The board shall have the following
duties:
      1.   Initiate, receive and investigate complaints charging violations of
this chapter;
      2.   Seek conciliation of such complaints, hold hearings, make findings
of facts and publish its findings of fact;
      3.   Adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out
the purposes and provisions of this chapter;
      4.   Endeavor to eliminate prejudice by encouraging educational programs
and conferences for all residents of this city; and
      5.   Submit annually a written report of all of its activities and
recommendations to the city council on or before June 1 of each year. (Ord.
C66-40, 4-15-1969)
5-5-5: PROCEDURE BEFORE BOARD:
   A.   File Complaint; Time Limit: Any person aggrieved by discriminatory
practice prohibited by this chapter, may file with the fair housing board, a
complaint in writing, under oath. Said complaint shall be signed by the person
claiming to be aggrieved, and shall state the name and address of the person
alleged to have violated the provisions of this chapter, and shall further set
forth the particulars of said violation, and may include such other information
as may be required by the board. Complaints filed under this section must be
filed within thirty (30) days after the alleged violation, and failure to file
within said time, shall be considered a waiver of the application of this
chapter. If at any time the board shall receive or discover credible evidence
of and shall have probable cause to believe that any person or persons have
committed or are committing a discriminatory housing practice as to which no
complaint has been filed, the board may recommend to the director of zoning
division to prepare and file a complaint and such complaint shall thereafter be
treated in the same manner as a complaint filed by a person aggrieved.
   B.   Investigation; Conference And Conciliation: The director of the zoning
division, his designee on behalf of the board, shall investigate each complaint
filed with the board, and shall attempt an adjustment of said complaint by
means of conference and conciliation. Sixty (60) days shall be allowed for the
purpose of investigation, conference and conciliation. Upon determination that
a complaint is not well founded, the board shall dismiss said complaint and
notify the complainant and respondent in writing of said dismissal. If the
board takes no action within ninety (90) days of the filing of the complaint,
it shall be considered as dismissed. (Ord. C95-5, 4-25-1995; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Hearing Before Board: If conference or conciliation does not result in
compliance with this chapter, the board shall cause to be issued and served in
the name of the city, a written notice, together with a copy of said complaint,
requiring the person named in said complaint, hereinafter referred to as
respondent, to answer charges of said complainant at a hearing before the board
at a time and place to be specified in the notice.
   D.   Conduct Of Hearing: At the hearing provided for in subsection C of this
section, the complainant and respondent shall be heard by the board, at their
option. At the hearing, the complainant or person aggrieved may appear in
person and/or by counsel, and the respondent may file a written answer to the
complaint and may appear in person or by legal counsel. The board, when
conducting any hearing, pursuant to this section, may permit amendments to any
complaint or answer and the testimony taken at the hearing shall be under oath,
and shall be transcribed at the request of either party or at the direction of
the board. (Ord. C66-40, 4-15-1969)
   E.   Complaints From Other Agencies: The chairman shall receive and accept
referral complaints from the U.S. attorney general, the secretary of housing
and urban development and the state division pursuant to the provisions of
title VIII, fair housing act of 1968, public law 90-284, and shall treat such
complaints hereunder in the same manner as complaints filed pursuant to
subsection A of this section. (Ord. C95-5, 4-25-1995)
5-5-6: BOARD FINDINGS AND ORDERS:
   A.   Unfair Housing Practice; Order To Cease: If upon all the evidence at
the hearing, the fair housing board finds that the person against whom a
complaint has been filed, has engaged in, or is engaging in an unfair housing
practice, as defined in this chapter, the board shall state its findings of
fact and shall issue and cause to be served upon such person, an order
requiring such person to cease and desist from such unfair housing practice,
and to take such affirmative or other action as in the judgment of the board,
will effectuate the purposes of this chapter, including a requirement of a
report of the manner of compliance. The board shall retain jurisdiction of a
case until it is satisfied that the person against whom the complaint has been
filed has complied with the order. In the event that the board determines that
such person has not complied with its order, it shall then be empowered to
recommend within thirty (30) days to the director of public works to file a
complaint in municipal court against any person found in violation of this
chapter by the board.
   B.   Prosecution By City Attorney: The city attorney shall, within thirty
(30) days after such referral, make a determination as to whether to proceed
with prosecution of such complaint in municipal court. If the city attorney
determines to prosecute, he shall file a complaint within thirty (30) days
after such determination and prosecute the same to conclusion with reasonable
diligence.
   C.   Rights Of Complainants: All complainants under this chapter shall be
advised of their rights to file housing discrimination complaints, as defined
in this chapter, with the fair housing and equal employment opportunity
division of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Region VI,
221 W. Lancaster Avenue, Fort Worth, TX, 76139, or any successor organization
or location. (Ord. C95-5, 4-25-1995)
5-5-7: CUMULATIVE LEGAL EFFECT:
This chapter is cumulative in its legal effect and is not in lieu of any and
all other legal remedies which the person aggrieved may pursue. (Ord. C95-5, 4-
25-1995)
5-5-8: UNLAWFUL INTIMIDATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to harass, threaten, harm, damage or
otherwise penalize any other person because he has complied with the provisions
of this chapter; enjoyed the benefits of this chapter; or because he has made a
charge, testified, or assisted in any manner in any investigation, or in any
proceeding hereunder or has made any report to the chairman. (Ord. C95-5, 4-25-
1995)
5-5-9: FURTHER REMEDY:
Any person aggrieved in any manner by the violation of any provisions of this
chapter, who has exhausted the remedies provided for in this chapter, may apply
directly to the municipal court for relief from such violation. (Ord. C66-40,
4-15-1969)
5-5-10: SERVICE OF NOTICE AND ORDERS:
Any and all notices and orders required under the provisions of this chapter to
be served upon any person, may be served personally on such person, or by
mailing a copy thereof by certified or registered mail, with return receipt
requested, to the most current business or residence address of such person.
(Ord. C66-40, 4-15-1969)
5-5-11: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision, section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter, or the application of same to any person or set of circumstances is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional, void or invalid (or for any reason
unenforceable), the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter or their
application to other persons or sets of circumstances shall not be affected
thereby, it being the intent of the city council in adopting and approving this
chapter, that no portion hereof or provision or regulation contained herein
shall become inoperative or fail by reason of any unconstitutionality or
invalidity or any other portion, provision or regulation, and to this end all
provisions of this chapter are declared to be severable. (Ord. C95-5, 4-25-
1995)
5-5-12: PENALTY:
It is unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this chapter. Any
person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. C95-5, 4-25-1995; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Title
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Permit Required
5-6-4: Permit Application And Fee
5-6-5: Expedited Review
5-6-6: Insurance Required
5-6-7: Save Harmless Agreement
5-6-8: Approval Process
5-6-9: Standards For Denial Of Permit And Imposing Conditions And Restrictions
On Special Event Permits
5-6-10: Revocation Of Special Event Permit
5-6-11: Appeal Procedure
5-6-12: Duties Of Permittee
5-6-13: Public Conduct During Special Events
5-6-14: Participation In Special Event
5-6-15: Post-Event Clean-Up
5-6-16: Penalty
5-6-17: Severability
5-6-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT ORDINANCE OF THE CITY
OF GALLUP. (Ord. 2017-8, 10-10-2017)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICATION FEE: Is the nonrefundable fee that must be paid, unless waived
pursuant to this chapter, upon submission of the application.
PARADE: Is any march or organized procession of any kind, of three (3) or more
persons or vehicles in or upon any street, park, or other outdoor places owned
or under the control of the City. The term "parade" does not include funeral
processions supervised by a licensed mortuary, students participating in
educational activities, provided such conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities, activities of a government
agency acting within the scope of its governmental functions, or processions of
persons on public sidewalks that do not interfere with the normal flow of
vehicular traffic.
PERMITTEE: Is a person or organization that has been granted a special event
permit.
SPECIAL EVENT: Means any activity which occurs upon private or public property
that will affect the ordinary use of City property, public streets, rights-of-
way or sidewalks. This includes, but is not limited to, parades, fairs,
festivals, foot runs, bicycle runs, demonstrations, rallies, and block parties.
A special event may be scheduled for multiple days and a single permit may be
obtained for an event that occurs on a regular basis for up to one calendar
year. Private social gatherings which will make no use of City streets other
than for lawful parking are not included. (Ord. 2017-8, 10-10-2017)
5-6-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Unless exempted by this section, no person or organization shall conduct a
special event that affects the ordinary use of City property, public streets,
rights-of-way or sidewalks without first having obtained a special event permit
from the City of Gallup. Governmental agencies that are political subdivisions
of the State of New Mexico are exempt from payment of the application fee.
(Ord. 2017-8, 10-10-2017)
5-6-4: PERMIT APPLICATION AND FEE:
An application for a special event permit shall be submitted to the City with a
nonrefundable application fee of ten dollars ($10.00) no later than thirty (30)
days prior to the proposed event. The following information shall be provided
in writing: the name and purpose of the special event; name, address and
telephone number of the sponsoring organization or individual; proposed date,
location and hours of operation including the route to be traveled by a parade;
schedule of proposed events; whether alcohol will be served; the approximate
number of persons expected to attend and/or participate in the event; the
approximate number of entries expected to participate in a parade including the
type and number of animals and vehicles; proposed provision for restroom
facilities; and such other information as the City Manager, or his/her
designee, or another City department deems reasonably necessary to determine
that the permit meets the requirements of this chapter and any other applicable
law or ordinance. (Ord. 2017-8, 10-10-2017)
5-6-5: EXPEDITED REVIEW:
Special events that are occasioned by news or public affairs coming into public
knowledge within less than fourteen (14) days of such special event may apply
for a special event permit not less than three (3) business days prior to the
special event. The City Manager, or his/her designee, will conduct the review
specified in section
5-6-8 of this chapter and notify the applicant by the end of the next business
day. An application that is approved pursuant to this expedited review process
does not require approval of the City Council. Any closure of a public street
must be approved by City Council. (Ord. 2017-8, 10-10-2017; amd. Ord. C2019-6,
6-25-2019)
5-6-6: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
The applicant is required to obtain and present evidence of surety indemnity
bond or comprehensive liability insurance naming the City as an additional
insured. The minimum insurance requirement shall be the limits of Municipal
liability contained in the New Mexico Tort Claims Act. If the event poses
higher risks than covered by such insurance, the applicant shall be responsible
for assessing the risks of the event and obtaining additional insurance
coverage. Governmental agencies that are political subdivisions of the State of
New Mexico, the Federal government, or a tribal government are exempt from the
requirement to provide proof of insurance. (Ord. 2017-8, 10-10-2017)
5-6-7: SAVE HARMLESS AGREEMENT:
The applicant is required to provide a save harmless agreement in which the
applicant agrees to defend, pay and save harmless the City, its officers and
employees, from any and all claims or lawsuits for personal injury or property
damage arising from or in any way connected to the special event; excepting any
claims arising solely out of the negligent acts of the City, its officers and
employees. (Ord. 2017-8, 10-10-2017)
5-6-8: APPROVAL PROCESS:
The City Manager, or his/her designee, shall determine whether the application
meets the requirements of this chapter. The City Manager, or his/her designee,
will review and decide upon the application and notify the applicant within
fifteen (15) days of receiving the application and all required documentation
and payment of the application fee. In addition to any other form of
notification, the applicant shall be notified in writing of the decision. The
written notification shall include any special conditions imposed on the
special event and of any regulations adopted pursuant to Section 9 that are
applicable to the event. If the application is denied, the written notification
shall specify the reason(s) for the denial. If the application involves the
closure of a public street, the application shall be placed on the agenda of
the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting for final approval by the
Council. (Ord. 2017-8, 10-10-2017; amd. Ord. C2019-6, 6-25-2019; Ord. C2022-6,
12-13-2022)
5-6-9: STANDARDS FOR DENIAL OF PERMIT AND IMPOSING CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
ON SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS:
   A.   Reasons for denial of a special event permit include:
      1.   The event will disrupt traffic within the City beyond practical
solution;
      2.   The event will interfere with access to fire stations and fire
hydrants;
      3.   The proposed location of the special event will cause undue hardship
to adjacent businesses or residents;
      4.   the proposed location of the special event is unsafe due to the
absence of off-street parking, restroom facilities, or safe access to
electrical services or connections;
      5.   The proposed time and location of the event will interfere with a
previously scheduled special event;
      6.   The event will require the diversion of so many public employees
that allowing the event would unreasonably deny service to the remainder of the
City;
      7.   The application contains incomplete or false information;
      8.   The applicant fails to comply with all terms of this chapter
including failure to remit all fees and deposits or failure to provide proof of
insurance, bonds, and a save harmless agreement to the City.
   B.   The City Manager may adopt regulations regarding the use of City
property, public streets, rights-of-way or sidewalks for special events. Such
regulations may impose conditions on the use of specific venues for special
events, taking into account the location and ordinary uses of the various
venues. Such regulations may address, among other topics, the following:
      1.   The maximum number of participants that may attend a special event;
      2.   The hours during which a special event may operate;
      3.   Noise restrictions, including restrictions on the use of sound
amplification devices;
      4.   Requiring portable restroom facilities and/or trash containers be
provided;
      5.   Restricting the use of portable electric generators;
      6.   Restricting the service of alcohol to participants or consumption of
alcohol by participants;
      7.   Requiring private security if alcohol will be served or if other
conditions warrant requiring private security;
      8.   Requiring a traffic control plan and adequate traffic control
devices and personnel to direct traffic;
      9.   Requiring adequate personnel to supervise the activities to be
conducted at the special event; and
      10.   Other requirements reasonably necessary for the preservation of
public health, safety, or welfare.
   C.   The City Manager, or his/her designee, may impose special conditions on
a special event due to the nature of the special event and its potential impact
on public health, safety, or welfare. (Ord. 2017-8, 10-10-2017; amd. Ord.
C2022-6, 12-13-2022)
5-6-10: REVOCATION OF SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT:
All permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall be temporary and do not vest
any permanent rights. Reasons for revocation of a special event permit include
application contained incomplete or false information; applicant does not
comply with all terms and conditions of permit; applicant fails to arrange for
or adequately remit all fees, deposits, insurance or bonds to the City;
disaster, public calamity, riot or other emergency exists. (Ord. 2017-8, 10-10-
2017)
5-6-11: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Any applicant whose application has been denied or revoked may appeal the
decision of the City Manager, or his/her designee, to the City Council by
filing a written notice of such appeal with the City Clerk within five (5)
business days of receipt of the notice of denial or revocation. The City
Council shall set a hearing date within fifteen (15) days of receiving such
appeal request. At such hearing, the applicant is entitled to be heard and
present evidence in support of the application. (Ord. 2017-8, 10-10-2017)
5-6-12: DUTIES OF PERMITTEE:
   A.   Compliance With Laws And Regulations: A permittee hereunder shall
comply with all permit directions and conditions and with all applicable laws
and ordinances.
   B.   Possession Of Permit: The person heading or leading the special event
shall carry the special event permit upon his person during the conduct of the
special event.
   C.   Other Required Permits: The permittee shall obtain all other relevant
permits that may be required from the City or other jurisdictions for the
special event. (Ord. 2017-8, 10-10-2017)
5-6-13: PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING SPECIAL EVENTS:
   A.   Interference: No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct or impede,
or interfere with any special event or with any person, vehicle or animal
participating or used in a special event.
   B.   Driving Through Parades: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the
vehicles or persons comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in
motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade.
   C.   Parking During Special Event: The City Council shall have the
authority, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a highway,
street, public right-of-way, or City-owned parking lot, or part thereof, when
reasonably necessary for the conduct of the special event. Notice of such
restrictions shall be made by the posting of signs, not less than 12" by 18" in
size posted at the beginning of each block and at the entrance of any parking
lot to be closed, not less than twenty four (24) hours prior to the beginning
of the special event and by individual notice posted on the windshield of any
vehicle parked in a restricted area. Any vehicle that is parked in an area that
is closed pursuant to this section may not be moved during the special event
without a police escort and may be towed to a secure location by the City.
(Ord. 2017-8, 10-10-2017; amd. Ord. C2022-6, 12-13-2022)
5-6-14: PARTICIPATION IN SPECIAL EVENT:
The permittee may limit participation in the special event and may deny or
limit participation in the special event to any person or entity; however such
denial or limitation may not be based in whole or in part upon the race, color,
national origin, ethnicity, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender
identity, physical or mental handicap or any other classification protected by
Federal or State law or City ordinance. (Ord. 2017-8, 10-10-2017)
5-6-15: POST-EVENT CLEAN-UP:
A permittee will clean the public property or right-of-way of rubbish and
debris, returning it to its pre-event condition, if not immediately, within
twelve (12) hours of the conclusion of the event. (Ord. 2017-8, 10-10-2017)
5-6-16: PENALTY:
Any person violating Sections 3, 12, 13, or 15 of this chapter; any regulation
adopted pursuant to Section 9(B); or any special condition imposed on the
special event pursuant to Section 9(C) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
subject to the penalties specified in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2017-8, 10-10-2017; amd. Ord. C2022-6, 12-13-2022)
5-6-17: SEVERABILITY:
If any part of this chapter is found to be invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such finding shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of the chapter. (Ord. 2017-8, 10-10-2017)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE  1
SECTION:
6-1-1: Adoption Of Uniform Traffic Ordinance
6-1-2: Reserved
6-1-3: Code Enforcement Officer Authorized To Issue Parking Citations
6-1-4: Penalty Assessment Program
6-1-5: Traffic Education And Enforcement Fee
 
Notes
  1. NMSA § 3-17-6. See section
1 5-1-29 of this Code for use of radio microwaves to check speed of motor
  vehicles.
6-1-1: ADOPTION OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC ORDINANCE:
The 2010 compilation of the New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance, comprising
sections 12-1-1 through 12-13-6 inclusive, and any subsequent amendments made
thereto and compiled therein from time to time, are herewith adopted by
reference, pursuant to section 3-17-6, New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978.
The ordinance as adopted shall be available for inspection in the Office of the
Municipal Clerk during regular and normal business hours of the Municipal
Clerk. A copy of the code shall be available upon request and payment of a
reasonable charge.
(Ord. 2013-8, 10-22-2013; amd. Ord. C2023-1, 1-24-2023; Ord. C2024-5, 7-9-2024)
6-1-2: RESERVED:  
Reserved by Ord. C2023-1, 1-24-2023.
6-1-3: CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE PARKING CITATIONS:
   A.   The chief of police is authorized to give additional duties under this
code to the code enforcement officer to enforce parking violations and other
violations of this Code not amounting to a breach of the peace.
   B.   Citations issued by a Code Enforcement Officer who is authorized by the
Chief of Police to issue such citations will be in the form of a civil citation
under the provisions of section
1-13-3 of this Code. (Ord. 2014-1, 2-11-2014)
6-1-4: PENALTY ASSESSMENT PROGRAM:
   A.   Short Title: This section may be cited as the PENALTY ASSESSMENT
PROGRAM.
   B.   Penalty Assessment Schedule:
      1.   As used in the New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance adopted by the
City of Gallup, New Mexico, "penalty assessment misdemeanor" means violation of
the following listed sections of the New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance, for
which the listed penalty assessment is established:
Common Name Of Offense Section Violated Penalty Assessment
Common Name Of Offense                      Section Violated Penalty Assessment
Pedestrian control signals                  12-5-7           $ 25.00
Flashing signals                            12-5-8           25.00
Display of unauthorized signs, signals or   12-5-10          25.00
markings
Speed regulations:                          12-6-1
 a. Up to and including 10 miles an hour                     25.00
 over speed limit
 b. From 11 up to and including 15 miles an                  30.00
 hour over speed limit
 c. From 16 up to and including 20 miles an                  65.00
 hour over speed limit
 d. From 21 up to and including 25 miles an                  100.00
 hour over speed limit
 e. From 26 up to and including 30 miles an                  125.00
 hour over the speed limit
 f. From 31 up to and including 35 miles an                  150.00
 hour over the speed limit
 g. More than 35 miles an hour over the                      200.00
 speed limit
Minimum speed regulations                   12-6-1.5         25.00
Overtaking a vehicle on the left            12-6-2.3         10.00
Limitation on overtaking on the left        12-6-2.4         10.00
No passing zones and restrictions on        12-6-2.7         25.00
passing
Following too closely                       12-6-2.13        25.00
Driving on divided streets                  12-6-2.14        25.00
Vehicle approaching or entering             12-6-4.1         25.00
intersection
Vehicles turning left at intersection       12-6-4.2         25.00
Vehicles entering stop or yield             12-6-4.3         25.00
intersection
Limitations on turning around               12-6-5.5         10.00
Starting parked vehicle                     12-6-5.7         10.00
Turning and stopping movements and required 12-6-5.8         25.00
signals
Stopping, standing and parking              12-6-6           25.00
Special stops required                      12-6-7           25.00
Stopping for school bus                     12-6-7.3         100.00
Operators and chauffeurs must be licensed   12-6-12.5        25.00
Limitations on backing                      12-6-12.9        25.00
Restriction on use of video in motor        12-6-12.1 1      25.00
vehicles
Coasting prohibited                         12-6-12.1 2      25.00
Destructive or injurious material on        12-6-13.5        100.00
roadway
Animals on street                           12-6-13.1 0      25.00
Driving on mountain streets                 12-6-13.1 1      25.00
Child not in restraint device or safety     12-6-13.1 2      25.00
belt
Mandatory use of seat belts                 12-6-13.1 3      25.00
Possession or consumption of alcoholic      12-6-13.1 4      25.00
beverages in open containers first offense
Littering                                   12-6-13.1 5      50.00
Pedestrian violation                        12-6-14          10.00
Pedestrians right-of-way in crosswalks      12-6-14.2        25.00
Pedestrians to use right half of sidewalk   12-6-14.3        25.00
Crossing at other than crosswalks           12-6-14.4        25.00
Pedestrians on streets                      12-6-14.5        25.00
Drivers to exercise due care                12-6-14.8        25.00
Parking in designated disabled parking      12-9-9           $250.00 - $500.00
spaces
Prohibited acts                             12-10-1.1        $25.00
When lighted lamps are required             12-10-1.3        25.00
Headlamps on vehicles                       12-10-1.5        25.00
Dimming of lights                           12-10-1.6        10.00
Tail lamps                                  12-10-1.7        25.00
Vehicles to be equipped with reflectors     12-10-1.8        25.00
Mufflers, prevention of noise               12-10-1.1 0      10.00
Lamp or flag on projecting load             12-10-1.1 1      10.00
Windshield must be unobstructed and
equipped with wipers; windows must be       12-10-1.1 2      25.00
transparent; exceptions
Sun screening materials on windshields and  12-10-1.1 2A     25.00
windows; requirements; violations penalty
Display of current valid registration plate 12-10-4          25.00
Evidence of registration to be signed and   12-10-5          10.00
exhibited on demand
 
      2.   The term "penalty assessment misdemeanor" does not include any
violation which has caused or contributed to the cause of an accident resulting
in injury or death to any person.
      3.   When an alleged violator of a penalty assessment misdemeanor elects
to accept a notice to appear in lieu of a notice of penalty assessment, no fine
imposed upon later conviction shall exceed the penalty assessment established
for the particular penalty assessment misdemeanor and no probation imposed upon
a suspended or deferred sentence shall exceed ninety (90) days.
      4.   The penalty assessment for speeding in violation of section 12-6-1.2
(4) of the uniform traffic ordinance is twice the penalty assessment
established in subsection B1 of this section for the equivalent miles per hour
over the speed limit. (Ord. 2018-14, 10-23-2018)
      5.   In addition to the penalty assessment established for each penalty
assessment misdemeanor pursuant to this section, there shall be assessed the
following fees for each penalty assessment misdemeanor: a twenty dollar
($20.00) corrections fee; a six dollar ($6.00) court automation fee; a four
dollar ($4.00) traffic education and enforcement fee; and a three dollar
($3.00) judicial education fee. (Ord. 2019-4, 2-26-2019)
   C.   Penalty Assessment Misdemeanors; Option; Effect:
      1.   Unless a warning notice is given, at the time of making an arrest
for any penalty assessment misdemeanor, the arresting officer shall offer the
alleged violator the option of accepting a penalty assessment. The violator's
signature on the penalty assessment notice constitutes an acknowledgement of
guilt of the offense stated in the notice, and payment of the prescribed
penalty assessment is a complete satisfaction of the violation.
      2.   Payment of any penalty assessment must be made by mail to the
Municipal Court, City of Gallup, New Mexico within thirty (30) days from the
date of arrest. Payments of penalty assessments are timely if postmarked within
the time limits set from the date of arrest. The Municipal Court shall issue a
receipt when a penalty assessment is paid by currency, but checks tendered by
the violator upon which payment is received is sufficient receipt.
      3.   No record of any penalty assessment payment is admissible as
evidence in any court in any civil action.
   D.   Failure To Pay Penalty Assessment:
      1.   If a penalty assessment is not paid within thirty (30) days from the
date of arrest, the violator shall be prosecuted for the violation charged on
the penalty assessment notice in a manner as if the penalty assessment notice
had not been issued. Upon conviction in such prosecution, the court shall
impose penalties as provided by the New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance
(section 12-12-1.1), or other law relating to motor vehicles for the particular
offense charged, and the scheduled penalty assessments shall not apply. (Ord.
2018-14, 10-23-2018)
      2.   In addition to the prosecution provided for in subsection D1 of this
section, it is a misdemeanor for any person who has elected to pay a penalty
assessment to fail to do so within thirty (30) days from the date of arrest.
(Ord. 2019-3, 2-12-2019)
      3.   The Office of the Municipal Court shall notify the Motor Vehicle
Division of the State of New Mexico when a person fails to pay a penalty
assessment within the required period of time. The Motor Vehicle Division shall
report the notice upon the driver's record and shall not renew the person's
license to drive until the Municipal Court notifies the Motor Vehicle Division
that the penalty assessment, or its equivalent, as well as any additional
penalties imposed are properly disposed of.
   E.   Severability: If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or
any portion of this section is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional
by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a
separate, distinct and independent provision and such holding shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions thereof. (Ord. 2018-14, 10-23-2018)
6-1-5: TRAFFIC EDUCATION AND ENFORCEMENT FEE:
   A.   Any person convicted of violating any section of the uniform traffic
ordinance shall pay, in addition to any other fee or fine, a four dollar
($4.00) traffic education and enforcement fee to the Municipal Court.
   B.   All moneys collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited in a
Special Fund in the Municipal Treasury and shall be used for equipment and
training for traffic safety and enforcement duties of the Gallup Police
Department.
   C.   As used in this section, "convicted" means the defendant has elected to
pay a penalty assessment, or has been found guilty by the Municipal Judge,
either after trial, a plea of guilty, or a plea of nolo contendere. (Ord. 2019-
4, 2-26-2019)
CHAPTER 2
WRECKER SERVICES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Declaration
6-2-2: Scope Of Regulations
6-2-3: Administration
6-2-4: Compliance With Regulations
6-2-5: Prohibited Acts Of Vehicle Removal
6-2-6: Nonliability Of City
6-2-7: Penalty
6-2-1: DECLARATION:
It is in the interest of the traveling public, the owners of affected vehicles,
the improvement of law enforcement and in the best interests of the public
generally, that the city adopt legislation to regulate and control some
activities of certified and uncertificated towing services so as to effectuate
the removal and storage and identification of certain vehicles, subject to and
in addition to existing state law and regulations of the New Mexico public
regulatory commission. (Ord. C66-178, 11-10-1980; amd. 2006 Code)
6-2-2: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations (issued pursuant to subsection
6-2-3A of this chapter, governing the operation of "wrecker services", as
defined in amended general order 13, or successor regulation promulgated by the
state public regulatory commission), shall be designed to provide for the
assurance of prompt removal of vehicles from public areas and streets at the
request of agencies of the city, the fair allotment of assignments and requests
for wrecker services, the identification of the towing operators involved, the
report by them identifying vehicles, place of storage and related matters to
the city of benefit of the public, the safe movement and storage of such
vehicles and the proper identification of wrecker service operators and all
personnel involved therein and employed by such services. (Ord. C66-178, 11-10-
1980; amd. 2006 Code)
6-2-3: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Supervision; Regulation: The city manager is hereby authorized to
supervise and reasonably regulate removal from public streets and ways of
disabled, wrecked, abandoned or stolen vehicles and enforce governing wrecker
service regulations adopted by resolution of the city council after public
hearing. The authority of the city manager is delegable by him to departments
of the city and agencies thereof. This chapter will cover wrecker services
within the city limits.
   B.   State Laws And Regulations: This chapter shall be administered
consistent with and subordinate to the New Mexico motor carrier act, as
amended, and all rules and regulations promulgated by the state public
regulatory commission from time to time pursuant thereto. (Ord. C66-178, 11-10-
1980; amd. 2006 Code)
6-2-4: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
If, in the performance of services, the operators involved fail to meet the
requirements of the regulations of the city manager, they shall be dropped from
consideration for performance of such services after notice and hearing by the
city manager on such matters and failure to correct the situation within a
reasonable time. (Ord. C66-178, 11-10-1980)
6-2-5: PROHIBITED ACTS OF VEHICLE REMOVAL:
   A.   Presence Of Owner: No wrecker service shall be called by any agency of
the city to remove any vehicle where the owner is present, is willing and is
able to make arrangements for the prompt removal of the vehicle from the public
street or way by an "authorized wrecker service" as defined in amended general
order 13, or successor regulation promulgated by the state public regulatory
commission. (Ord. C66-178, 11-10-1980; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Compliance With Regulations: No wrecker service shall be called by the
city for the removal of any disabled vehicles unless it complies with all
regulations established by the city manager for the performance of such
services.
   C.   Authority To Remove: No wrecker service shall remove any abandoned,
disabled, wrecked or inoperable motor vehicle without being authorized to do so
pursuant to this chapter and the regulations issued pursuant thereto. (Ord.
C66-178, 11-10-1980)
6-2-6: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
Neither the city nor its agents, officers or employees are liable for any
towing or towing charges when a request for towing is made by the city, its
agents, officers or employees acting as agent for the operator or owner of the
vehicle pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. C66-178, 11-10-1980)
6-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. C66-178, 11-10-1980; amd. 2006 Code)
GA69   6-3.txt ()
CHAPTER 3
UNLICENSED WHEELED RECREATIONAL DEVICES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Purpose
6-3-2: Definitions
6-3-3: Operation Of An Unlicensed Wheeled Recreational Device Or Bicycle
6-3-4: Parent Responsibility
6-3-5: Penalty
6-3-1: PURPOSE:
It is expressly the purpose of this chapter to provide for and promote the
health, safety and welfare of the general public and not to create or otherwise
establish or designate any particular class or group of persons who will or
should be especially protected or benefited by the terms of this chapter. It is
the specific intent of this chapter that no provision or any term used in this
chapter is intended to impose any duty whatsoever upon the city or any of its
officers or employees. Nothing contained in this chapter is intended nor shall
be construed to create or form the basis of any liability on the part of the
city, or its officers, employees or agents, for any injury or damage resulting
from any action or inaction on the part of the city related in any manner to
the enforcement of this chapter by its officers, employees or agents. (Ord.
C2006-09, 5-9-2006)
6-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
BICYCLES: Any vehicle composed of two (2) wheels held in a frame one behind the
other, propelled by pedals and steered with handlebars attached to the front
wheel.
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (CBD): That portion of the city of Gallup designated
on the map attached to the ordinance codified herein that is bordered by the
following streets and alleys:
   The Gallup central business district described below runs on the centerline
of the street, avenue or alley as described: Commencing at the corner of Mesa
Ave. and Fourth Street, and then run North to the intersection of Hill Ave. and
Fourth Street, and then run West to the intersection of Hill Ave. and Fifth
Street, and then run North to the alley between Hill Ave. and Aztec Ave., and
then run west in the alley to Sixth Street, and then run North on Sixth Street
to the BN&SF Railway right-of-way, and then run East along said right-of-way of
BN&SF Railway to Woodrow Street, and then run South on Woodrow Street to Coal
Ave. and then run West on Coal Ave. to Puerco Drive, and then run South on
Puerco Drive to the alley between Aztec Ave. and Hill Ave. and then run West in
the alley to First Street, and then run South on First Street to the
intersection of First Street and Mesa Ave. and then run West on Mesa Ave. to
Fourth Street and the point of beginning.
CHILD: Any person less than eighteen (18) years of age.
CITY PROPERTY: All property owned by the city of Gallup, including all city
rights of way.
CITY STREET: Every public highway or part thereof, located within the city
limits of the city of Gallup.
GUARDIAN:
   A.   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
juvenile; or
   B.   A public or private agency with whom a juvenile has been placed by a
court; or
   C.   A person who is at least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a
parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a juvenile.
PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, stepparent, or
foster parent of a juvenile.
UNLICENSED WHEELED RECREATIONAL DEVICE (UWRD): Any wheeled recreational object
designed to propel the person using that object with an internal combustion or
electric motor or one's own manpower, whether it be stood or sat upon or ridden
in and is not required to obtain and display a state of New Mexico vehicle
license.
         A. "Unlicensed wheeled recreational devices" shall include all of the
following: skateboards, roller skates, in-line skates, mini-motorized scooters,
pocketbikes, motorized play vehicles, all-terrain vehicles, off highway motor
vehicles as defined in section 66-1-4.13B of the New Mexico motor vehicle code
and all other recreational devices that have wheels.
         B. "Unlicensed wheeled recreational devices" does not include
motorcycles, motor driven cycles, mopeds, electric assisted bicycles, electric
personal mobility devices, or power wheelchairs. (Ord. C2006-09, 5-9-2006; amd.
Ord. 2013-6, 10-8-2013)
6-3-3: OPERATION OF AN UNLICENSED WHEELED RECREATIONAL DEVICE OR BICYCLE:
It is unlawful for any person to do any of the following:
   A.   Operate, ride, use or propel a UWRD upon a sidewalk, street, park,
plaza, courthouse square or any other public improvement in the central
business district (CBD);
   B.   Operate a UWRD on a public roadway having a speed limit greater than
twenty five (25) miles per hour;
   C.   Operate a UWRD in violation of any traffic law of the state of New
Mexico or traffic ordinance of the city of Gallup;
   D.   Operate a UWRD on any private property of another without the written
permission of the owner, the person entitled to immediate possession of the
property, or the authorized agent of either;
   E.   Operate a UWRD on public property, other than property owned by the
city of Gallup, without permission of that public entity;
   F.   Operate a UWRD at any time from eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. to seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M.;
   G.   Operate a UWRD that is not equipped with headlamps, rear red lamps and
rear red reflectors on a public street, sidewalk, public or private parking
lot, or other area within the city limits that would expose the rider of a UWRD
to coming in contact with motor vehicles from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset
to one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise;
   H.   Operate a UWRD with a passenger in addition to the operator;
   I.   Operate a UWRD in such a manner as to endanger or be likely to endanger
any person or property. Operation of a UWRD in excess of fifteen (15) miles per
hour shall be prima facie evidence of operation in a manner likely to endanger
any person or property;
   J.   Operate a UWRD powered by an internal combustion engine that is not at
all times equipped with a muffler in good working order;
   K.   Operate a motorized UWRD without wearing a protective helmet that meets
or exceeds the safety standards set by the American National Standards
Institute's (ANSI) standard Z-90.4. The helmet must be worn over the head and
equipped with either a neck or chin strap that must be fastened securely while
the motorized UWRD is in motion;
   L.   Operate a UWRD on a public roadway, sidewalk, or on public or private
property in a careless or reckless manner which could cause harm to the user,
other person or to property;
   M.   Operate in a manner that creates continuous sound associated with a
gasoline powered engine so as to unreasonably disturb or interfere with the
peace and comfort of owners or occupants of real property. Nothing in this
section shall limit enforcement of this code relating to disorderly conduct.
(Ord. C2006-09, 5-9-2006)
   N.   Operate a bicycle in any city park without wearing a protective helmet
that meets or exceeds the safety standards set by the American National
Standards Institute's (ANSI) standard Z-90.4. The helmet must be worn over the
head and equipped with either a neck or chin strap that must be fastened
securely while the bicycle is in motion.
   O.   A person under eighteen (18) years of age to operate a bicycle upon a
street, bikeway, or any other public bicycle path or trail unless that person
is wearing a protective helmet that meets the standards of the American
National Standards Institute's (ANSI) standard Z-90.4. The helmet must be worn
over the head and equipped with either a neck or chin strap that must be
fastened securely while the bicycle is in motion. (Ord. 2013-6, 10-8-2013)
6-3-4: PARENT RESPONSIBILITY:
It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having control or
custody of a child to authorize or permit a child to operate a UWRD or bicycle
in violation of this chapter. The parents or guardians of any minor shall not
authorize or knowingly permit such minor to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter. If a sanction is imposed upon a minor who is found to be in
violation of this chapter, the parents or legal guardians having custody or
control of the minor shall be jointly and severally liable with the minor for
payment of the sanction, whether or not the parents or guardians know of, or
anticipated, a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-6, 10-8-2013)
6-3-5: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to
have committed a violation and shall be punished by the imposition of a
monetary penalty not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first
offense, two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second offense, and three hundred
dollars ($300.00) for a third offense, exclusive of statutory assessments;
provided, conduct that constitutes a criminal traffic offense may be charged as
such and subject to the maximum penalties allowed for such offenses.
   B.   In addition to or in lieu of the penalty described above, any city of
Gallup police officer may utilize the following penalty provision for a person
less than eighteen (18) years of age found operating a UWRD, bicycle, or other
wheeled recreational device in violation of this chapter:
      1.   The officer may take custody of the device. If the officer does not
impound the device, he or she may release it only to an adult.
      2.   The officer must provide the violator with a written notice setting
forth the procedure for reclaiming the device.
      3.   The procedure for reclaiming the device shall be promulgated by the
chief of police.
      4.   Only the parent or legal guardian of a violator or an adult owner
can reclaim a UWRD, bicycle, or other wheeled recreational device impounded
pursuant to this subsection B.
      5.   Any person reclaiming property under this subsection B shall pay a
twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee to the city clerk for the costs of impound and
administrative processing prior to the release of any property impounded under
this alternative penalty.
      6.   Any unclaimed devices may be disposed of in accordance with state
law. (Ord. 2013-6, 10-8-2013)
CHAPTER 4
DRIVING WHILE DISTRACTED
SECTION:
6-4-1: Declaration
6-4-2: Activities Deemed Distracting
6-4-3: Careless Driving Defined
6-4-4: Citation Issuance
6-4-5: Penalty Provisions
6-4-6: Definitions
6-4-7: Affirmative Defenses
6-4-1: DECLARATION:
Driving while distracted is an activity which endangers the public health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of Gallup, New Mexico, and therefore should
be prohibited. (Ord. 2008-5, 12-9-2008)
6-4-2: ACTIVITIES DEEMED DISTRACTING:
The following activities are deemed to be driving while distracted: talking on
a cellphone, text messaging or instant messaging on a cellphone, drinking
beverages, eating, shaving, putting on makeup, combing hair, changing clothes,
or any other activity that prevents a motor vehicle driver from devoting his
full attention to the safe operation of their motor vehicle. (Ord. 2008-5, 12-
9-2008)
6-4-3: CARELESS DRIVING DEFINED:
Driving while distracted is a form of "careless driving" which is defined as
any operation of a motor vehicle in an inattentive or imprudent manner without
due regard for configuration of the roadway, traffic conditions, weather, or
road conditions and all other attendant driving circumstances. (Ord. 2008-5,
12-9-2008)
6-4-4: CITATION ISSUANCE:
   A.   A citation shall be issued to any driver who commits the offense of
driving while distracted when that activity materially contributes to a motor
vehicle accident which involves property damage of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or more, or which results in a serious personal injury to any
person other than the distracted driver.
   B.   A warning citation shall be issued to any driver who commits the
offense of driving while distracted which does not result in the aforesaid
harm. Municipal court shall maintain on file for a period of five (5) years all
warning citations issued hereunder. (Ord. 2008-5, 12-9-2008)
6-4-5: PENALTY PROVISIONS:
The penalty for a subsequent violation without the designated property damage
or serious personal injury shall be a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00) and/or a ninety (90) day jail sentence and the same penalty shall be
imposed for any violation which causes the within described property damage or
serious personal injury. (Ord. 2008-5, 12-9-2008)
6-4-6: DEFINITIONS:
MATERIALLY CONTRIBUTES: The foreseeable result of the driver's inattention
without which the accident would not have likely occurred.
SERIOUS PERSONAL INJURY: Bodily injury less than great bodily harm, but an
injury which causes painful temporary disfigurement or temporary loss of use or
impairment in function of any bodily member or organ. (Ord. 2008-5, 12-9-2008)
6-4-7: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES:
The use of a handsfree device to talk on a cellphone or use of steering wheel
mounted motor vehicle controls shall be affirmative defenses to a citation
issued hereunder, provided that use of those devices or controls did not
significantly distract a motor vehicle driver involved in an accident resulting
in property damage of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more, of which
resulted in serious personal injury to another person. (Ord. 2008-5, 12-9-2008)
CHAPTER 5
MOTORIZED VEHICLES ON OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Purpose
6-5-2: Motorized Vehicles Prohibited On Or Near Open Space And Trails
6-5-3: Exempt Activity
6-5-4: Penalty
6-5-5: Severability
6-5-1: PURPOSE:
It is expressly the purpose of this chapter to provide for and promote the
health, safety and welfare of the general public and not to create or otherwise
establish or designate any particular class or group of persons who will or
should be especially protected or benefited by the terms of this chapter. It is
the specific intent of this chapter that no provision or any term used in this
chapter is intended to impose any duty whatsoever upon the city or any of its
officers or employees. Nothing contained in this chapter is intended nor shall
be construed to create or form the basis of any liability on the part of the
city, or its officers, employees or agents, for any injury or damage resulting
from any action or inaction on the part of the city related in any manner to
the enforcement of this chapter by its officers, employees or agents. (Ord.
2012-5, 6-12-2012)
6-5-2: MOTORIZED VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON OR NEAR OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle, off highway
motor vehicle, moped, motorcycle, off road dirt bike, all-terrain vehicle
(ATV), and any and all other motorized vehicles as defined under the motor
vehicle code of the state of New Mexico upon or within twenty feet (20') of any
walking, hiking or bicycle trail or unimproved trail and open space areas which
have been identified as such by the posting of signs or notices. (Ord. 2012-5,
6-12-2012)
6-5-3: EXEMPT ACTIVITY:
This chapter shall not apply to persons, who would otherwise be in violation of
this chapter, when the motorized vehicle is being used within or adjacent to
the easement, trail or lands for the purpose of or incidental to the:
   A.   Performance of authorized inspection, maintenance, construction,
repair, other work or activities, pursuant to the prior written approval of the
city manager, or the city manager's designee, which approval shall be revocable
without cause or notice or trail maintenance by city employees or contractors.
   B.   Performance or rendering of police, fire or emergency search and
rescue, medical, public works, or veterinary services.
   C.   Operation of the motorized vehicle on a street or highway which is open
to the public for the purposes of vehicular travel.
   D.   This chapter shall be inapplicable to the use and operation of a
motorized wheelchair by a person who ordinarily uses such equipment. (Ord.
2012-5, 6-12-2012)
6-5-4: PENALTY:
A person found guilty of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2012-5, 6-12-2012)
6-5-5: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter should be held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity or
constitutionality of any other section, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter. (Ord. 2012-5, 6-12-2012)
GA69   6-6.txt ()
CHAPTER 6
OFF HIGHWAY MOTOR VEHICLES ON CITY STREETS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Vehicles Allowed
6-6-2: Operation On Streets Or Highways; Prohibited Areas
6-6-3: Speed Limit
6-6-4: Passengers
6-6-5: Obedience To Traffic Laws Required
6-6-1: VEHICLES ALLOWED:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this chapter the following definitions shall
apply, which are the same definitions as used in the off highway motor vehicle
act 1  of the state of New Mexico, and it is the intent of this chapter to
adopt any subsequent amendments made thereto and compiled therein from time to
time, which are herewith adopted by reference:
   OFF HIGHWAY MOTOR VEHICLE: A motor vehicle designed by the manufacturer for
operation exclusively off the highway or road and includes:
   1.   All-Terrain Vehicle: A motor vehicle fifty inches (50") or less in
width, having an unladen dry weight of one thousand (1,000) pounds or less,
traveling on three (3) or more low pressure tires and having a seat designed to
be straddled by the operator and handlebar type steering control.
   2.   Off Highway Motorcycle: A motor vehicle traveling on not more than two
(2) tires and having a seat designed to be straddled by the operator and that
has handlebar type steering control.
   3.   Recreational Off Highway Vehicle: A motor vehicle designed for travel
on four (4) or more nonhighway tires, for recreational use by one or more
persons, and having:
    a.   A steering wheel for steering control;
    b.   Nonstraddle seating;
    c.   Maximum speed capability greater than thirty five (35) miles per hour;
    d.   Gross vehicle weight rating no greater than one thousand seven hundred
fifty (1,750) pounds;
    e.   Less than eighty inches (80") in overall width, exclusive of
accessories;
    f.   Engine displacement of less than one thousand (1000) cubic
centimeters; and
    g.   Identification by means of a seventeen (17) character vehicle
identification number; or
   4.   Other: By rule of the department, any other vehicles that may enter the
market that fit the general profile of vehicles operated off the highway for
recreational purposes. (Ord. 2016-9, 8-23-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 66-3-1011, 1978.
6-6-2: OPERATION ON STREETS OR HIGHWAYS; PROHIBITED AREAS:
   A.   A person shall not operate an off highway motor vehicle on any:
      1.   Limited access highway or freeway at any time;
      2.   Paved street or highway except as provided in subsection B or C of
this section;
      3.   Walking and biking trails; or
      4.   City parks.
   B.   Off highway motor vehicles may cross streets or highways, except
limited access highways or freeways, if the crossings are made after coming to
a complete stop prior to entering the roadway. Off highway motor vehicles shall
yield the right of way to oncoming traffic and shall begin a crossing only when
it can be executed safely and then cross in the most direct manner as close to
a perpendicular angle as possible.
   C.   An off highway motor vehicle may be operated on a paved street owned
and controlled by the city of Gallup if:
      1.   The vehicle has one or more headlights and one or more taillights
that comply with the off highway motor vehicle act, sections 66-3-1001 through
66-3-1021, New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978;
      2.   The vehicle has brakes, side mirrors on the right and left side of
the driver and mufflers;
      3.   The operator has a valid driver's license, instruction permit or
provisional license and an off highway motor vehicle safety permit;
      4.   The operator is insured in compliance with the provisions of the
mandatory financial responsibility act, sections 66-5-201 through 66-5-248, New
Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978; and
      5.   A person shall not operate an off highway motor vehicle or ride upon
an off highway motor vehicle without wearing eye protection and a safety helmet
that comply with the off highway motor vehicle act. (Ord. 2016-9, 8-23-2016)
6-6-3: SPEED LIMIT:
The speed limit for off highway motor vehicles operated within the city shall
be forty five (45) miles per hour or the posted speed limit, whichever is less.
An off highway motor vehicle traveling on a paved street shall travel at a
speed that complies with the off highway motor vehicle act. (Ord. 2016-9, 8-23-
2016)
6-6-4: PASSENGERS:
A person operating an off highway motor vehicle shall ride only upon the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto and such operator shall not carry
any other person nor shall any other person ride on an off highway vehicle
unless such vehicle is designed to carry more than one person, in which event a
passenger may ride upon the permanent and regular seat. (Ord. 2016-9, 8-23-
2016)
6-6-5: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC LAWS REQUIRED:
Any person operating an off highway motor vehicle shall obey all traffic laws,
rules and regulations and shall be subject to the provisions of articles 1
through 8 of chapter 66, New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978 (except 66-7-102.1
New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978). (Ord. 2016-9, 8-23-2016)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS  1
SECTION:
7-1-1: Sidewalk Obstructions
7-1-2: Removal Of Snow And Ice, Dirt, Debris And Refuse
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-49-1.
7-1-1: SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Temporary Permit Required; Conditions Of Issuance: Upon application,
the Planning and Development Department, or its successor, may grant a
temporary permit for a period of up to fourteen (14) days in such cases as they
deem necessary and proper for the public safety and convenience for the
temporary obstruction of a portion of any sidewalk, which temporary permit
shall be upon such conditions as the Planning and Development Department may
impose. A temporary permit under this section is not required if a permit that
authorizes the closure or obstruction of a sidewalk pursuant to any other
provision of this Code has been obtained. A business or other entity engaged in
activities in which members of the public are invited on to the premises may
place tables, chairs, or benches on a public sidewalk that is adjacent to the
premises so long as any such items placed on the sidewalk do not reduce the
available passageway on the sidewalk to a width of less than five feet (5').
Outdoor seating areas located in the public right-of-way shall require a
revocable permit, which shall be upon such conditions as the Planning and
Development Department may impose.
   B.   Nuisance Declared Without Permit; Penalty: The placing, keeping or
maintaining of goods, wares, merchandise, building materials, sand, cement,
rubbish, debris, garbage or other obstruction in or upon the sidewalks of the
City without a temporary permit is hereby prohibited and declared to be a
nuisance and a misdemeanor, and any person guilty thereof shall, upon
conviction, be punished for a violation as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. It is declared by the City Council that congestion upon the
sidewalks in the area known as "downtown" (Metropolitan Redevelopment District
boundaries) warrants special consideration for reasons of public safety, and it
shall be a violation of this section for any person to sell or place goods,
wares or merchandise upon the sidewalks without a temporary permit. Such items
shall not be placed on a sidewalk in a location that restricts the available
passageway on the sidewalk to less than five feet (5') in width. Nothing herein
shall forbid any person from offering or selling any article of his own art or
craft actually made and produced by him if it is carried on his person and the
article or any holder or container is no wider than the person carrying it.
   C.   Enforcement: The building inspector and Code enforcement are hereby
directed to suppress and abate all such nuisances, and to direct the owner
thereof or the owner or occupant of the adjoining property to remove the same,
and upon the failure or refusal of such person so to do, the building inspector
and Code enforcement are hereby directed to summarily abate the same by
removing such obstruction at the expense of the owner thereof, or the owner or
occupant of the adjoining premises if the obstruction poses an immediate threat
to public safety.
   D.   Exceptions: Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply to
buildings, decorations, awnings or other types of street or sidewalk coverings,
provided the same are a minimum of eight feet (8') above the level of such
street or sidewalk, nor to the display of flags upon poles or standards placed
along the curb line in holders of standard design. (Ord. 2019-1, 1-8-2019)
7-1-2: REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE, DIRT, DEBRIS AND REFUSE:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   BUSINESS DAY: Any day not a Sunday or a "holiday" as defined by statute.
   BUSINESS HOURS: The hours between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) P.M. on any business day.
   SIDEWALKS: That portion of any street or public thoroughfare adjacent to the
vehicular traveled portion of said street or public thoroughfare for the use of
pedestrians.
   B.   Snow And Ice:
      1.   Removal Required; Time Limit: Every person in charge or control of
any building or lot of land within the City fronting or abutting upon a paved
sidewalk, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise shall remove
and clear away or cause to be removed snow and ice from said paved portion of
the sidewalk as is in front of or abutting on said building or lot of land.
Except as provided in subsection B2 of this section, snow and ice shall be
removed from sidewalks within the City by eight (8) business hours after any
fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain.
      2.   Application Of Sand: When snow and ice on a sidewalk has become so
hard that it cannot be removed without the likelihood of damage to the
sidewalk, the person charged with its removal shall, within the time mentioned
in subsection B1 of this section, cause enough sand or other abrasive to be put
on the sidewalk to make travel thereon reasonably safe; and shall then, as soon
thereafter as weather permits, cause said sidewalk to be thoroughly cleaned.
   C.   Dirt, Debris And Refuse:
      1.   Removal Required: Every person in charge of any building or lot of
land within the City fronting or abutting a paved sidewalk, whether as owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall remove and clear away or cause to
be removed and cleared away all dirt, debris or refuse from said sidewalk as is
in front of or abutting on said building or lot of land.
      2.   Daily Removal: Dirt, debris and refuse shall be removed from the
sidewalk within the City, daily, as required to maintain them in a clean and
orderly condition.
      3.   Entire Removal: In removing the said dirt, debris and refuse from
the sidewalk, the same shall be removed entirely from the street and public
thoroughfare.
   D.   Penalty: Any person in charge or control of any lot of land within the
City, fronting or abutting upon a paved sidewalk, who continues to violate any
of the provisions of this section for one business day after being notified by
the City Manager that said person is not complying with the provisions of this
section, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each business day such violation is committed or permitted
to continue after being so notified shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such. (Ord. C66-21, 4-30-1968; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION  1
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Required
7-2-2: Sidewalks, Curb Or Gutter Required; Location
7-2-3: Specifications
7-2-4: Inspection And Removal
7-2-5: Penalty
7-2-6: Diagrams
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  5-1-24B10 of this code for permitted hours of operation.
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to begin or continue the construction,
alteration or repair of any sidewalk in the city, except in conformity with
this chapter and no sidewalk shall be constructed, altered or repaired
hereafter unless the person doing such work shall first obtain an excavation
permit in accordance with chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. C91-10, 11-26-1991;
amd. 2006 Code)
7-2-2: SIDEWALKS, CURB OR GUTTER REQUIRED; LOCATION:
   A.   Sidewalks Required: All property having concrete curb or gutter and put
to use after the enactment of this chapter, shall have a pedestrian sidewalk.
All sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of the
city's land development standards and of this chapter. No building permit for
improving property having curb or gutter shall be issued by the planning
department until a permit for the necessary sidewalk is issued and the
engineering department is satisfied that the same will be constructed as part
of the construction of the proposed improvement.
   B.   Location: After the date of passage of this chapter, all sidewalks
constructed on property with curb or gutter shall be located parallel and
adjacent to the back of the curb, or parallel and adjacent to the property
line. All sidewalks constructed on property without curb or gutter shall be
located parallel and adjacent to the property line. In any block along any
street, if a sidewalk is in place prior to the effective date hereof, all new
segments of sidewalk shall be constructed in the same block as to conform to
the existing sidewalk, but not less than the minimum width required by the
city's land development standards. A sketch of the proposed sidewalk
construction shall be submitted and approved by the engineering department
before a permit, as authorized in section
7-2-1 of this chapter, is issued for the construction of a sidewalk. (Ord.
2014-7, 9-23-2014)
7-2-3: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Required Specifications:
      1.   Concrete: All sidewalks shall be constructed of four thousand
(4,000) pounds per square inch minimum strength air entrained concrete at least
four inches (4") thick and not less than six inches (6") thick where motor
vehicles may cross. (Ord. 2014-7, 9-23-2014)
      2.   Joints: Dummy joints shall be located not more than six feet (6')
apart or distance from expansion-contraction joints which shall be not more
than eighteen feet (18') apart.
      3.   Slope: Finished sidewalks shall have a slope toward the street of
one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot ending at the top of curb; provided, that
sidewalks located away from the curb pursuant to section
7-2-2 of this chapter shall have the same slope.
   B.   Recommended Specifications: Since property owners must repair or
replace sidewalks in poor condition, it is recommended that sidewalks be
constructed in the following manner for maximum life and durability:
      1.   Subgrade Preparation:
         a.   Remove from the site all organic matter such as grass, sod,
roots, etc., and grade the ground. Dig out soft or mucky spots; fill them with
soil similar to the rest of the subgrade or with granular material such as
sand, gravel, crusher fines, crushed stone or slag and compact thoroughly.
         b.   All fill materials should be uniform, free of vegetable matter,
large lumps or stones and frozen soil. Compact these materials in layers not
more than five inches (5") thick until the site is at final grade with uniform
hardness. It is best to extend the fill at least one foot (1') beyond the slab
edge to prevent undercutting during rains and high winds. Unless fill material
is well compacted, it is advisable to leave the subgrade undisturbed.
Undisturbed soil is superior as a support for a concrete slab versus soil that
has been dug out and poorly compacted. Subgrade compaction can be done with
hand tampers, rollers or vibratory compacts.
         c.   A dry spot on the subgrade absorbs more water from the concrete
slab than does an adjacent moist spot. This, in turn, may result in dark and
light spots in the concrete finish. Hence, the subgrade shall be in a uniformly
moist condition at the time of concreting. If necessary, dampen it by spraying
with water. However, there should be no free water standing on the subgrade,
nor should there be any muddy or soft spots when concrete is being placed.
         d.   On any new construction, the subgrade compaction should be ninety
five percent (95%) of the standard ASTM laboratory method D-698. Compaction
tests should be conducted on each one foot (1') lift of fill and on every three
hundred (300) linear feet of sidewalk.
      2.   Concrete Recommendations:
         a.   Maximum Size Aggregate: Gravel, crushed stone, etc., should not
exceed one-third (1/3) slab thickness. Accordingly, four inch (4") slabs can
use three-fourths inch (3/4") or one inch (1") top size, but one inch (1") is
recommended. The one inch (1") aggregate should meet ASTM C-33, 57 stone; the
three-fourths inch (3/4") aggregate, 67 stone.
         b.   Minimum Cement Content: In this area, concrete is exposed to a
number of freeze-thaw cycles and sometimes to the use of deicers. Therefore, it
is advisable to use a minimum cement content of six (6) bag, five hundred sixty
(560) pound per cubic yard or four hundred ninety five (495) pounds of cement
per cubic yard with "Possolith", a water reducing, set controlling admixture
conforming to ASTM C-494 71, type A (water reducing), type D (water reducing
and retarding) and type E (water reducing, accelerating).
         c.   Maximum Slump: This should not exceed four inches (4"). A four
inch (4") slump will give a good, workable mix. Stiffer mixes are harder to
place and finish by hand but can be used to advantage with mechanical placing
and finishing equipment.
         d.   Compressive Strength: Compressive strength at twenty eight (28)
days should be three thousand to three thousand five hundred (3,000 to 3,500)
pounds per square inch. In some instances, cement content higher than given in
subsection B2b of this section may be necessary to obtain three thousand to
three thousand five hundred (3,000 to 3,500) pounds per square inch concrete.
         e.   Air Content: An air entraining agent to provide six percent (6%)
entrained air by volume should be in all concrete exposed to the outside and
subjected to freezing, thawing and deicing salts. The air entraining agent may
be MBVR and should conform to ASTM C-260.
      3.   Placing Concrete:
         a.   Concrete should be placed at a four inch (4") slump one inch
(1"). It should be struck off with a straight edge or a strike off tool.
Following strike off, the concrete should be bull floated or darbyed to fill
voids left by the straight edge and to embed all particles of coarse aggregate
slightly below the surface.
         b.   A "jitter bug" or hand tamper is not necessary for concrete
placed between a three inch (3") and five inch (5") slump.
         c.   Control joints should extend into the slab one-fourth to one-
fifth (1/4 to 1/5) of the slab thickness. For a four inch (4") thick slab, the
joint should be a minimum of three-fourths inch (3/4") deep. In sidewalks,
control joints should be spaced at intervals equal to the slab width.
         d.   Following the edging and placing of control joints, there should
be final surface floating to remove any imperfections left in the surface by
the previous operation. Following this final floating, the concrete should be
given a coarse, transverse scored texture by drawing a broom across the
surface.
      4.   Curing Of Concrete: All concrete work should be cured for a minimum
of seven (7) days to increase the strength and durability of the concrete. The
following methods of curing are advisable: water curing, water retaining
(waterproof paper), mechanical barrier (polyethylene sheets) or a chemical
membrane (liquid curing compounds) conforming to ASTM C-309. Alternate wetting
and drying of concrete should not be permitted.
      5.   Seasons To Place Concrete:
         a.   Concrete sidewalks subject to freezing weather should be placed
and cured far enough in advance to provide approximately four to five (4 to 5)
weeks of drying out before freezing and thawing begins, unless precluded by a
tight construction schedule and cold weather concrete practices, ACI 306-66,
are met.
         b.   Cold weather concreting should begin in the fall, from the time
of the first frost or when the average daily, high and low, temperature falls
below forty degrees Fahrenheit (40°F) (4.5°C) for more than one day. Cold
weather concreting practices should remain in effect until spring when the
average daily, high and low, temperature rises above forty degrees Fahrenheit
(40°F) (4.5°C) for more than three (3) consecutive days.
         c.   When concrete is placed during cold weather, the temperature of
the mix should not be less than sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F), nor more than
eighty degrees Fahrenheit (80°F) at the time of placing. Aggregates or water,
or both, may be heated, but the water should not be hotter than one hundred
seventy five degrees Fahrenheit (175°F) and aggregates should not be used which
are hotter than one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F). Before concreting
is started, remove ice, snow and frost.
         d.   When concrete is being placed in cold weather and temperature may
be expected to drop below thirty five degrees Fahrenheit (35°F), a supply of
straw, insulated curing blankets or other suitable material should be provided
along the line of work. At any time when the air temperature may be expected to
reach the freezing point during the day or night, the material so provided
should be spread over the concrete to a sufficient depth to prevent freezing of
the concrete. Concrete should be protected from freezing temperatures until it
is at least five (5) days old. Concrete injured by frost action should be
removed and replaced. (Ord. C66-149, 7-12-1977)
7-2-4: INSPECTION AND REMOVAL:
   A.   Notice For Inspection: The city engineer shall be given one day's
notice before any concrete is poured so that inspection can be made of the
subgrade, the forms and spacing for joints. (Ord. C66-149, 7-12-1977; amd. 2006
Code)
   B.   Enforcement; Removal: The city engineer is hereby charged with the duty
of making inspection to determine if the sidewalk being constructed is in
accordance with the terms and specifications of the city's land development
standards, and any sidewalk constructed in violation of the city's land
development standards shall be ordered removed by the city engineer, and upon
the failure of the property owner to remove the same, the city may remove the
same, charging the cost of such removal to the property owner, which cost shall
be in addition to the penalties provided for violations of this code. (1961
Code § 9-3-4; amd. 2006 Code)
7-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1961 Code § 9-3-5; amd. 2006 Code)
7-2-6: DIAGRAMS:
Exhibit A-1, recommended placement of joints for new construction; exhibit A-2,
recommended placement of joints to conform to existing sidewalks only; and
exhibit A-3, typical curb and gutter details, attached to ordinance 66-149, are
on file in the office of the city clerk. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Title
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Permit Required
7-3-4: Application For Permit
7-3-5: Fee For Permit
7-3-6: Insurance Required
7-3-7: Rules, Regulations And Requirements
7-3-8: Inspections
7-3-9: Advance Notice Of Improvements
7-3-10: Unpermitted Excavation; Notification By Utility
7-3-11: Urgent Work Declared
7-3-12: Emergency Excavation
7-3-13: Penalty
7-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter is the STREET EXCAVATION CHAPTER OF THE CITY OF GALLUP, NEW
MEXICO. (Ord. C66-193, 3-9-1982)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
In this chapter, the following words will have the meaning stated unless the
context otherwise requires:
APPLICANT: Any person required by this chapter to apply for a permit or any
person authorized by this chapter to make an excavation or enter a substructure
opening without applying for a permit.
BLOCK: For the purpose of this chapter, will be defined as six hundred sixty
feet (660').
CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Gallup, or a person assigned the
duties customarily given a clerk.
CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city of Gallup or his designee.
EMERGENCY: Any situation necessitating excavation or entrance into a
substructure opening for the purpose of locating trouble or making repairs in a
facility for the immediate protection of life or property.
EXCAVATION: A hole, trench, ditch or a depression in a public place resulting
from the removal by a person of pavement, dirt or other material, except a
substructure opening.
FACILITY: Any pipe, pipeline, tube, main, service, vent, vault, manhole, meter,
regulator, valve, conduit, pole, pole line, anchor, cable, structure or object
of any kind or character, whether enumerated herein or not, which is or may be
lawfully constructed, left, placed or maintained in, upon, along, across, under
or over any public place.
PERSON: Any person or persons, singular or plural, male or female, natural or
artificial, including, but not limited to, a firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
PUBLIC PLACE: All property owned, maintained or controlled by the city,
including, but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, ways, places,
sidewalks, plazas, parks, trails, easements and rights of way.
STRUCTURE OPENING: An opening into a lawful substructure, the top of which is
flush with the adjoining surface of a public place and which is so constructed
as to permit frequent openings without injury or damage to a public place and
without removal of pavement, dirt or other material.
SUBSTRUCTURE: Any facility located below the surface of any public place.
UTILITY: Any person furnishing the public gas, water, electricity, sewer
service, refuse collection, telephone service, cable television or similar
product or service either city owned or city franchised to use a public place.
(Ord. C66-193, 3-9-1982; amd. 2006 Code)
7-3-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Excavations; Utility Protection: No person may make any excavation
without first obtaining a permit to do so from the city manager and waiting the
required time for utility protection (see subsection
7-3-7C of this chapter), except as otherwise provided herein.
   B.   Entrance Into Substructure: No entrance may be made into any
substructure opening by any person without compliance with the rules and
regulations prescribed by the city manager.
   C.   Changes: No excavation permit shall be valid and no emergency
excavation shall begin or continue if there is a change of location or
enlargement of the excavation, however slight, before or at any stage of the
excavation, unless the applicant amends his application, or in an emergency
repeats the required notification procedures, to indicate the change of
location or enlargement. (Ord. C66-193, 3-9-1982)
   D.   Private Property: All excavations at locations other than a public
place require a permit under the New Mexico administrative code, title 14,
chapters 5 through 10. The provisions of subsections 7-3-7C and D, and sections
7-3-10 and 7-3-12 of this chapter, shall apply to all such excavations to
assure protection of underground utility facilities in easements or rights of
way not in a public place and no permit shall be issued until after compliance
with these provisions. (Ord. C66-193, 3-9-1982; amd. 2006 Code)
7-3-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Required: Every person required to obtain a permit by this chapter must
make written application therefor to the city manager on forms provided by the
city. The written application must state the name, telephone number, address
and principal place of business of the applicant, the authority of the
applicant to occupy the public place for which the permit is sought, the
location and dimensions of the installation or removal for which the excavation
is to be made, including a grid diagram or larger map if necessary, the purpose
of the facility and the length of time (calendar days) which will be required
to complete the work, including backfilling the excavation and removing all
obstructions, material and debris. The application, when approved and signed by
the city manager, constitutes a permit. (Ord. C66-193, 3-9-1982)
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   No application is required if a building permit covering the
excavation and construction within the city rights of way has been issued.
(Ord. C91-10, 11-26-1991)
      2.   A person may make an emergency excavation without a prior permit in
the manner provided by section
7-3-12 of this chapter. (Ord. C66-193, 3-9-1982)
7-3-5: FEE FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Fee: A fee shall be charged each applicant upon issuance of an
excavation permit; except for public and semipublic utility companies. The
permit fee will be a minimum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for commercial
construction, a minimum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for residential
construction and a minimum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for all noninvasive
excavations to be determined by the city engineer. If utility and edge cuts
total greater than fifty (50) square feet in cut area, the permit fee shall be
the estimated cost of the street repair.
   B.   City Will Restore Street Or Alley Surface: Applicant will be
responsible for the excavation including proper compaction and fill as directed
by the city manager. If the city manager determines that the public good
requires the city to replace the excavation and restore the surface, the
estimated cost thereof shall be paid by the applicant, in cash, to the city
clerk.
   C.   Time Limitation On Closure; Extension; Liquidated Damages:
      1.   Time Limitation On Closure: Streets and alleys may be closed for no
more than thirty (30) days from the date of the permit's issuance.
      2.   Extension: If deemed necessary by the city manager, a thirty (30)
day extension may be allowed upon application by the permittee accompanied by
justification for the time extension.
      3.   Liquidated Damages: The applicant will be subject to liquidated
damages of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day for nonuse of a public street
if streets and alleys are closed longer than thirty (30) days.
   D.   Unpaid Fees; Lien: All fees and charges not paid by the applicant will
result in a lien against the benefitting property owner. (Ord. C2004-18, 12-14-
2004)
7-3-6: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
No person may be issued a permit without furnishing the city a certificate of
public liability insurance with policy limits at least as high as required of
public bodies under the New Mexico tort claims act or successor legislation and
a coverage term at least one year following the completion of any excavation.
The certificate shall show no exclusions for collapse, explosion and
underground hazards and provide for no cancellation or alteration without ten
(10) days' actual written notice to the city. Public utility companies with a
net worth in excess of ten million dollars ($10,000,000.00) may act as self-
insurers. Any person, by applying for a permit, agrees to save, defend and hold
harmless the city for any claim or obligation arising from his use of the
permit or any act or omission in his use of a public way, except those arising
from actions or tortious conduct of the city. (Ord. C66-193, 3-9-1982)
7-3-7: RULES, REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Routing And Protection Of Traffic:
      1.   Maintain Normal Traffic Conditions: The applicant shall take
appropriate measures to maintain (during the entrance into a substructure
opening or performance of excavation work) traffic conditions as near normal as
practicable at all times and to cause as little inconvenience as possible to
the occupants of the abutting property and to the public.
      2.   Notification To Public Agencies: The applicant shall notify various
public agencies and the public of proposed work immediately after issuance of a
permit and prior to the actual work.
      3.   Warning Signs And Devices: Warning signs must be so placed near each
excavation or substructure opening being entered as to give adequate warning to
vehicular and pedestrian traffic, and cones or other approved devices must be
placed to channel traffic, all in accordance with the city's policy regulating
barricades, warning and guide signs 1 .
      4.   Safe Crossings: The applicant must maintain safe crossing of two (2)
lanes of vehicle traffic at all street intersections where possible and safe
crossings for pedestrians at intervals of not more than three hundred feet
(300'). If any excavation is made across any public street, alley or sidewalk,
at least one safe crossing must be maintained when possible for vehicles and
pedestrians. If the street is not wide enough to hold the excavated material
without using part of the adjacent sidewalk, a passageway of one-half (1/2) of
the sidewalk width must be maintained along such sidewalk line.
   B.   Clearance Of Vital Structures: Excavation work must be performed and
conducted so as not to interfere with access to fire hydrants, fire stations,
fire escapes and all other vital structures or equipment designated by the city
manager.
   C.   Underground Utilities:
      1.   No person shall make any excavation until at least forty eight (48)
hours after he has obtained his permit; provided, that any Saturday, Sunday or
legal holiday or other day when city hall is closed shall not count as part of
the forty eight (48) hours. Immediately after the permit is issued, the city
manager shall:
         a.   Notify, by telephone, all utilities that the permit was issued;
and
         b.   Reproduce copies for all utilities of the permit and attached map
of the proposed excavation site.
      2.   Each utility shall obtain a copy of the permit and map at city hall
on the day the permit is issued or early morning of the next working day if
notification is late in the afternoon. A representative of each utility shall
then sign and leave with the city manager a disclaimer if the utility has no
underground facilities at or near the proposed excavation site.
   D.   Line Locating:
      1.   Each utility with underground facilities at or near the excavation
site shall, within thirty six (36) hours after first telephone notification,
mark at the excavation site the location of all underground facilities it owns
or controls. No person shall begin any excavation until he has:
         a.   Learned from the city manager the name of each utility with any
facility at or near the excavation site; and
         b.   Observed the location markings at the site of each of these
facilities.
      2.   If any location marking is missing or unclear to the person
excavating, he shall not begin any excavation without physical marking or
clarification for him by a representative of the utility involved.
   E.   Protection Of Adjoining Property: The applicant shall, at all times at
his own expense, preserve and protect from damage any adjoining property. When
it is necessary to enter upon private property to take appropriate protective
measures, the applicant shall (unless otherwise provided by law) obtain
permission from the owner of such property. The applicant shall, at his own
expense, shore up and protect all buildings, walls, fences or other property
threatened by the excavation work. The applicant shall not disturb any trees or
shrubs in any public place without prior written consent of the city.
   F.   Care Of Excavated Material: All material excavated and piled adjacent
to the excavation or in any public place must be maintained so it will not
endanger the public and those working in the excavation and not cause
unnecessary inconvenience to persons using the public place and adjoining
property. All material excavated must be laid completely along the side of the
excavation and kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience as
reasonably possible to vehicle and pedestrian traffic unless otherwise directed
by the city manager. When the confines of the area being excavated prohibit
piling adjacent to the excavation, the city manager may require hauling and
storage elsewhere and the applicant shall secure any necessary permission and
arrangements for storage and transportation from and back to the site.
Excavated material may not be used solely as a barricade. To expedite the flow
of traffic or to keep dirt and dust from spreading or flying, the applicant may
be required by the city manager to use guards or other devices.
   G.   Drainage Facilities: The applicant shall maintain all gutters and other
drainage facilities free and unobstructed for the full depth, or maintain an
adequate substitute.
   H.   Preservation Of Monuments: Any monument set for the purpose of locating
or preserving the lines of any street, property subdivision, precise survey
reference point or a permanent survey benchmark within the city shall not be
removed or disturbed, or caused to be removed or disturbed, without prior
written permission of the city manager, which will be granted only upon
condition that the person applying pay all expenses incident to the proper
replacement of the monument by the city manager.
   I.   Open Trench; Permissible Length: The maximum length of open trench
permissible at any time shall not exceed three (3) blocks, but the trench in at
least one of the blocks must at that time be ready for paving, and one of the
blocks must be in the process of being backfilled.
   J.   Pavement Cuts:
      1.   Pavement Breakers: Heavy duty pavement breakers may be prohibited by
the city manager when the use endangers existing structures or other property.
      2.   Removal; Replacement: All paving within the limits of the excavation
shall be removed and replaced. Asphalt pavement may be removed by hand operated
pavement cutters, saws, wheel cutters mounted on motor graders or other
approved equipment. Concrete paving or slabs shall be sawed a minimum of one
and one-half inches (1 1/2") deep to ensure a straight vertical edge in the
upper portion of the slab. After sawing, the remaining thickness of concrete
may be broken by conventional methods. Removal of asphalt shall be accomplished
without raising or disturbing the adjacent pavement. If asphalt pavement is to
be replaced by the applicant, he shall follow specifications of the city's last
paving district and any modifications thereof.
      3.   Sidewalks: Sections of sidewalks shall be removed to the nearest
score line or saw cut edge.
      4.   Unstable Pavement: Unstable pavement shall be removed over caveins
on overbreaks and the subgrade shall be treated in the same manner as the main
excavation.
      5.   Trimming: Pavement edges shall be trimmed to a vertical face and
neatly aligned with the centerline of any trench.
      6.   Existing Damage: The applicant is not required to repair damage
existing prior to excavation unless his cuts leave small floating sections that
may be unstable; then the applicant must remove those sections and backfill
that area in addition to the area of the excavation.
   K.   Depth Of Structures: The minimum cover of any new substructure (except
lawful entrances thereto) shall follow approved primary utility location
drawings for the particular street unless otherwise permitted, in writing, by
the city manager. No duty is imposed upon any person owning a facility to
maintain the depth required herein upon subsequent changes in grade in the
surface unless, in the opinion of the agency or political subdivision of the
state (including the city), the grade of the substructure interferes with the
maintenance of or travel on a public place, in which case the substructure
shall be lowered by the owner.
   L.   Backfilling: Any person who trenches or excavates on or within a public
place for any purpose shall backfill the trench or excavation as follows:
      1.   Material: In all trenches or excavations, the earth used in
backfilling shall consist of the original excavated material or other material
as required by the city manager in a finely divided form, free from large
stones, rocks, pieces of old concrete or asphalt pavement, or large wet or
gummy masses, and shall be placed in layers or lifts from the bottom of the
trench or excavation to the top of the trench or excavation.
      2.   Compaction: Each layer or lift shall be placed evenly, level and at
a depth that the degree of compaction required herein may be obtained
throughout the entire backfill without exceeding the depth of the layer or lift
as recommended by the manufacturer of the compaction equipment being used for
various soil types encountered or as determined by actual compaction tests of
the lift or layer in place, or as directed by the city manager. The method of
compaction used shall not damage the pipeline or other subsurface structures in
or near the trench or excavation.
      3.   Moisture: Each lift or layer shall be sufficiently moistened to
permit good compaction but not enough to cause the backfill material to lump or
form a muddy ball when squeezed. Moistening water shall be added only in the
amount required to achieve optimum moisture content for the type of soil
encountered and shall be thoroughly worked into the backfill material before
compaction.
      4.   Density: The backfill material when placed in the trench shall be
thoroughly compacted to a minimum of ninety percent (90%) of maximum density
throughout the entire depth of the excavation or trench, except that the top
six inches (6") in residential streets and top ten inches (10") in arterial
streets shall be compacted to a minimum of ninety five percent (95%) of maximum
density. Density requirements are governed by ASTM D 698-78 or AASHTO
designation T-99-74, including latest revisions thereof, except that higher
density requirements shall be met if they are or were required in a paving
contract for the street at the excavation.
      5.   Existing Pavement: When a trench or excavation has been cut through
existing pavement, the compaction for the top six inches (6") and twelve inches
(12") (as referred to in subsection L4 of this section) means the six inches
(6") or twelve inches (12") of material placed immediately below the bottom or
base of the existing pavement surface until the permanent pavement patch can be
placed.
      6.   Inspection And Tests: Backfill and compaction inspection shall be
made as required by the city manager at the cost of the applicant. Applicant
shall furnish the city backfill density tests performed by a licensed
professional engineer or a recognized independent testing laboratory to
determine compliance with the compaction requirements of this section. The city
manager shall order the tests if the applicant does not. Applicant shall pay
all costs of this testing.
      7.   Failure Of Density Requirements: If the completed backfill fails to
meet the density requirements of this section when tested, or otherwise fails
as indicated by settlement of the trench or excavation, the city manager may
order the faulty backfill material removed, replaced and recompacted to the
required density and retest at the applicant's expense. He may also order the
replacement of all pavement destroyed or damaged as the result of the backfill
failure settlement.
      8.   Failure To Comply: If an applicant fails to comply with the
requirements of this section, the city manager may refuse to permit him to
thereafter engage in trenching or excavation work in the city.
   M.   Restoration Of Surface  1 : Acceptance or approval of excavation work
or backfilling by the city manager shall not preclude the city from asserting a
claim against the applicant for incomplete or defective work discovered within
three (3) years from the completion of the excavation work or backfilling. The
presence of the city manager during the performance of the work does not
relieve the applicant of his responsibilities hereunder.
   N.   Abandonment Of Substructures: When the use of a substructure is
abandoned, except a service line designed to serve a single property owner,
each person having any interest in it must, within thirty (30) days after
abandonment, file with the city manager a detailed written statement of the
location of the abandoned substructure. Unless otherwise provided by law, the
city or the state or any agency or political subdivision thereof may at any
time thereafter require such person to remove all his property and facilities
from the public place at his expense or reimburse the city or other state
agency or political subdivision for removal.
   O.   Cleanup: Each applicant shall thoroughly clean up all rubbish, excess
earth, rock and other debris resulting from excavation work from the public
place. All cleanup operations at the excavation location shall be at the
expense of the applicant and shall be completed to the satisfaction of the city
manager. From time to time as may be ordered by the city manager and always
immediately after completion of the work, the applicant shall clean up and if
he does not within twenty four (24) hours after notice by the city manager, the
city may clean up and charge the cost thereof to the applicant.
   P.   Completion Of Certain Requirements: The requirements of subsections G,
K and L of this section must be completed by one of the following methods:
      1.   Applicant: By the applicant if his qualifications have been approved
by the city manager, in writing, as to adequate equipment, personnel and
knowledge of backfilling and surfacing methods.
      2.   Approved Person: By any person with prior written approval by the
city manager of his qualifications if he complies with all provisions of this
chapter concerning "applicants", the qualifications referred to in this
subsection being the same as those referred to in subsection P1 of this
section.
      3.   City: By city forces if the city manager determines it is in the
best interests of the city and if the cost has been or is secured as provided
in section
7-3-5 of this chapter.
   Q.   Prompt Completion Required: After an excavation is commenced, the
applicant shall promptly complete the work and restore the public place to its
original condition, or as near as can be, so as not to obstruct the public
place or travel thereon more than reasonably necessary.
   R.   Noise, Dust And Debris; Working Hours 3 : Each applicant shall carry
out excavation work in a manner that avoids unnecessary inconvenience and
annoyance to the public and occupants of neighboring property. All excavation
work shall take place between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) P.M., unless the city manager otherwise directs in writing. The applicant
shall take appropriate measures to reduce to fullest extent practicable noise,
dust and unsightly debris, and from the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. to
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. shall not use (except with the written permission of
the city manager or in case of emergency) any tool, appliance or equipment
producing noise of sufficient intensity to disturb the sleep or repose of
occupants of the neighboring property. (Ord. C66-193, 3-9-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  5-1-32 of this code for provisions regarding removing barricades.
  1. See subsection
1 7-3-5B of this chapter for provisions regarding restoration of street or
  alley surface.
3 1. See also subsection
  5-1-24B10 of this code for permitted hours of operation.
7-3-8: INSPECTIONS:
The city manager may make such inspections as are reasonably necessary in the
enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. C66-193, 3-9-1982)
7-3-9: ADVANCE NOTICE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
Applicants shall attempt to keep themselves informed of proposed street or
sidewalk improvements in order that facilities may be installed prior to the
making of such improvements. (Ord. C66-193, 3-9-1982)
7-3-10: UNPERMITTED EXCAVATION; NOTIFICATION BY UTILITY:
Each utility, upon learning of an actual or proposed excavation without a
permit or in any location where underground public utility facilities may be
located, shall:
   A.   Notify Of Permit Requirements: Tell the contractor or other excavator
that a city permit is required forty eight (48) hours prior to excavation; and
   B.   Report To City: Immediately report it by telephone to the city manager
during working hours or the police department after working hours. (Ord. C66-
193, 3-9-1982)
7-3-11: URGENT WORK DECLARED:
If, in his judgment, traffic conditions, safety or convenience of the traveling
public or the public interest require that excavation work be performed
speedily, the city manager may, at the time the permit is granted, require that
a crew of men and adequate tools and equipment be employed by the applicant
twenty four (24) hours a day to complete the excavation work as soon as
possible. If the applicant fails in this requirement, the city manager may
complete the work with city crews at applicant's cost and shall ban applicant's
engaging in trenching or excavation work in the city until the costs are paid.
Work may not be declared urgent unless there is considerable public
inconvenience such as a street blocked to all traffic that is normally well
traveled or is the only public access to an adjoining area. (Ord. C66-193, 3-9-
1982)
7-3-12: EMERGENCY EXCAVATION:
Any utility may make excavation in an emergency before a permit is issued, but
only as follows: (Ord. C66-193, 3-9-1982)
   A.   Notice To Dispatcher During Working Hours: During working hours, the
excavating utility shall give prior telephone notice of the site location to
the city's electric utility dispatcher who shall: (Ord. C66-193, 3-9-1982; amd.
2006 Code)
      1.   Immediately telephone all utilities with possible nearby underground
facilities; and
      2.   Notify the excavating utility of those facilities.
   B.   Responsibility Of Utility: Any utility owning or controlling a nearby
underground facility shall:
      1.   Immediately mark its location at the excavation site; or
      2.   Otherwise satisfy the excavating utility of its exact location or
freedom from threat.
   C.   After Working Hours: If the need for emergency excavation is discovered
after working hours, the excavating utility shall perform all duties of the
dispatcher in this section. Each utility shall provide all others with a
current after hours telephone number to obtain compliance with this section.
   D.   Obtaining Permit; Time Limit: Within twenty four (24) hours after an
emergency excavation, or the next working day if city hall is then closed, a
permit shall be obtained by the excavating utility to provide a permanent
public record of the excavation. (Ord. C66-193, 3-9-1982)
7-3-13: PENALTY:
Any person, including any utility, violating any provisions of subsections 7-3-
3D, 7-3-7C, 7-3-7D and sections 7-3-10 and 7-3-12 of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, pay a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense,
two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense, and five hundred dollars
($500.00) for the third or subsequent offenses and the municipal judge may, if
he shall determine that the second, third or subsequent offenses are wilful,
impose a jail sentence as allowed by law. Persons violating any provision of
any section other than those specified in this section, shall be subject to the
general penalty provisions provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. C66-193, 3-9-1982; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CEMETERY  1
SECTION:
7-4-1: Application Of Provisions
7-4-2: Formulation Of Rules
7-4-3: Enforcement
7-4-4: Sale Of Lots
7-4-5: Grading And Digging Of Lots
7-4-6: Interments And Disinterments
7-4-7: Monuments And Markers
7-4-8: Pauper Burying Ground
7-4-9: Rules And Regulations
7-4-10: Enclosures
7-4-11: Unlawful Acts And Activities
7-4-12: Penalty
7-4-13: Income From Sale Of Lots
7-4-14: Lots Designated For Veterans
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-18-8.
7-4-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall prescribe the rules and regulations pertaining to Hillcrest
Cemetery which is a municipal cemetery as set out in New Mexico statutes
section 3-40-1 et seq., and is not an endowed care cemetery. (Ord. C2006-05, 4-
25-2006)
7-4-2: FORMULATION OF RULES:
The city council may, from time to time, lay out or alter the cemetery avenues
and walks, and make such rules and regulations for the government of the
grounds as they may deem necessary to secure and promote the general objectives
of the cemetery. (1961 Code § 9-6-5; amd. 2006 Code)
7-4-3: ENFORCEMENT:
It is the duty of the caretaker to enforce the rules and regulations as the
city council may, from time to time, order for enforcement. (1961 Code § 9-6-
11; amd. 2006 Code)
7-4-4: SALE OF LOTS:
   A.   By City Clerk: All lots are sold by the city clerk, whose office is
open from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. until five o'clock (5:00) P.M. (1961 Code §
9-6-12)
   B.   Fees Paid To City Clerk: All amounts due for lots must be paid at the
city clerk's office. The city council shall from time to time, set the price
for the sale of lots. (Ord. C2006-05, 4-25-2006)
   C.   Records Maintenance: All maps, plats and interment records will be kept
in the city clerk's office.
   D.   Use Of Lots: No lots shall be used for any other purpose than as a
burial place for the dead.
   E.   Persons Buried; Sale By Owners: Lot owners may bury any person in their
lot. They shall not sell any part thereof, nor allow any interments to be made
therein for a remuneration. When interments are to be made in private lots, the
owner or his representative must designate the exact location of the grave.
   F.   Deed Issuance; Unsettled Accounts: No lot will be regarded as sold
until fully paid and deed issued. A second interment will not be allowed in any
lot in the cemetery for which there are unsettled accounts. (1961 Code § 9-6-
12)
7-4-5: GRADING AND DIGGING OF LOTS:
The grade of all lots and graves shall be determined by the city officials and,
if needed, be altered and changed as the circumstances may require. Grading and
digging on the lots by other than employees of the city is positively
prohibited. (1961 Code § 9-6-13)
7-4-6: INTERMENTS AND DISINTERMENTS:
   A.   Order For Opening Required; Notification, Time Limit: Graves will be
opened on an order from an undertaker and owner of the lot, which order must be
given to the city at least three (3) days before the time set for the arrival
of the funeral at the cemetery. No interments or disinterments will be
permitted without such order.
   B.   Lot Line: All graves shall be at least six inches (6") within the line
of the lot.
   C.   Contagious Disease; Safety Precautions: The city must be notified in
advance of any safety precautions that must be followed for a burial, and only
allowed as provided by state or federal laws, rules and regulations.
   D.   Number Of Burials Per Lot: No more than two (2) persons buried in
caskets are allowed per lot. One casket and up to three (3) cremains are
allowed per lot, or up to six (6) cremains are allowed per lot. Caskets must be
buried to a depth as to allow for proper burial and covering of soil as
required by state regulations.
      1.   Two (2) persons buried in caskets is only allowed if it is a new
burial lot, in ground undisturbed at the effective date hereof. It is not
permitted to remove a casket already buried to deepen the burial lot to allow
for a second casket.
      2.   Cremains to be buried where a casket is already buried, must be
placed outside the casket. (Ord. 2016-13, 12-13-2016)
7-4-7: MONUMENTS AND MARKERS:
   A.   Permit Required: No monumental work of any kind will be admitted to the
cemetery or foundation built for the same until a permit has been obtained from
the city.
   B.   Construction: All monuments and grave markers must be constructed of
granite, standard bronzes or marble, or be constructed of material, the
durability of which shall be approved by the city engineer; concrete monuments
and sandstone monuments are prohibited. All bases shall be made of granite and
set on a foundation.
   C.   Location Identified: Lot owners are required to go to the cemetery and
locate their monuments and markers prior to the construction of the foundation.
   D.   Erection To Center Of Lot: All monuments shall be erected as near to
the center of the lot as is practicable.
   E.   Placement; Number: All markers shall be placed at the head of the
grave. No more than one monument will be allowed on a plot. This does not
include markers of which only one will be allowed to each grave.
   F.   Footstones Prohibited: No footstones for graves will be allowed.
   G.   Thin Slabs, Metal Covers; Setting Marker Or Memorial: Thin slabs for
headstones and metal covers for graves are positively prohibited. No grave
marker or memorial of any kind can be set in a socket or with a trowel.
   H.   Old Monuments; Cleaning: All old monumental work removed from other
cemeteries must be cleaned thoroughly before brought into the cemetery.
   I.   Single Grave Section; Double Markers: No monument will be allowed in
the single grave section, but markers may be erected at the head of each grave.
Double markers intended to embrace two (2) or more graves will not be allowed,
except small plots planned for two (2) graves only.
   J.   Foundations:
      1.   Required: Foundations will be required for all monuments and markers
of every description in the grounds. They must be constructed by the city at
the expense of the firm or person erecting the monument.
      2.   Notice: Ten (10) days' notice must be given in which to construct a
foundation. When foundations are ordered, a properly made sketch or plan must
accompany it. The character of the ground, the situation of the monuments or
markers on the lot, and the size and estimate of depth of the foundation shall
be stated. All foundations must be constructed of granite or stone spalls,
concrete and portland cement, and when completed, the surface must be level.
Foundations in all cases must be of the same dimension as the base it is to
carry. No foundations will be put in between May 26 and June 1, or during
freezing weather. When an order is given for a foundation, the cash must
accompany the same.
   K.   Marker Construction: When there is a monument or one is to be erected
on a lot, the marker for the grave shall be constructed of one piece and shall
not be less than ten inches (10") thick, not more than twenty four inches (24")
long and not to exceed twelve inches (12") in height. (1961 Code § 9-6-16)
   L.   Stone Height; Designated Monument: Any stone over three feet (3') high,
including base, is a monument. (1961 Code § 9-6-15; amd. 2006 Code)
7-4-8: PAUPER BURYING GROUND:
   A.   Designation: The northeast quarter (NE 1/4) of the northwest quarter
(NW1/4) of Section 21, T. 15 N., R. 18 W., N.M.P.M., as designated on the map
of Hillcrest cemetery be and the same is hereby set aside as a pauper's burying
ground. (1961 Code § 9-7-1)
   B.   Permit Required: Hereafter, any pauper or other person dying or found
dead within the limits of the city without relatives or other persons willing
and able to provide a place of interment, may on application of any citizen of
the city made to the mayor or city clerk, receive a permit for the burial of
such pauper in the block of ground described in subsection A of this section;
provided however, that such permit shall not be issued when any undertaker
shall have received or contracted to receive a fee in excess of thirty five
dollars ($35.00) for the burial of any such person so dying or found dead.
(1961 Code § 9-7-2)
   C.   Information Ascertained: It shall be the duty of the mayor and city
clerk, upon application, to grant a permit for the burial of any pauper or
other person found dead without anyone willing to provide burial; provided,
that when such permit is issued, it shall be the duty of the city clerk to, so
far as possible, ascertain the age, sex, nativity, date of death and cause of
death of any such pauper or other person found dead, and to keep a permanent
record of such vital statistics. (1961 Code § 9-7-3)
   D.   Restrictions: No other person shall be buried in the pauper's burying
ground except as hereinbefore provided. (1961 Code § 9-7-4)
7-4-9: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Manner Of Entering And Exiting: No person is permitted to enter or
leave the cemetery except through the gate. (1961 Code § 9-6-10)
   B.   Hours Open: The cemetery shall be open from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of each day. (1961 Code § 9-6-2)
   C.   Removal Of Unsightly Materials: Materials for any work will not be
allowed to remain in the cemetery longer than shall be strictly necessary, and
refuse or unused material must be removed as soon as the work is completed. In
case of neglect, such removal will be made by the city officials at the expense
of the lot owner. (1961 Code § 9-6-4)
7-4-10: ENCLOSURES:
   A.   Prohibited; Exception: No hedges, fences or enclosures of any kind,
except copings which shall be approved by the city engineer, shall be
constructed or maintained around any lot or grave.
   B.   Removal: Lot owners who desire fences and copings removed may have the
same done by the city free of charge and the lot left in good condition. (1961
Code § 9-6-8)
7-4-11: UNLAWFUL ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Defacing Cemetery: All persons are prohibited from picking flowers or
breaking trees or shrubs, or writing on or defacing any monuments. Unsightly
objects such as withered flowers, shells, rusty tins or woodwork of any kind
will not be permitted to remain on lots or graves. (1961 Code § 9-6-3)
   B.   Stone Cutting: No stone cutting will be allowed on the grounds, except
such as is unavoidable. Any workman not complying with the rules will not be
allowed to work on the grounds. (1961 Code § 9-6-6)
   C.   Throwing Rubbish: The throwing of rubbish of any kind in the roads or
avenues is strictly prohibited. (1961 Code § 9-6-7)
   D.   Placement Of Forbidden Articles: Owners of lots and graves are
prohibited from placing thereon iron or wire work, toys, shells, stones,
mineral specimens, broken china, photographs, broken glass, boxes, grave
covers, either tin or cement, metal flowers, bead designs, glass cases, broken
vases, old chairs, settees or seats of any kind, bricks and tiles. The city
reserves the right to remove any of the above described articles, or any
structure or object which it deems injurious to the appearance of the grounds.
(1961 Code § 9-6-9)
7-4-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1961 Code § 9-6-16; amd. 2006 Code)
7-4-13: INCOME FROM SALE OF LOTS:
All income generated from the sale of lots in Hillcrest cemetery shall be used
for the maintenance of, and capital improvements to, the cemetery. (Ord. C2006-
05, 4-25-2006)
7-4-14: LOTS DESIGNATED FOR VETERANS:
Veterans of the United States armed services will be allowed to purchase lots
in a special designated area of Hillcrest cemetery; however, such lots are
reserved for the veteran and the veteran's spouse only. (Ord. C2006-05, 4-25-
2006)
CHAPTER 5
AIRPORT REGULATIONS  1 , 2
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Compliance Required
7-5-3: Aircraft Rules And Regulations
7-5-4: Safety Regulations
7-5-5: Motor Vehicles And Traffic; Bicycles And Pedestrians
7-5-6: Conduct Of The Public
7-5-7: Business And Industry
7-5-8: Tenant Obligations
7-5-9: Rules And Regulations
7-5-10: Control During Emergency
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-39-1. See also section
  5-1-43 of this code for unsafe flying practices.
2 2. See also title 10, chapter 4, article G of this code.
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in these regulations, shall be
construed as defined in this section, unless from the context a different
meaning is intended, or unless a different meaning is specifically defined and
more particularly described to the use of such words and phrases. All
definitions contained within the federal aviation act of 1958 and all
amendments thereto shall be considered as included herein; and all definitions
shall be interpreted on the basis and intention of the FAA act and amendments
thereto.
ACCIDENT: A collision between an aircraft or a vehicle, and an aircraft,
vehicle, person, stationary object or other thing which results in property
damages, personal injury or death; or an entry into or emerging from a moving
aircraft or vehicle by a person which results in personal injury or death to
such person or some other person, or which results in property damage.
AIR TERMINAL: Any building owned and operated by the city or McKinley County
used for air transportation at the airport.
AIR TRAFFIC: Aircraft in operation anywhere in the air space and on that area
of the airport normally used for the movement of aircraft.
AIRCRAFT: Any and all contrivances, now or hereafter used for the navigation of
or flight in air or space.
AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS: An aircraft arrival at or departure from an airport.
AIRCRAFT PARKING AND STORAGE AREA: The open areas of an airport to be used for
aircraft parking and storage space for the parking and storage of aircraft, or
areas for the servicing of aircraft with fuel, lubricants and other supplies,
or for making minor or emergency repairs to aircraft, or for any or all such
purposes.
AIRPORT MANAGER: The airport manager of the city or his designee.
BUS ZONE: That space reserved for the loading and unloading of buses.
BUSINESS OR CONCESSION: The sale, offering for sale or the furnishing of any
commodity, article, facility or service.
CITY: City of Gallup, New Mexico.
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY: The conduct of any aspect of a business or concession on
the airport for revenue.
COUNCIL OR COMMISSION: The governing bodies of the city of Gallup and county of
McKinley, respectively.
FIXED BASE OPERATOR: A person, firm or corporation subject to the provisions of
a lease engaging in any one of the following: the sales, service, renting,
leasing, sales of new and used aircraft, parts, aircraft accessories and
hardware, custom repair, overhauling and modification of general aviation
aircraft and/or aircraft equipment, including the conduct of charter flight
services, aerial photography, flight schools, advertising or map making.
FUEL HANDLING: The transportation, delivery, fueling and draining of fuel or
fuel waste products.
FUEL STORAGE AREA: Any portion of an airport designated temporarily or
permanently by the airport manager as an area in which gasoline, or any other
type of fuel, may be stored or loaded.
GENERAL AVIATION: All phases of aviation other than aircraft manufacturing,
military aviation and scheduled air carrier operations.
ITINERANT OPERATIONS: All aircraft arrivals and departures other than local
operations.
LANDING AREA: Any locality which is used or intended to be used for the landing
and takeoff of aircraft, whether or not facilities are provided for the
shelter, servicing or repair of aircraft or for receiving or discharging
passengers or cargo.
LOADING GATE: That space reserved for the loading and unloading of aircraft.
LOADING RAMP: The area used to aid in the loading and unloading of aircraft.
LOADING ZONE: That space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading and unloading of passengers, baggage or materials.
LOCAL AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS: Aircraft operating in the local traffic pattern or
within sight of the air field; aircraft that are known to be departing for or
arriving from flight in local practice areas located within a twenty (20) mile
radius of the airport; aircraft making simulated instrument approaches or low
passes at the airport.
OPERATIONAL AREA: Any place on the airport not leased or demised to anyone for
exclusive occupancy.
OPERATOR: The person, firm or corporation in possession of an aircraft or
vehicle, or any person who has rented such for the purpose of operation by
himself or his agent.
OWNERS: A. A person who holds the legal title to an aircraft or a vehicle;
         B. A mortgager, conditional vendee or lessee of an aircraft or vehicle
with immediate right of possession; or
         C. Anyone in possession of an aircraft or vehicle on the airport.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of an aircraft or vehicle whether occupied or
not.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PERMISSION OR PERMIT: Permission granted by the airport manager unless
otherwise specified herein.
PERSON: A natural person, association, partnership, firm or corporation.
POLICE OFFICER: Any officer of the city police department or any other peace
officer.
ROADWAY: Any street or roadway whether improved or unimproved within the
boundaries of the airport set aside or designated for use by vehicles whether
dedicated or not.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians and vehicles, either singly or together, while using any
airport area.
VEHICLE: A device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
propelled, moved or drawn upon a highway, except a device moved by human power.
VEHICULAR PARKING AREA: Any portion of the airport designated and made
available, temporarily or permanently, by the airport manager for the parking
of vehicles. (Ord. C66-163, 9-24-1978)
7-5-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
Any permission granted by the airport manager, directly or indirectly,
expressly or by implication, to enter upon or use the airport or any part
thereof, including, but not limited to, aircraft operators, crew members and
passengers, spectators, sightseers, pleasure and commercial vehicles, officers
and employees of airlines lessees and other persons occupying space at such
airport, persons doing business with the airport, its lessees, sublessees and
permittees and all other persons whatsoever, whether or not of the type
indicated, is conditioned upon compliance with the airport rules and
regulations; and entry upon or into the airport by any persons shall be deemed
to constitute an agreement by such person to comply with such rules and
regulations. The city and McKinley County reserve the right to deny any or all
usage of the airport to any person or persons for any cause. (Ord. C66-163, 9-
24-1978)
7-5-3: AIRCRAFT RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Categories Of Aircraft: Final determination as to proper category
designation of any aircraft shall rest with the airport manager. Rates and
charges shall be determined according to the following classifications:
      1.   Private:
         a.   Privately owned aircraft operated noncommercially by owner or
owners.
         b.   Private aircraft may be used by persons other than the owner,
provided no part of the cost of operation of the aircraft is received in money
or other consideration by the owner for such use.
         c.   Private aircraft can be used in connection with the owner's
business, comparable to an owner's use of his private automobile, provided said
owner is not engaged in the business of air transportation.
         d.   Company and corporation owned aircraft that are operated for the
free transportation of their and other personnel and/or products are classified
as private aircraft and subject to the restrictions as listed under subsection
A1b of this section.
         e.   Club aircraft must be owned and operated by a nonprofit
partnership or nonprofit corporation, and each club member must be a bona fide
owner of a part of the aircraft or a shareholder in the corporation. The club
may not derive greater revenue from the use of its aircraft than the amount
necessary for the operation, maintenance and replacement of its aircraft and
will file and keep up to date with the airport manager a list of its
membership. At any time the airport manager has reason to believe a club
aircraft is being so operated that it falls under the "commercial"
classification hereunder, he shall so notify such club and if it fails to
remedy conditions complained of, the airport manager shall reclassify the
aircraft until such conditions are remedied.
      2.   Commercial:
         a.   Aircraft used to carry passengers for hire on local flights.
         b.   Aircraft used for rental, hire or charter.
         c.   Aircraft used for student instruction and its kindred
occupations.
      3.   Other: Aircraft used for commercial purposes and not otherwise
covered in these regulations.
   B.   Authority To Close Airport; Prohibit Or Restrict Landings, Takeoffs:
The airport manager may prohibit any aircraft from landing or taking off at any
time when he deems such landing or takeoff likely to endanger any person or
property.
   C.   Conformance With FAA And CAB Rules And Regulations: No person shall
navigate any aircraft, land aircraft upon, fly aircraft from or conduct any
aircraft operations on or from the airport, except in conformity with the rules
and regulations of the federal aviation administration and civil aeronautics
board or any successor agency.
   D.   Negligent Operations Prohibited: No aircraft shall be operated on the
surface of a landing area, ramp and apron area, passenger ramp and apron area,
cargo ramp and apron area or aircraft parking and storage area in a careless or
negligent manner or in disregard of the rights and safety of others, or without
due caution and circumspection, or at a speed or in a manner which endangers
unreasonably, or is likely to endanger unreasonably persons or property, or
while the pilot, or other persons aboard controlling any part of the operation
thereof, is under the influence of intoxicating liquor, or any narcotic or
habit forming drug, or if such aircraft is so constructed, equipped or loaded
as to endanger unreasonably persons or property.
   E.   Landing Of Motorless Aircraft Prohibited: No motorless aircraft may
land or take off at the airport without permission having first been obtained
from the airport manager.
   F.   Jet Or Turboprop Aircraft:
      1.   Taxiing: No aircraft shall be taxied at the airport where the
exhaust or propeller blast may cause injury to persons or damage to property.
If it is impossible to taxi such aircraft in compliance with this rule, then
the engine must be shut off and the aircraft towed to the desired destination.
      2.   Starting: No engines shall be started while the aircraft is parked
on the airport where exhaust blast may cause injury to persons or damage to
property.
      3.   Location Of Operation: No jet or turbo prop aircraft engine shall be
run except in areas authorized by the airport manager.
   G.   Refueling And Defueling Aircraft; Dispensary: No aircraft shall be
refueled or defueled except by authorized fuel dispensary designated by the
airport manager.
   H.   Clearance Of Landing Runway: Aircraft landing at the airport shall make
the landing runway available to others by leaving the line of traffic as
promptly as possible.
   I.   Accident Reports: Persons involved in aircraft accidents occurring on
the airport shall make a full report thereof to the airport manager as soon
after an accident as possible, which shall include their names and addresses.
When a written report of an accident is required by the civil air regulations,
a copy of such report may be submitted to the airport manager in lieu of the
report required above.
   J.   Authority Of Airport Manager: The airport manager may delay or restrict
any flight or other operation at the airport and may refuse takeoff clearance
to any aircraft for any reason he believes justifiable. The airport manager may
also prohibit the use of all or any part of the airport for any purpose by an
individual or group.
   K.   Demonstrations: No experimental flight or ground demonstrations shall
be conducted at the airport without the express approval of the airport
manager.
   L.   Traffic And Taxi Patterns: The following rules will govern the conduct
of all aircraft in flight within the airport control zone, or in motion, or
parked on the runways, taxiways, aprons, hardstands or ramps of the airport,
unless exceptions are specifically provided for in federal regulations or
authorized by the airport manager:
      1.   No person shall taxi an aircraft to or from the hangar line or to or
from an approved parking space until he has ascertained that there will be no
danger of collision with other aircraft, persons or objects in the immediate
area. Aircraft shall be taxied at speeds that will ensure complete control at
all times. No taxiing shall be done except on areas designated for taxiing.
      2.   All landings and takeoffs shall be made on runways only, except in
an emergency.
      3.   No aircraft shall make a one hundred eighty degree (180°) turn after
landing on a runway unless instructed to do so by the airport manager.
      4.   Operators of aircraft entering or leaving the traffic pattern of the
airport or using the runways or movement areas for the purpose of landing or
taking off, shall be the holders of a valid, current, student pilot, private
pilot or commercial pilot certificate with ratings appropriate to the type of
aircraft operated and conditions under which they are operating. Reciprocal
certificates issued by foreign governments are acceptable if authorizations
contained in the certificates are comparable to the domestic certificates
mentioned and are so accepted by the federal aviation administration.
      5.   Aircraft owners, their pilots or agents, shall be responsible for
the prompt removal of disabled aircraft and parts thereof unless required or
directed by the airport manager or the federal aviation administration to delay
such action pending an investigation of an accident. In the event of failure to
promptly remove such disabled aircraft at the direction of the city, the
airport manager will cause the aircraft to be removed and bill the owners
thereof for all charges incurred in the removal of same. (Ord. C66-163, 9-24-
1978)
7-5-4: SAFETY REGULATIONS:
   A.   Cleaning And Maintaining Aircraft: Cleaning, painting, washing,
polishing of or otherwise maintaining aircraft shall be accomplished only in
areas designated for that purpose by the airport manager.
   B.   Removal Of Gas, Oil, Grease: In the event of spillage or dripping of
gasoline, oil, grease or any material which may be unsightly or detrimental to
the pavement in any area at the airport, the same shall be removed immediately.
The responsibility for the immediate removal of such gasoline, oil, grease or
other material shall be assumed by the operator or owner of the equipment
causing the same, or by the tenant or concessionaire responsible for the
deposit thereof on the pavement.
   C.   Turnstiles And Coin Operated Doors: No person shall pass through, over
or under a turnstile or coin operated door located on the airport that requires
the deposit of a coin or other control device for such privilege without
depositing such coin or device in such turnstile or door.
   D.   Endangering Persons Or Property: No person in or upon the airport shall
do or omit to do any act if the doing or omission thereof endangers or is
likely to endanger persons or property.
   E.   Smoking: No person shall smoke or carry lighted cigars, cigarettes,
pipes, matches or any open flame in or upon any place where smoking is
specifically prohibited by signs.
   F.   Explosives And Other Dangerous Articles: No person shall store, keep,
handle, use, dispense or transport at, in or upon the airport any class A or
class B explosives, any radioactive substances or material, or any other
material at any such time or place or in any manner or condition as to endanger
or as to be likely to endanger persons or property without the permission of
the airport manager.
   G.   Lubricating Oils: No person shall keep or store lubricating oils in or
about the hangars; provided, however, that such materials may be kept in
aircraft in the proper receptacles installed in the aircraft for such purposes
or in containers provided with suitable draw off devices, and stored only in
such places as approved by the city fire chief or the airport manager.
   H.   Waste: Lessees of hangars or other aircraft servicing or maintenance
buildings, terminal buildings or other areas shall provide suitable metal
receptacles within self-closing covers for the storage of oily wastes, rags and
other rubbish and trash. All waste within this general classification shall be
removed by the lessees from the airport premises and at regular intervals as
may be established by the airport manager. No petroleum products or
objectionable industrial waste matter shall be dumped or be permitted to drain
into drainage ditches, ponding areas or into sewer systems or storm drains.
   I.   Care Of Apron Areas: Any person, including the operator of an aircraft,
causing overflowing or spilling of excess oil or grease on any apron areas
shall be responsible for cleaning such areas. Upon the default of the
responsible person to clean such area, the city may provide necessary cleaning
and bill the responsible person for the expenses thereof.
   J.   Storage Of Fuel Trucks And Trailers: Refueling units shall be stored
outside and not less than one hundred feet (100') from a building or such other
distance as shall be approved by the airport manager, except for the
accomplishment of minor adjustments or repairs necessary to move such units to
the storage area when failure occurs elsewhere on the airport. No gasoline
truck, empty or otherwise, shall be brought into, kept or stored within any
building at the airport, unless said building is used exclusively for that
purpose.
   K.   Motorized Equipment: All equipment must be parked so that it may be
readily driven or towed away from a plane in case of emergency.
   L.   Fire Extinguishers Available: During fuel handling operations in
connection with any aircraft at the airport, at least two (2) approved fire
extinguishers (15 pound or larger) or any other type of fire extinguishers
acceptable to and approved by the airport manager, shall be immediately
available for use in connection therewith. (Ord. C66-163, 9-24-1978)
7-5-5: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC; BICYCLES AND PEDESTRIANS:
   A.   Operation Of Motor Vehicles: Motor vehicles shall be operated only in
those areas of the airport authorized from time to time by the airport manager
and then under the rules established therefor.
   B.   Restrictions On Operation Of Vehicles: No vehicle shall be operated in
or upon a vehicular parking area, operational area, fuel storage area, landing
area, ramp and apron area, passenger ramp and apron area, cargo ramp and apron
area, or aircraft parking and storage area, except at such places and for such
periods of time as may be prescribed and posted by the airport manager. No
aircraft refueling vehicle shall be parked except in areas as are designated by
the airport manager. No person shall park a vehicle within any vehicular
parking area except upon the payment of such parking fees and charges as may
from time to time be prescribed by the airport manager.
   C.   Speed Limits: Vehicles at the airport shall be operated in strict
compliance with speed limits prescribed by the airport manager.
   D.   Vehicles Near Loading Gate: No vehicle except aircraft handling and
servicing equipment shall be driven between an aircraft and its loading gate.
   E.   Loading And Unloading Passengers: No vehicle shall load or unload
passengers at the airport at any place other than that designated by the
airport manager.
   F.   Parking Restrictions:
      1.   No person shall park a vehicle or permit the same to remain halted
on a vehicular parking area, operational area, fuel storage area, landing area,
ramp and apron area, passenger ramp and apron area, cargo ramp and apron area
or aircraft parking and storage area, except at such places and for such
periods of time as may be prescribed and posted by the airport manager.
      2.   No person shall park an aircraft refueling vehicle except in areas
designated by the airport manager.
      3.   No person shall park a vehicle within any vehicular parking area
except upon the payment of such parking fees and charges as may from time to
time be prescribed by the airport manager.
   G.   Procedure In Case Of Vehicle Accident: The driver of any vehicle
involved in an accident on the airport which results in injury or death to any
person or damage to any property shall immediately stop such vehicle at the
scene of the accident, render such assistance as may be needed, and give his
name, address and operator's license and registration numbers to the person
injured or to any officer or witnesses of the injury. He shall notify the city
police department and remain at the scene until the accident is investigated by
city police.
   H.   Authority To Remove Vehicles: The airport manager may cause to be
removed from any area of the airport any vehicle which is disabled, abandoned,
parked in violation of these rules and regulations or which presents an
operational problem to any other area at the airport, at the vehicle owner's or
operator's expense and without liability for damage which may result in the
course of such moving. This provision shall not require action by the airport
manager concerning parking spaces leased to others.
   I.   Bicycles: Every person riding a bicycle at the airport shall be granted
all the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties by these rules and
regulations made applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to rules and
regulations which by their nature have no application.
   J.   Pedestrians:
      1.   Where sidewalks are provided, any pedestrian shall walk along and
upon an adjacent roadway.
      2.   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a roadway shall, whenever practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
   K.   Soliciting Rides: No person shall stand or walk in or upon a roadway or
adjacent parkway for the purpose of soliciting a ride from the driver of any
vehicle, nor shall any person solicit aircraft rides from any area of the
airport.
   L.   General Precautionary Rule: Every driver of a vehicle shall exercise
due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway and shall give
warning whenever necessary and shall exercise proper caution upon observing any
child, or any confused, blind or incapacitated person upon a roadway.
   M.   Vehicles In Sound Mechanical Order: No vehicle shall be permitted in or
upon the airport area, fuel storage area, landing area, ramp and apron area,
passenger ramp and apron area, cargo ramp and apron area, or aircraft parking
and storage area unless it shall be in sound mechanical order, shall have
adequate lights, horn and brakes and clear vision from the driver's seat.
   N.   Vehicle Operation On Landing Area: Any vehicle authorized to operate on
the landing area of the airport at night shall display emergency lights visible
to aircraft in the area. Such authorization may be granted only by the airport
manager.
   O.   Radio Equipment: All vehicles operating in the landing area of the
airport must be equipped with two-way radios and be in continuous communication
with the FSS. The installation of a two-way radio does not permit the operation
of vehicles on the airport without prior permission from the airport manager.
If vehicles are not equipped with radios, prior arrangements must be made with
the airport manager before operating in the landing area of the airport. Any
vehicles that have been permitted to operate on the airport will not proceed
closer than two hundred feet (200') from the edge of the runways, nor cross any
of the runways before advising the FSS. It is the responsibility of all vehicle
operators to be conversant with the standard airport light signal regardless of
whether the vehicle is radio equipped.
   P.   Repair Of Motor Vehicles: No person shall clean or make any repairs to
motor vehicles anywhere on the airport other than in designated shop areas,
except those minor repairs necessary to remove such motor vehicles from the
airport; nor shall any person move, interfere or tamper with any motor vehicle
or put in motion the engine, or take or use any motor vehicle part, instrument
or tool thereof, without the permission of the owner or satisfactory evidence
of his right to do so duly presented to the airport manager.
   Q.   Taxicabs, Limousines, Buses, Courtesy Cars, Car Rentals: All persons
operating taxicabs or limousines, courtesy cars or engaged in car rentals on
the airport for the purpose of transporting persons or passengers for hire
shall comply with the following rules and regulations:
      1.   Parking: All taxicabs, limousines and buses shall be parked in such
a manner and in such areas as may be designated from time to time by the
airport manager.
      2.   Loading And Unloading: Operators of taxicabs, limousines and buses
shall load and unload passengers and baggage only in designated loading zones.
Taxicabs, limousines and buses shall not be parked in said zones longer than is
reasonably necessary for the specific purpose of loading and unloading
passengers and baggage.
      3.   Permit For Operation: No taxicab or limousine shall be operated on
the airport premises without a lease or a permit granted by the airport
manager.
      4.   Car, Truck And Bus Rental: No person shall carry on, conduct or
engage in the business of renting "drive it yourself" automobiles, trucks or
buses, including advertising and soliciting, pick up and drop off of customers,
on the airport except pursuant to the terms of a written contract entered into
with the city.
      5.   Park Within Designated Parking Areas:
         a.   Required; Loading Zones: No person shall park, stop or leave
standing any vehicles, whether occupied or not, on the airport, except within
the designated parking areas. No vehicles shall be parked within designated
"loading zones" on the airport for a longer period than is posted.
         b.   Rental Agencies: Certain areas on the airport will be designated
by the airport manager as reserve parking areas for "rent a car" companies'
use, and such areas shall be properly marked with signs. It shall be unlawful
for any unauthorized person to park his vehicle in such reserved areas.
         c.   Removal Of Vehicles: Any unauthorized vehicle which has been
parked in space reserved for specific parking, may be removed or caused to be
removed by the city police department.
      6.   Right Of Ejection: The airport manager shall have the right to cause
to be ejected from the airport premises, any vehicle driver guilty of violation
of any provisions contained in this section. (Ord. C66-163, 9-24-1978)
7-5-6: CONDUCT OF THE PUBLIC:
   A.   Entrance Into Restricted Areas: No person shall enter upon the landing
areas, ramp and apron area, passenger ramp and apron area or the cargo ramp and
apron area of the airport without permission of the airport manager, except
persons assigned to duty therein, authorized representatives of the airport
manager, or passengers entering upon the ramp and apron areas for purposes of
embarkation or debarkation.
   B.   Loitering And Attire: No person shall loiter on any part of the airport
or in any building thereon; nor shall any person enter on any part of the
airport other than in proper attire acceptable in public places, according to
contemporary community standards.
   C.   Disposal Of Materials; Eating At Airport: No person shall dispose of
garbage, papers or other material on the airport except in the receptacles
provided for that purpose; nor eat food or drink beverages in the terminal
building lobby, other than the soft drink and candy normally sold in the
building.
   D.   Preservation Of Property: No person shall destroy, injure, deface or
disturb in any way building, sign, equipment, marker or other structure, tree,
flower, lawn or other property on the airport; nor alter, make additions to or
erect any building or sign or make any excavations on the airport; nor walk on
the lawns and seeded areas on the airport.
   E.   Interfering Or Tampering With Aircraft: No person shall interfere or
tamper with any aircraft, aircraft parts, instruments or tools, without
permission of the owner or by specific direction of the airport manager.
   F.   Abandoning Personal Property: No person shall abandon any personal
property on the airport. Any personal property so abandoned shall be disposed
of in the manner prescribed by applicable New Mexico statutes or city
ordinance.
   G.   Model Aircraft: The flying of model aircraft within the airport area is
prohibited unless authorized, in writing, by the airport manager. No person
shall operate or release any kite, balloon, model aircraft or parachute
anywhere on the airport without the written permission of the airport manager.
   H.   Selling, Soliciting, Entertaining: No person, unless duly authorized by
the airport manager, shall, in or upon any area, platform, stairway, station,
waiting room, or any other appurtenance of the airport:
      1.   Sell or offer for sale any article or merchandise.
      2.   Solicit any business or trade, including the carrying of baggage for
hire the shining of shoes or bootblacking; or entertain any persons by singing,
dancing or playing any musical instrument. (Ord. C66-163, 9-24-1978)
7-5-7: BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY:
   A.   Airport Use Limited To Aviation Related Activities: Any leased premises
on the airport will be used for aviation and affiliated and related industries
and business except where specifically authorized for other use by the city
council. Whenever a question arises, the city council will finally determine
whether an industry or business may be regarded as being affiliated or related
to aviation.
   B.   Hold Harmless Clause: Every lease in connection with the airport must
include a hold harmless clause in favor of the city.
   C.   Insurance Clause Required In Airport Leases: If there are buildings or
businesses on leased premises at the airport, there must be an insurance clause
insuring the city's interest in full.
   D.   Airport Tenants To Comply With Rules And Ordinances: Every airport user
must comply with this chapter and all other city ordinances.
   E.   Subleasing Of Airport Property: Every lease shall contain a clause
that, if the tenant seeks to assign or sublease the leased premises, he must
first obtain the city manager's consent, in writing.
   F.   Tenant's Liability For Damages: Every lease shall contain the provision
that, if city property is damaged through negligence of the tenant, the tenant
will be liable for said damages. (Ord. C66-163, 9-24-1978)
7-5-8: TENANT OBLIGATIONS:
   A.   Damage: Tenants, lessees, grantees and licensees of any airport
property, in addition to any terms that might be contained in their lease or
other document, shall be fully responsible for all damages to buildings,
equipment, real property and appurtenances in the ownership or custody of the
airport manager caused by negligence, abuse or carelessness on the part of
their employees, agents, customers, visitors, suppliers or persons with whom
they may do business.
   B.   Fire Equipment: All tenants or lessees shall supply and maintain such
adequate and readily accessible fire extinguishers as may be required by the
city fire department.
   C.   Floor Care: All lessees on the airport shall keep the floors of the
hangars, hangar areas and terminal apron and ramp areas leased by them
exclusively, or used in their operations, clean and clear of oil, grease and
other materials or stains except as may be provided to the contrary in any
specific leases or contracts.
   D.   Maintenance: All tenants shall maintain their premises in a state of
repair, cleanliness and general maintenance at least equal to that maintained
by the city in comparable areas.
   E.   Storage And Equipment: No tenant or lessee on the airport shall store
or stack materials or equipment in such a manner as to be unsightly or to
constitute a hazard to personnel or property.
   F.   Structural And Decorative Changes: No person, tenant or lessee shall
make any alterations of any nature whatsoever to any buildings, ramps or other
airport space, nor erect any buildings or other structures, without prior
permission of the airport manager and compliance with all building codes of the
city 1 .
   G.   Default Of Obligations: All billings are payable upon presentation.
When any tenant, user or grantee notwithstanding his lease is formally notified
that he is in default of any written or implied obligation to the airport
manager, whether it be for breach of performance or service covenants or
nonpayment, he shall thereafter be billed for all losses of revenue, expenses
incurred to reestablish performance or service and other costs unless the
tenant, user or grantee files with the airport manager, within ten (10) days of
the receipt of the formal notification, a statement that corrective or
preventive measures have been initiated and will be diligently carried to
completion. If the promises contained in the statement are not fulfilled, the
tenant, user or grantee will be considered in absolute default and appropriate
lawful steps shall be taken by the airport manager. (Ord. C66-163, 9-24-1978)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
7-5-9: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Minimum Standards; Leasing Space, Conducting Airport Business: Prior to
entering a bid for any space to be leased from the airport, prior to commencing
any operation on the airport, a prospective bidder must present to the airport
manager information satisfactory to the airport manager that the bidder meets
the minimum standards established herein by the city and McKinley County for
engaging in such business on the airport.
   B.   Revenue Producing Commercial Activities: No person shall utilize any
portion of the airport or any structure thereon for revenue producing
commercial activities or solicit business or funds for any business or activity
except pursuant to the terms of an existing lease at the time of the adoption
of this chapter or unless hereafter specifically authorized by lease or
permission of the airport manager.
   C.   Commercial Photography: No person shall take still, motion or sound
pictures of or at the airport for commercial purposes without permission of the
airport manager.
   D.   Use Of Roads, Walks: No person shall travel on any portion of the
airport except on the roads, walks or places provided for the particular class
of traffic, nor occupy the roads or walks in such a manner as to hinder or
obstruct their proper use.
   E.   Hangar Storage: Aircraft storage hangars shall be used for aircraft
storage only. No major maintenance or commercial activities shall be performed
in the hangars except with prior written approval of the airport manager.
   F.   Payment Of Charges: All billings are payable upon presentation unless
otherwise noted thereon or covered by contrary contract provisions.
   G.   Transfer Or Sublease Of Property: Assignment, sublease or other
transfer of rented or leased property shall not be made without the written
consent of the city manager or his designee. Any violation of this rule shall
subject the tenant to immediate cancellation of his lease or other interest at
the discretion of the airport manager.
   H.   Use Of Landing Area, Ramp And Apron Area: No person shall land or
takeoff an aircraft on or from a landing area, or use a landing area, ramp and
apron area, cargo ramp and apron area, or an aircraft parking and storage area,
except upon payment of such fees and charges as may, from time to time, be
prescribed by the airport manager, unless such person is entitled to use such
areas under a lease or special contract. No person shall enter upon the ramp
and apron areas except:
      1.   Persons assigned to duty thereon;
      2.   Persons authorized by the airport manager;
      3.   Enplaning or deplaning passengers.
   In no event may such areas be used as pedestrian walkways.
   I.   Use Or Occupancy Of Operational Areas: No person shall use or occupy an
operational area for any purpose whatsoever except for the servicing of
tenants, concessionaires, airlines, activities normally associated with
airlines, governmental agencies or a purpose connected with maintenance and
operation of the airport.
   J.   Use Of Shop Areas: All shops, garages, equipment and facilities are
expressly for the conduct of owners' or lessees' businesses and operations. No
person other than employees of an owner or lessee shall make use of these
facilities or loiter around such premises without individual and specific
permission of the owner or lessee.
   K.   Dogs And Other Animals: Dogs and other animals may be permitted on the
airport only if on a leash or confined in such a manner as to be under control.
   L.   Airport Liability: The city assumes no responsibility or liability for
loss, injury or damage to persons or property on the airport or using airport
facilities by reason of fire, vandalism, wind, flood, earthquake or collision
damage, nor does it assume by liability by reason of injury to persons or
property while using such facilities.
   M.   Damage To Airport Property: Any person causing, or liable for, any
damage shall be required to pay to the city, on demand, the full cost of
repairs. Any person failing to comply with this requirement may be refused the
use of the facility until the city has been fully reimbursed for damage.
   N.   Lost Articles: Any person finding lost articles in public areas of the
airport shall immediately deposit them at the airport office or with a police
officer on duty at the airport.
   O.   Trash Containers: No person shall keep uncovered trash containers in
any area. No vehicle used for hauling trash, dirt or any other such material
shall be operated on the airport unless such vehicle is constructed so as to
prevent the contents thereof from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise
escaping therefrom. Areas to be used for trash or garbage containers shall be
designated by the airport manager and no other areas shall be used. Such areas
shall be kept clean and sanitary at all times.
   P.   Smoking: No person shall smoke in any hangar, shop or other building
where it is dangerous to do so or where it is specifically prohibited by the
airport manager. No smoking shall be permitted on the ramp within fifty feet
(50') of a fuel tank, fuel truck or aircraft.
   Q.   Disorderly Conduct; Intoxicating Liquors:
      1.   No person shall commit any disorderly or unlawful act or commit any
nuisance on the airport.
      2.   No person shall drink any intoxicating liquors upon any portion of
the airport open to the public except in such restaurant or other place as
shall be properly designated and licensed for on sale liquor dispensing.
      3.   No intoxicated person shall enter upon or loiter on or about the
airport or any of its facilities.
   R.   Property Damage; Injurious Or Detrimental Activities; Abandonment Of
Property: No person shall:
      1.   Destroy, injure, deface or disturb in any way any building, sign,
equipment, marker or other structure, tree, flower, lawn or seeded area on the
airport.
      2.   Conduct on or at the airport activities that are injurious,
detrimental or damaging to airport property or business of the airport.
      3.   Abandon any personal property on the airport.
   S.   Firearms And Explosives: No person shall carry any unauthorized
firearms or explosives on the airport. (Ord. C66-163, 9-24-1978)
7-5-10: CONTROL DURING EMERGENCY:
In the event of an emergency and during such emergency at the airport, the
airport manager shall have absolute control of the airport. (Ord. C66-163, 9-
24-1978)
TITLE 8
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER AND ELECTRICAL SERVICES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Management
8-1-2: New Connections To Main
8-1-3: Changes In Connection
8-1-4: Meters
8-1-5: Maintenance Costs
8-1-6: Underground Electrical Services
8-1-7: Furnishing Outside City
8-1-8: Malicious Injury
8-1-9: Nonliability For Damages
8-1-10: Penalty
8-1-1: MANAGEMENT:
The city water system, as well as the electrical system, shall be under the
control of the city council and all employees of the city water system and the
electrical system shall be designated by the city manager and shall perform
such duties and services as may be directed by him. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
8-1-2: NEW CONNECTIONS TO MAIN:
The property owner or person requesting a new connection to a water main shall:
   A.   Permit Required; Application: First, make application with the water
department for a permit; said application shall include information and a
sketch showing the location of proposed tap to the main line and the water
meter and shall be turned over to the building inspector.
   B.   Preliminary Approval Or Disapproval; Replacement Of Improvements: The
building inspector shall give preliminary approval or disapproval to all
applications for a water permit before the same is issued or denied. If the
installation of such meter shall require breaking any sidewalk, curb, gutter,
blacktop or paving, the building inspector shall indicate on the application
the number of square feet of sidewalk, curb, gutter, blacktop or paving
required to be replaced by said installation.
   C.   Report Of Building Inspector: All applications received by the building
inspector shall be promptly returned to the water department with the building
inspector's report.
   D.   Application Approval In Violation Prohibited: No application shall be
approved by the building inspector, nor a permit issued by the water
department, where such would be in violation of this code.
   E.   Replacement Improvements; Bond Required: Before issuing a permit, the
water department shall calculate the cost of replacing sidewalk, curbing,
gutter, blacktop and paving caused by such installation, and the applicant
shall deposit such sum with the city clerk as a cash bond guaranteeing such
replacement. If the applicant shall satisfactorily make such replacement within
fifteen (15) days after the issuance of the permit, then the cash bond shall be
returned to the applicant; otherwise the cash bond shall be forfeited to the
city and the city shall bear the cost of such replacement. All cash bonds shall
be placed in a suspense fund for fifteen (15) days following the issuance of a
permit as herein provided. All cash bonds shall be not less than ten dollars
($10.00).
   F.   Trench: Upon receipt of a permit as herein provided, the applicant
shall cause a trench from location of the water meter to the water main to be
dug sufficient to make the tap and lay the necessary water line.
   G.   Tap Of Main Line: The city shall furnish the necessary labor and
material to tap the main line and connect to the meter. The applicant shall
backfill and tamp the trench following the installation of the tap and meter.
The meter shall be placed at the property line in the public right of way. The
residential or commercial connection from the meter shall be made at the
expense of the applicant. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
   H.   Charge For Connection: A charge shall be made for each connection to
the city water system based on an average of the actual cost of the equipment
and labor and material necessary to tap the main, connect and install the
meter. This charge shall be uniform for each meter size. On or about April, the
executive director shall submit to the city manager, for his approval, a list
of charges. Upon approval of the city manager, the new charges shall go into
effect on July 1 of each year. The charges shall be paid to the city prior to
any connection to the water system. (Ord. C2004-5, 4-13-2004)
   I.   Service To One Building: Except as authorized by the governing body, a
sewer or water service shall only serve one building, structure or private
residence when such building, structure or private residence occupies land
which may be subject to subdivision due to its size and has sufficient frontage
along a public right of way to allow driveways to subsequent lot divisions;
privately owned and operated master metered mobile home parks, apartment
complexes and gated communities shall be exempted. The city may disconnect the
sewer and water service to any customer where such service has been extended in
violation of this code and continue such disconnection so long as the violation
continues. (Ord. C2006-10, 6-13-2006)
8-1-3: CHANGES IN CONNECTION:
   A.   Existing: In the case of existing water meter or existing connections
to the mains, if such change is for the convenience of the property owner or
person requesting such change, then such person shall excavate the ditch and
refill the same after the change is made. The owner or person requesting the
change shall also pay for all materials actually expended in making such
change. Where a larger meter than the existing meter is connected at the
request of the property owner or person requesting the change, then such person
shall pay an additional charge for such meter in an amount equal to the
difference between the charge for the larger and smaller meter as set out in
the schedule of charges for meters as provided in subsection
8-1-2H of this chapter, plus the cost of the other material expended in making
the change. If such change is made at the request or for the convenience of the
city, then the city shall bear the entire cost of making the change.
   B.   Changeover: In the event of a "changeover" connection, where a
connection is changed from an old or existing water main to a new or other
water main, then the city shall bear the whole cost thereof. (Ord. C61-25, 4-
21-1964)
8-1-4: METERS:
   A.   Installation: The city shall have the right to furnish and install
meters for the purpose of measuring water and electricity used by consumers.
All meters must be installed outside any building or structure and readily
available for reading. No one shall conceal or damage any city meter or line,
or restrict, hamper or delay the reading of any meter. Water meters shall be
installed only upon the consumer additionally paying the actual cost to the
city of the water meter installation. All broken meters shall be repaired by
the city and whenever, in the judgment of the city council, such meter was
injured or damaged through the fault of the consumer, the cost of such repairs
to the meter shall be charged to the consumer. Water meters shall be installed
on city owned property as near as practicable to the consumer's property line,
and the city shall maintain the service line from the water main to the meter.
The consumer shall furnish and maintain all connections from the water meter to
and upon the consumer's properties. Electrical meters shall be installed upon
the consumer's premises upon his request at a location determined satisfactory
by the city and in compliance with state and federal codes and regulations;
provided, that before such meter is installed, a disconnect main switch shall
be installed before the meter loop and outside of any building or structure up
to and including two hundred (200) ampere main capacity. Service entrances
larger than two hundred (200) ampere main capacity shall have meter disconnects
and/or meter current bypass switches installed outside any building or
structure in conformance with the city electric department construction
standards section 19. (Ord. C66-71, 9-28-1971)
   B.   Property Of City; Right To Enter: The meter, meter box and lock, when
installed, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be subject at
all times to the control of the city council and the city through its proper
officers. Employees shall at all times have the right to enter any premises of
the occupant to whom water and electricity is furnished to examine pipes, lines
and fixtures and to determine the manner in which the water and electricity is
used. Upon the refusal of any occupant to grant such right, water or electrical
service will be discontinued. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
8-1-5: MAINTENANCE COSTS:
   A.   City: Maintenance costs and expenses on all water lines from the main
to the meter, including the repairing of leaks and replacement of necessary
pipe or fittings, shall be at the cost of the city.
   B.   Property Owner: Installation, repair and maintenance cost of all water
lines on the property side of the meter, regardless of where located, shall be
borne by the property owner. (1961 Code § 3-3-11; amd. Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
8-1-6: UNDERGROUND ELECTRICAL SERVICES:
   A.   Application: The property owner or person requesting underground
electrical services or distribution shall first make application for such
services or distribution with the electrical department and have the same
approved by the director of the joint utilities division. The application shall
include a sketch showing the property to be served and the location of the
underground electrical services and distribution. (Ord. C66-29, 8-13-1968; amd.
2006 Code)
   B.   Cost: The cost of underground electrical services and distribution are
as follows:
      1.   Services: All individual underground electrical services shall be
installed and maintained at the expense of the owner of the property to be
served. (Ord. C66-29, 8-13-1968)
      2.   Distribution: Primary and secondary underground distribution shall
be installed by the city upon payment by the applicant to the city of the cost
of such installation. (Ord. C66-29, 8-13-1968; amd. 2006 Code)
      3.   Conversions: Existing overhead services and distribution lines may
be converted to underground services and distribution lines upon the applicant
paying the city the following costs:
         a.   The costs provided in subsections B1 and B2 of this section as
applicable;
         b.   The cost to the city of removing the existing overhead lines; and
         c.   The original cost to the city of installing the existing overhead
lines, less five percent (5%) depreciation for each year the lines have been in
service. (Ord. C66-29, 8-13-1968)
      4.   Determination Of Costs: The joint utilities division shall determine
the cost to the city of each application for underground electrical services
and distribution and the cost to be paid the city by the applicant. (Ord. C66-
29, 8-13-1968; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Installation: No installation of any underground electrical services or
distribution shall be made within the city limits until an application for such
services and distribution has been approved by the city council and the city
has been paid the amount determined by the city engineer to be due from the
applicant. All installations for underground electrical services shall be
inspected by the city engineer and shall be made in accordance with the
national electrical code and all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations,
including the electrical department construction standards section 10. (Ord.
C66-29, 8-13-1968)
   D.   Appointment Of Costs: If the costs have been paid for an installation
which benefits property other than applicant's, then no electrical connections
shall be made for the benefit of any other property until applicant shall have
been reimbursed a pro rata share of his costs on a front foot or other
equitable basis as determined by the city engineer. Rules and procedures for
reimbursement shall be the same as for water and sanitary sewer line extensions
under section
8-4-2 of this title. No overhead electrical service shall be furnished such
other property located more than one hundred feet (100') from existing overhead
service or located within a residential development served only with
underground utilities. (Ord. C66-206, 1-25-1983)
8-1-7: FURNISHING OUTSIDE CITY:
   A.   Electrical Services: Electrical energy and facilities may be furnished
by the city to consumers outside of the corporate limits of the city where
otherwise authorized by law. Where a line extension is required, service shall
only be provided upon the consumer entering into an agreement with the city to
pay the cost to the city of such line extension over a period of time not
exceeding ten (10) years. (Ord. C66-50, 10-21-1969)
   B.   Water Services:
      1.   No water services from the city system shall be furnished or
supplied any user for use outside of the corporate limits of the city, except
as hereinafter provided. It is a violation of this chapter for anyone to
connect or cause to be connected any pipe, line or connection serving any lot,
parcel or piece of land located outside of the corporate limits of the city
with water services from the city system for any use except such use as
hereinafter provided.
      2.   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit or prevent the city council
from authorizing by written resolution or contract the furnishing of water to
any user outside the corporate limits:
         a.   For public and/or educational purposes including services to
schools, hospitals, health clinics, churches, outlying communities having sewer
systems operated by local government entities formed under the laws of New
Mexico, and any other public facilities serving the general public;
         b.   To acquire well sites, easements or other property for the city
water system;
         c.   The furnishing of water to the Navajo Nation or Navajo tribal
utility authority for use by the nation or the authority to serve communities
or systems that are a part of the Navajo Gallup water supply project as
identified in the Navajo Gallup water supply planning documents or associated
agreement by and between the Navajo Nation and/or NTUA and the city of Gallup,
and to any other recognized Navajo Nation enterprise; and
         d.   For the purpose of compromising a bona fide legal dispute or to
facilitate the acquisition of water rights for the city.
      3.   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit or prevent the city council
from authorizing by written resolution or contract the furnishing of water
service to any user outside the corporate limits that may be individuals or
private legal entities upon conditions and limitations set by city council in
its sole discretion. (Ord. 2016-6, 5-24-2016)
8-1-8: MALICIOUS INJURY:
Any person who shall maliciously damage or destroy any meter, meter box,
shutoff cock, fire hydrant, valve, service box, transformer, streetlight, pole,
line or other property of the city or who shall steal or attempt to steal or
otherwise cheat or attempt to cheat the city of water or electricity shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1961 Code § 3-3-7; amd. Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964; 2006 Code)
8-1-9: NONLIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
The city shall not be liable for damages caused by the leakage or breaking of
any water pipe or water mains; and the city reserves the right to shut off any
water pipe or main without notice for the purpose of making repairs, but such
notice shall be given by the city officers and employees whenever practicable,
and the city shall not be liable for the unavoidable scarcity of water or
failure to furnish water caused by water apparatus getting out of order. (Ord.
C61-25, 4-21-1964)
8-1-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of the penalty for this misdemeanor shall
not excuse such violation, nor permit it to continue. (Ord. C61-14, 9-11-1962;
amd. Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964; Ord. C66-29, 8-13-1968; 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WATER CONSERVATION
SECTION:
8-2-1: Water Waste Prohibitions
8-2-2: Fire Hydrant Use Restricted
8-2-3: Plumbing Equipment Requirements
8-2-4: Car Washing
8-2-5: Time And Day Of Irrigation
8-2-6: Emergency Water Use Restrictions
8-2-7: Violation; Enforcement
8-2-1: WATER WASTE PROHIBITIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to use water from the domestic supply in a
nonbeneficial or wasteful manner. Nonbeneficial and/or wasteful uses shall
include, but are not limited to:
   A.   The use or application of water in such a manner, rate and/or quantity
that it flows and/or sprays onto adjacent property or the public right of way
sufficient to cause ponding or flow;
   B.   The escape of water through breaks or leaks for any period of time
within which such break or leak should reasonably have been discovered and
corrected. It shall be deemed that a period of twenty four (24) hours after
discovery of such a break or leak and/or notice from the city of Gallup is a
reasonable time within which to correct such break or leak or, as a minimum, to
stop the flow of water from the break or leak;
   C.   The washing of any street, sidewalk, parking lot, driveway or other
hard surfaced area, where excess water from such activity is not beneficially
used and/or is wasted or when such excess water flows and/or sprays onto
adjacent property or the public right of way sufficient to cause ponding or
flow. Exceptions may be granted for reasons of public health or safety by the
executive director of Gallup joint utilities or designee. All such exceptions
shall be subject to restrictions as set forth by the director. Exceptions shall
be granted in writing and be valid for only one application and location;
   D.   The use of water for nonrecirculating decorative water fountains and/or
ponds;
   E.   Use of water for all new, replacement and/or renovated single pass or
once through cooling systems installed and/or renovated after August 29, 2000.
A relatively simple and inexpensive recirculation loop, or a more technically
sophisticated ozonation treatment system can be installed to reuse this
otherwise wasted water. All cooling and/or process water shall be metered and
billed;
   F.   The use of water for new nonrecirculating conveyor car wash systems;
   G.   The use of water for construction activities, such as soil compaction,
dust control, except when the water is used for the testing of domestic
waterlines or as authorized by the Gallup joint utilities executive director or
his designee for reasons of public health or safety. (Ord. C2006-08, 4-25-2006)
8-2-2: FIRE HYDRANT USE RESTRICTED:
It is unlawful for any person except an authorized agent of the city of Gallup
to connect to, operate or use water from any city fire hydrant, except as
authorized by the Gallup joint utilities executive director or their designee,
for reasons of public health or safety. (Ord. C2006-08, 4-25-2006)
8-2-3: PLUMBING EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
Any new or replacement plumbing fixtures shall comply with standards contained
in the uniform plumbing code as adopted by the city of Gallup and/or as
modified herein.
   A.   Leaking Plumbing Fixtures Prohibited: The continued use of leaky pipes
and taps, leaking toilets or lavatories, or other appliances which waste water
is prohibited.
   B.   Minimum Standards For Plumbing Fixtures: Any new plumbing fixture or
replacement plumbing fixture shall comply with the following standards of water
use:
      1.   Water closet tank, whether flush tank, flushometer tank, or
flushometer valve operated, shall have an average consumption of not more than
1.6 gallons (6.1 liters) per flush. Water closets that use a "quick closing"
flapper to limit the flush to 1.6 gallons shall not be used to satisfy this
requirement.
      2.   Urinal flushometers, shall not exceed a maximum of 1.0 gallon (3.8
liters) per flush. If approved in writing by executive director of Gallup joint
utilities or their designee, blowout urinals may be installed for public use in
stadiums, fairgrounds and in other like structures, used for outdoor assembly
and similar uses.
      3.   Showerheads shall not exceed a maximum flow of 2.5 gallons (9.5
liters) per minute. Emergency safety showers are exempted from this provision.
      4.   Lavatory and kitchen faucets shall be equipped with aerators and
shall be designed and manufactured so that they will not exceed a water flow
rate of 2.0 gallons (7.6 liters) per minute. Self-closing, metering, or self-
closing faucets shall be installed on lavatories intended to serve the
transient public, such as those in, but not limited to, service stations, train
stations, airports, restaurants, and convention halls. These faucets shall
deliver no more than a maximum flow of 0.25 gallons (1.0 liters) per use.
      5.   Residential water softeners shall not use more than seventy five
(75) gallons (295 liters) during the entire regeneration cycle and shall be
sized to cycle no more than three (3) times per week.
      6.   Water conserving fixtures shall be installed and maintained in
strict accordance with the manufacturer's instructions to maintain their rated
performance.
      7.   For all new construction, all of the requirements regarding water
conserving devices shall be certified by a certificate of compliance by a
licensed mechanical contractor or plumbing permittee before or at the time of
the final plumbing inspection. The city of Gallup is to receive a copy prior to
issuance of certificate of occupancy. (Ord. C2006-08, 4-25-2006)
8-2-4: CAR WASHING:
   A.   All self-service car wash wand nozzles shall not use more than 3.0
gallons of water per minute and be equipped with a positive shutoff nozzle.
Such nozzle shall stop the flow of water through the hose when released by the
operator.
   B.   For new construction of commercial car wash business issued building
permits after the passage date hereof, certification shall be provided to a
designated Gallup joint utilities official that the car wash uses no more than
forty (40) gallons of water per vehicle washed. Absent such certification, no
water service will be provided. New car wash fixtures shall not exceed the flow
described below:
      1.   In-bay, handheld spray wash equipment, including a spray wand or
foaming brush, shall not use more than 3.0 gallons of water a minute and have a
trigger shutoff;
      2.   Portable pressure wash equipment with a spray nozzle shall not use
more than 3.5 gallons of water a minute and have a trigger shutoff;
      3.   A conveyor friction system shall not use more than thirty (30)
gallons for each vehicle, excluding reclaimed water;
      4.   A conveyor touchless system shall not use more than forty (40)
gallons for each vehicle, excluding reclaimed water;
      5.   An in-bay automatic system shall not use more than forty (40)
gallons for each vehicle, excluding reclaimed water;
      6.   Each chamois wringer shall have self-closing valves on their
faucets;
      7.   Systems using reverse osmosis rinse water shall use no more than
forty (40) gallons for each vehicle and must reclaim and reuse the reject
water. Reject water discharge shall be allowed only if no net increase of
salinity enters the wastewater system;
      8.   The use of garden hoses of any type for vehicle washing at
commercial facilities is not considered an approved method; and
      9.   Charity car washes are prohibited, except when in compliance with
the provisions of section
8-2-1 of this chapter.
This section does not apply if washing the vehicle is necessary to protect the
health, safety, or welfare of the public. (Ord. C2006-08, 4-25-2006)
8-2-5: TIME AND DAY OF IRRIGATION:
Residences, commercial and industrial properties, along with institutional and
public residences and facilities will have irrigation restricted during the
months of April, May, June, July, August and September:
   A.   Days: Residences, commercial and industrial properties, along with
institutional and public residences and facilities will be allowed to irrigate
as follows:
      1.   When the property has an odd numbered address, that property will
irrigate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.
      2.   When the property has an even numbered address, that property will
irrigate on Wednesdays, Fridays, and Sundays.
      3.   No one is to irrigate on Mondays.
   B.   Hours: No irrigation will be allowed between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   Facilities irrigating with treated effluent.
      2.   Upon petition to the city council, a majority of the council may
provide a waiver to entities that prove the above poses a hardship.
      3.   The odd/even irrigation restrictions including time and day do not
apply to city parks or athletic fields.
      4.   The water systems superintendent may issue site specific waivers to
the irrigation restrictions to allow for irrigation of new sod/seed areas for a
period not to exceed fourteen (14) calendar days. (Ord. C2006-08, 4-25-2006)
8-2-6: EMERGENCY WATER USE RESTRICTIONS:
For the reasons of public welfare, health, and safety, the city manager may,
upon notification by the executive director of Gallup joint utilities of
pending or probable water shortages due to the effects of drought, equipment
failures or catastrophic events which decrease the availability and/or delivery
capability or due to increased water use, may impose emergency water use
restrictions. Emergency water use restrictions may include, but are not limited
to, one or any combination of the following:
   A.   Restrict irrigation of city facilities to certain days of the week and
certain hours of the day;
   B.   Prohibit all irrigation at city facilities;
   C.   Impose water restrictions and surcharges;
   D.   Impose a temporary moratorium on any or all new development, including
lawn and garden installations;
   E.   Prohibit all irrigation and outdoor water use;
   F.   Prohibit the washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats,
airplanes, or other mobile equipment at other than a commercial car wash.
   G.   Other restrictions as deemed necessary by the executive director of
Gallup joint utilities and approved by the city manager. (Ord. C2006-08, 4-25-
2006)
8-2-7: VIOLATION; ENFORCEMENT:
Any act or omission by any person who knowingly, negligently or recklessly acts
or omits to act in violation of the provision(s) or restrictions of this
chapter can be penalized by: a) payment of administrative fees; b)
discontinuance of water service as described below.
   A.   Administrative Fees: Fees shall be assessed on the user's utility bill.
Each day (24 hour period) of continued violation(s) shall constitute a separate
offense at a given user address. The fines shall be added to the water user's
account. Failure to pay any portion of a water user's account, including any
fines imposed pursuant to this chapter, shall subject said account to
termination of water service in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      1.   First observed violation: The offender will receive a verbal and/or
written warning, and then will be provided with a copy of the pertinent
sections of this code relative to water conservation.
      2.   Second observed violation: Twenty dollars ($20.00).
      3.   Third observed violation: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
      4.   Fourth observed violation: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
      5.   Fifth observed violation: At the same user address, the city shall
impose a fine equal to twice the average monthly billing for the immediately
preceding two (2) month period for the meter through which the wasted water was
supplied or two hundred dollars ($200.00), whichever is greater. The fine shall
be added to the water user's account. Failure to pay any portion of a water
user's account, including fines imposed pursuant to this chapter, shall subject
said account to an installation of a flow restriction device at the meter at
the user's expense.
   B.   Discontinuance Of Water Service: When any further violation of this
chapter occurs, and the executive director of Gallup joint utilities or his/her
designee determines that the specific circumstances of the violation are of
such a serious nature as to require immediate measures and abatement, the
executive director of Gallup joint utilities or their designee may take steps
to temporarily shut off the water source or discontinue the water service as a
means of compelling compliance with this chapter. The city may effect such
measures by entry upon private premises if the water service or city water
meter is located on private premises. Any violation which depletes the water
system during water emergency management shall be deemed to deplete water
essential to the maintenance of fire flows and shall be cause for
discontinuance of water service following a twenty four (24) hour notice. The
city shall not restore service until the executive director of Gallup joint
utilities or designee has determined that the water user has provided
reasonable assurances that future violations of this chapter by such user will
not occur.
   C.   Appeal Of Administrative Fee: Any administrative fee assessed in
subsection A of this section may be appealed by a customer to the executive
director of Gallup joint utilities and then to the city manager whose decision
will be final.
   D.   Appeal Of Discontinuation Of Service: Any aggrieved customer whose
water service is to be discontinued shall be given twenty four (24) hour notice
and said customer may immediately appeal the decision of the executive director
of Gallup joint utilities to the city manager, who may, in his/her sole
discretion allow continued temporary service to the customer. If service is
continued, it shall continue only until the next scheduled city council
meeting, at which time the city council will hold a hearing to determine if
service should be discontinued, or in the case where the city manager has
upheld the decision that it be discontinued, determine if it should be
restored. The city council may also decide on what conditions water service
will be maintained to a customer who is still receiving service or restored to
a customer whose service has been discontinued. (Ord. C2006-08, 4-25-2006)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Connection To Sewer; Distance Requirement
8-3-2: Permit Required; Application
8-3-3: Fees And Charges
8-3-4: Connections Outside City
8-3-5: Penalty
8-3-1: CONNECTION TO SEWER; DISTANCE REQUIREMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person residing within a sewer district, or
residing within three hundred feet (300') of a sewer line, to fail to make
connection with said sewer line with premises on said property. This section
shall also apply to owners of property who lease or rent. Failure to comply
with this section shall be grounds for refusing or discontinuing water service
to premises not connected to a sewer line. (Ord. C66-134, 9-23-1975)
8-3-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
Any person desiring to make connection with a public sewer line shall make
application to the city clerk on application blanks to be furnished by the
city. (1961 Code § 8-5-2)
8-3-3: FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Permit: Upon approval of said application by the city manager or his
representative, a permit shall be issued by the city clerk upon the payment of
a fee of three dollars ($3.00) for each connection to the public sewer. (Ord.
C61-14, 9-11-1962)
   B.   Connection: Any person obtaining a permit for connection to the city
sewer system shall pay to the city clerk a sum of money sufficient to pay the
cost of connection. Such sum shall be determined by the plumbing inspector and
shall be based on actual costs of construction and trench digging to a point
three feet (3') within the property line. All work shall be accomplished under
the direction of the plumbing inspector and all costs of such connection shall
be paid by the permit holder. If the deposit made is not sufficient to cover
actual costs, the permit holder shall pay the difference between his deposit
and the actual cost. If the deposit made by the permit holder is more than the
actual cost, the balance of such amount shall be returned to the permit holder.
   C.   Maintenance: Use of the city sewer system shall be on a rental basis
with a regular monthly sewer maintenance charge assessed against each user of
the sewer system. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
8-3-4: CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE CITY:
   A.   Water: (Rep. by Ord. 2008-7, 12-9-2008)
   B.   Sewer Connection: The connection to the sanitary sewer system of the
city with any sewer, pipe, line or connection serving any lot, piece or parcel
of land located outside the corporate limits or serving any building, structure
or improvement located thereon is expressly prohibited. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-
1964)
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit or prevent the city council
from authorizing by written resolution or contract the furnishing of sewer
service to any user outside the corporate limits.
         a.   For public and/or educational purposes including services to
schools, hospitals, health clinics, churches, outlying communities having sewer
systems operated by local government entities formed under the laws of New
Mexico, and any other public facilities serving the general public.
      2.   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit or prevent the city council
from authorizing by written resolution or contract the furnishing of sewer
service to any user outside the corporate limits that may be individuals or
private legal entities upon conditions and limitations set by city council in
its sole discretion. (Ord. 2016-7, 5-24-2016)
   D.   Violation By City Officers And Employees: The mayor and city clerk, the
manager of the water department, the water superintendent, the superintendent
of sewer and all officers and employees of the city are hereby forbidden to
authorize or permit the connection of the water and sewer systems of the city
to any lands located outside the corporate limits or to any buildings,
structures or improvements located thereon. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964)
   E.   Penalty: Any person connecting to the sanitary sewer system of the city
contrary to and in violation of the terms of this section, or any officer or
employee of the city authorizing, permitting or in any way assisting the
connection to the water and/or sewer system of the city in violation hereof
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964; amd. 2006 Code)
8-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER AND WATER FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Sanitary Facilities
8-4-2: Sewer And Water Line Installation Requirements
8-4-1: SANITARY FACILITIES:
No person shall occupy a building on any tract of land with sanitary sewer
available without installing proper plumbing and connecting to the sewer, but
only upon his extending the sewer to the far boundary of his property at his
cost. No extensions shall be necessary if the city engineer determines that no
additional extension will be made beyond the far boundary of the property.
(Ord. C66-206, 1-25-1983)
8-4-2: SEWER AND WATER LINE INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Installation Required: No land shall be connected to the sewer or water
system of the city until sewer and water lines have been installed as required
herein.
   B.   Line Size: No land shall be connected to the sewer and water facilities
of the city until there are first installed water and sewer lines within the
full length of the street adjacent to the land in the size required by the city
engineer, but not less than a six inch (6") water main and an eight inch (8")
sewer main. The water and sewer facility shall be installed at the cost of the
owner, agent or occupant of land to be connected to the facilities. (Ord. C66-
206, 1-25-1983)
      1.   When land being connected to the water and sewer systems of the city
are required to be upgraded beyond the needs of the development, the developer
shall be reimbursed a pro rata share of the costs as determined by the city,
the terms and conditions of which shall have been mutually agreed to, in
writing, by both parties prior to authorization for construction. The cost
differential shall normally be identified by competitive bidding of the
extension with and without the required upgrades. The reimbursement shall be
due upon city acceptance of the installed facilities subject to the
availability of funds; in the event that funds are not available upon city
acceptance, the reimbursement may be prorated over a period not to exceed ten
(10) years.
      2.   For in-fill development only, where public utility line extensions
are required, water and sewer main line pipe only (valves, fittings, tapping
saddles, service line materials, fire hydrants, manholes and other such
appurtenances are specifically excluded), shall be furnished by the city at no
cost to the developer. Public utility extensions shall be required across the
entire frontage(s) of the subdivision or development. A partial extension shall
not be accepted.
      3.   "In-fill development" shall be defined as those vacant parcel(s) of
land that lie within the municipal boundaries, that have been bypassed,
remained vacant or underused as a result of the continuing urban development
process immediately adjacent to the project. To be considered in-fill
development, the property must be located on an existing dedicated (improved or
unimproved) right of way, and have existing city water and/or sewer service to
those properties on both sides of and immediately adjacent to the development,
and fronting the right of way. (Ord. C2004-18, 12-14-2004)
   C.   Construction Specifications: Construction shall comply with New Mexico
specifications for public works construction, 1979 or later edition, prepared
by the New Mexico chapter of the American public works administration. No
construction shall begin until the city engineer has approved:
      1.   Plans and specifications with an estimate of the cost of
construction; and
      2.   Arrangements by the owner or contractor for inspection, testing and
final approval by a registered professional engineer.
   D.   Offer To City; As Built Plans: Upon completion of any extension, it
shall be offered to the city free of encumbrances with a copy of as built plans
and the maintenance bond or warranty as required herein. If all requirements
are complied with, it shall be accepted for the city by the city engineer.
   E.   Reimbursement Of Pro Rata Share: Land benefited by the extension of
water or sewer facilities that has borne none or less than its share of the
cost shall not be connected to the facilities until reimbursement is made to
those paying for the extension of a pro rata share of the cost, to be
determined as follows:
      1.   When land to be connected is adjacent to the line, the connection
may be made upon reimbursement of a percentage of one-half (1/2) the total cost
of the extension in the ratio that the length of line adjacent to the
connecting land bears to the total length of the extension.
      2.   When land to be connected is not adjacent to the line, at the end of
the line, or when the amount to be borne by land adjacent to the line under
subsection E1 of this section is grossly inequitable, whether too high or too
low, connection may be made upon payment of an equitable amount based upon
potential line usage or other criteria determined by the city engineer.
      3.   The cost of any portion of an extension which does not benefit
adjoining or other property may be prorated to land connecting at another
location with the approval of the city engineer.
      4.   When it is determined by the city engineer that water or sewer mains
must be installed on each side of a major highway, the entire cost of the line
may be prorated against the property served on one side of the line. There
shall be no line reimbursement cost for connection to land on the opposite side
of the highway if the main line is extended across the highway and along the
full length of the property to be served.
      5.   No land shall be obligated to connect to a particular line installed
by a property owner or the city. With the approval of the city engineer, land
may be connected to other city facilities with lesser or no reimbursement
requirement, but nothing herein shall relieve land of a special improvement
district assessment.
      6.   Connections may be made to any line without reimbursement cost for
the purpose of extending the city owned water or sewer system. Such extensions,
however, must be made along the full length of the property to be served unless
the city engineer finds that no further extensions can be made from that point.
      7.   Any person aggrieved by a reimbursement determination of the city
engineer may appeal to the city council whose decision is final, subject to
appropriate district court review.
   F.   Claim For Reimbursement After Ten Years: No reimbursement under
subsection E of this section shall be required for connections which take place
more than ten (10) years after the completion of installation of the water or
sewer line. As a condition for receiving reimbursement, the owner, agent or
occupant paying the extension cost shall prepare an acknowledged written claim
which shall:
      1.   State the cost of the line;
      2.   State the general location of the line;
      3.   State the description of the property which has not contributed to
the cost of the line but which may wish to use the line in the future;
      4.   Contain the city engineer's signature of approval and date of
acceptance of the facilities by the city; and
      5.   Be recorded in the county clerk's office within sixty (60) days of
acceptance by the city.
   G.   Costs Paid By City: When all or part of the cost of installing of any
water or sewer line has been paid for by the city, no connection shall be made
by the benefit of any land until reimbursement has been made as provided in
subsection E of this section; provided, that the city shall make and record its
claim as provided in subsection F of this section.
   H.   Unable To Locate For Reimbursement: If any person entitled to
reimbursement under subsection F of this section cannot be located,
reimbursement shall be made to the city before connection shall be allowed;
provided, that any such money received shall be used by the city for
installation, repair or maintenance of water and sewer facilities.
   I.   Alternate Reimbursement Methods: Nothing herein shall prevent owners of
land from agreeing to different methods or amounts of reimbursement for the
cost of water or sewer facilities, but the city will not recognize any
different agreement unless it is executed and acknowledged by all affected
property owners, recorded in the county clerk's office, and a copy delivered to
the city engineer. (Ord. C66-206, 1-25-1983)
CHAPTER 5
INDUSTRIAL LIQUID WASTE
SECTION:
8-5-1: Title
8-5-2: Definitions
8-5-3: Sanitary Sewer
8-5-4: Storm Sewer
8-5-5: Prohibited Discharges
8-5-6: Discharges; Approval By City
8-5-7: Grease Interceptor/Traps For Connections To Publicly Owned Treatment
Works
8-5-8: Maintenance By Owner
8-5-9: Manhole
8-5-10: Standard Methods
8-5-11: Analytical Tests
8-5-12: Costs For Treatment
8-5-13: Cost Allocation
8-5-14: Readjustment Of Rates
8-5-15: Penalty
8-5-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the INDUSTRIAL LIQUID WASTE ORDINANCE OF GALLUP,
NEW MEXICO. (Ord. C66-113, 1-30-1974)
8-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
ACT: Federal water pollution control act, also known as the clean water act, as
amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
BOD: The value of the five (5) day test for biochemical oxygen demand, as
described in the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Wastewater".
COD: The value of the test for chemical oxygen demand, as described in the
latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And
Wastewater".
CITY: The city of Gallup, New Mexico, its city council and all of its officers.
EPA: The United States environmental protection agency.
FOG DISPOSAL SYSTEM: A grease interceptor that reduces nonpetroleum fats, oils,
and grease (FOG) in effluent by separation, and mass and volume reduction.
FATS, OILS AND GREASES (FOG): Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/
or plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules.
These substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 CFR 136, as may be amended from time to time. All are
sometimes referred to herein as "grease" or "greases".
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and
from the handling, storing and sale of produce.
GENERATOR: Any person or entity that discharges FOG, or other prohibited
discharge or owns or operates a grease trap/grease interceptor, or whose act or
process produces grease trap waste.
GREASE INTERCEPTOR: An appurtenance or appliance that is installed in a
sanitary drainage system to intercept nonpetroleum fats, oils and grease (FOG)
from wastewater. There are two (2) types of grease interceptors: gravity grease
interceptors and hydromechanical grease interceptors. For purposes of this
chapter, the terms "trap" and "grease interceptor" may be used interchangeably.
GREASE INTERCEPTOR, GRAVITY (GRAVITY GREASE INTERCEPTOR): A plumbing
appurtenance or appliance that is installed in a sanitary drainage system to
intercept nonpetroleum fats, oils, and greases (FOG) from wastewater discharge
and is identified by volume, thirty (30) minute retention time, baffle(s), a
minimum of two (2) compartments, a minimum total volume of three hundred (300)
gallons, and gravity separation. These interceptors are designed by a
registered professional engineer. Gravity grease interceptors are generally
installed outside.
GREASE INTERCEPTOR, HYDROMECHANICAL (HYDROMECHANICAL GREASE INTERCEPTOR): A
plumbing appurtenance or appliance that is installed in a sanitary drainage
system to intercept nonpetroleum fats, oils, and grease (FOG) from wastewater
discharge and is identified by flow rate, and separation and retention
efficiency. The design incorporates air entrainment, hydromechanical
separation, interior baffling, and/or barriers in combination or separately,
and an external flow control, with air intake (vent).
GREASE REMOVAL DEVICE (GRD): Any hydromechanical grease interceptor that
automatically, mechanically removes nonpetroleum fats, oils and grease (FOG)
from the interceptor, the control of which is either automatic or manually
initiated.
GREASE WASTE: Material collected in and from a grease interceptor in the
sanitary sewer service line of a commercial, institutional, or industrial food
service or processing establishment, including the solids resulting from
dewatering processes.
INDIRECT DISCHARGE OR DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into a POTW
from any nondomestic source.
INDUSTRIAL LIQUID WASTES: All of the waterborne solids, liquids and gaseous
wastes resulting from any industrial manufacturing, food processing operation
or other similar commercial processes, other than that from eating
establishments, service stations, garages, hospitals, schools, laundries and
launderettes. Wastewaters generated in the development of any natural resource,
or any mixture of these with water or domestic sewage as distinct from normal
domestic sewage is also considered an industrial liquid waste. Industrial
manufacturing processes shall include, but not be limited to, those that are
defined in this chapter and accessories; food and allied products; tobacco
products; textile mill products; apparel and other finished products made from
fabrics and similar materials; lumber and wood products, except furniture;
furniture and fixtures; printing, publishing, and allied industries; chemicals
and allied products; petroleum refining and related industries; rubber and
miscellaneous plastics products; leather and leather products; stone, clay,
glass, and concrete products; primary metal industries; fabricated metal
products except as otherwise defined in this chapter; machinery and
transportation equipment; machinery, except electrical; electrical machinery,
equipment and supplies; transportation equipment; professional, scientific and
controlling instruments; photographic and optical goods; watches and clocks;
miscellaneous manufacturing industries.
INTERFERENCE WITH ANY WASTEWATER FACILITY: A discharge which alone or in
conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources inhibits or
disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations or its sludge
processes, use or disposal, or is a cause of a violation of the city's NPDES
permit, or permits issued by other jurisdictions for the operation of the POTW
and associated processes.
NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER: The normal domestic wastewaters in the city
sanitary sewer system and those waterborne wastes normally discharged from the
sanitary conveniences of buildings, apartment houses, eating establishments,
hotels, launderettes, laundries, hospitals, schools, garages, service stations,
office buildings, factories and institutions for which a sanitary sewer service
rate/charge is assessed; these wastewaters to be substantially free of storm
surface waters and industrial liquid wastes. "Normal untreated domestic
wastewater" is defined as having an average biochemical oxygen demand not in
excess of two hundred twenty five milligrams per liter (225 mg/l), a chemical
oxygen demand not in excess of four hundred fifty milligrams per liter (450 mg/
l) and a suspended solids concentration not in excess of two hundred milligrams
per liter (200 mg/l).
POTW OR PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS: A treatment works which is owned by a
state or municipality as defined by section 502(4) of the clean water act. This
definition includes any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid
nature. It also includes all sewers, pipes and other conveyances that convey
wastewater to a POTW treatment plant. The term also means the municipality as
defined in section 502(4) of the act, which has jurisdiction over the indirect
discharges to and the discharges from such a treatment works. For purposes of
this chapter, the terms "sanitary sewer system" and "POTW" may be used
interchangeably.
pH: The measure of the relative acidity or alkalinity of water and is defined
as the negative logarithm (base-10) of the hydrogen ion concentration.
SANITARY SEWER: The portion of the POTW that receives and transports normal
domestic wastewaters, but to which storm, surface and ground waters are not
intentionally admitted.
SEWER SERVICE LINE: The pipe that extends from the POTW collection system to
the user's application, building, or facility, and typically is located on the
user's private property. The sewer service line is maintained by the user up to
and including the point of connection to the city's sewer system which is the
main collection line in the street/alley/public right of way that includes
manhole installation in its construction.
STANDARD METHODS: The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition (at
the time of analysis) of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And
Wastewater", as prepared, approved and published jointly by the American Public
Health Association and American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
STORM SEWER: A sewer that carries storm and surface waters and drainage, but
that excludes normal domestic wastewaters and industrial liquid wastes.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: The total suspended matter (nonfilterable residue) in
wastewater, effluent or polluted water, as determined by methods described in
standard methods, the results of this test to be given in milligrams per liter
(mg/l).
TSS: The value of the test for total suspended solids, as described in the
latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And
Wastewater".
TRANSPORTER OR USER: A person, or entity, who collects, transports and/or
disposes of sewage sludge, water treatment sludge, domestic septage, chemical
toilet waste, trap waste, or grease trap or grease interceptor waste. Also, any
person, including those located outside the jurisdictional limits of the city,
who contributes, causes or permits the contribution or discharge of wastewater
into the POTW, including persons who contribute such wastewater from mobile
sources.
TRAP: A device for retaining sand, silt, grit, mineral material, petroleum
solvents, grease or oil by gravity differential separation from wastewater. For
purposes of this chapter, the terms "trap" and "grease interceptor" may be used
interchangeably.
UNPOLLUTED PROCESS WATER: Any water, uncontaminated cooling water or liquid
waste that does not contain free or emulsified grease or oil; acid or alkali;
phenols or other substances impairing taste and odor to a receiving water;
toxic substances in suspension, colloidal state or solution; and noxious or
odorous gases.
WASTEWATER: Any and all of the used water of the city, including normal
domestic wastewaters and industrial liquid wastes, but not storm and ground
waters. Wastewater may be a combination of the liquid and waterborne wastes
from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: All of the elements of the city sewerage system,
including sewers, structures, equipment, processes and wastewater treatment
units required to collect, transport and treat normal domestic wastewater and
industrial liquid wastes and to dispose of effluent.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial liquid wastes and sludge from these
wastewaters; wastewater treatment works is sometimes used as synonymous with
waste treatment plant or sewage treatment plant. (Ord. 2013-9, 11-26-2013)
8-5-3: SANITARY SEWER:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water or unpolluted process waters to any sanitary sewer. (Ord. C66-113, 1-30-
1974)
8-5-4: STORM SEWER:
Stormwater, uncontaminated cooling water, unpolluted process waters and all
other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to a storm sewer, or to a natural
outlet as specifically designated and approved by the city. (Ord. C66-113, 1-
30-1974)
8-5-5: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described liquids or wastes to any public sewer:
   A.   Flammables Or Explosives: Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or
other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas; (Ord. C66-113, 1-30-1974)
   B.   Toxic Waters Or Wastes: Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, that would injure or interfere with any
wastewater facility; constitute a hazard to humans, animals or plants; create a
public nuisance; or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater
treatment works, including, but not limited to, cyanides in excess of one
milligram per liter (1 mg/l) as CN in the wastes as discharged to a public
sewer; (Ord. C66-137, 2-10-1976)
   C.   Pesticides: Any persistent pesticides that have a tendency to
concentrate to toxic levels in nontarget organisms;
   D.   pH Level: Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having
any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the wastewater facility;
   E.   Solid Or Viscous Substances: Any solid or viscous substance in
quantities or of such size that the substance is capable of causing obstruction
to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the proper operation of the
wastewater facility, such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud,
straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground
garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, paper
dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders;
   F.   Reducing Substances Of Organic Or Inorganic Nature: Any waters or
wastes containing reducing substances of an organic or inorganic nature, both
toxic and nontoxic substances, which exert an immediate chlorine demand shall
not be discharged into the wastewater facility if discharge of such agent will
prevent the achievement of an adequate chlorine residual in the effluent from
the wastewater treatment works; or (Ord. C66-113, 1-30-1974)
   G.   Heavy Metals, Toxic Materials:
      1.   Any amount of the following heavy metals or toxic materials:
        Antimony
        Beryllium
        Bismuth
        Cobalt
        Fungicides
        Herbicides
        Molybdenum
        Pesticides
        Rhenium
        Strontium
        Tellurium
        Uranyl ion
      2.   Amounts of the following heavy metals or toxic materials which
exceed the designated maximum allowable concentrations expressed in milligrams
per liter:
Arsenic   0.05  mg/l
Barium    5.00  mg/l
Boron     1.00  mg/l
Cadmium   0.02  mg/l
Chromium  5.00  mg/l
Copper    1.00  mg/l
Cyanides  1.00  mg/l
Lead      0.10  mg/l
Manganese 1.00  mg/l
Mercury   0.005 mg/l
Nickel    1.00  mg/l
Phenol    0.005 mg/l
Selenium  0.02  mg/l
Silver    0.10  mg/l
Zinc      5.00  mg/l
 
(Ord. C66-137, 2-10-1976)
8-5-6: DISCHARGES; APPROVAL BY CITY:
   A.   Prohibited Discharges; Action By City: No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged the substances, materials, waters or wastes to be
described in this section to a public sewer if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the city, that such wastes can harm or have a deleterious effect on
the wastewater facility, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In
such a case, the city may, by resolution:
      1.   Refuse To Permit: Refuse to permit the discharge of these waters or
wastes into the sewer system;
      2.   Require Pretreatment: Require pretreatment to an acceptable
condition for discharge to the public sewers; or
      3.   Require Control: Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge.
   B.   Pretreatment Devices: The design, installation and operation of all
pretreatment devices for wastewaters, such as traps, garbage grinders larger
than those normally designed for residential use, acid or alkaline neutralizing
basins, flow equalizing basins and cooling basins and towers shall be approved
by the city and appropriate state agencies before being placed in service and
shall be subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and
laws. The discharge of any pretreated wastewater to a public sewer must be upon
approval by the city. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of the
wastes described in this section, the city shall give consideration to such
factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities
in the sewers, provided, however, dilution of such wastes shall not be allowed,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature and capacity of the wastewater
facility, degree of treatability of wastes in the wastewater treatment works
and other pertinent factors. These substances include, but are not limited to,
the following:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C); (Ord. C66-113, 1-30-1974)
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, grease, wax or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) and one hundred fifty degrees
Fahrenheit (150°F) (0°C and 65°C); (Ord. C66-113, 1-30-1974; amd. 2006 Code)
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions unless completely neutralized;
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances such that after treatment at the city wastewater
facilities these materials remain in concentrations exceeding limits
established by the city to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies having jurisdiction over such discharge to the receiving
waters;
      6.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentrations as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations;
      7.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      8.   Any material which exerts or causes:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids, such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues, or unusual
concentrations of dissolved solids, such as, but not limited to, sodium
chlorine and sodium sulfate;
         b.   Unusual or excessive discoloration, caused by materials, such as,
but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions;
         c.   Unusual chemical oxygen demand, biochemical oxygen demand or
chlorine requirements caused by materials in such quantities as to constitute a
significant load on the wastewater treatment works; or
         d.   Unusual slugs or shock volume of flow or concentration of wastes
that could disturb the normal functioning of the wastewater facility;
      9.   Any waters or wastes containing substances that are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment works employed by the city
or that are amendable to treatment only to such degree that the effluent from
the works cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over the
effluent discharged to the receiving waters. (Ord. C66-113, 1-30-1974)
8-5-7: GREASE INTERCEPTOR/TRAPS FOR CONNECTIONS TO PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT
WORKS:
   A.   Purpose And Policy: This sets forth uniform requirements for users of
the publicly owned treatment works to capture and dispose of FOG and enables
the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws, including the
clean water act, 33 USC section 1251 et seq.; and the general pretreatment
regulations, title 40 CFR part 403, and to protect the POTW. The objectives of
this section are:
      1.   To prevent the introduction of FOG into the publicly owned treatment
works that will interfere with its operation;
      2.   To prevent the introduction of FOG into the publicly owned treatment
works that could pass through the publicly owned treatment works, inadequately
treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with the publicly
owned treatment works;
      3.   To prevent sanitary sewer overflow (SSO), where sewer water flows
out of a manhole cover and along the ground. These overflows can then
contaminate the ground, local water bodies and any property that the sewerage
comes into contact with;
      4.   To promote reuse and recycling of waste grease (FOG) from the
publicly owned treatment works;
      5.   To enable the city to comply with federal, state and local pollutant
discharge limits.
   B.   Applicability And Prohibitions:
      1.   This section shall apply to all nondomestic users of the publicly
owned treatment works (POTW), as defined in section
8-5-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Grease interceptors shall not be required for residential users,
except grease interceptors shall be required for home based businesses.
      3.   This section shall apply to both new and existing facilities
generating fats, oils, or greases as a result of food manufacturing,
processing, preparation, or food service which shall install, use, and maintain
appropriate grease interceptors. These facilities include, but are not limited
to, restaurants, food manufacturers, food processors, hospitals, hotels and
motels, prisons, nursing homes, and any other facility, including home based
businesses preparing, serving, or otherwise making any foodstuff available for
consumption.
      4.   No user may intentionally or unintentionally allow the direct or
indirect discharge of any fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin
into the POTW system in such amounts as to cause interference with the
collection and treatment system, or as to cause pollutants to pass through the
treatment works into the environment.
   C.   Installation And Maintenance Requirements:
      1.   Installations:
         a.   New Facilities: Food processing or food service facilities which
are newly proposed or constructed, or existing facilities which will be
expanded or renovated to include a food service facility, where such facility
did not previously exist, shall be required to design, install, operate and
maintain a grease interceptor in accordance with locally adopted plumbing codes
or other applicable ordinances. Grease interceptors shall be installed and
inspected prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
         b.   Existing Facilities: Existing grease interceptors must be
operated and maintained in accordance with this section, and with the
manufacturer's recommendations and in accordance with these standards, unless
specified in writing and approved by the POTW.
         c.   Design And Maintenance: Grease interceptors shall be designed and
maintained to limit the discharge to a maximum limit of one hundred milligrams
per liter (100 mg/l) and to ensure no visible FOG is observable at the
discharge into the POTW.
         d.   Installation: All grease interceptors will be installed in the
sewer service line.
         e.   Disposal Of Waste: All grease interceptor waste shall be properly
disposed of at a facility in accordance with federal, state, or local
regulation.
      2.   Cleaning And Maintenance:
         a.   Grease interceptors shall be maintained in an efficient operating
condition at all times.
         b.   Each grease interceptor when cleaned shall be fully evacuated.
      3.   Self-Cleaning Hydromechanical Grease Interceptors:
         a.   Grease interceptor self-cleaning operators must receive approval
from the POTW to remove grease from their own grease hydromechanical grease
interceptors.
   The following conditions shall apply:
            (1)   The grease interceptor is no more than one hundred (100) GPM
in size;
            (2)   Proper on site material disposal methods are implemented
(e.g., absorb liquid into solid form and dispose into trash);
            (3)   The local solid waste authority allows such practices;
            (4)   Grease waste is placed in a leakproof, sealable container(s)
located on the premises and in an area for the transporter to pump out; and
            (5)   Detailed records on these activities are maintained.
         b.   Grease interceptor self-cleaning operators must submit a
completed self-cleaning request to the POTW for approval. The written request
shall include the following information:
            (1)   Business name and street address;
            (2)   Grease interceptor operator name, title, and phone number;
            (3)   Description of maintenance frequency, method of disposal,
method of cleaning and size (in gallons) of the grease interceptor; and
            (4)   Signed statement that the operator will maintain records of
waste disposal and produce them for compliance inspections.
         c.   Self-cleaners must adhere to all the requirements, procedures and
detailed recordkeeping outlined in their approved application, to ensure
compliance with this section. A maintenance log shall be kept by self-cleaning
operators that indicates, at a minimum, the following information:
            (1)   Date the grease trap/interceptor was serviced;
            (2)   Name of the person or company servicing the grease trap/
interceptor;
            (3)   Waste disposal method used;
            (4)   Gallons of grease removed and disposed of;
            (5)   Waste oil added to grease interceptor waste; and
            (6)   Signature of the operator after each cleaning that certifies
that all grease was removed and disposed of properly, grease trap/interceptor
was thoroughly cleaned, and that all parts were replaced and in operable
condition.
         d.   Violations incurred by grease interceptors' self-cleaners will be
subject to enforcement action including fines and/or removal from the self-
cleaner program.
      4.   Cleaning Schedules:
         a.   Grease interceptors shall be cleaned as often as necessary to
ensure that sediment and floating materials do not accumulate to impair the
efficiency of the grease interceptor; to ensure the discharge is in compliance
with local discharge limits; and to ensure no visible grease is observed in
discharge.
         b.   Grease interceptors shall be completely evacuated a minimum of
every thirty (30) days, or more frequently when:
            (1)   Twenty five percent (25%) or more of the wetted height of the
grease trap or grease interceptor, as measured from the bottom of the device to
the invert of the outlet pipe, contains floating materials, sediment, oils or
greases; or
            (2)   The discharge exceeds BOD, COD, TSS, FOG, pH, or other
pollutant levels established by the POTW; or
            (3)   If there is a history of noncompliance.
         c.   Any person who owns or operates a grease interceptor may submit
to the POTW a request in writing for an exception to the thirty (30) day
cleaning frequency of their grease interceptor. The POTW may grant an extension
for required cleaning frequency on a case by case basis when:
            (1)   The grease interceptor owner/operator has demonstrated the
specific interceptor will produce an effluent, based on defensible analytical
results, in consistent compliance with established local discharge limits such
as BOD, TSS, FOG, or other parameters as determined by the POTW, or
            (2)   Less than twenty five percent (25%) of the wetted height of
the grease interceptor, as measured from the bottom of the device to the invert
of the outlet pipe, contains floating materials, sediment, oils or greases.
         d.   In any event, a grease interceptor shall be fully evacuated,
cleaned, and inspected at least once every ninety (90) days.
      5.   Manifest Requirements:
         a.   Each pump out of a grease interceptor must be accompanied by a
manifest to be used for recordkeeping purposes.
         b.   Persons who generate, collect and transport grease waste shall
maintain a record of each individual collection and deposit. Such records shall
be in the form of a manifest. The manifest shall include:
            (1)   Name, address, telephone, and commission registration number
of transporter;
            (2)   Name, signature, address, and phone number of the person who
generated the waste and the date collected;
            (3)   Type and amount(s) of waste collected or transported;
            (4)   Name and signature(s) of responsible person(s) collecting,
transporting, and depositing the waste;
            (5)   Date and place where the waste was deposited;
            (6)   Identification (permit or site registration number, location,
and operator) of the facility where the waste was deposited;
            (7)   Name and signature of facility on site representative
acknowledging receipt of the waste and the amount of waste received;
            (8)   The volume of the grease waste received; and
            (9)   A consecutive numerical tracking number to assist
transporters, waste generators, and regulating authorities in tracking the
volume of grease transported.
         c.   Manifests shall be divided into five (5) parts and records shall
be maintained as follows:
            (1)   One part of the manifest shall have the generator and
transporter information completed and be given to the generator at the time of
waste pick up.
            (2)   The remaining four (4) parts of the manifest shall have all
required information completely filled out and signed by the appropriate party
before distribution of the manifest.
            (3)   One part of the manifest shall go to the receiving facility.
            (4)   One part shall go to the transporter, who shall retain a copy
of all manifests showing the collection and disposition of waste.
            (5)   One copy of the manifest shall be returned by the transporter
to the person who generated the waste within fifteen (15) days after the waste
is received at the disposal or processing facility.
            (6)   One part of the manifest shall go to the local authority.
            (7)   Copies of manifests returned to the waste generator shall be
retained for five (5) years and be readily available for review by the POTW.
            (8)   Alternative treatment as approved by the POTW.
      6.   Bioremediation: Bioremediation media shall only be used with
approved FOG disposal systems ASME A112.14.4.
      7.   Compliance And Penalties: All testing designed to satisfy the
criteria set forth in this subsection shall be scientifically sound and
statistically valid. All tests to determine oil and grease, TSS, BOD, COD, pH,
and other pollutant levels shall use appropriate tests which have been approved
by the environmental protection agency which are defined in title 40, code of
federal regulations, part 136. Testing shall be open to inspection by the POTW,
and shall meet the POTW's approval.
      8.   Prohibited Practices: No person shall introduce, or cause, permit,
or suffer the introduction of any surfactant, solvent or emulsifier into a
grease interceptor. Surfactants, solvents, and emulsifiers are materials which
allow the grease to pass from the grease interceptor into the collection
system, and include, but are not limited to, enzymes, soap, diesel, kerosene,
terpene, and other solvents.
      9.   Compliance Monitoring:
         a.   Right Of Entry: The POTW shall have the right to enter the
premises of any user or potential user to determine whether the user is
complying with all requirements of this chapter and any wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the POTW ready access to
all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
            (1)   Where a user has security measures in force which require
proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user
shall make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon
presentation of suitable identification, the POTW will be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
            (2)   The POTW shall have the right to set up on the users'
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the users' operations.
            (3)   The POTW may require the user to install monitoring equipment
as necessary such as FOG sensing and alarm devices complying with PDI G102. The
facility's monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and
proper operating condition by the user at its own expense.
            (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy
access to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed
by the user at the written or verbal request of the POTW and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
            (5)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the POTW access to the users'
premises shall be a violation of this section.
         b.   Search Warrants: If the POTW has been refused access to a
building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, then the POTW may seek issuance of a search warrant.
   D.   Amortization Of Nonconforming Existing Facilities And Credit For Early
Compliance:
      1.   Upon the passage, publication and the effective date hereof,
nonconforming existing facilities shall comply as follows:
         a.   Expansion Or Remodel: Any expansion, remodel or other alteration
of a nonconforming existing facility will require full compliance with this
section.
         b.   Lapse: Should the nonconforming existing facility discontinue or
abandon operation of a business for a period of six (6) months, the same shall
not reopen without full compliance with this section.
         c.   Amortization: Any ongoing nonconforming existing facility that
continues with the operation of a business shall conform within two (2) years
of the adoption date hereof.
         d.   Credit For Early Compliance: Any business which has an existing
facility generating fats, oils, or greases as a result of food manufacturing,
processing, preparation, or food service which is covered by this section, and
installs a new grease interceptor to conform to this section prior to the end
of the two (2) year amortization shall be entitled to the following credit on
its/their city of Gallup utility bill:
            (1)   Within four (4) months of the effective date: Up to fifty
percent (50%) of the cost, not to exceed a total credit of two thousand dollars
($2,000.00).
            (2)   Between five (5) months and eight (8) months of the effective
date: Up to forty percent (40%) of the cost, not to exceed a total credit of
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
            (3)   Between nine (9) months and eighteen (18) months of the
effective date: Up to thirty percent (30%) of the cost, not to exceed a total
credit of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
            (4)   Between eighteen (18) months and the two (2) year deadline of
the effective date: Up to fifteen percent (15%) of the cost, not to exceed a
total credit of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   E.   Schedule Of Penalties:
      1.   If the POTW determines that a generator is responsible for a
blockage of a collection system line the generator shall owe a civil penalty of
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for the first violation, one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a second violation, and two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) for the third violation within a two (2) year period. Continuous
violations shall result in an increase in penalty by five hundred dollars
($500.00) and may also result in termination of services. The generator shall
also be required to reimburse the city of Gallup for all costs associated with
testing/inspection and cleanup of blockages and spills.
      2.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a written warning for the first violation, a one thousand dollar
($1,000.00) civil penalty for the second violation, a one thousand five hundred
dollar ($1,500.00) civil penalty for the third violation, and a two thousand
dollar ($2,000.00) civil penalty for the fourth violation within a two (2) year
period. Consistent violations will result in a five hundred dollar ($500.00)
increase in civil penalty and may result in termination of service. The
generator shall also be required to reimburse the city of Gallup for all costs
associated with testing/inspection and cleanup of blockages and spills.
   F.   Judicial Enforcement Remedies:
      1.   Injunctive Relief: When the POTW finds that a user has violated or
continues to violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the POTW may petition the 11th judicial district court for the
issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which
restrains or compels the specific performance of the wastewater discharge
permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of
the user. The POTW may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal
and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against or a prerequisite for taking any other action against a user. (Ord.
2013-9, 11-26-2013)
8-5-8: MAINTENANCE BY OWNER:
Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for any
industrial liquid wastes, they shall be continuously maintained in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his expense. (Ord. C66-113, 1-30-1974)
8-5-9: MANHOLE:
When required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial liquid wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary metering devices and other appurtenances
in the building sewer as are needed to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, constructed in such a manner as to prevent infiltration of
ground and surface waters, and should be constructed in accordance with plans
approved by the city. The manhole and all appurtenances shall be installed by
the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and
accessible at all times. (Ord. C66-113, 1-30-1974)
8-5-10: STANDARD METHODS:
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of industrial
liquid waste shall be determined in accordance with standard methods and shall
be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken
at said control manhole. The control manhole shall be located so that sampling
of the industrial liquid waste will be performed before discharge into a public
sewer. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods as
indicted by standards methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
city wastewater facilities and to determine the existence of hazards to life,
limb and property. The particular analyses involved will determine whether a
twenty four (24) hour composite sample of all outfalls of a premises is
appropriate or whether a grab sample, or samples, should be taken. The analysis
to be performed and the frequency and type of sampling will be specified by the
city for each industrial liquid waste to be discharged to a public sewer.
Normally, but not always, COD, BODs and suspended solids analyses will be
required on all twenty four (24) hour composite samples made up of hourly
samples that are proportional in volume to the rate of flow in the industrial
liquid waste outfall sewer. (Ord. C66-113, 1-30-1974)
8-5-11: ANALYTICAL TESTS:
Analytical tests will be specified by the city for all industrial liquid wastes
to be admitted to a public sewer. This analysis shall be performed on
appropriate samples on at least one occasion each fiscal year, and whenever it
is found to be necessary by the city. Persons discharging the waste shall be
liable for payment of all costs arising from the testing of the industrial
liquid waste. (Ord. C66-113, 1-30-1974)
8-5-12: COSTS FOR TREATMENT:
The charges for treating industrial liquid wastes in the city wastewater
facilities shall be based on the following policy:
   A.   Contribution: The apportionment of capital and operation and
maintenance costs for the city wastewater system will take into consideration
each individual industrial user's contribution as related to the total waste
load, taking into account the volume and strength of all discharges;
   B.   Included Costs: The costs to be considered will include, but not be
limited to:
      1.   Amortization of the city's capital investment in the waste treatment
works and interceptors sewers;
      2.   Operation and maintenance of these facilities; and
      3.   Any additional costs which are necessary to assure adequate
wastewater treatment on a continuous basis.
   C.   Prepayment Of Capital Investment: A substantial prepayment of the
capital investment or other financial commitments will be required from each
industry that contributes thirty percent (30%) or more of the total volume or
strength of the waste load to be conveyed in any particular sewer line or to be
treated by the city wastewater treatment works. (Ord. C66-113, 1-30-1974)
8-5-13: COST ALLOCATION:
A charge will be assessed against persons discharging industrial liquid wastes
that are of a greater strength and volume than normal untreated domestic
wastewater. Cost allocation or derivation of all industrial liquid waste
treatment charges to each industrial user is to be computed using that
equation, A or B below, that yields the highest annual charge for the sewer
services:
   EQUATIONS:
A.   C i = voVi + boBi + so Si
B.   Ci = voVi + koKi + soSi
where
Ci = charge to an industrial liquid waste discharger in dollars per year;
vo = unit cost of transport and treatment chargeable to volume, and equal to
     $0.08543/1,000 gallons discharged;
bo = unit cost of treatment chargeable to BOD, and equal to $0.0610/pound;
so = unit cost of treatment (including solids treatment) chargeable to
     suspended solids, and equal to $0.0517/pounds;
ko = unit cost of treatment chargeable to COD, and equal to $0.0305 per pound;
Vi = volume of wastewater from the industrial user in one thousand (1,000)
     gallons per year;
Ki = weight of COD from industrial user, pounds per year;
Bi = weight of BOD from industrial user, pounds per year; and
Si = weight of suspended solids from the industrial user, pounds per year.
 
(Ord. C66-113, 1-30-1974)
8-5-14: READJUSTMENT OF RATES:
In the month of June of each year, the city will review the factors involved in
the calculation of rate schedules for all classes of users served by the city
wastewater system, including industrial wastewater dischargers. Annual
readjustment of rates will be made for all systems users effective on July 1 of
each year. (Ord. C66-113, 1-30-1974)
8-5-15: PENALTY:
   A.   Fine; Imprisonment: Every person convicted of a violation of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day this chapter is violated shall constitute a
separate offense. The conviction and punishment of any person for a violation
shall not excuse or exempt such person from the payment of any fee due or
unpaid at the time of such conviction and nothing herein shall prevent a
criminal prosecution of any violation of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
C66-113, 7-30-1974; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Cumulative Remedies; Lien: All remedies prescribed or liens created
hereunder or under the provisions of the law for collection and enforcement of
the fees shall be cumulative and the use of one or more remedies by the city
shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter of any liens created by the law. The fees fixed by
this chapter shall be a lien in favor of the city upon the personal property
and real property of the person used in connection with the sewer use which
gave rise to the fee, and such lien shall be imposed, collected, enforced and
paid as provided by the law. No property of any person shall be exempt from
levy and sale or execution issued for the collection of a judgment for any fee
imposed by this chapter. (Ord. C66-113, 7-30-1974)
GA69   8-6.txt ()
CHAPTER 6
SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Utility Services
8-6-2: Water Rates And Fees
8-6-3: Electrical Rates
8-6-4: Charges For Collection Or Disposal Of Solid Wastes
8-6-5: Wastewater Charges
8-6-6: Building Inspector To Certify Number Of Connections
8-6-1: UTILITY SERVICES:
   Utilities Services, as defined in section
8-6A-2 of this code, shall be provided by the City of Gallup at the rates set
forth in this chapter 6. (
Ord. C61-39, 7-20-1965; amd. Ord. C2024-7, 11-26-2024)
8-6-2: WATER RATES AND FEES:
For service rendered on or after August 1, 2014, and each subsequent year, the
charges for service shall be as set forth below and shall be reflected in the
next full monthly billing cycle thereafter. It is the city council's intent to
review these rates at least on a triennial basis.
   A.   Rate Schedule A:
      1.   Residential: Effective August 1, 2014, and every July 1 thereafter,
for service to single-family residential dwellings the commodity rate for water
shall be:
 
Cubic Feet/ Effective Date
Month       August 1, July 1,   July 1,   July 1,   July 1, 2018 July 1, 2019
            2014      2015      2016      2017
0 - 500     $0.022183 $0.023453 $0.024613 $0.025824 $0.026901    $0.028019
501 - 1,000 0.032912  0.034796  0.036517  0.038313  0.039911     0.041570
1,001 -     0.055351  0.058520  0.061415  0.064436  0.067123     0.069913
2,000
2,001 -     0.088263  0.093316  0.097932  0.102749  0.107034     0.111483
5,000
Over 5,000  0.101726  0.107551  0.112870  0.118423  0.123361     0.128489
 
 
Cubic Feet/ Effective Date
Month       July 1,   July 1,   July 1,   July 1,   July 1, 2024 July 1, 2025
            2020      2021      2022      2023
0 - 500     $0.029180 $0.030385 $0.031636 $0.032934 $0.034282    $0.034625
501 - 1,000 0.043292  0.045080  0.046936  0.048862  0.050862     0.051370
1,001 -     0.072809  0.075816  0.078937  0.082177  0.085539     0.086395
2,000
2,001 -     0.116101  0.120896  0.125873  0.131039  0.136401     0.137765
5,000
Over 5,000  0.133812  0.139337  0.145073  0.151027  0.157207     0.158779
 
 
Cubic Feet/ Effective Date
Month       July 1,   July 1,   July 1,   July 1,   July 1, 2030 July 1, 2031
            2026      2027      2028      2029
0 - 500     $0.034971 $0.035321 $0.036027 $0.036998 $0.037994    $0.039016
501 - 1,000 0.051884  0.052403  0.053451  0.054890  0.056368     0.057885
1,001 -     0.087259  0.088131  0.089894  0.092315  0.094800     0.097351
2,000
2,001 -     0.139142  0.140534  0.143345  0.147205  0.151168     0.155236
5,000
Over 5,000  0.160367  0.161971  0.165210  0.169660  0.174227     0.178915
 
 
Cubic Feet/ Effective Date
Month       July 1,   July 1,   July 1,   July 1,   July 1, 2036 July 1, 2037
            2032      2033      2034      2035
0 - 500     $0.040065 $0.041142 $0.042248 $0.043382 $0.044547    $0.045742
501 - 1,000 0.059442  0.061040  0.062680  0.064363  0.066091     0.067864
1,001 -     0.099969  0.102656  0.105415  0.108246  0.111152     0.114134
2,000
2,001 -     0.159411  0.163696  0.168094  0.172609  0.177242     0.181998
5,000
Over 5,000  0.183727  0.188666  0.193736  0.198939  0.204279     0.209760
 
 
Cubic Feet/Month Effective Date
                 July 1, 2038 July 1, 2039
0 - 500          $0.046969    $0.048228
501 - 1,000      0.069684     0.071552
1,001 - 2,000    0.117195     0.120337
2,001 - 5,000    0.186879     0.191889
Over 5,000       0.215386     0.221160
 
   B.   Rate Schedule B:
      1.   Nonresidential/Commercial: Effective August 1, 2014, and every July
1 thereafter, for service to nonresidential/commercial facilities the commodity
rate for water shall be:
Cubic Feet/ Effective Date
Month       August 1, July 1, July 1, July 1, 2017 July 1, 2018 July 1, 2019
            2014      2015    2016
Cubic Feet/ Effective Date
Month       August 1, July 1,   July 1,   July 1,   July 1, 2018 July 1, 2019
            2014      2015      2016      2017
0 - 1,000   $0.042906 $0.044949 $0.046839 $0.048806 $0.050586    $0.052430
1,001 -     0.044070  0.046169  0.048110  0.050130  0.051959     0.053852
2,000
2,001 -     0.048539  0.050850  0.052988  0.055213  0.057227     0.059312
4,000
4,001 -     0.052433  0.054930  0.057239  0.059643  0.061818     0.064071
100,000
Over        0.052486  0.054986  0.057298  0.059704  0.061881     0.064136
100,000
Separately
metered     0.075086  0.078662  0.081969  0.085411  0.088526     0.091752
irrigation
Unmetered   0.085812  0.089899  0.093678  0.097613  0.101173     0.104860
Gallup city 0.047197  0.049444  0.051523  0.053687  0.055645     0.057673
usage
 
Cubic Feet/ Effective Date
Month       July 1, July 1, July 1, 2022 July 1, 2023 July 1, 2024 July 1, 2025
            2020    2021
Cubic Feet/ Effective Date
Month       July 1,   July 1,   July 1,   July 1,   July 1, 2024 July 1, 2025
            2020      2021      2022      2023
0 - 1,000   $0.054339 $0.056317 $0.058366 $0.060488 $0.062686    $0.063312
1,001 -     0.055814  0.057845  0.059949  0.062129  0.064386     0.065030
2,000
2,001 -     0.061473  0.063710  0.066028  0.068428  0.070915     0.071624
4,000
4,001 -     0.066405  0.068822  0.071325  0.073918  0.076604     0.077370
100,000
Over        0.066472  0.068892  0.071398  0.073994  0.076682     0.077449
100,000
Separately
metered     0.095094  0.098555  0.102140  0.105854  0.109700     0.110797
irrigation
Unmetered   0.108679  0.112635  0.116732  0.120976  0.125371     0.126625
Gallup city 0.059773  0.061949  0.064203  0.066537  0.068954     0.069644
usage
 
Cubic Feet/ Effective Date
Month       July 1, July 1, July 1, 2028 July 1, 2029 July 1, 2030 July 1, 2031
            2026    2027
Cubic Feet/ Effective Date
Month       July 1,   July 1,   July 1,   July 1,   July 1, 2030 July 1, 2031
            2026      2027      2028      2029
0 - 1,000   $0.063946 $0.064585 $0.065877 $0.067553 $0.069271    $0.071032
1,001 -     0.065680  0.066337  0.067664  0.069385  0.071150     0.072959
2,000
2,001 -     0.072340  0.073063  0.074525  0.076420  0.078364     0.080357
4,000
4,001 -     0.078144  0.078925  0.080504  0.082552  0.084651     0.086804
100,000
Over        0.078223  0.079006  0.080586  0.082636  0.084738     0.086893
100,000
Separately
metered2    0.111905  0.113024  0.115284  0.118217  0.121224     0.124307
irrigation
Unmetered   0.127891  0.129170  0.131754  0.135105  0.138541     0.142065
Gallup city 0.070340  0.071044  0.072464  0.074308  0.076198     0.078136
usage
 
Cubic Feet/ Effective Date
Month       July 1, July 1, July 1, 2034 July 1, 2035 July 1, 2036 July 1, 2037
            2032    2033
Cubic Feet/ Effective Date
Month       July 1,   July 1,   July 1,   July 1,   July 1, 2036 July 1, 2037
            2032      2033      2034      2035
0 - 1,000   $0.072839 $0.074691 $0.076590 $0.078537 $0.080534    $0.082581
1,001 -     0.074815  0.076717  0.078668  0.080668  0.082719     0.084821
2,000
2,001 -     0.082401  0.084496  0.086644  0.088847  0.091106     0.093422
4,000
4,001 -     0.089012  0.091275  0.093596  0.095975  0.098415     0.100917
100,000
Over        0.089102  0.091368  0.093691  0.096073  0.098516     0.101020
100,000
Separately
metered     0.127468  0.130709  0.134033  0.137440  0.140934     0.144517
irrigation
Unmetered   0.145678  0.149382  0.153180  0.157075  0.161068     0.165162
Gallup city 0.080123  0.082160  0.084249  0.086391  0.088587     0.090839
usage
 
Cubic Feet/Month Effective Date
                 July 1, 2038 July 1, 2039
Cubic Feet/Month              Effective Date
                              July 1, 2038 July 1, 2039
0 - 1,000                     $0.084680    $0.086832
1,001 - 2,000                 0.086977     0.089188
2,001 - 4,000                 0.095796     0.098231
4,001 - 100,000               0.103482     0.106112
Over 100,000                  0.103587     0.106220
Separately metered irrigation 0.148190     0.151956
Unmetered                     0.169360     0.173664
Gallup city usage             0.093148     0.095515
 
      2.   Unmetered Water: Unmetered water is any unmetered water sales from
the domestic water supply, sales from the water loading station, and sales from
the nondomestic supply.
      3.   Submetered Multi-Family And Mobile Home Parks: For service to master
metered multi-family dwellings and mobile home parks having private submeters
on each individual dwelling the commodity rate for water shall be at the
commercial rate for monthly usage in the zero to one thousand (1,000) rate
block.
      4.   City Of Gallup: For service to the city of Gallup the commodity rate
for all usage shall be one hundred ten percent (110%) of the commercial rate
for water usage from zero to one thousand (1,000) cubic feet.
      5.   Outside Service: For service outside of the corporate boundary of
the city of Gallup the commodity charge shall be one and one half (1 1/2) the
rate for service inside the city of Gallup corporate boundary.
      6.   Navajo-Gallup Water Supply Project: For revenue requirements to
reimburse costs to provide for this project, all water usage will be billed
with an additional volumetric charge according to the uniform rate table of
this section:
UNIFORM RATE
Effective Date Uniform, $/cf
Effective Date Uniform, $/cf
August 1, 2014 $0.0015
July 1, 2015   0.0032
July 1, 2016   0.0049
July 1, 2017   0.0068
July 1, 2018   0.0088
July 1, 2019   0.0116
July 1, 2020   0.0146
July 1, 2021   0.0170
July 1, 2022   0.0196
July 1, 2023   0.0201
July 1, 2024   0.0205
July 1, 2025   0.0210
July 1, 2026   0.0215
July 1, 2027   0.0220
July 1, 2028   0.0225
July 1, 2029   0.0225
July 1, 2030   0.0225
July 1, 2031   0.0225
July 1, 2032   0.0225
July 1, 2033   0.0225
July 1, 2034   0.0225
July 1, 2035   0.0225
July 1, 2036   0.0225
July 1, 2037   0.0225
July 1, 2038   0.0225
July 1, 2039   0.0225
 
   C.   Monthly Service Charge:
      1.   The monthly meter charge shall be:
           Effective Date
Meter Size August 1, July 1, July 1, July 1, 2017 July 1, 2018 July 1, 2019
           2014      2015    2016
           Effective Date
Meter Size August 1, July 1, July 1, July 1, 2017 July 1, 2018 July 1, 2019
           2014      2015    2016
5/8"       $ 9.02    $ 9.20  $ 9.38  $ 9.57       $ 9.76       $ 9.96
1"         20.13     20.54   20.95   21.37        21.79        22.23
2"         55.59     56.70   57.84   58.99        60.17        61.38
3"         120.83    123.25  125.71  128.22       130.79       133.41
4"         193.33    197.20  201.14  205.16       209.27       213.45
6"         418.88    427.26  435.81  444.52       453.41       462.48
8"         747.54    762.49  777.74  793.29       809.16       825.34
 
           Effective Date
Meter Size July 1, July 1, July 1, 2022 July 1, 2023 July 1, 2024 July 1, 2025
           2020    2021
           Effective Date
Meter Size July 1, July 1, July 1, 2022 July 1, 2023 July 1, 2024 July 1, 2025
           2020    2021
5/8"       $ 10.15 $ 10.36 $ 10.56      $ 10.78      $ 10.99      $ 11.10
1"         22.68   23.13   23.59        24.06        24.54        24.79
2"         62.60   63.86   65.13        66.44        67.76        68.44
3"         136.07  138.79  141.57       144.40       147.29       148.76
4"         217.72  222.08  226.52       231.05       235.67       238.03
6"         471.73  481.17  490.79       500.60       510.62       515.72
8"         841.85  858.69  875.86       893.38       911.24       920.36
 
           Effective Date
Meter Size July 1, July 1, July 1, 2028 July 1, 2029 July 1, 2030 July 1, 2031
           2026    2027
           Effective Date
Meter Size July 1, July 1, July 1, 2028 July 1, 2029 July 1, 2030 July 1, 2031
           2026    2027
5/8"       $ 11.21 $ 11.32 $ 11.55      $ 11.78      $ 12.02      $ 12.26
1"         25.04   25.29   25.79        26.31        26.84        27.37
2"         69.13   69.82   71.21        72.64        74.09        75.57
3"         150.25  151.75  154.79       157.88       161.04       164.26
4"         240.41  242.81  247.67       252.62       257.67       262.83
6"         520.88  526.09  536.61       547.34       558.29       569.46
8"         929.56  938.86  957.63       976.79       996.32       1,016.25
 
           Effective Date
Meter Size July 1, July 1, July 1, 2034 July 1, 2035 July 1, 2036 July 1, 2037
           2032    2033
           Effective Date
Meter Size July 1,  July 1,  July 1,  July 1, 2035 July 1, 2036 July 1, 2037
           2032     2033     2034
5/8"       $ 12.50  $ 12.75  $ 13.01  $ 13.27      $ 13.53      $ 13.80
1"         27.92    28.48    29.05    29.63        30.22        30.83
2"         77.08    78.63    80.20    81.80        83.44        85.11
3"         167.55   170.90   174.32   177.80       181.36       184.99
4"         268.08   273.44   278.91   284.49       290.18       295.98
6"         580.84   592.46   604.31   616.40       628.72       641.30
8"         1,036.57 1,057.30 1,078.45 1,100.02     1,122.02     1,144.46
 
Meter Size Effective Date
           July 1, 2038 July 1, 2039
Meter Size Effective Date
           July 1, 2038 July 1, 2039
5/8"       $ 14.08      $ 14.36
1"         31.44        32.07
2"         86.81        88.55
3"         188.69       192.46
4"         301.90       307.94
6"         654.13       667.21
8"         1,167.35     1,190.70
 
      2.   For existing facilities with meters of over four inches (4") but
which are being charged the service charge for a four inch (4") meter at the
passage hereof shall continue to be charged the service charge for a four inch
(4") meter until such time as they upgrade or modify their service, at which
time the service charge shall be increased in relation to the meter size as
provided above. (Ord. 2014-5, 7-8-2014)
   D.   Contract Rates: Nothing contained herein shall prevent the city from
entering into separate contracts for the provision of water service with
eligible customers under terms, conditions and rates other than provided
herein, when, after consideration and review of all circumstances, good cause
exists, and such terms, conditions and rates are fair, just and reasonable and
are not preferential or discriminatory to existing or future customers.
"Eligible customers" shall be defined as "community water systems" as defined
and regulated by the state of New Mexico environment department, tribal and
other governmental facilities, individuals granted rights by court decree and
individuals or communities being served through regional water supply
facilities or joint ventures.
   E.   Water Conservation Fee: In addition to any and all other rates herein,
there shall be charged and collected a state water conservation fee of $0.0253
per one hundred (100) cubic feet. This rate will be applied to all services
rendered on or after May 1, 1993.
   F.   Annual Consumer Price Index Increase: The rates and fees herein
described shall be increased or decreased annually to reflect the changes in
the United States department of labor consumer price index. The "consumer price
index" shall mean the average for "all items" shown as the "United States city
average for all urban consumers as promulgated by the bureau of labor
statistics of the United States department of labor" (CPI-U). On or about April
1, 1996, and every year thereafter, the city manager or designee will notify
the governing body of the proposed water rates adjusted by the CPI-U. The
proposed water rates will automatically go into effect on the following July 1
unless by June 1 the governing body votes otherwise.
   G.   Annual Rate Increase: On or about July 1, 2005, and every year
thereafter for a period of five (5) years, the commodity charge for water shall
be increased by three percent (3%) and shall go into effect automatically
unless by June 1 of each year the governing body votes otherwise.
   H.   Revenue: Revenue generated through charges as set forth herein shall be
dedicated to uses related to the administration, operation and maintenance,
replacement, expansion and development of the city water supply and delivery
system and/or regional water supply projects. (Ord. C2004-5, 4-13-2004)
   I.   Sales To NTUA: Sales or transfer of water to the Navajo tribal utility
authority (NTUA) shall be at the regular inside city limits rate.
(Ord. C2001-2, 8-14-2001)
8-6-3: ELECTRICAL RATES:
The charges for all electricity consumed shall be at the following rates:
   A.   Residential Service Rate: Applicable to electric service to single-
family dwellings, individual farm units, individual apartments, or separate
living quarters where the major use of electricity is for domestic purposes
such as lighting, household appliances, and the personal comfort and
convenience of those residing therein.
 
Energy charge:
 First 50 kWh       Included in minimum service charge of $6.91
 Thereafter all kWh $0.1151 per kWh
 
   B.   General Service; Small (Nonresidential) Rate: Available for single- and
3-phase service for nonresidential service. This rate applies to customers
whose consumption is less than forty thousand (40,000) kWh per month or whose
demand is less than one hundred (100) kW.
   If the demand is over one hundred (100) kW per month for three (3) or more
consecutive months within any twelve (12) month period, or consumption is equal
to or greater than forty thousand (40,000) kWh, service will not be provided
under this rate.
 
Energy charge:
 First 100 kWh      Included in minimum service charge of $13.83
 Thereafter all kWh $0.1230 per kWh
 
   C.   General Service; Medium (Nonresidential) Rate: Available for single-
and 3-phase service for nonresidential service to customers whose monthly
energy consumption is greater than or equal to forty thousand (40,000) kWh or
whose demand is one hundred (100) kW per month for three (3) consecutive months
within any twelve (12) month period.
   Demand is the highest fifteen (15) minute average load measured in kW during
the monthly reading period.
 
Demand charge:
 First 100 kW or less Included in minimum service charge of $1,509.20
 Additional demand    $12.89 per kW
Energy charge:
 All kWh at           $0.0785 per kWh
 
   D.   Industrial Contract Rate: An industrial rate is available to customers
whose demand exceeds one thousand five hundred (1,500) kW of capacity per
month. Service shall be metered at the city's available distribution voltage of
thirteen thousand two hundred (13,200) volts (primary metered). Additionally,
time of use rates may be made available to those customers whose monthly demand
exceeds five hundred (500) kW per month for three (3) consecutive months in any
calendar year. Industrial and/or time of use rates will be determined on a case
by case basis, when after consideration and review of all circumstances, good
cause exists, and such rates are fair, just and reasonable, and are not
preferential or discriminatory to existing or future customers. Some factors
that will influence these rates are as follows:
      1.   Economic Development: Reduced rates may be negotiated with a large
industrial user for a period of up to five (5) years to promote economic
development in the city.
      2.   Load Factor: "Load factor" is defined as the ratio of the average
demand to peak demand during the monthly billing period and will be a major
consideration in determining the rate.
      3.   Power Factor: Rate will provide an incentive for desirable power
factor (ratio of kVAr/kW). The city is required to maintain a systemwide power
factor between 0.97 lagging and 0.99 leading.
      4.   Capital Outlay: Capital outlay required by the city to extend
service to the customer.
      5.   Time Of Use: Rate based on time of day that energy is consumed.
      6.   Negotiations: Negotiations with the city's electric supplier.
   E.   Municipal Service (Service To The City Of Gallup) Rate: Available to
all facilities owned and/or operated by the city of Gallup:
 
Energy charge:
 All kWh at $0.0569 per kWh
 
   F.   Municipal Service Utilities Rate: Available to city of Gallup utilities
and facilities operated by the city or operated by city under contract with a
third party:
 
Energy charge:
 All kWh at $0.0796 per kWh
 
   G.   Outdoor Area Lighting: The following charge shall apply to rental rates
for outdoor area lighting:
   A minimum charge is imposed on all rental lighting rates equal to twelve
(12) months' service at the applicable rate.
City owned and operated fixtures:
 150 watt1 $ 6.88 per month
 250 watt1 15.76 per month
 400 watt1 19.71 per month
Privately owned and operated unmetered fixtures2:
 150 watt  $ 6.07 per month
 250 watt  13.88 per month
 400 watt  17.37 per month
 
   Notes:
      1.    High pressure sodium, metal halide, or LED equivalent.
      2.    No new services will be added under this rate.
   H.   Metered Street And Highway Lighting:
 
Energy charge:
 All kWh at $0.1089 per kWh
 
   I.   Commercial EV Charging Rate. This rate shall be available to and govern
non-residential customers who provide separately metered service to or using
electric vehicle or comparable charging equipment. Eligibility is limited to
customers whose monthly electric consumption is equal to or greater than forty
thousand kilowatts (40,000 kWh), or whose demand is equal to or greater than
one hundred kilowatts (100 kW), for three consecutive months within a twelve
(12) month period.
      1.   To be eligible for the rate, the customer's operation must satisfy
one (1) of both of the following requirements:
         a.   All charging equipment must be separately metered from the
primary facility load.
         b.   The service must be intended and used only for incremental EV
charging capacity.
      2.   Monthly Charges:
         a.   Monthly Service Charge: fifteen dollars and forty-nine cents
($15.49) per kVA of transformer nameplate-related capacity of the installed EV
charger(s).
         b.   Energy Charge: $0.07223 per kWH for all energy consumed.
   J.   Effective Date Of Rates: With the sole exception of the rate
established by section
8-6-3 I, the rates, fees and other charges for electric service applicable to
all customers of the City of Gallup not established by contract shall be
effective for service rendered on and after July 1, 2016. The rate established
by section
8-6-3 I shall be effective for all service rendered on and after the effective
date of this chapter.
   K.   Taxes: The following shall apply to all rates contained in this
section: Billings under these schedules shall be increased by an amount equal
to the sum of the taxes payable under the New Mexico gross receipts tax act and
of all other taxes, fees or charges (exclusive of ad valorem, state and federal
income taxes), payable by the city and levied or assessed by any governmental
authority on the electrical service rendered or on the right or privilege of
rendering the service, or on any object or event incidental to the rendition of
the service.
   L.   Purchase Power Cost Adjustment: Increases, if any, to the energy charge
and demand charge for purchased power shall be passed through to city electric
customers in an amount equal to the increase. Such increases shall become
effective on July 1 of each respective year purchased power costs are scheduled
to increase and shall be reflected on customer bills beginning with the first
full billing cycle thereafter.
   M.   Electric Consumer Price Index Increase: The energy and demand charge
for electric service as set forth in this section shall be increased or
decreased annually to reflect the changes in the consumer price index. The
"consumer price index" shall mean the average for "all items" shown as the
"United States city average for all urban consumers as promulgated by the
bureau of labor statistics of the United States department of labor" (CPI-U).
On or about April 1, 2005, and every year thereafter the city manager or
designee will notify the governing body of the proposed electric rates adjusted
by the CPI-U. The proposed electric rates will automatically go into effect on
the following July 1 unless by June 1 the governing body votes otherwise.
   N.   Charges Subject To Change: The charges for electric service shall be
subject to change as may be recommended by an independent and professional cost
of service based rate study as authorized by city council. (Ord. 2016-4, 3-8-
2016; amd. Ord. C2025-3, 5-13-2025)
8-6-4: CHARGES FOR COLLECTION OR DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTES:
   A.    Charges For Solid Waste Services: The charges for solid waste services
shall be:
      1.   City Nonresidential/City Commercial:
         a.   Effective February 14, 2025, the monthly rate for regular pick up
shall, with the exception of Saturday or special pickup (charged per pickup),
be:
 
              Number Of Pick Up Times Per Week                     Special
ContainerSize 1       2        3        4        5        Saturday Pick Up

90 gallons    $ 20.62 n/a      n/a      n/a      n/a               $ 10.32
2 cubic yards 54.81   $ 101.22 $149.1 8 $197.1 2 $245.0 7 $54.81   $27.41
4 cubic yards 82.79   152.90   225.30   297.71   370.14   82.79    41.39
6 cubic yards 110.73  204.46   301.32   398.17   495.02   110.73   55.37
8 cubic yards 138.41  255.57   376.64   497.70   618.76   138.41   69.21
 
(Ord. C2004-5, 4-13-2004; amd. Ord. 2016-11, 10-25-2016)
         b.   The closed access fee for business establishments with refuse
enclosures shall be:
 
Weekly P.U. 1       2       3       4       5       Saturda y Special Pick Up
Fee         $ 11.40 $ 22.80 $ 34.20 $ 45.60 $ 57.00 $ 11.40   $ 11.40
 
   The closed access fee is for each time the container is emptied. On a
special pick up fee, the fee is charged only once. Fees subject to change.
         c.   Automatic container locking mechanism for open space commercial
establishments: Locks available through the solid waste department and
purchased by owner/tenant at full cost value to be billed on the utility
account (onetime fee, subject to change).
         d.   The rate for compacted trash per pick up shall be:
 
Container Size                     Charge
4 cubic yards (commercial)         $331.16 per pick up
6 cubic yards (commercial)         $442.89 per pick up
10 - 40 cubic yard compactor roll-
offs:
 Service and connect fee           $252.36 (per container)
                                   $420.63 (per container per haul) plus
                                   (a) tipping fee charged by the
 Haul fee/Gallup                   Northwest New Mexico regional solid
                                   waste authority,and (b) applicable
                                   taxes and surcharges. These fees
                                   subject to change
                                   $450.00 (per container, per haul) plus
                                   (a) tipping fee charged by the
 Haul Fee/Thoreau                  Northwest New Mexico regional solid
                                   waste authority, and (b) applicable
                                   taxes and surcharges. These fees are
                                   subject to change.
 
(Ord. 2016-11, 10-25-2016)
         e.   County Residential/County Commercial: All County residential and
commercial service shall be provided at two times (2X) the rate for residential
and commercial service inside the city’s limits.
      f.   The charge for Commercial Open Truck service shall be a flat rate of
one hundred six dollars ($106.00). (Equivalent to two (2X) times the Gallup
transfer station per ton tipping fee, subject to change).
      g.   The charge for Commercial Corrugated Cardboard recycling shall be a
flat monthly rate (equivalent to the special pickup fee and subject to change)
of:
 
4 cubic yard $41.39
6 cubic yard $55.37
 
   2.   City Residential/Noncommercial:
      a.   Effective February 14, 2025, the monthly rate for weekly residential
pickup shall be:
 
City Residents            $17.33
City Senior (62 and over) 10.43
City Special pick up      10.43
 
      b.   Extra Containers: For all City residential customers, the monthly
rate for each additional container shall be:
 
City Regular              $ 10.05
City Senior (62 and over) 6.04
 
      c.   The charge for Residential Open Truck service shall be at a flat
rate of fifty-three dollars ($53.00). (Equivalent to the Gallup transfer
station per ton tipping fee, subject to change)
   3.   Temporary Service: The rate for the collection and disposal of waste on
a temporary basis (term subject to contract) shall be:
Containers Fee
Containers                         Fee
15, 12, 10, and 8 yard containers:  
 Setup and removal                $42.06 (onetime fee per container)
                                   $126.18 (per container, per haul) plus(a)
                                   tipping fees charged by the Northwest New
 Haul fee/Gallup                  Mexico regional solid waste authority, and
                                   (b) applicable taxes and surcharges. Fees
                                   subject to change.
                                   $300.00 (per container, per haul) plus (a)
                                   tipping fees charged by the Northwest New
 Haul fee/Thoreau                 Mexico regional solid waste authority, and
                                   (b) applicable taxes and surcharges. Fees
                                   subject to change.
                                   $100.00 (fee waived if first pick up
 Monthly rental fee               completed within thirty (30) days or two (2)
                                   or more hauls per pick ups completed per
                                   month). Fees subject to change.
 Overload and overweight capacity Equivalent to commercial open truck rates.
                                   Fees subject to change.
40, 30, and 20 yard containers:     
 Setup and removal                $126.18 (onetime fee per container)
                                   $210.32 (per container, per haul) plus (a)
                                   tipping fees charged by the Northwest New
 Haul fee/Gallup                  Mexico regional solid waste authority, and
                                   (b) applicable taxes and surcharges. Fees
                                   subject to change.
                                   $300.00 (per container, per haul) plus (a)
                                   tipping fees charged by the Northwest New
 Haul fee/Thoreau                 Mexico regional solid waste authority, and
                                   (b) applicable taxes and surcharges. Fees
                                   subject to change.
                                   $150.00 (fee waived if first pick up
 Monthly rental fee               completed within thirty (30) days or two (2)
                                   or more hauls per pick ups completed per
                                   month). Fees subject to change.
 Overload and overweight capacity Equivalent to commercial open truck rates.
                                   Fees subject to change.
 
(Ord. 2016-11, 10-25-2016)
   B.   Assessed Against Occupied Premises: Collection charges shall be
assessed against all occupied premises and shall be considered charges for
utility service for which a lien for unpaid charges may be filed and
foreclosed.
   C.   Occupied Premises Defined: Occupied premises are any land, building or
other structure that generates solid waste or receives city water, sewer and/or
electric service.
   D.   Special Provisions For Residential Customers:
      1.   Residential solid waste customers in good standing and within the
city corporate limits shall be allowed two (2) open truck pick ups per service
account per calendar year at no charge during the months of May and/or October.
This service will be limited to yard debris and/or normal residential refuse;
provided, that such debris and/or refuse is properly bagged and/or piled in a
location and manner making it readily accessible. Materials such as dirt, rock,
and concrete rubble, roofing materials, auto parts, appliances and
construction/demolition debris are strictly prohibited. (Ord. C2005-7, 10-11-
2005)
      2.   Residential solid waste customers in good standing and within the
city’s corporate limits shall be entitled to receive three (3) coupons with a
value of eight dollars ($8.00) each per solid waste service account per
calendar year, redeemable at the Northwest New Mexico regional solid waste
authority McKinley transfer station located on Landfill Road. Coupons will be
issued in January of each year and shall expire on December 31 of that year.
(Ord. 2010-8, 11-9-2010)
   E.   Annual Rate Increase: On or about July 1, 2025, and July 1, 2026 for a
period of two (2) years, the charge for commercial/residential solid waste
service set forth in Sections
8-6-4(A)(1)(a), (b), (d) (4 and 6 cubic yards), (e), (g) and
8-6-4(A)(2) above shall be increased by fourteen percent (14%) and shall go
into effect automatically unless by June 1 of each year the governing body
votes otherwise. (Ord. C2004-5, 4-13-2004)
   F.   Container Charge: Upon a request for new service and prior to service
being started, the customer shall pay a nonrefundable fee equal to full cost of
the applicable container(s) being requested. On or about April 1 of each year,
the executive director of the Solid Waste Department shall submit a list of
container cost to the city manager for his/her approval. Upon approval of the
city manager, the new fees for containers shall go into effect on July 1 of
each year. (Ord. C2004-5, 4-13-2004; amd. 2006 Code)
   G.   Shared Container Rate: A special rate shall be made available to small
retail nonresidential/commercial customers receiving solid waste collection and
disposal service in the downtown area and in other areas of the City’s where
the nature of the service location prohibits the use of individual containers
or the typical commercial containers due to limited access ,or would require
off-cycle pickups. Such rates shall be determined on a case by case basis as
recommended by the Solid Waste Superintendent with the approval of the Solid
Waste Director, and shall be equivalent to the rate for a ninety (90) gallon
container for commercial/nonresidential customers multiplied by the estimated
number of pick ups per week, but in no case shall it exceed the rate for once
per week pick up of a two (2) yard container. (Ord. C2006-06, 4-25-2006; amd.
Ord. C2025-1, 1-14-2025)
8-6-5: WASTEWATER CHARGES:
   Wastewater charges established by this Section
8-6-8 are applicable to all improved premises having connections to the City of
Gallup's sewer system, excepting only those cases in which wastewater charges
are established and governed by a contract duly approved by the Council of the
City of Gallup. Wastewater charges established by this Section
8-6-8 consist of a monthly service charge based on water meter size and a
volume charge based on monthly water consumption (either gallons or cubic
feet), as follows:
   A.   Wastewater Rates: Residential wastewater service is available to
residences connected to the City's sewer system having one water meter per
residence of no more than two inches (2") in capacity.
 
Residential Wastewater Rates                             Fiscal Year 2025
Monthly rate service charge plus                         $10.40
Volume charge (based on current month's water service    $0.073219 per cubic ft
consumption up to 2,674 cubic feet per month) or
Volume charge (based on current month's water service up $0.009788 per gal
to 20,000 gallons per month usage) or
Maximum volume charge (per month)                        $195.76
 
   B.   All Other Service: Monthly Rate: Service charge based on water meter
size:
Meter Size Fiscal Year 2025
Meter Size                                           Fiscal Year 2025
5/8 inch meter                                       $10.40
1 inch meter                                         $18.93
1-1/2 inch meter                                     $33.11
2 inch meter                                         $44.10
3 inch meter                                         $80.36
4 to 8 inch meters                                   $132.36
Nonresidential/Commercial volume charge (based on    $0.080546 per cubic ft
current month's water service consumption)
Or Nonresidential/Commercial volume charge (based on $0.010765 per gal.
current month's water service consumption)
 
   C.   Outside City Limits: For service outside the city limits, the
wastewater rates shall be twice that for service inside the city limits,
excepting only those cases in which such rates are established and governed by
a contract duly approved by the City Council.
   D.   Residential Sewer Connections that do not have City Water Service: The
wastewater rate for residents that do not have city water service will, unless
established and governed by a contract duly approved by the City Council, be
set at the rate of two thousand (2,000) cubic feet per month, plus the
applicable service charge.
   E.   Commercial Sewer Connections that do not have City Water Service: The
wastewater rate for commercial accounts that do not have city water service
will, unless established and governed by a contract duly approved by the City
Council, be based on the previous year's average water consumption by the
City's commercial customers.
   F.   Reclaimed Wastewater Charges: Charges for the usage of wastewater
effluent apply to and are payable by all users other than the City who do not
have a valid contract duly approved by the City Council for this use. The rate
for all reclaimed water shall be $0.0315 per cubic foot or $4.21 per one
thousand (1,000) gallons.
   G.   Septage Treatment Charge: The charge for receiving and treatment of
septage from licensed haulers shall be $92.64 per one thousand (1,000) gallons
or $0.692951 per cubic foot.
   H.   Residential Customers Not Receiving Water Service: The wastewater rate
for residential customers that do not receive city water service, but which
have an individually metered water source will be based on metered water use up
to the maximum volume charge. The City reserves the right to verify the
accuracy and working condition of the water meter. If the City cannot verify
the integrity of this meter, then the maximum volume charge shall apply.
   I.   Nonresidential and Commercial Customers Not Receiving Water Service:
The wastewater rate for nonresidential and/or commercial customers that do not
receive city water service, but which have an individually metered water source
will be based on metered water use. The City reserves the right to verify the
accuracy and working condition of the water meter. If the City cannot verify
the integrity of the meter, the account will be billed at the previous year's
average water consumption by the City's commercial customers.
   J.   Combined Uses Not Receiving Water Service: The wastewater rate for
customers with combined residential and nonresidential and/or commercial uses
and which do not receive city water service but which have a master metered
water source shall be at the rate of two thousand (2,000) cubic feet per month
per residence with all usage in excess of the residential allowance charged at
the commercial rate.
   K.   Multiple Users Not Receiving Water Service: The charge for multiple
residential or nonresidential and/or commercial customers that do not receive
city water service, but which have a master metered water source will be at the
applicable residential or nonresidential rate.
   L.   Effective Date of Rates: The rates, fees and other charges for
wastewater service applicable to all customers of the City not established and
governed by a contract duly approved by the City Council shall be effective for
service rendered on and after July 1, 2024.
   M.   Wastewater Consumer Price Index Increase: The service and volume
charges for wastewater service as set forth in this Section shall be increased
annually by a factor of three percent (3%) in each of Fiscal Years 2026, 2027,
2028 and 2029. Beginning in Fiscal Year 2030, the service and volume charges
for wastewater service as set forth in this Section shall be increased or
decreased annually to reflect changes in the consumer price index. The consumer
price index shall be the average for "all items" shown as the "United States
city average for all urban consumers as promulgated by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics of the United States Department of Labor" (CPI-U). On or about April
1, 2029, and every year thereafter, the City Manager or his/her designee will
notify the City Council of the proposed wastewater rates adjusted by the CPI-U.
All increases provided for in this subdivision M. shall automatically go into
effect on the first day (July 1) of each Fiscal Year unless by June 1 of the
preceding Fiscal Year the City Council votes otherwise at a duly scheduled and
noticed regular or special meeting.
   N.   Wastewater charges are determined by the size of the customer's water
meter and amount of water consumption. When the City's water rates are adjusted
by ordinance, the corresponding wastewater rate will be adjusted by a similar
percentage and implemented with the same effective date as the water rate
change.
(Ord. 2018-6, 5-8-2018; amd. Ord. C2021-4, 5-25-2021; Ord. C2024-4, 7-23-2024)
8-6-6: BUILDING INSPECTOR TO CERTIFY NUMBER OF CONNECTIONS:
   Forthwith and as soon as possible, the building inspector and his deputies
shall conduct a survey of each and every piece and parcel of land having sewer
connections in use or capable of being used and shall certify the number of
sewer connections of each separate premises to the Office of the City Clerk,
and upon such survey, the charges as provided in section
8-6-8 of this chapter shall be calculated. For the purpose of endorsing this
chapter and determining the number of sewer connections, the building inspector
is hereby authorized to enter in and upon any premises during the ordinary and
usual working hours for the purpose of inspecting such premises, and any person
occupying, owning or in control of such premises who shall refuse to allow such
inspection of the premises shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1965; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 6A
SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES
ARTICLE A. PROVISION OF UTILITY SERVICES
SECTION:
8-6A-1: Utilities Services
8-6A-2: Definitions
8-6A-3: Deposits And Other Security
8-6A-4: Changing Deposits And Other Security
8-6A-5: Refunds Of Deposits
8-6A-6: Statement Of Charges And Payments
8-6A-7: Environmental Surcharge
8-6A-8: Liens
8-6A-9: Delinquent Accounts, Accounts Disputes And Meter Tampering
8-6A-10: Discontinuance Of Utilities Services
8-6A-11: Charging Off Delinquent Accounts
8-6A-12: Discontinuation, Liens And Collections
8-6A-13: Returned Payments
8-6A-14: Seriously Or Chronically Ill Account Holders
8-6A-15: Limitation On Discontinuance Or Disconnection Of Electric Utility
Service During The Winter Heating Season
8-6A-1: UTILITIES SERVICES:
   U tilities services shall be furnished to persons applying for the same upon
the terms and conditions provided in this Title and as otherwise provided by
the provisions of this code.
(Ord. C2024-7, 11-26-2024)
8-6A-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Title, the following terms have the following meanings.
Terms not specifically defined shall be understood in accordance with their
common dictionary meanings.
ACCOUNT: An account is an arrangement between the city and an account holder,
governed in all respects by the terms of this chapter 6A, other applicable
provisions of this code, and applicable law, pursuant to which the city makes
utilities services available to an account holder at a served property.
ACCOUNT INFORMATION: Account information consists of all information provided
in a hard copy writing or through email by the account holder to the city
manager or designee concerning the account, including information provided in
the application. Account information does not include any information provided
to the city manager or designee in a form other than a hard copy writing or
email, including information provided orally, by voice mail, or by text.
APPLICATION: An application means and refers to the documentation by and
through which an applicant requests an account. The form and content of an
application shall be determined by the city manager or the designee in their
reasonable discretion. All applications shall be made by the applicant, as that
term is defined below.
APPLICANT: An applicant means and refers to the following:
   A.   In the case of a served property occupied by an owner thereof, all
owners of the property.
   B.   In the case of a served property occupied by a person or persons other
than the owner(s), all tenants and/or authorized occupants of the property.
ACCOUNT HOLDER: The term account holder means and refers to the person(s) or
entity(ies) in whose name an account is placed. In all cases the account holder
is and shall be the applicant. No person or entity may be the account holder
unless and until he, she, it or they have submitted and received the city's
approval of an application.
BILL DATE: The bill date is the date on which a statement of charges for
utilities services is mailed to the account holder.
CITY MANAGER/DESIGNEE : The term city manager means and refers to the city's
permanent manager, any interim city manager, and any acting city manager. The
term designee means and refers to the officer(s) or employee(s) of the city to
whom the city manager has delegated his or her authority, function or
responsibility under this chapter 6A, in whole or in part.
LEGITIMATE FINANCIAL HARDSHIP: A legitimate financial hardship is a sudden,
unforeseen event that proximately causes an account holder's inability to pay
for utilities services on a current basis. Whether a legitimate financial
hardship exists in a particular case will be determined by the city manager or
designee in their reasonable discretion. The following circumstances may
qualify as causes of legitimate financial hardship: (1) family medical
emergency, (2) death of an immediate family member, (3) divorce, (4) military
deployment, (5) domestic violence victimization, (6) job loss, and/or (7)
accident resulting in significant property loss or personal injury.
NONRESIDENTIAL ACCOUNT: A nonresidential account is any account other than a
residential account.
NONRESIDENTIAL ACCOUNT HOLDER: A nonresidential account holder is any account
holder who is not a residential account holder.
PAYMENT ARRANGEMENT: A payment arrangement is a written agreement, signed by
the city manager or designee and the account holder, providing for payment of a
delinquent account. Payment arrangements involving delinquent amounts not
exceeding two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) may be approved and signed by the
designee. Payment arrangements involving delinquent amounts exceeding two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00) must be approved by the city manager.
PAYMENT EXTENSION: A payment extension grants an account holder up to seven (7)
calendar days of the issuance of a cut off notice to avoid disruption of
utilities service by making payment as necessary to place the account in a
current status.
PERSONAL GUARANTEE: A personal guarantee is a written undertaking in form and
content acceptable to the city manager or designee, executed by a natural
person who has demonstrated an ability to pay through the submission of
acceptable documentary evidence, irrevocably and unconditionally guaranteeing
the complete payment and satisfaction of all charges and obligations associated
with an account, and irrevocably waiving any and all applicable surety ship
defenses.
RESIDENTIAL ACCOUNT: A residential account is an account for a served property
located in a residential or equivalent zone and is used by the account holder
as a private, personal dwelling.
RESIDENTIAL ACCOUNT HOLDER: A residential account holder is a natural person
who occupies a served property in a residential or equivalent zone, which
served property is used by the account holder as a private, personal dwelling.
SERIOUSLY OR CHRONICALLY ILL: An account holder is seriously or chronically ill
when he or she suffers from a life threatening, permanent or protracted,
medical condition under long term treatment which substantially impairs his or
her ability to pay for utilities services on a current basis. Whether an
account holder is seriously or chronically ill is to be determined by the city
manager or designee in their reasonable discretion. However, in all cases, an
account holder who claims to be seriously or chronically ill must submit a
current written, signed statement from a licensed medical professional
certifying that discontinuance of utility services will endanger the account
holder's health or life, including because the account holder has no
alternative living arrangement. The signed, written statement must be updated
periodically as determined by the city manager or designee in their reasonable
discretion.
SERVED PROPERTY: The term served property means the property to which utilities
services are provided pursuant to an account. Served property may be an
apartment or condominium unit, space, or other portion of a larger structure or
property. The documentation for an account shall identify the served property
by address, unit number or designation, and, where applicable, legal
description.
UTILITIES SERVICES/UTILITY SERVICE: The term utilities services means and
refers to water, sewer, electrical and solid waste services provided by the
city to an account holder at a served property. The term may be used
collectively or individually. alternatively, an individual service may be
referred to as a utility service.
(Ord. C2024-7, 11-26-2024)
8-6A-3: DEPOSITS AND OTHER SECURITY:
   No Application for Utilities Services, or for the continuance of utilities
services after such service has been disconnected, shall be accepted by the
city until the applicant shall have deposited with the city an amount estimated
by the city manager or designee as reasonably necessary to protect the city
against the risk of non-payment. Such amount shall be no less than the
estimated amount due for such services for a two (2) month period or one
hundred seventy-five dollars ($175.00), whichever is greater (the "Minimum
Amount"); provided, however, that upon receipt of satisfactory proof, including
proof of financial capacity, the city manager or designee may, in their
reasonable discretion, accept a deposit in an amount less than the minimum
amount in cases where:
   A.   The application is made by all owners of the served property;
   B.   The owner(s) of the served property have not notified the city that
charges for utilities services that may be incurred by a renter will not be the
responsibility of the owner(s) pursuant to NMSA 3-23-6(C) or any similar
amended or successor statute; or
   C.   The applicant provides an acceptable personal guarantee.
(Ord. C2024-7, 11-26-2024)
8-6A-4: CHANGING DEPOSITS AND OTHER SECURITY:
   The city manager or the designee may require or provide for an increase,
decrease or other change in a deposit or other security provided by an
applicant or account holder in accordance with section
8-6A-3 as the city manager or designee determines is reasonably necessary to
protect the city against the risk of non-payment, subject to the following
limitations:
   A.   No deposit securing a residential account shall exceed the estimated or
average total of all charges on the account for a three (3) month period.
   B.   Except as provided in section
8-6A-5, no deposit securing a residential account shall be reduced to an amount
less than the estimated or average total of all charges on the account for a
one (1) month period, unless (i) payment of the account is secured by a
personal guarantee signed by a person other than the account holder, or (ii)
the owner(s) of the served property has not notified the city that charges for
utilities services that may be incurred by the account holder will not be the
responsibility of the owner(s) pursuant to NMSA 3-23-6(C) or any similar
amended or successor statute.
   C.   No deposit securing a nonresidential account shall be reduced to an
amount less than the estimated or average total of all charges on the account
for a one (1) month period, unless payment of the account is secured by two
personal guarantees signed by persons other than the account holder.
   D.   No interest will be paid on any deposit made under this Title. Except
as otherwise provided in section
8-6A-5, no refund of a deposit will be made upon termination of an account
until full and final payment has been received by the city for all amounts due
on the account.
(Ord. C2024-7, 11-26-2024)
8-6A-5: REFUNDS OF DEPOSITS:
   A.   Following discontinuance of all utilities services provided pursuant to
an account, and after the city has received payment of all amounts due with
respect to the account, the account holder shall receive any remaining balance
of the deposit securing the account, and any personal guarantee provided to
secure payment of the account shall be cancelled and discharged.
   B.   If an account holder has made all payments due on an account in a
timely manner for a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive months, any deposit
then securing the account may be returned to the account holder, in whole or in
part, at the reasonable discretion of the city manager or designee. The amount
returned will be refunded as a credit to the account holder's monthly bill.
   C.   If, after a deposit has been refunded in whole or in part in accordance
with Section
8-6A-5(B), the account becomes delinquent, a new or additional deposit in an
amount determined by the city manager or designee in their reasonable
discretion will be required as a condition to the ongoing provision of
utilities services.
(Ord. C2024-7, 11-26-2024)
8-6A-6: STATEMENT OF CHARGES AND PAYMENTS:
   All charges for utilities services shall be determined and billed monthly to
the account holder on a single statement. All such charges shall be due and
payable in full upon the mailing of the statement, and shall be delinquent if
payment in full is not received twenty eight (28) calendar days after the bill
date. The amount paid on a bill shall be applied to the balance shown on the
bill as due and owing, including any balance due under a payment arrangement,
and shall be first applied to the oldest portion of the balance. No payment
will be applied to any specific item or entry on a bill, and the city will not
honor any direction that a payment be so applied.
(Ord. C2024-7, 11-26-2024)
8-6A-7: ENVIRONMENTAL SURCHARGE:
   In addition to all charges imposed in this Title for utilities services,
there is imposed a four percent (4%) surcharge effective July 1, 1995. This
surcharge shall be considered an additional charge for utilities services and
shall be collected as set out in this chapter.
(Ord. C2024-7, 11-26-2024)
8-6A-8: LIENS:
   All served properties or other properties receiving utilities services shall
be subject to a lien for utilities services to the greatest extent allowed by
law, including but not limited to NMSA 3-26-2, NMSA 3-23-6, NMSA 3-27-4 and/or
NMSA 3-36-1 -- 3-36-7, as the same may be amended or supplemented. Nothing in
this section shall in any way limit the city's rights and remedies in dealing
with a delinquent account or collecting amounts owed for utilities services.
(Ord. C2024-7, 11-26-2024)
8-6A-9: DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS, ACCOUNT DISPUTES AND METER TAMPERING:
   A.   An account is delinquent if not paid on or before the due date
established by section
8-6A-6.
   B.   Late Fee: If an account is delinquent and payment in full has not been
received by the city thirty six (36) calendar days after the bill date, a late
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) will be assessed to the account. As a
courtesy to account holder(s), the city may employ an automated phone system in
an attempt to reach the holder(s) of a delinquent account at the phone number
(s) listed on the account information to advise that payment is necessary to
avoid the late fee, termination of utilities services, and/or other
consequences. The city makes no assurance that any attempt by the automated
phone system will reach an account holder, and no such failure, nor any
discontinuation or cessation of the automated phone system, in whole or in
part, temporary or permanent, shall have any effect on any account holder's
payment obligations or on the city's rights and remedies respecting
delinquency, payment collection, or any related matter.
   C.   Cut-Off Notice And Payment: Where an account is delinquent and payment
in full has not been received by the city forty-five (45) calendar days after
the bill date, the city, where practicable, will attempt to provide an account
holder with three (3) business days' notice (the "Cutoff Notice") before
discontinuing one or more utilities services. The city makes no assurance that
a Cutoff Notice can or will be sent or received. Unless an account holder pays
all amounts due on the account or arranges for an acceptable payment extension
within seven (7) calendar days of the date on which the Cutoff Notice is sent
or would be sent if practicable, the city may, subject only to the exceptions
set forth in sections
8-6A-14 and
8-6A-15, discontinue one or more utility services to the served property. No
account holder shall be permitted to make more than two (2) payment extensions
for an account during a calendar year.
   D.   Service Restoration: Once a utility service has been discontinued, it
will not be restored unless (i) the city is paid all delinquent amounts due,
including the late fee charged pursuant to paragraph 9.B. above and all accrued
or assessed interest and fees set forth in paragraphs 1 and 2 below, and (ii) a
deposit and/or personal guarantee acceptable to the city under the standards
established by sections
8-6A-3 and
8-6A-4 has been paid or received.
      1.   An administrative processing fee will be charged to reactivate
utility services. In the case of a residential account, the fee will be sixty
dollars ($60.00), and in the case of a nonresidential account, one hundred and
sixty dollars ($160.00).
      2.   Interest on all delinquent charges shall accrue and be charged at
the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date payment was due to and
including the date of payment.
      The city manager or designee are permitted to waive or reduce the fees
and/or interest charges provided in paragraphs 1. and 2. above in their
reasonable discretion.
   E   Payment Arrangements: Where an account is delinquent, the city manager
or designee may, in his/her reasonable discretion, enter into a payment
arrangement. The payment arrangement may be conditioned upon payment of an
increased deposit and/or delivery of a personal guarantee. Failure of the
account holder to comply with the terms of a payment arrangement will be cause
for immediate termination of utility services.
   F.   Extraordinary Circumstances: The city manager, or designee upon finding
that extraordinary and compelling circumstances exist respecting an account
holder, may, in his/her reasonable discretion, vary the application of sections
8-6A-9(B) through (E) respecting an account. Any such variation shall be
tailored solely to address the extraordinary and compelling circumstances,
shall minimize any financial loss or risk to the city, and shall not be
effective unless and until fully documented, including through detailed
description of the extraordinary and compelling circumstances and signed by the
city manager or designee.
   G.   Billing Disputes: Should an account holder dispute any charge or other
amount shown as due and owing on an account statement, the account holder must
submit a written, signed statement addressed to the city clerk setting forth in
detail the nature of the dispute and the facts upon which the account owner
relies in support of his, her or its position (the "Dispute Notice"). The
dispute notice must be received by the city clerk within ninety (90) days
following the bill date on which the disputed charge or other amount first
appears. The city manager or designee will review the dispute notice and such
additional facts he or she may find relevant, and will issue a final, written
decision respecting the dispute notice within fifteen (15) days of its receipt
by the city clerk. All charges and other amounts shown as due and owing on an
account statement shall be conclusive and not subject to dispute or question of
any kind unless disputed by the account holder within the ninety (90) day
period set forth above.
   H.   Meter Tampering: Meter tampering consist of any unauthorized
manipulation, opening, invasion, disruption, connection or reconnection of a
water or electric meter ("Meter"), including any conduct a person intends or
knows will, or is likely to, damage, impair, bypass, divert or disable, a
meter. It constitutes and is chargeable as disorderly conduct under section
5-1-10 of this Code, as well as destroying, damaging or defacing property under
Section
5-1-11 of this code, and may constitute or form the basis for a charge of
falsely obtaining services or accommodations under section
5-1-17 of this code, petty larceny, conversion, embezzlement, fraud under
section
5-1-26 of this code, and/or unauthorized utility connection under section
5-1-41 of this code, together with applicable violations of New Mexico law.
      Where meter tampering occurs, utilities services will be discontinued
respecting the account(s) and/or properties served by the meter and, prior to
the resumption of utilities services to the account(s) and/or properties, the
account(s) will be charged for, and will be required to pay:
      1.   All labor and material expense incurred by the city in repairing or
replacing the meter;
      2.   Any other costs reasonably incurred by the city to correct and
compensate for the tampering, including recovery for diverted or
misappropriated utilities services; and
      3.   An administrative fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00).
   I.   Damage To Or Loss Or Destruction Of City Utilities Equipment: If
equipment other than a meter owned and used by the city in the delivery of
utilities services, including but not limited to trash bins, valves, and
covers, is damaged, lost or destroyed as the result of negligence or other
misconduct on the part of a person occupying or using a served property at
which the equipment is located, the account(s) for the served property shall be
charged for, and required to pay, all cost(s) incurred by the city in replacing
the equipment.
      The city manager or the designee are permitted to waive or reduce charges
imposed under subsections H. and I. above in their reasonable discretion.
(Ord. C2024-7, 11-26-2024)
8-6A-10: DISCONTINUANCE OF UTILITIES SERVICES:
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, the city may for a period
of time and without notice discontinue any utility service for reasons of
operation, maintenance, breakage or other disruption resulting from any cause
or condition, health, safety, or state of emergency, including potential
violation of applicable Federal, State or local laws, rules or regulations.
Although attempts will be made to alert affected account holders through public
service announcements or like measures, the city makes no guarantee that such
attempts will be successful, and in no event shall the city incur any liability
or responsibility related to or arising from any discontinuance or the effects
of or conditions attending any discontinuance addressed by this section.
(Ord. C2024-7, 11-26-2024)
8-6A-11: CHARGING OFF DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS:
   After all attempts at collection have been exhausted and an account is
determined to be uncollectible, it shall be placed on a list and presented to
the city council for consideration and formal charge-off (removal) as an
account receivable on the city's books and records. No charge-off decision by
the council shall in any way compromise or affect any claim, defense or right
held by the city with respect to the account. A permanent record of charged-off
accounts shall be kept by the city clerk. No utility service shall be provided
to any account holder of a charged-off account.
(Ord. C2024-7, 11-26-2024)
8-6A-12: DISCONTINUATION, LIENS AND COLLECTIONS:
   A.   Any or all utilities services at a served property may be discontinued
in accordance with sections
8-6A-9(C) and/or
8-6A-10.
   B.   Regardless of whether utilities services at a served property or other
property have or have not been discontinued, the city will have and may file a
lien against the served property and/or other property in accordance with
governing law and policy established by the city council. Absent written
direction from the city manager or designee in consultation with the city
attorney, no such lien shall be released unless full payment of the lien
amount, with all accrued interest and charges, is received by the city. The
city may, at the discretion of the city manager or designee in consultation
with the city attorney, sell, assign or otherwise dispose of or transfer any
such lien.
   C.   In consultation with the city attorney, and regardless of whether
utilities services to the served property and/or other property have been
discontinued or a lien has been filed against the served property and/or other
property, the city manager or designee may initiate a collection action against
the account holder and/or any other person or entity responsible for the
account.
   D.   The city manager, in consultation with the city attorney, is authorized
to promulgate policies and procedures to implement the provisions of this
section 8-6A-12.
(Ord. C2024-7, 11-26-2024)
8-6A-13: RETURNED PAYMENTS:
   A charge of fifty dollars ($50.00) will be added to the amount due on an
account whenever payment the account is returned or charged back for any
reason. Any account with two (2) returned and/or charged-back payments will be
classified and treated as a cash-only account.
(Ord. C2024-7, 11-26-2024)
8-6A-14: SERIOUSLY OR CHRONICALLY ILL ACCOUNT HOLDERS:
   A.   Utility service will not be discontinued to a seriously or chronically
ill residential account holder, if that person provides sufficient verified
documentation to the city manager or designee that he or she does not have, or
have access to, financial resources sufficient to pay the residential account
in full. The residential account holder must provide verified documentation
sufficient to establish his or her lack of, and lack of access to, sufficient
financial resources every ninety (90) days following an initial determination
that utility service will not be discontinued. The city manager or designee
shall exercise reasonable discretion in determining whether a seriously or
chronically ill residential account holder lacks, and lacks access to,
financial resources sufficient to pay the residential account in full.
   B.   Upon the satisfaction of all terms and conditions set forth in section
8-6A-14(A), the city manager or designee is authorized to make a suitable
written agreement with the seriously or chronically ill residential account
holder, or any court appointed guardian or conservator for the seriously or
chronically ill residential account holder, providing for regular monthly
payments on the residential account (an "Illness Agreement"). Utility services
may be discontinued on the residential account if payments are not made in
accordance with the illness agreement. In no event, shall an illness agreement
continue for more than two (2) years after its initial date.
   C.   Nothing in this section
8-6A-14 is intended to, or shall, prevent, limit or otherwise affect the city's
right to a lien against any served property, to foreclosure of any such lien,
to demand or collect payment from any person not a party to the illness
agreement, and/or to demand or collect payment from the seriously or
chronically ill residential account holder, or his or her heirs, successors,
assigns or estate, following the termination of the illness agreement.
(Ord. C2024-7, 11-26-2024)
8-6A-15: LIMITATION ON DISCONTINUANCE OR DISCONNECTION OF ELECTRIC UTILITY
SERVICE DURING THE WINTER HEATING SEASON:
   Discontinuation of electric service during the winter heating season shall
be governed by the New Mexico Low Income Utility Assistance Act, NMSA 27-6-1-
18.1, as amended (the "Act") and any rules or regulations implementing the act.
(Ord. C2024-7, 11-26-2024)
CHAPTER 7
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-7-1: Title
8-7-2: Purpose
8-7-3: Definitions
8-7-4: Exempt Facilities
8-7-5: Eligible Facilities Requests: Application And Submittal Requirements
8-7-6: Small Wireless Facilities: Permitted Use; Application And Submittal
Requirements
8-7-7: Permit Application Review Process
8-7-8: Additional Requirements
8-7-9: Effect Of Permit
8-7-10: Removal, Relocation Or Modification Of Small Wireless Facilities In The
ROW
8-7-11: Rates
8-7-12: Non-Exclusivity And Ownership
8-7-13: Placement Of Equipment
8-7-14: General Requirements For Towers
8-7-15: Preferred Tower Locations
8-7-16: Independent Technical And Legal Review
8-7-17: Safety Review
8-7-18: Final Inspection
8-7-19: Compliance
8-7-20: Indemnification
8-7-21: Conflicts
8-7-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be known and cited as the “Small Wireless Facilities
Ordinance.” (Ord. C2021-5, 8-24-2021)
8-7-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   To establish policies and procedures for the placement of small
wireless facilities within the City, which will provide public benefit
consistent with the preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual
qualities of the City rights-of-way and the City as a whole;
   B.   To prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
   C.   To prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
   D.   To prevent interference with the facilities and operations of
facilities lawfully located in rights-of-way;
   E.   To preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
   F.   To facilitate rapid deployment of small wireless facilities to provide
the benefits of advanced wireless services;
   G.   To ensure City zoning regulations are applied consistently with Federal
and State of New Mexico telecommunications laws, rules and regulations of the
Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and controlling court decisions; and
   H.   To provide regulations which are specifically not intended to, and
shall not be interpreted or applied to, (1) prohibit or effectively prohibit
the provision of personal wireless services, (2) unreasonably discriminate
among functionally equivalent service providers, or (3) regulate wireless
communication facilities and wireless transmission equipment on the basis of
the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to the extent that such
emissions comply with the standards established by the FCC. (Ord. C2021-5, 8-
24-2021)
8-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Ordinance, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:
ANTENNA:       Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic radio frequency
               signals and that is used to provide wireless services.
               A single or group of antenna elements, not including small wireless facilities, and
               associated mounting hardware, transmission lines, remote radio units, or other
ANTENNA ARRAY: appurtenances which share a common attachment device such as a mounting frame or
               mounting support structure for the sole purpose of transmitting or receiving
               wireless communication signals.
               Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing or mechanical codes adopted by a
               recognized national code organization and enacted by the City, including the local
APPLICABLE     amendments to those codes enacted by the City solely to address imminent threats of
CODES:         destruction of property or injury to persons, to the extent that those amendments
               are consistent with the Wireless Consumer Advanced Infrastructure Investment Act
               (“Act”).
APPLICANT:     A wireless provider that submits an application.
               A request submitted by an applicant to the City for a permit to collocate one or
APPLICATION:   more small wireless facilities or to approve the installation, modification or
               replacement of a utility pole or wireless support structure.
CITY:          The City of Gallup.
CITY UTILITY   A utility pole, owned or maintained by the City.
POLE:
COLLOCATE” ORTo install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or replace one or more wireless
“COLLOCATION:facilities on, in or adjacent to a wireless support structure or utility pole.
DESIGN         The Downtown Overlay District or an area which, in the future, may be zoned or
DISTRICT:      otherwise designated by municipal ordinance and for which the City maintains and
               uniformly enforces unique design and aesthetic standards.
               Any request for modification of an existing tower or base station involving the
ELIGIBLE       collocation of new transmission equipment, removal of transmission equipment, or
FACILITIES     replacement of transmission equipment; that does not substantially change the
REQUEST:       physical dimensions of such tower or base station; and that falls within the
               definition of an “Eligible Facilities Request” contained in Section 6409(a) of the
               Spectrum Act of 2012.
ELIGIBLE       Any tower or base station that is existing at the time the relevant application is
SUPPORT        filed with the City under this Chapter.
STRUCTURE:
               A tower or base station that has been reviewed and approved under an applicable
               zoning or siting process, or under another State or local regulatory review process,
EXISTING:      provided that a tower that has not been reviewed and approved because it was not in
               a zoned area when it was built, but was lawfully constructed, is existing for
               purposes of this definition.
FAA:           The Federal Aviation Administration.
FEE:           A one-time charge.
               A group of buildings, properties or sites that fall within the category defined in
               47 C.F.R. 1.1307(a)(4) and are: (a) listed in the national register of historic
HISTORIC       places or formally determined eligible for listing in that register by the keeper of
DISTRICT:      the register in accordance with the nationwide programmatic agreement found in 47
               C.F.R. Part 1, Appendix C; or (b) designated as a historic district in accordance
               with the Historic District and Landmark Act; or (c) the Gallup Commercial Historic
               District as designated in the Gallup Land Development Standards.
LAW:           Federal, State of New Mexico, or local laws or regulations including Gallup City
               ordinances.
PERMIT:        The written permission of the City for a wireless provider to install, mount,
               maintain, modify, operate or replace a small wireless facility.
PERSON:        An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association,
               trust or other entity or organization and includes the City.
RATE:          A recurring charge.
               The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway, street, sidewalk, alley or
               utility easement.
RIGHT-OF-WAY:  Right-of-way does not include the area on, below or above a federal interstate
               highway, a state highway or route under the jurisdiction of the New Mexico
               Department of Transportation, a private easement or a utility easement that does not
               authorize the deployment sought by a wireless provider.
SHOT CLOCK:    The period of time within which the City needs to act and render a decision on an
               application.
               A wireless facility whose:
               (1)   Antennas are, or could fit, inside an enclosure with a volume of six (6)or
               fewer cubic feet; and
               (2)   Other ground- or pole-mounted wireless equipment, not including the following,
               is twenty-eight (28) or fewer cubic feet in volume:
SMALL WIRELESS    (i)   Electric meter;
FACILITY:         (ii)   Concealment elements;
                  (iii)   Telecommunications demarcation box;
                  (iv)   Grounding equipment;
                  (v)   Power transfer switch;
                  (vi)   Cutoff switch;
                  (vii)   Vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other services; and
                  (viii) Design elements required by the City.
               A design that minimizes the visual impact of wireless facilities by camouflaging,
               disguising, screening or blending them into the surrounding environment. Examples of
STEALTH        stealth design include, but are not limited to: facilities disguised as trees,
DESIGN:        flagpoles, utility and light poles, bell towers, clock towers, ball field lights and
               architecturally screened roof-mounted antennas or flush-mounted antennas that are
               either painted to match or enclosed in an architecturally-applicable box.
SUBSTANTIAL    A modification that substantially changes the physical dimensions of an eligible
CHANGE:        support structure, as provided in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(7), as amended from time to
               time and as interpreted by the FCC.
               Any structure built for the sole or primary purpose of supporting any FCC-licensed
               or authorized antennas and their associated facilities, including structures that
TOWER:         are constructed for wireless services including, but not limited to: private,
               broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services and
               fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul, and the associated site.
               A pole or similar structure used, in whole or in part, for communications services,
UTILITY POLE:  electricity distribution, lighting or traffic signals. Utility pole does not include
               a wireless support structure or electric transmission structure.
               Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications between user
               equipment and a communications network, including equipment associated with wireless
               communications; radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cables, regular
               and backup power supplies and comparable equipment, regardless of technological
               configuration; and includes a small wireless facility. Wireless facility does not
WIRELESS       include:
FACILITY:      (1)   The structure or improvements on, under or within which the equipment is
               collocated;
               (2)   A wireline backhaul facility, coaxial cable or fiber-optic cable between
               wireless support structures or utility poles; or
               (3)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable otherwise not immediately adjacent to, or
               directly associated with, an antenna.
WIRELESS       A person, other than a wireless services provider, that may provide
INFRASTRUCTURE telecommunications service in New Mexico and that builds or installs wireless
PROVIDER:      communications transmission equipment, wireless facilities, utility poles or
               wireless support structures.
WIRELESS       A wireless infrastructure provider or wireless services provider.
PROVIDER:
WIRELESS       Services provided to the public that use licensed or unlicensed spectrum, either
SERVICES:      mobile or at a fixed location, through wireless facilities.
WIRELESS
SERVICES       A person that provides wireless services.
PROVIDER:
WIRELESS       A freestanding structure, including a monopole or guyed or self-supporting tower,
SUPPORT        but not including a utility pole. (Ord. C2021-5, 8-24-2021)
STRUCTURE:
 
8-7-4: EXEMPT FACILITIES:
The following are exempt from this Chapter:
   A.   FCC licensed amateur (ham) radio facilities;
   B.   Satellite earth stations, dishes or antennas used for private
television reception not exceeding one (1) meter in diameter; and
   C.   A temporary, commercial wireless facility installed for providing
coverage of a special event such as news coverage or sporting event. The
facility shall be exempt from the provisions of this Chapter for up to one week
before and after the duration of the special event. (Ord. C2021-5, 8-24-2021)
8-7-5: ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUESTS: APPLICATION AND SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required. A permit pursuant to this Chapter is required for any
modification of an existing tower or base station that does not substantially
change the physical dimensions of such tower or base station, involving the
collocation of new transmission equipment, removal of transmission equipment,
or replacement of transmission equipment and that falls within the definition
of an “Eligible Facilities Request” contained in Section 6409(a) of the
Spectrum Act of 2012.
   B.   Any modification of an existing tower or base station that does
substantially change the physical dimensions of said tower or base station is
subject to the requirements of the City of Gallup’s Land Development Standards.
   C.   Permit Application. All Eligible Facilities Request applications for
permits filed pursuant to this Chapter shall be on a form, paper or electronic,
provided by the City.
   D.   Application Requirements. The Eligible Facilities Request permit
application shall be made by the wireless provider or its duly authorized
representative and shall contain the following:
      1.   The applicant’s name, address, telephone number, and email address;
      2.   Names, addresses, telephone numbers and email addresses of any
person or entity who will be responsible for construction and management of the
project;
      3.   Names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of all
consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant with respect to the
filing of the application;
      4.   Name, address, and telephone number for the owner of any non-City
owned property on which the tower or base station is located;
      5.   A general description of the proposed work; and
      6.   Projected start and completion dates.
   E.   Supporting Documentation. Applications submitted under this Chapter for
Eligible Facilities Requests shall attach the following materials:
      1.   Drawings, including a site plan and elevation of modifications;
      2.   Structural calculations from a New Mexico registered engineer that
show the modifications meet the requirements of the Building Code and a report
describing the capacity of the tower, including the number and type of antennas
that it can accommodate;
      3.   Contractor’s bond certificate if over $50,000 in construction costs;
      4.   A letter from the property owner giving permission to build; and
      5.   Any other supporting materials required by the City’s then current
Eligible Facilities Request Application Form. (Ord. C2021-5, 8-24-2021)
8-7-6: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES: PERMITTED USE; APPLICATION AND SUBMITTAL
REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required. No person shall place a small wireless facility within
a right-of-way; on a building, tower, wireless support structure, or any other
structure located within the City; or on a City utility pole, whether located
within the City or not; without first obtaining a permit pursuant to the
provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Permitted Uses. Collocation of a small wireless facility on an
existing, new, replacement, or modified utility pole in the right-of-way or on
an existing tower or other wireless support structure in the right-of-way are
permitted uses subject only to the requirements of Federal law and this
Chapter.
   C.   Permit Application. All small wireless facility applications for
permits filed pursuant to this Chapter shall be on a form, paper or electronic,
provided by the City.
   D.   Application Requirements. The small wireless facility permit
application shall be made by the wireless provider or its duly authorized
representative and shall contain the following:
      1.   The applicant’s name, address, telephone number, and email address;
      2.   Names, addresses, telephone numbers and email addresses of any
person or entity who will be responsible for construction and management of the
project;
      3.   Names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of all
consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant with respect to the
filing of the application;
      4.   Name, address, and telephone number for the owner of any non-City
owned support structure or pole;
      5.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes
(excluding those for Eligible Facilities Requests) and intent of the small
wireless facility. The scope and detail of such description shall be
appropriate to the nature and character of the work to be performed, with
special emphasis on those matters likely to be affected or impacted by the work
proposed; and
      6.   Projected start and completion dates.
   E.   Supporting Documentation. Applications submitted under this Chapter for
small wireless facilities shall attach the following materials:
      1.   Letter of authorization from the wireless provider or agent;
      2.   Letter of authorization from the property owner or attestation of
the applicant of City authority;
      3.   Site plan;
      4.   Photo simulations;
      5.   Elevation drawings;
      6.   If not a collocation on an existing pole, a list of vertical
structures within a one (1) mile radius, along with signal coverage maps and an
engineer’s structural report;
      7.   Noise report, if applicable; and
      8.   Any other supporting materials required by the City’s then current
Small Wireless Facilities Application Form.
   F.   Radio Frequency Emissions Compliance Report. A written report will be
prepared, signed and sealed by a New Mexico-licensed professional engineer or a
competent employee of the applicant, which assesses whether the proposed small
wireless facility demonstrates compliance with the exposure limits established
by the FCC. The employee of the applicant must be qualified in the field of RF
emissions and provide satisfactory evidence of his/her qualifications to the
City.
   G.   Inventory of Existing Sites. Each applicant for a utility pole or
wireless support structure exceeding the height limitation of a small wireless
facility shall provide to the City’s Planning and Development Department an
inventory of the applicant’s existing poles or towers that are either within
the jurisdiction of the City or within one (1) mile of the border thereof,
including specific information about the location, height, and design of each
pole or tower. The applicant shall only be required to provide this information
in its first application following implementation of this Chapter, and not
thereafter. The Department may share such information with other applicants
applying for permits under this Chapter or other organizations seeking to
locate poles or towers within the jurisdiction of the City, provided, however,
that the Department is not, by sharing such information, in any way
representing or warranting that such sites are available or suitable.
   H.   Routine Maintenance and Replacement. The City may not require an
application, approval or permit or impose a fee, rate or other charge for the
routine maintenance of a small wireless facility or the replacement of a small
wireless facility with one that is similar in size to, the same size as or
smaller than it as long as the wireless provider notifies the City of the
replacement at least ten (10) days before the replacement. The City may require
a permit for routine maintenance or replacement of a small wireless facility in
the rights-of-way that affect traffic patterns or require lane closures. (Ord.
C2021-5, 8-24-2021)
8-7-7: PERMIT APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Review of Eligible Facilities Request Applications.
      1.   The City shall review the application for an Eligible Facilities
Request permit in light of its conformity with applicable requirements of
Federal law and this Chapter, and other applicable City ordinances, and shall
issue a permit on nondiscriminatory terms and conditions.
      2.   The City shall make its decision to approve or deny the application
within sixty (60) days of receipt of the initial application, subject the
tolling provisions herein. The City shall notify the applicant in writing of
its final decision.
      3.   Tolling of the Time Frame for Review. The sixty (60) day review
period may be tolled only by mutual agreement between the City and the
applicant, or when the City determines that the application is incomplete.
         a.   To toll the time frame for incompleteness, the City must provide
written notice to the applicant within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
application, clearly and specifically delineating all missing documents or
information required in the application. The applicant may cure the
deficiencies identified by the City and resubmit the application within thirty
(30) days of the denial without paying an additional application fee.
         b.   The time frame for review begins running again when the applicant
makes a supplemental submission in response to the City’s notice of
incompleteness.
         c.   Following a supplemental submission, the City will have ten (10)
days to notify the applicant if the supplemental submission did not provide the
information identified in the original notice delineating missing information.
The time frame is tolled in the case of second or subsequent notices pursuant
to the procedures identified in this section. Second or subsequent notices of
incompleteness may not specify missing documents or information that was not
delineated in the original notice of incompleteness.
      4.   An application for an Eligible Facilities Request permit shall be
deemed approved if the City fails to act on the application within sixty (60)
days, subject to the tolling provisions contained herein.
   B.   Review of Small Wireless Facility Applications.
      1.   The City shall review the application for a small wireless facility
permit in light of its conformity with applicable requirements of this Chapter,
and other applicable City ordinances, and shall issue a permit on
nondiscriminatory terms and conditions.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of receiving an application, the City will
determine and notify the applicant whether the application is complete. If the
City fails to notify the applicant, the application will be deemed complete.
The ten (10) day shot clock may be tolled by mutual agreement between the City
and the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the City will specifically
identify the missing information in writing. Upon resubmission by the
applicant, the shot clock resets to zero (0) and the City has ten (10) days
from the date the application is resubmitted to again notify the applicant of
an incomplete application. If the City notifies an applicant that a resubmitted
application is incomplete, the shot clock period shall not run until the
applicant resubmits the requested information.
      3.   Time frame for review of complete application to collocate a small
wireless facility on an existing utility pole or on an existing tower or other
wireless support structure:
         a.   The City shall make its decision to approve or deny the
application to collocate a small wireless facility on an existing structure,
including a modified utility pole, within sixty (60) days of receipt of the
initial application, subject the tolling provisions herein. The City shall
advise the applicant in writing of its decision and in the case of a denial,
the basis for the denial including specific code provisions on which the denial
was based. If the City determines that applicable codes or laws require that a
utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced before an application
for collocation is approved, the City may condition approval of the application
on that replacement. The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
City and resubmit the application within thirty (30) days of the denial without
paying an additional application fee. The City shall approve or deny the
revised application within thirty (30) days of receipt of the amended
application. The subsequent review by the City shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the original denial.
         b.   If the City fails to act on a complete application within ninety
(90) days, subject to the tolling provisions contained herein, the application
is deemed approved. The City may also request an extension of the ninety (90)
day period, and the City and the applicant may agree to extend that period. The
applicant shall not unreasonably deny a City’s request to extend the period.
      4.   Time frame for review of complete application to install a small
wireless facility on a new or replacement pole or to install a small wireless
facility on a building or structure other than an existing utility pole or
tower:
         a.   The City shall make its decision to approve or deny the
application to install a small wireless facility on a new or replacement pole
or to install a small wireless facility on a building or structure other than
an existing utility pole, tower, or wireless support structure within ninety
(90) days of receipt of the initial application, subject to the tolling
provisions contained herein. The City shall advise the applicant, in writing,
of its decision and in the case of a denial, the basis for the denial including
specific code provisions on which the denial was based. The applicant may cure
the deficiencies identified by the City and resubmit the application within
thirty (30) days of the denial without paying an additional application fee.
The City shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days
of receipt of the amended application. The subsequent review by the City shall
be limited to the deficiencies cited in the original denial.
         b.   If the City fails to act on the application within one hundred
and fifty (150) days, subject to resetting the shot clock once for a pole in
the right-of-way and tolling, the application is deemed approved. The City may
request an extension of the one hundred and fifty (150) period, and the City
and the applicant may agree to extend that period. The applicant shall not
unreasonably deny a City’s request to extend the period.
      5.   The City may only deny a completed application to collocate small
wireless facilities if the application does not conform to applicable Federal
or state law or Gallup city ordinances laws concerning:
         a.   Public safety, including but not limited to interference with the
safe operation of traffic control equipment, sight lines or clear zones;
         b.   Standards for pedestrian access or movement including the
Americans with Disabilities Act;
         c.   The City’s design standards for stealth and concealment but only
to the extent that the restrictions are reasonable and objective;
         d.   The adequate spacing of ground-mounted equipment in a right-of-
way; or
         e.   The City’s design standards imposed within a design district or
historic district.
      6.    Additional Application Required for New or Replacement Utility
Pole. An additional application is required for the installation of a new or
replacement utility pole for the collocation of a small wireless facility in
the right-of-way. This application shall be considered concurrently with the
application to install the small wireless facility and is subject to the same
shot clock provisions as the application to install the small wireless
facility. The application shall be approved unless the installation does not
conform to applicable Federal or state law or Gallup city ordinances laws
concerning:
         a.   Public safety, including but not limited to interference with the
safe operation of traffic control equipment, sight lines or clear zones;
         b.   Standards for pedestrian access or movement including the
Americans with Disabilities Act and the City’s Land Development Standards;
         c.   The City’s design standards for utility poles that are reasonable
and objective;
         d.   The adequate spacing for new utility poles in a right-of-way;
         e.   The City’s undergrounding requirements subject to the limitations
describe in Section
8-7-8 of this Chapter; or
         f.   Requirements imposed by contract between the City and a private
property owner concerning the design of utility poles in the right-of-way.
      7.   Small wireless facilities to be located on a building or structure
other than an existing utility pole or tower are subject to all the zoning and
design standards imposed by the City of Gallup Land Development Standards.
   C.   Multiple Sites.
      1.   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities may, at
the applicant’s discretion, file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for multiple small wireless facilities, provided that the City’s
denial of one or more small wireless facilities in a consolidated application
shall not delay the processing of any other small wireless facilities submitted
in the same application.
      2.   An applicant seeking to collocate within the City up to twenty-five
(25) small wireless facilities, all of which are substantially the same type,
and are on substantially the same types of structures, may file a consolidated
application for the collocation of the facilities. An applicant shall not file
with the City more than one (1) consolidated application in any five (5)
business day period. The applicant shall include in a consolidated application,
an attestation that, unless a delay in collocation is caused by the lack of
commercial power or fiber at the site, the collocation will begin within one
hundred eighty (180) days after the permit issuance date. The City and provider
may subsequently agree to extend that period.
   D.   Application Fees.
      1.   The applicant for an Eligible Facilities Request application shall
pay an application fee of one hundred dollars ($100) for each Eligible
Facilities Request.
      2.   The applicant shall pay an application fee in the amount of one
hundred dollars ($100) for each of up to five (5) small wireless facilities and
fifty dollars ($50) for each additional small wireless facility whose
collocation is requested in a single application.
      3.   The application fee for a new or replacement utility pole located in
a right-of-way is five hundred dollars ($500). (Ord. C2021-5, 8-24-2021)
8-7-8: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Maximum Size of Permitted Use. Small wireless facilities, and new or
modified utility poles for the collocation of small wireless facilities, may be
placed in the rights-of-way as a permitted use contingent upon the approval of
an application by the City and subject to the following requirements:
      1.   A new, replacement or modified utility pole associated with the
collocation of a small wireless facility and installed in the right-of-way is
not subject to zoning review and approval, except for that which pertains to
the under-grounding prohibitions described in the New Mexico Wireless Consumer
Advanced Infrastructure Investment Act, unless the utility pole, as measured
from the ground level, is higher than whichever of the following is greater:
ten (10) feet plus the height in feet of the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only one or more wireless facilities that
is in place on September 1, 2018, located within five hundred (500) feet of the
new, replacement or modified utility pole, in the same right-of-way and within
the jurisdictional boundary of the City, and fifty (50) or fewer feet above
ground level or fifty (50) feet.
      2.   New small wireless facilities in the rights-of-way may not extend:
         a.   More than ten (10) feet above an existing utility pole in the
rights-of-way in place as of the effective date of this Chapter; or
         b.   More than ten (10) feet above the height for a new utility pole.
      3.   A small wireless facility collocated on a utility pole or wireless
support structure that extends ten (10) or fewer feet above the pole or
structure in a right-of-way in any zone is classified as a permitted use and is
not subject to zoning review or approval.
   B.   Building Permits and Zoning. Any application for small wireless
facilities to be located on new or replacement poles in public rights-of-way or
on existing towers are exempt from zoning review and shall be subject only to
applicable building permit requirements. Any application that seeks to install,
modify, operate or replace a utility pole in the rights-of-way that exceeds the
height or size limits contained in this Chapter, or is to be located on a
building or support structure other than an existing utility pole or tower,
shall be subject to applicable building permit and zoning requirements.
   C.   Decorative Poles. A wireless provider shall be permitted to replace a
decorative pole when necessary to collocate a small wireless facility, but any
replacement pole shall reasonably conform to the design aesthetics of the
decorative pole being replaced and shall be subject to local approval, which
shall not be unreasonably denied.
   D.   Underground District. In areas designated solely for underground or
buried cable and utility facilities, the wireless provider may seek a waiver of
the undergrounding requirements for the placement of a new utility pole to
support small wireless facilities. Such waiver shall not be denied unless the
proposed pole does not meet applicable aesthetic standards for the Gallup
Commercial Historic District.
   E.   Historic and Design Districts. The City may require as they pertain to
small wireless facilities located in design districts or historic districts
reasonable, technically feasible, non-discriminatory and technologically
neutral design or concealment measures and reasonable measures for conforming
to the design aesthetics of design districts or historic districts. Any such
measures may not have the effect of prohibiting a wireless provider’s
technology. (Ord. C2021-5, 8-24-2021)
8-7-9: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted. A permit from the City authorizes an applicant to
undertake only certain activities in accordance with this Chapter, and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the applicant to impinge upon the
rights of others who may already have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   B.   Permit Duration. Work described in a permit granted pursuant to this
Chapter shall begin within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit issuance
date unless the City and applicant agree to extend this period due to delay
caused by the lack of commercial power or communications facilities. Subject to
applicable relocation requirements and the applicant’s right to terminate
collocation at any time, the permit is valid for a period of ten (10) years,
and will be renewed for one ten (10) year term unless the City finds that the
small wireless facility does not conform to applicable codes and local laws. At
the expiration of the permit renewal/extension, the permit shall lapse and a
new application will be required. (Ord. C2021-5, 8-24-2021)
8-7-10: REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES IN THE
ROW:
   A.   Notice. Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the City,
a wireless provider shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
small wireless facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the City has
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any
City improvement in or upon, or the operations of the City in or upon, the
rights-of-way.
   B.   Emergency Removal. The City retains the right and privilege to cut or
move any small wireless facility located within the rights-of-way of the City,
as the City may determine to be necessary, appropriate or useful in response to
any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances permit, the City shall
notify the wireless provider and provide the wireless provider an opportunity
to move its own facilities prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall
notify the wireless provider after cutting or removing a small wireless
facility.
   C.   Abandonment of Facilities. Upon abandonment of a small wireless
facility or utility pole within the rights-of-way of the City, the wireless
provider shall notify the City in writing of its intention to discontinue use
of a small wireless facility or utility pole. The notice shall inform the City
of the time and the way in which the small wireless facility or utility pole
will be removed. The wireless provider is responsible for the costs of the
removal. The City may require the wireless provider to return the property to
its pre-installation condition according to the City’s reasonable and
nondiscriminatory requirements and specifications. If the wireless provider
does not complete the removal within forty-five (45) days after notice, the
City may complete the removal and assess the costs of removal against the
wireless provider. The permit for the small wireless facility or utility pole
expires upon removal.
   D.   Damage and Repair. The City may require a wireless provider, or the
provider’s contractor, to repair all damage to the City’s property or rights-
of-way caused by the activities of the wireless provider or contractor and
return the property and rights-of-way to their pre-damage condition according
to the City’s requirements and specifications upon written notice of the
requirements to the provider. If the wireless provider fails to make the
repairs within a reasonable period after receiving the notice, the City may
effectuate those repairs and charge the provider the reasonable, documented
cost of such repairs.
   E.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, the City may not
require an applicant or provider to submit an application or pay a fee for:
      1.   routine maintenance that does not require excavation or closing of
sidewalks or vehicular lanes in a public right-of-way; or
      2.   replacing or upgrading a small wireless facility, DAS, other similar
network with a facility that is substantially similar in size or smaller and
that does not require excavation or closing of sidewalks or vehicular lanes in
a public right-of-way.
      3.   For purposes of the foregoing exemptions, a small wireless facility,
DAS, other similar network, or pole is considered to be “substantially similar”
if:
         a.   The new or upgraded facility, including the antenna or other
equipment element, will not be more than ten (10) percent larger on a one-time
basis than the existing facility, provided that the increase may not result in
the facilities exceeding the size limitations provided elsewhere in this
Chapter);
         b.   The new or upgraded pole will not be higher than the existing
pole;
         c.   The replacement or upgrade does not include replacement of an
existing service pole;
         d.   The replacement or upgrade does not defeat existing concealment
elements of the existing pole; and
         e.   The determination of whether a replacement or upgrade is
substantially similar is made by measuring from the dimensions of the small
wireless facility or pole as approved by the City. (Ord. C2021-5, 8-24-2021)
8-7-11: RATES:
   A.   Annual Rate for Use of Right-of-Way. The City may charge a wireless
provider for the provider’s use of the right-of-way in constructing,
installing, maintaining, modifying, operating or replacing a utility pole or in
collocating a small wireless facility in the right-of-way an annual rate of two
hundred fifty dollars ($250) for each small wireless facility placed by the
wireless provider in the City’s right-of-way. The payment is due, in advance,
for each calendar year on the 1st day of January. The initial charge for a
partial year is prorated based on the number of days the small wireless
facility is installed on a pole located in the City’s right-of-way.
   B.   Annual Rate Increase for Use of Right-of-Way. The City may adjust the
annual rate, but no more often than once a year and by no more than an amount
equal to one-half the annual change, if any, in the most recent Consumer Price
Index for all urban consumers for New Mexico, as published by the United States
Department of Labor. The City shall notify all wireless providers charged the
pre-adjusted rate of the prospective adjustment and shall make the adjustment
effective sixty (60) days or more following that notice.
   C.   Annual Rate for Use of City Utility Poles. The rate for collocation of
a small wireless facility on a City utility pole in the right-of-way shall be
twenty dollars ($20) per year. The payment is due, in advance, for each
calendar year on the 1st day of January. There is no charge for the initial
partial year that the small wireless facility is located on a City utility
pole.
   D.   Annual Rate for Other City-owned Support Structures. The annual rate
for placement of a small wireless facility on a City-owned support structure
other than a utility pole will be determined on a case-by-case basis.
   E.   Temporary Small Wireless Facilities. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Chapter, the City may not require an applicant or provider to
submit an application or pay a rate for temporary small wireless facilities,
DAS or communications facilities placed for a period of not more than:
      1.   Twenty-one (21) days for temporary uses related to special events;
      2.   Ninety (90) days for temporary uses related to repair facilities; or
      3.   Not more than ninety (90) days at any location within the City after
declaration of an emergency or a disaster by the Governor of New Mexico. (Ord.
C2021-5, 8-24-2021)
8-7-12: NON-EXCLUSIVITY AND OWNERSHIP:
   A.   Non-exclusive Use. The City shall not enter into an exclusive agreement
with a wireless provider for the use of a right-of-way in constructing,
installing, maintaining, modifying, operating or replacing a utility pole or
collocating a small wireless facility on a utility pole or wireless support
structure.
   B.   Ownership of Replacement Poles or Structures. The City may condition
the issuance of a permit on the wireless provider’s replacement of a City
utility pole if applicable codes or local laws concerning public safety require
that replacement. The City shall retain ownership of the replacement utility
pole. (Ord. C2021-5, 8-24-2021)
8-7-13: PLACEMENT OF EQUIPMENT:
   A.   A wireless provider that deploys a utility pole or small wireless
facility in a right-of-way shall construct, maintain and locate it so as not to
obstruct travel, endanger the public or interfere with another utility facility
in the right-of-way. The wireless provider’s operation of a small wireless
facility in the right-of-way shall not interfere with the City’s public safety
communications. The wireless provider shall comply with the National Electric
Safety Code and all applicable laws. The City may, through its Electric
Department, adopt reasonable regulations concerning the separation of the
wireless provider’s utility poles and small wireless facilities from other
utility facilities in the right-of-way;
   B.   if the City determines that a utility pole or the wireless support
structure of a wireless provider must be relocated to accommodate a public
project, the provider shall assume the cost of relocating the wireless facility
deployed on the pole or structure;
   C.   without the City’s written consent, a wireless provider shall not
install a new utility pole in a right-of-way adjacent to a street or
thoroughfare that is fifty (50) feet wide or less and adjacent to single-family
residential lots or other multifamily residences or to undeveloped land
designated for residential use by zoning or deed restrictions;
   D.   support structures for small wireless facilities or similar networks
shall be capable of accommodating the collocation of other service providers;
   E.   signs located at the small wireless facilities, DAS, and similar
networks shall be limited to ownership and contact information, FCC Antenna
registration number (if required) and any other information as required by an
applicable governmental authority. Commercial advertising is strictly
prohibited; and
   F.   accessory equipment, including any buildings, cabinets or shelters,
shall be used only to house equipment in support of the operation of the small
wireless facility or its support structure. Any equipment not used in direct
support of such operation shall not be stored on the site. (Ord. C2021-5, 8-24-
2021)
8-7-14: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR TOWERS:
   A.   Finish and Color.
      1.   Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or, subject
to any applicable standards of the FAA, be painted a neutral color so as to
reduce visual obtrusiveness.
      2.   At a tower site, the design of the buildings and related structures
shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening, and
landscaping that will blend them into the natural setting and surrounding
buildings.
      3.   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the
antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral
color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the
supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as
visually unobtrusive as possible.
   B.   Lighting. Towers shall not be artificially lighted, unless required by
the FAA or other applicable authority. If lighting is required, the lighting
alternatives and design chosen must cause the least disturbance to the
surrounding views.
   C.   State or Federal Requirements. All towers and antennas must meet or
exceed current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any other
agency of the State of New Mexico or Federal government with the authority to
regulate towers and antennas. If such standards and regulations are changed,
then the owners of the towers and antennas governed by this Chapter shall bring
such towers and antennas into compliance with such revised standards and
regulations within six (6) months of the effective date of such standards and
regulations, unless a different compliance schedule is mandated by the
controlling state or federal agency.
   D.   Building Codes; Standards. To ensure the structural integrity of
towers, the owner of a tower shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance
with standards contained in applicable state or local building codes and the
applicable industry standards for towers, as amended from time to time. If,
upon inspection, the City concludes that a tower fails to comply with such
codes and standards and constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon
notice being provided to the owner of the tower, the owner shall have thirty
(30) days to bring such tower into compliance with such standards. Failure to
bring such tower into compliance within said thirty (30) days shall constitute
grounds for the removal of the tower at the owner’s expense.
   E.   Visual Impact. All towers and antennas, including equipment enclosures,
shall be sited and designed to minimize adverse visual impacts on surrounding
properties and the traveling public to the greatest extent reasonably possible,
consistent with the proper functioning of the structure or equipment. Such
equipment enclosures shall be integrated through location and design to blend
in with the existing characteristics of the site. Such enclosures shall also be
designed to either resemble the surrounding landscape and other natural
features where located in proximity to natural surroundings, or be compatible
with the built environment, through matching and complimentary existing
structures and specific design considerations such as architectural designs,
height, scale, color and texture or be consistent with other uses and
improvements permitted in the relevant zone.
   F.   Use of Stealth Design. Concealment techniques in design districts and
historic districts must be appropriate given the proposed location, design,
visual environment, and nearby uses, structures, and natural features. Stealth
design shall be designed and constructed to substantially conform to
surrounding building designs or natural settings, so as to be visually
unobtrusive.
   G.   Building-mounted Equipment.
      1.   All transmission equipment shall be concealed within existing
architectural features to the maximum extent feasible. Any new architectural
features proposed to conceal the transmission equipment shall be designed to
mimic the existing underlying structure, shall be proportional to the existing
underlying structure or conform to the underlying use and shall use materials
in similar quality, finish, color and texture as the existing underlying
structure.
      2.   All roof-mounted transmission equipment shall be set back from all
roof edges to the maximum extent feasible consistent with the need for “line-
of-sight” transmission and reception of signals.
      3.   Antenna arrays and supporting transmission equipment shall be
installed so as to camouflage, disguise or conceal them to make them closely
compatible with and blend into the setting or host structure.
   H.   Pole-mounted or Tower-mounted Transmission Equipment. All pole-mounted
or tower-mounted transmission equipment shall be mounted as close as possible
to the pole or tower so as to reduce the overall visual profile to the maximum
extent feasible consistent with safety standards.
   I.   Concealment of Pole-mounted Equipment. All pole-mounted equipment must
be reasonably concealed to the extent technically feasible in a manner that
minimizes the visual impact of the pole-mounted equipment. The concealment
method and materials must receive prior written approval by the City, not to be
unreasonably withheld. Antenna size limitations are exclusive of any
concealment materials or fabrication. Concealment materials shall have a color
and finish consistent and appropriate with the pole on which they are mounted.
   J.   Accessory Equipment. All accessory equipment located at the base of a
small wireless facility shall be located or placed (at the applicant’s choice)
in an existing building, underground, or in an equipment cabinet that is (a)
designed to blend in with existing surroundings, using architecturally
compatible construction and colors; and (b) be located so as to be unobtrusive
as possible consistent with the proper functioning of the small wireless
facility.
   K.   Site Design Flexibility. Individual small wireless facility sites vary
in the location of adjacent buildings, existing trees, topography and other
local variables. By mandating certain design standards, there may result a
project that could have been less intrusive if the location of the various
elements of the project could have been placed in more appropriate locations
within a given site. Therefore, the small wireless facility and supporting
equipment may be installed so as to best camouflage, disguise them, or conceal
them, to make them more closely compatible with and blend into the setting or
host structure.
   L.   Structural Assessment. The owner of a proposed tower shall have a
structural assessment of the tower conducted by a professional engineer,
licensed in the State of New Mexico, which shall be submitted with the
application for a permit.
   M.   Residential Provisions.
      1.   All small wireless facilities on residentially zoned property are
encouraged to either be painted or treated the same color as the primary
structure or the surface to which the facilities are attached. This includes
painting or screening roof-mounted communication structures.
      2.   Screening or painting of roof-mounted structures is required on all
sides of the residential property in which a small wireless facility is placed.
   N.   Screening of Ground-mounted Equipment. Ground equipment and equipment
enclosures shall be screened by a screen wall, painted, and/or landscaped.
      1.   Screening and equipment enclosures shall blend with or enhance the
surrounding area in terms of scale, form, texture, materials, and color.
Equipment shall be concealed as much as possible by blending into the natural
and/or physical environment. All screening shall be at the reasonable
discretion of the City.
      2.   When trees, bushes, rocks, and other forms of landscaping are used
for screening, such landscaping must match the predominant landscaping form and
species within one block of the facilities.
   O.   Additional Screening Requirements. Any new, modified, or replacement
poles installed in the right-of-way in conjunction with the installation of a
small wireless facility, including any ground mounted equipment, electrical
service meter, and screening shall:
      1.   Be designed to blend in with the surrounding streetscape with
minimal visual impact;
      2.   Satisfy all required Americans with Disabilities Act requirements;
      3.   Not impair or interfere with line of sight visibility; and
      4.   Not block or obstruct existing roadway, or commercial signage. (Ord.
C2021-5, 8-24-2021)
8-7-15: PREFERRED TOWER LOCATIONS:
   A.   New small wireless facilities must, to the maximum extent feasible,
collocate on existing towers or other structures of a similar height to avoid
construction of new towers.
   B.   The City encourages all new towers to follow siting priorities, from
most-preferred (1) to least-preferred (8):
      1.   City-owned or operated property or facilities, not including rights-
of-way;
      2.   Commercial and industrial zones;
      3.   Office zones;
      4.   Other non-residential zones;
      5.   City rights-of-way in non-residential zones;
      6.   City rights-of-way in residential zones;
      7.   Parcels of land in residential zones; and
      8.   Designated design or historic districts. (Ord. C2021-5, 8-24-2021)
8-7-16: INDEPENDENT TECHNICAL AND LEGAL REVIEW:
   A.   Although the City intends for City staff to review administrative
matters to the extent feasible, the City may retain the services of independent
experts of its choice to provide technical and legal evaluations of permit
applications for small wireless facilities and poles. The expert’s review may
include, but is not limited to:
      1.   The accuracy and completeness of the items submitted with the
application;
      2.   The applicability of analysis and techniques and methodologies
proposed by the applicant;
      3.   The validity of conclusions reached by the applicant; and
      4.   Whether the proposed small wireless facilities comply with the
applicable approval criteria set forth in this Chapter.
   B.   The applicant shall pay the actual, direct and reasonable cost for any
independent consultant fees through a deposit, within ten (10) days of the
City’s request. When the City requests such payment, the application shall be
deemed incomplete for purposes of application processing timelines until the
deposit is received. In the event that such costs and fees do not exceed the
deposit amount, the City shall refund any unused portion within thirty (30)
days after the final permit is released or, if no final permit is released,
within thirty (30) days after the City receives a written request from the
applicant. If the costs and fees exceed the deposit amount, then the applicant
shall pay the difference to the City. (Ord. C2021-5, 8-24-2021)
8-7-17: SAFETY REVIEW:
   A.   For the period beginning on the date a permit is issued and ending on
the date the permitted work is accepted, the City may perform a safety review
of construction, reconstruction or installation of all small wireless
facilities and poles as it deems necessary to ensure compliance with this
Chapter and the City Code. All City plans, reviews, inspections, standards, and
other rights and actions related to the wireless provider’s improvements are
for the City’s sole and exclusive benefit and neither the wireless provider nor
any other person may rely on the City’s safety reviews or have any rights
related to the reviews. The preceding sentence does not prevent the wireless
provider from relying on consents, permits, or approvals the City may grant
based on the City’s plans, reviews, and inspections. As a condition of
obtaining the permits authorized by this Chapter, the wireless provider grants
the City the right to access the wireless provider’s small wireless facilities
and poles. Except for emergencies, this right of access is limited to dates and
times agreed to by the parties.
   B.   The City may recover from the applicant the City’s actual costs
incurred to perform such safety reviews as the City deems necessary. (Ord.
C2021-5, 8-24-2021)
8-7-18: FINAL INSPECTION:
   A.   A certificate of completion will only be granted upon satisfactory
evidence that the small wireless facilities were installed in substantial
compliance with the approved plans.
   B.   If it is found that the small wireless facilities installation does not
substantially comply with the approved plans, the applicant shall make any and
all such changes required to bring the facilities into compliance promptly and
in any event prior to putting the facilities in operation. (Ord. C2021-5, 8-24-
2021)
8-7-19: COMPLIANCE:
   A.   All small wireless facilities must comply with all standards and
regulations of the FCC and any State or other Federal government agency with
the authority to regulate those facilities.
   B.   The site and small wireless facilities, including all landscaping,
fencing and related transmission equipment must be maintained at all times in a
neat and clean manner and in accordance with all approved plans.
   C.   If any FCC, State or other governmental license or any other
governmental approval to provide communication services is ever revoked as to
any site permitted or authorized by the City, the permittee must inform the
City of the revocation within thirty (30) days of receiving notice of such
revocation. (Ord. C2021-5, 8-24-2021)
8-7-20: INDEMNIFICATION:
Each permit issued for small wireless facilities located in City right-of-way
or other City property shall be deemed to have as a condition of the permit a
requirement that the wireless provider defend, indemnify and hold harmless the
City and its officers, agents, employees, volunteers, and contractors from any
and all liability, damages, or charges (including attorneys’ fees and expenses)
arising out of claims, suits, demands, or causes of action as a result of the
construction, performance, operation, maintenance, repair, replacement,
removal, or restoration of the small wireless facilities. (Ord. C2021-5, 8-24-
2021)
8-7-21: CONFLICTS:
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this Chapter and the New
Mexico Wireless Consumer Advanced Infrastructure Investment Act or Federal law,
FCC Order 18-133, or any subsequent FCC Order; the New Mexico law and/or
Federal law, or FCC Order shall control, as applicable. Any ordinance or parts
thereof in conflict with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed
to the extent of such conflict. (Ord. C2021-5, 8-24-2021)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Authority; Purpose
9-1-3: Adoption
9-1-4: Code Available For Inspection
9-1-5: Building Official Designated
9-1-6: Permits
9-1-7: Exceptions To Required Permit Fee
9-1-8: Penalty
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
The short title by which this chapter shall be known is the NEW MEXICO
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE, TITLE 14 HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION CHAPTERS 5-10, 12, AND
THE ACCESSIBLE AND USEABLE BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES CODE. (Ord. 2017-3, 3-16-
2017; amd. Ord. C2024-2, 1-16-2024)
9-1-2: AUTHORITY; PURPOSE:
The regulations of this chapter are hereby adopted for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for construction, alteration, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings
and structures within the city. (Ord. C2004-19, 12-14-2004)
9-1-3: ADOPTION:
There is hereby adopted by reference the New Mexico Administrative Codes Title
14 Housing and Construction, Chapters 5-10, 12 as adopted by the State of New
Mexico Construction Industries Division and made effective July 14, 2023, as
the official building code of the City of Gallup and the Accessible and Usable
Buildings and Facilities ICC A117.1 - 2017 American National Standard as the
official accessibility code of the City of Gallup. The two (2) publications are
hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein and the
provisions thereof shall be controlling in the construction, alteration,
removal, demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of
all buildings and other structures within the city. (Ord. 2017-3, 3-16-2017;
amd. Ord. C2024-2, 1-16-2024)
9-1-4: CODE AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION:
A copy of the New Mexico Administrative Code Title 14, Housing and
Construction, Chapters 5 through 10, 12 and the Accessible and Usable Buildings
and Facilities ICC A117.1-2017 American National Standard shall be available
for inspection by the public in the office of the Building Inspector during the
normal and regular business hours of such official. (Ord. 2017-3, 3-16-2017;
amd. Ord. C2024-2, 1-16-2024)
9-1-5: BUILDING OFFICIAL DESIGNATED:
The building inspector is hereby designated the building official under this
code. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966; amd. Ord. 2008-4, 7-8-2008)
9-1-6: PERMITS:
No person shall begin or continue the erection, razing, alteration or repair of
any building or structure within the corporate limits of the city without first
having applied for and received a permit to do so from the proper authority. No
permit shall be issued unless the person's premises, upon completion of the
proposed erection, razing, alteration or repair shall:
   A.   Minimum Standards: Be of minimum standards as provided in this title
and meet all building, electric, plumbing and gas codes of this city;
   B.   Zoning Requirements: Meet the zoning requirements of title 10 of this
code; and
   C.   Connection To Water And Sewer Facilities: In the case of a residential
dwelling, be connected to the water and sewer facilities of the city or the
equivalent. (Ord. C61-25, 4-21-1964; amd. Ord. 2008-4, 7-8-2008)
9-1-7: EXCEPTIONS TO REQUIRED PERMIT FEE:
No building permit fee shall be required from the city, county, state, United
States, or from any church, religious organization, fraternal or benevolent
association or corporation, or from any organization exempt from the payment of
property taxes by the laws of the state. (1961 Code § 4-1-4; amd. Ord. 2008-4,
7-8-2008)
9-1-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and the penalty shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code rather than as provided in the building codes adopted by
this chapter. (Ord. C61-52, 10-4-1966; amd. Ord. 2008-4, 7-8-2008)
GA69   9-2.txt ()
CHAPTER 2
FIRE PREVENTION  1
SECTION:
9-2-1: Adoption Of Fire Prevention Codes
9-2-2: Maximum Occupancy Load
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-17-6.
9-2-1: ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODES:
   A.   Adoption Of Fire Code: The City of Gallup, New Mexico, hereby adopts
and incorporates by reference the 2021 edition of the International Fire Code
(IFC) and all appendices excluding appendices A, J and L, thereto, published by
the International Code Council for the purpose of regulating and governing the
safeguarding of life and property from fire, explosion, or other hazardous
conditions created through the operation or use of a space, structure or
property within the City of Gallup, New Mexico.
      1.   Amendments: The following sections of the International Fire Code
(IFC) 2021 edition are amended as follows:
      Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the fire code of
the City of Gallup, herein referred to as "this code."
      Section 102.3 Change of Use or Occupancy. Changes shall not be made in
the use or occupancy of any structure that would place the structure in a
different division of the same group or occupancy or in a different group of
occupancies, unless such structure is made to comply with the requirements of
this code and the International Building Code. Subject to the approval of the
fire code official, the use or occupancy of an existing structure shall be
allowed to be changed and the structure is allowed to be occupied for purposes
in other groups without conforming to all of the requirements of this code and
the International Building Code for those groups, provided the new or proposed
use is less hazardous, based on life and fire risk, than the existing use.
      Section 105 Permits Required. Delete this section of the IFC and see
subsection
9-2-1 A3 of the City of Gallup Municipal Code.
      Section 111 Means of Appeals. Delete this section of the IFC and see
subsection
9-2-1 E of the City of Gallup Municipal Code.
      Section 112.4 Violation Penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision
of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or
who shall erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the fire code official, or of a permit
or certificate used under provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Punishable by a fine of not more than 500.00 dollars or by
imprisonment not exceeding 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each
day that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed
a separate offense.
      Section 319.1 General. Existing and new mobile food preparation vehicles
that are equipped with appliances that produce smoke or grease laden vapors
shall comply with this section.
      Section 405.3 Frequency. Group E occupancies shall comply with PED rule
6.29.1.8 NMAC emergency drills and practiced evacuations.
      Section 507.5.1.1 Hydrant for standpipe and sprinkler systems. Buildings
equipped with a standpipe system or sprinkler system installed in accordance
with this code shall have a fire hydrant within 100 feet of the fire department
connections. Exception: The distance shall be permitted to exceed 100 feet
where approved by the fire code official.
      Section 903.4.2 Alarms. Delete this section of the IFC and see subsection
9-2-1 A6 of the City of Gallup municipal code.
      Appendix A Board Of Appeals. Delete this section of the IFC.
      Appendix J Building Information Sign. Delete this section of the IFC.
      Appendix L Requirements For Fire Fighter Air Replenishment Systems.
Delete this section of the IFC.
      All references to the International Electrical, International Mechanical,
and International Plumbing codes in the 2021 IFC are deleted and are replaced
by the blended codes as adopted by the New Mexico Construction Industries
Division.
      2.   Activation Of Fire Alarm System: Upon activation of the building
fire alarm system or upon notification by other means of detection and
reporting unwanted fires, all building occupants shall promptly evacuate the
building. Building employees and tenants shall implement the appropriate
emergency plan and procedures.
      3.   Certificate of Fitness: No person shall install, inspect, maintain,
service, tag, or repair fire protection equipment or systems without having a
current certificate of fitness issued by the State Fire Marshal in compliance
with New Mexico Administrative Code (NMAC) title 10, chapter 25, part 2. The
Chief of the Fire Department shall require that contractors that perform work
on fire protection equipment or systems provide proof of liability insurance.
      4.   Fire Protection Equipment and Systems Plans Submittals: Working
plans for fire protection equipment and systems shall be submitted to the Fire
Prevention office for review and approval. Plans shall be stamped by a
qualified person to be in compliance with NFPA Standards. For water-based fire
protection and fire alarm systems the qualified person shall have a NICET Level
III certification.
         a.   A Scope of Work can be submitted for minor modifications or
changes to fire protection equipment or systems. A Scope of Work is allowed
when alterations to a fire protection system involving ten (10) or less
appliances, or fire sprinkler systems involving ten (10) or less heads. Based
on the findings of the Fire Code official they may require a submittal of
working plans.
         b.   Hydraulic calculations shall be provided to the Fire Prevention
office for modifications of a fire sprinkler system when the number of heads
being added exceeds ten (10) or when the number of heads being added is greater
than ten percent (10%) of total heads for the system. The Fire Code official
may require hydraulic calculations be submitted for and modification to an
existing system when deemed necessary to adequately evaluate the impact on the
system. Hydraulic calculations shall be provided with a ten (10)-psi safety
margin on all commercial buildings requiring an automatic sprinkler system.
      5.    Fire Protection Equipment and Systems Inspections and Maintenance:
Upon installation all fire protection systems shall be maintained and inspected
in accordance with applicable NFPA standards and the 2021 IFC. Inspections and
maintenance shall be performed by a qualified individual with a current
certificate of fitness issued by the New Mexico State Fire Marshal and approved
by the Fire Code official. All records of inspections and maintenance shall be
submitted to the Fire Prevention Office within fourteen (14) calendar days. The
Fire Prevention office shall be notified immediately by the qualified
individual of any fire protection equipment or system found to be out of
service during inspections and maintenance.
      6.   Alarms Location And Operation: An approved weatherproof audio and
visual device shall be mounted on the exterior side of the building a minimum
of seven feet (7') or a maximum of ten feet (10') above grade on an approved
location. Such alarm devices shall be activated by water flow equivalent to the
flow of a single sprinkler of the smallest orifice size installed in the
system. Where a fire alarm system is installed, actuation of the automatic
sprinkler system shall actuate the building fire alarm system. If the building
does not have a fire alarm system interior audible and visual devices shall be
required for building occupant notification.
      7.   Disclaimer: Whenever National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)
codes, standards, or supplements are referenced for specific requirements
including installations and/or maintenance, the NFPA standards shall be applied
as required in the 2021 International Fire Code. NFPA codes, standards, or
supplements not referenced in the 2021 IFC may be considered as part of the
code when determined by the Fire Code official. Any conflicts of these non-
referenced codes, standards, or supplements with the provisions of this code
shall comply with Section 102.7.1 Conflicts.
   B.   Enforcement Officer: The codes hereby adopted shall be enforced by the
Chief of the Fire Department.
   C.   Districts: Except in the Industrial District established by City's land
development standards, no person shall store, nor shall any owner, lessee or
person in charge of land allow, as defined by the Fire Codes:
      1.   Explosives;
      2.   Blasting agents; or
      3.   Aboveground:
         a.   Flammable liquids; or
         b.   Combustible liquids to be stored on the land.
   D.   Modification: The Chief of the Fire Department shall have the power to
modify any of the provisions of the codes hereby adopted upon application in
writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are
practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
codes; provided, that the spirit of the codes shall be observed, public safety
secured and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification when
granted or allowed and the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department thereon
shall be entered upon the records of the department and a signed copy shall be
furnished to the applicant.
   E.   Appeals: Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an
application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that
the provisions of the codes do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of
the codes have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may
appeal from the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the City
Council within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed.
   F.   Fire Lanes:
      1.   Defined: A "fire lane" is an area, parking lot, driveway, roadway or
portion thereof that shall be:
         a.   Designated or approved by the chief and appropriately marked by
an approved sign and a red painted line or red painted curb approved by the
chief; and
         b.   Maintained free of obstructions by the owner or user of the
property throughout its entire area.
      2.   Establishment: The chief may require that fire lanes for new or
existing structures be established on public or private property to provide
access for fire suppression operations by the use of an improved public street,
areaway, parking lot, driveway or roadway.
      3.   Obstruction Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to park
motor vehicles within, or otherwise obstruct, any fire lane except as may be
specifically permitted by the chief.
      4.   Removal Of Vehicles: Any vehicle stopped or parked within a fire
lane established, designated and marked in accordance with this subsection, or
within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant, or parked on a sidewalk so as to
obstruct an entrance or exit, may be removed at the expense of the vehicle
owner in accordance with procedures established for removal and impoundment of
vehicles. The person in lawful possession of the property shall keep designated
fire lanes free of vehicles and all other obstructions.
      5.   Citations: The chief shall have power and authority to issue
citations for parking violations in designated fire lanes, obstructed exits,
fire escapes, fire hydrants, or for other hazards being created by parking of
any motor vehicle.
      6.   Citation Procedure: The suspected violator's signature need not be
required on a citation, but only the description of the vehicle, license
number, date, section of ordinance violated and location. The citation may be
placed under the windshield wiper or affixed to the vehicle in a conspicuous
place.
   G.   Obstruction Of Exits: It shall be unlawful for any person, or the
person in charge of any building occupancy to allow any person to so position
himself in any exit door, exit passage, aisleway, court or space used as an
exit, approach or discharge in such manner as to obstruct, impede or confuse
persons desiring to use such exit facilities.
   H.   Chief Includes Designee: Any time the words "chief" or "chief of the
fire department" are used in this chapter, they shall include any designee of
the chief of the fire department.
   I.   City Water Pressure: Nothing contained in any of the fire codes adopted
herein by reference shall suggest or mandate that the city develop or maintain
water pressure for firefighting purposes at the levels specified in the code or
codes. The city council hereby finds that the water pressures prescribed in the
code or codes are ideal pressures for an urban community with an unlimited
water supply and that the city fits neither criterion.
(Ord. C66-92, 3-27-1973; amd. Ord. C66-234, 10-9-1984; Ord. C89-10, 11-21-1989;
Ord. C92-8, 8-25-1992; Ord. 2018-11, 8-28-2018; Ord. C2024-1, 1-16-2024)
9-2-2: MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY LOAD:
   A.   Definition Of Offender: Unless otherwise specifically provided, as used
in this section, "offender" shall apply to each and all responsible parties,
including, but not limited to, any owner, whether sole proprietor, partnership
or corporation, manager, agent, employee or sponsoring agency of any kind.
(Ord. C93-13, 8-5-1993)
   B.   Minimum Penalties For Overcapacity: As used in this section, "this
offense" means a violation of any provision of federal, state or local law
forbidding the overcrowding or admittance of any person beyond the approved
capacity of any place of public assemblage which creates a potentially
hazardous condition or constitutes a serious menace to life.
      1.   First Offense: Upon a first conviction of this offense, the offender
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00), but in no event less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), which fine
shall not be suspended or deferred or taken under advisement. The court may
also, in its discretion, sentence the offender to a jail term not to exceed
ninety (90) days. The court may also, in its discretion, require the offender
to complete a community service program approved by the court.
      2.   Second Offense: Upon a second conviction of this offense, including
a conviction in which the offender was a "first offender", the offender shall
be sentenced to a jail term of not less than seventy two (72) hours, which
shall not be suspended or deferred or taken under advisement, nor more than
ninety (90) days, and a fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00),
which fine shall not be suspended or deferred or taken under advisement. The
court may also, in its discretion, require the offender to complete a community
service program approved by the court.
      3.   Third Offense: Upon a third conviction of this offense, including a
conviction in which the offender was a "first offender", the offender shall be
sentenced to a jail term of not less than five (5) consecutive days in jail
which shall not be suspended, deferred or taken under advisement, nor more than
ninety (90) days, and a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00), which fine
shall not be suspended or deferred or taken under advisement. The court shall
also enter an order suspending the offending business's license or registration
issued pursuant to title 3 of this code for a forty eight (48) hour period
beginning at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the Friday immediately following
sentencing, such suspension to be lifted at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the
Sunday immediately following. The court may also, in its discretion, require
the offender to complete a community service program approved by the court.
      4.   Fourth And Subsequent Offenses: Upon a fourth or subsequent offense,
including a conviction in which the offender was a "first offender", the
offender shall be sentenced to a jail term of not less than thirty (30) days
which shall not be suspended, deferred or taken under advisement, nor more than
ninety (90) days, and a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00), which shall not
be suspended or deferred or taken under advisement. The court shall also enter
an order revoking the offending business's license or registration issued
pursuant to title 3 of this code for a period of one year, such suspension to
commence within thirty (30) days immediately following sentencing. The court
shall also require the offender to complete forty eight (48) hours of community
service.
      5.   Mandatory Jail: As to the mandatory jail penalty in this subsection:
         a.   None of this time shall be suspended, deferred or taken under
advisement.
         b.   Except for a first offender, the violator shall not be entitled
to release to pursue his own employment or occupation during the period of his
sentence. A first offender shall have no right to such release but may be given
a work release in the discretion of the court.
         c.   The violator shall begin serving the sentence as soon as possible
after sentence is imposed, but in no event later than seven (7) days after
imposition of sentence. (Ord. C93-13, 8-5-1993)
CHAPTER 3
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Adoption Of The International Property Maintenance Code
9-3-2: Code Available For Inspection
9-3-3: Code Compliance Officer Designated
9-3-4: Appeal Board Designated
9-3-5: Penalty
9-3-1: ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the City Council that certain property code with
penalties therein prescribed, known as the International Property Maintenance
Code 2021 edition. As of the effective date of this chapter, the provisions of
said code shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord.
2017-4, 3-16-2017; amd. Ord. C2024-3, 1-16-2024)
9-3-2: CODE AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION:
A copy of the International Property Maintenance Code shall be available for
inspection by the public in the Offices of the City Clerk, the Building
Inspector and the Code Compliance Officer during the normal and regular
business hours of such officials. (Ord. 2011-4, 4-26-2011)
9-3-3: CODE COMPLIANCE OFFICER DESIGNATED:
For the purposes of this chapter, the building official and the Code
Enforcement Officer are the Code Compliance Officer. (Ord. 2008-2, 5-27-2008)
9-3-4: APPEAL BOARD DESIGNATED:
For the purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board is the City Council. (Ord.
C66-72, 11-23-1971)
9-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person failing to comply with a notice of violation served in accordance
with the International Property Maintenance Code shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and the penalty shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has
been served shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 2018-2, 3-13-2018)
CHAPTER 4
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Permit Required
9-4-2: Application For Permit
9-4-3: Information Required
9-4-4: Fee For Permit
9-4-5: Issuance Of Permit
9-4-6: Rules And Requirements
9-4-7: Revocation Of Permit
9-4-8: Exemptions
9-4-9: Penalty
9-4-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall move any garage, house or other structure of similar size on or
over any of the streets, alleys or other property in the city without first
having secured a permit to do so from the building inspector. This section and
chapter shall also apply to the moving of any object with a loaded height of
over fourteen and one-half feet (14 1/2') or width of over fourteen feet (14');
provided, that mobile homes or other structures fourteen feet (14') in width
are exempt if upper eaves or gutters protrude no more than three inches (3")
beyond fourteen feet (14') on each side. (Ord. C66-143, 7-13-1976)
9-4-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any person desiring or intending to move any such structure or object shall
make written application for such permit on a form furnished by the city clerk
which shall set forth the kind, size and height of the structure to be moved,
the location from which, and to which, the same is to be moved, and the route
to be followed as approved by the building inspector, and the applicant shall
agree to conform with the zoning ordinance, building, electrical, mechanical
codes and all other pertinent city ordinances. (Ord. C66-143, 7-13-1976)
9-4-3: INFORMATION REQUIRED:
Before a permit required by section
9-4-1 of this chapter is issued, the applicant shall supply the following:
   A.   Adequate Machinery: Assurance that he has adequate machinery,
appliances and equipment for the proper move.
   B.   Bond: Personal and property damage bond in the amount of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) as protection to persons and property against damage by the
moving operations, which bond shall be approved by the city manager.
   C.   Cash Deposit: A cash deposit of five hundred dollars ($500.00); which
deposit will be held to ensure payment of the following fees, which shall be in
addition to the permit fee hereinafter set forth to cover the expenses of
cutting wires and reuniting same and moving and replacing poles. Any dispute
arising as to the actual costs may be by either party referred to the city
council who shall investigate the same and decide as to the rights of the
parties.
   D.   Occupancy Fee: A fee of five dollars ($5.00) per day for each and every
day or part thereof, that the structure is occupying any street, alley or
public property while in transit. (Ord. C66-143, 7-13-1976)
9-4-4: FEE FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Established: In addition to the fee and deposit set forth in section
9-4-3 of this chapter, the permit fee shall be paid for in cash at the time the
permit is issued and shall be in accordance with the moving fee set forth as
follows:
 
Less than 200 square feet                                $ 5.00
More than 200 square feet, less than 500 square feet     10.00
More than 500 square feet less than 1,000 square feet    15.00
More than 1,000 square feet, less than 1,500 square feet 20.00
More than 1,500 square feet, less than 2,000 square feet 25.00
More than 2,000 square feet per 100 square feet          2.50
 
   B.   Fees Doubled: Where work for which a permit is required by this chapter
is started or proceeded with prior to obtaining the permit, the fees above
specified shall be doubled, but the payment of such double fee shall not
relieve any person from fully complying with the requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Receipt Issued: It shall be the duty of the city clerk to issue an
official receipt for all fees received under this chapter, and to indicate on
such receipt the purpose for which each amount is collected. (Ord. C66-143, 7-
13-1976)
9-4-5: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
When the required bond has been approved and the five hundred dollar ($500.00)
deposit required by section
9-4-3 of this chapter is made, and upon payment of the permit fee prescribed in
section
9-4-4 of this chapter, the building inspector is hereby authorized to issue to
the applicant a permit granting him the right to move the structure or object
described in his application which will specify the route therefor as
prescribed and approved by the building inspector. (Ord. C66-143, 7-13-1976)
9-4-6: RULES AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Route Approval: It shall be the duty of a permittee to move the
structure for which a permit is granted as expediently as possible, and no
deviation from the assigned route shall be made except with the approval of the
building inspector. The building inspector, before granting the permit, shall
be sure that the application and route for moving have been approved in writing
by the chief of the fire department, chief of police and the director of joint
utilities, together with the local representatives of the telephone company,
radio and television stations and cable television office, who shall receive a
copy of the route to be traversed shown thereon. The moving permit shall
disclose the time when moving operations will commence. (Ord. C66-143, 7-13-
1976; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Cutting Wires; Removing Poles: If the cutting of wires or removing of
poles is necessary for the moving of any structure, the person desiring the
same shall give the owner of such wires or poles at least twenty four (24)
hours' written notice of such desire. No one other than the owner thereof, or
the owner's agent or employee, shall cut, remove or injure any radio and
television transmitter, telephone, telegraph, electric light and power wires or
poles or service lines in the city during the process of moving of building.
   C.   Occupancy While In Transit Prohibited: No building or other object
which is being moved upon or over streets, alleys or property of the city shall
be occupied while in transit.
   D.   Escort: No building or object covered by this chapter shall be moved
upon city streets without an escort provided by a licensed escort service
holding a certificate of public convenience and necessity from the New Mexico
state corporation commission.
   E.   Inspector; Fee: The permittee shall protect the street surface and
trees as and if required by the building inspector. If necessary, the building
inspector will provide an inspector to oversee the moving of such building for
the protection of public property and other property located in the city. The
permittee shall pay for such additional service, in addition to the fees
prescribed in sections 9-4-3 and 9-4-4 of this chapter, a charge of not less
than five dollars ($5.00), nor more than ten dollars ($10.00), for each day's
service. (Ord. C66-143, 7-13-1976)
9-4-7: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The building inspector may revoke any permit granted under the terms of this
chapter when it shall become known to him that the permittee is in any manner
whatsoever failing to comply with the terms thereof. In the event of such
revocation, any person to whom such permit was granted shall thereafter be
unlawfully operating without a permit and in violation of this chapter. (Ord.
C66-143, 7-13-1976)
9-4-8: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the movement of buildings or
objects through the city where both the origin and destination are outside the
city limits and the movement is at all times on state or federal highways.
(Ord. C66-143, 7-13-1976)
9-4-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. C66-143, 7-13-1976; amd. 2006 Code)
TITLE 10
LAND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Contact the City for land development standards.
 
