   VILLAGE OF LOS RANCHOS de ALBUQUERQUE,
NEW MEXICO
CODIFIED ORDINANCES
2024 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 9-17-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER 1
RESERVED
This chapter is for organizational ordinances.
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION/OFFICERS
ARTICLE 1. Village Officers
ARTICLE 2. Village Funds
ARTICLE 3. Non-Governmental Use of Municipal Facilities
ARTICLE 4. Process for the adoption of all Ordinances and Resolutions
ARTICLE 5. Definitions and Interpretation of Terms
ARTICLE 1.
VILLAGE OFFICERS
SECTION 1. Regular, Special, and Emergency Meetings
SECTION 2. Rules of Procedure
SECTION 3. Quorum
SECTION 4. Treasurer
SECTION 5. Salary of Mayor
SECTION 6. Trustees to be Compensated
SECTION 7. The Retiree Health Care Act
SECTION 8. Election of Mayor and Trustees
SECTION 9. Runoff Mayoral Election
§ 2.1.1 REGULAR, SPECIAL, AND EMERGENCY MEETINGS
The Board of Trustees shall convene in regular, special, and emergency meetings
in accordance with the Open Meetings Act and the Board’s annual open meetings
resolution required under that Act.
§ 2.1.2 RULES OF PROCEDURE
Roberts’ Rules of Order will govern the proceedings of the Board of Trustees
where applicable unless waived at any meeting by a concurrence of a majority of
the total number of Trustees elected.
§ 2.1.3 QUORUM
The presence at a meeting of any three Trustees or the Mayor and two Trustees
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. In the absence of
the Mayor, and pursuant to § 3-12-3 NMSA 1978, a Trustee shall be elected by
the Board to act as Mayor pro tempore. In the absence of the Clerk the Trustees
shall designate one of their number or some other person to act temporarily as
Clerk. The Clerk and the Treasurer shall have no vote but shall have a right to
be present at all meetings except when, by a resolution to meet in executive or
closed session, the Clerk or Treasurer, or both, are designated to be excluded.
§ 2.1.4 TREASURER
   The Mayor shall appoint a Treasurer to serve a two-year term unless sooner
removed by the Mayor. The Treasurer may be either a Village employee or a
Village resident and shall be qualified to perform the duties prescribed by
law.
   (A)   The Mayor shall submit the name of the Treasurer to the Board at the
Board’s next regular meeting following the Treasurer’s appointment. The
Treasurer must be confirmed by a majority of the Board of Trustees. The
Treasurer’s term shall begin on the day of the Village’s organizational meeting
following the Village’s regular election.
   (B)   If the Board fails to confirm the Treasurer appointed by the Mayor,
the Mayor at the next regular meeting of the Board of Trustees shall submit the
name of another person to fill the office of Treasurer.
   (C)   The Treasurer shall perform the duties of Village Treasurer as
prescribed by law, or as prescribed by ordinance or resolution of the Village.
The Treasurer shall be compensated at the market rate for similar professional
services, but in no event more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per pay
period. The Treasurer shall receive reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses
authorized to be incurred by the Board.
§ 2.1.5 SALARY OF MAYOR
   (A)   The Mayor shall be paid a salary of thirty-one thousand two hundred
dollars ($31,200.00) per year, subject to all withholdings required by law.
   (B)   The amount of salary paid to the Mayor shall be neither raised nor
lowered during any term of office of the Mayor.
§ 2.1.6 TRUSTEES TO BE COMPENSATED
   (A)   The Trustees shall receive compensation in the amount of two hundred
dollars ($200.00) per month. The Trustees shall receive an additional fifty
dollars ($50.00) for special or emergency meetings. No other compensation for
their services except reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred on
behalf of the Village when expressly authorized by the Board.
   (B)   Changes in compensation shall be budgeted by the Village and shall be
paid at the earliest date allowed under State Law.
§ 2.1.7 THE RETIREE HEALTH CARE ACT
   (A)   Thirty (30) days prior to public hearing on this Section, as required
by Section 9.D(2) of the Retiree Health Care Act, the Retiree Health Care
Authority was notified by certified mail of the public hearing on this Section.
   (B)   Pursuant to Section 9.D of Chapter 6, Laws of New Mexico 1990 the
Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque determines to be excluded from coverage
under the Retiree Health Care Act.
§ 2.1.8 ELECTION OF MAYOR AND TRUSTEES
    (A)    Pursuant to Subsection B of Section 1-22-3.1 NMSA 1978, the Mayor
and Trustees shall be elected in the regular local election, a consolidated
election day for non-partisan local government bodies on the first Tuesday
after the first Monday in November of each odd-numbered year, for a term of
four (4) years.
       (1)    The governing body member(s) elected or appointed to a term
ending in 2020 shall serve until December 31, 2019 at which time the term of
office shall end. The candidate(s) seeking office of a member of the governing
body shall be elected at the regular local election in November 2019, and shall
take office on January 1, 2020; and
       (2)    The governing body member(s) elected or appointed to a term
ending in 2022 shall serve until December 31, 2021 at which time the term of
office shall end. The candidate(s) seeking the office of a member of the
governing body shall be elected at the regular local election in November 2021,
and shall take office on January 1, 2022.
§ 2.1.9 RUNOFF MAYORAL ELECTION
   (A)   If no candidate for Mayor receives 50% of the votes to be elected in
the regular local election contemplated by Section
2.1.8, a runoff election shall be held no sooner than 21 days nor later than 45
days after approval of the report of the canvass of the election or as
otherwise provided in the Election Code.
   (B)   The top two candidates who receive the highest number of votes cast
for the office in question shall automatically become the candidates at the
runoff election. The top two candidates do not need to file declarations of
candidacy for the runoff election.
   (C)   The Governing Body shall by resolution fix the date of the runoff
election and specify the candidates therefor. The resolution shall be published
once, at least seven days before the runoff election date. Otherwise, no
publications are required in connection with runoff elections.
   (D)   Election day polling locations, alternate polling locations, and the
County Clerk's office will be open for the top-two runoff election. The County
Clerk, in consultation with the Municipal Clerk, will determine if any other
polling locations are to be opened during a top-two runoff election.
   (E)   The County Clerk shall perform the duties of administering the top-two
runoff election.
   (F)   The Village shall reimburse the Secretary of State the actual cost of
conducting the runoff election.
   (G)   This section shall be filed with the Secretary of State upon its
enactment, and also shall be filed with the Secretary of State prior to June 30
in each year in which a mayoral election will be held.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 2, Article 1(f/k/a Chapter
1, Section 1):
Ordinance #1, adopted February 4, 1959;
Ordinance #15, adopted March 25, 1964 but not signed;
Ordinance #41 amended the hour & place of meetings of the Board of Trustees
(section 1), November 5, 1980;
Ordinance #55 provided for compensation for the Mayor (Section 7), January 11,
1984;
Ordinance #69 amended section 5 to provide for appointment, rather than
election of the treasurer, November 18, 1987;
Ordinance #93, July 11, 1990;
Ordinance #134, Codification enacted February 14, 1996, codified ordinances 1,
41, 54, 55, 69 and 96 as chapter and modified the language. Provisions for
regular meetings (§ 1 of ORD #41) and special meetings (§ 2 of ORD #1) were
deleted;
Ordinance #137, adopted May 22, 1996;
Ordinance #177, adopted June 25, 2003;
Ordinance #188, adopted February 25, 2004, regulating campaign practices –
Repealed by Ordinance 197;
Ordinance #197, adopted November 9, 2005, repealing Ordinance #188;
Ordinance # 199, adopted May 10, 2006, amending Ordinance # 197;
Resolution 93-1-1 rescinded Resolution 92-3-1;
Municipal Officers § 3-10-1, et seq., NMSA 1978;
Mayor § 3-11-1 et seq., NMSA 1978;
Governing Body § 3-12-1 et seq., NMSA 1978 (1994 Cum. Supp.);
Clerk § 3-13-1 NMSA 1978;
Open Meetings Act §§ 10-15-1 through 10-15-4 NMSA 1978;
Ordinance #266, adopted January 23, 2019 ;
Ordinance #292, adopted December 14, 2022.
Ordinance #297, adopted October 11, 2023.
Ordinance #298, adopted December 13, 2023.
ARTICLE 2.
VILLAGE FUNDS
SECTION 1. Permanent Fund
SECTION 2. Referendum Required
SECTION 3. Reserve Fund
SECTION 4. Income Fund
§ 2.2.1 PERMANENT FUND
Pursuant to § 6-6-19 NMSA 1978 there is hereby established a permanent fund
into which may be deposited at the end of every fiscal year an amount of the
unappropriated general fund surplus. The amount that may be deposited is any
portion of the unappropriated general fund surplus that is in excess of fifty
percent (50%) of the prior fiscal year’s budget.
§ 2.2.2 REFERENDUM REQUIRED
Money in the permanent fund may only be appropriated or expended if approved by
a majority of the voters within the Village. Within sixty (60) days prior to
any general election, the governing body may adopt a resolution to include on
the ballot the question of expenditure of any amount of money in the permanent
fund for a specified purpose.
   (A)   If a majority of the registered voters voting on the question
disapprove the expenditure, then no money in the permanent fund may be expended
for the specified purpose.
   (B)   If the expenditure was not approved, that question shall not again be
submitted to the voters within one year of the date of that election.
§ 2.2.3 RESERVE FUND
There is hereby established a reserve fund into which may be deposited an
amount of the unappropriated general fund surplus. Money in the reserve fund
may only be appropriated or expended by approval of three of the four (4)
Village Trustees. The purpose of the reserve fund is to provide for long-term
investment.
§ 2.2.4 INCOME FUND
There is hereby established an income fund for the purpose of collecting and
disposing of income from the permanent fund and the reserve fund. Income from
the permanent fund and the reserve fund may be invested by the Board pursuant
to §§ 6-10-10, 6-10-36 and 6-10-44 NMSA 1978 and earnings from such investment
shall be deposited in the municipality’s income fund. Money in the income fund
may be budgeted and appropriated by the governing body for expenditure for any
purpose or deposited in the permanent fund.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 2, Article 2 (f/k/
a Chapter 1, Section 2):
Ordinance #96, adopted October 10, 1990;
Municipal finances § 3-37-1 NMSA 1978;
Local Government Finances, § 6-6-1, et seq., NMSA 1978;
Public Money, § 6-10-2, et seq., NMSA 1978.
ARTICLE 3.
NON-GOVERNMENTAL USE OF MUNICIPAL FACILITIES
SECTION 1. Purpose
SECTION 2. Application
SECTION 3. Insurance
SECTION 4. Decision
SECTION 5. Bond
SECTION 6. Compliance with Traffic Laws
§ 2.3.1 PURPOSE
This Section regulates the use of municipal property, including streets and
highways, by organized non-profit groups.
§ 2.3.2 APPLICATION
An organized non-profit group wishing to use municipal property shall apply in
writing before it advertises the activity and in no event later than fifteen
(15) days prior to such use. The application shall consist of a letter
describing:
   (A)   the desired use applied for;
   (B)   the nature of the activity to be conducted;
   (C)   the dates and times of the proposed activity;
   (D)   all arrangements made for the safety and welfare of the participants
and the Village residents; and
   (E)   the notices and consents required by other entities.
§ 2.3.3 INSURANCE
For outdoor activities, the application shall be accompanied by evidence of
liability insurance naming the Village as an insured with coverage of no less
than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per incident or claim and a statement
of indemnification and release of liability by the organization to the Village.
Such application shall be signed by an officer of the applicant organization.
§ 2.3.4 DECISION
The Mayor shall decide whether to grant or deny the application.
§ 2.3.5 BOND
The Mayor may require the applicant organization to post a performance bond
adequate to compensate the Village for any damages to the property or facility
or to return the property or facility to its original condition.
§ 2.3.6 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC LAWS
Any activity involving the streets and highways throughout the Village shall be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Village Motor Vehicle Code.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 2, Article 3 (f/k/
a Chapter 1, Section 3):
Ordinance #54, December 14, 1983.
ARTICLE 4.
PROCESS FOR THE ADOPTION OF ALL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
SECTION 1. Resolutions
SECTION 2. Ordinances
SECTION 3. Notice by Publication of Certain Proposed Ordinances
SECTION 4. Ordinance Authentication; Effective Date
SECTION 5. Ordinance Adoption; Roll Call Vote
SECTION 6. Conformity with State Law
§ 2.4.1 RESOLUTIONS
   (A)   A “Resolution” is the formal expression of the will or opinion of the
governing body, adopted by vote.
   (B)   A “Resolution” shall be adopted only by roll call vote and by a
majority of the governing body.
§ 2.4.2 ORDINANCES
   (A)   An “Ordinance” is a rule established by the governing body of a
municipal corporation. It is a permanent rule of action. § 3-17-1 NMSA 1978.
   (B)   The enacting clause of a municipal ordinance shall be: “Be it ordained
by the governing body of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque.” § 3-17-
2 NMSA 1978.
§ 2.4.3 NOTICE BY PUBLICATION OF CERTAIN PROPOSED ORDINANCES
   (A)   Notice by publication of the title and subject matter of any ordinance
proposed for adoption by the governing body of any municipality must take place
at least two weeks prior to consideration of final action upon the ordinance in
open session of the governing body, except that this section shall not apply to
ordinances dealing with an emergency declared by the chairman of the governing
body or the Mayor, as the case may be, to be an immediate danger to the public
health, safety and welfare of the municipality, or to ordinances the subject
matter of which is amending a city zoning map, provided the amendment to such
zoning map has been considered by, and recommended to, the governing body by a
planning commission with jurisdiction in the matter. It is sufficient defense
to any suit or prosecution to show that no notice by publication was made. § 3-
17-3 (A) NMSA 1978.
   (B)   Notice of the proposed ordinance shall be published one time as a
legal advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality.
§ 3-17-3 (B) NMSA 1978.
   (C)   Copies of a proposed ordinance shall be available to interested
persons during normal and regular business hours of the Village Clerk upon
request and payment of a reasonable charge, beginning with the date of
publication and continuing to the date of consideration by the governing body.
§ 3-17-3 (C) NMSA 1978.
§ 2.4.4 ORDINANCE AUTHENTICATION; EFFECTIVE DATE
   (A)   An ordinance shall be recorded in a book kept for that purpose, shall
be authenticated by the signature of the presiding officer of the governing
body and the Village Clerk and shall bear the seal of the municipality. The
ordinance shall be published one time either in its entirety or by title and a
general summary of the subject matter contained in the ordinance, whichever the
governing body elects to do. § 3-17-5 (A) NMSA 1978.
   (B)   An ordinance shall not become effective until five (5) days after it
has been published, unless otherwise provided by law. § 3-17-5 (B) NMSA 1978.
§ 2.4.5 ORDINANCE ADOPTION: ROLL CALL VOTE
   (A)   If a majority of all the members of the governing body vote in favor
of adopting the ordinance or resolution, it is adopted. The Village Clerk shall
record in the minutes book the vote of each member of the governing body on
each ordinance. § 3-17-4 (A) NMSA 1978.
   (B)   Within three (3) days after the adoption of an ordinance or
resolution, the Mayor shall validate the ordinance or resolution by endorsing
“Approved” upon the ordinance and signing. § 3-17-4 (B) NMSA 1978.
§ 2.4.6 CONFORMITY WITH STATE LAW
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Village of Los Ranchos shall be in
conformity with state law. § 3-17-1 NMSA 1978.
   (B)   All references to NMSA (1978) in this Article are subject to
amendment.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 2, Article 4:
Ordinance #198, adopted March 15, 2006, added [Section 4]
ARTICLE 5.
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION OF TERMS
SECTION 1. Interpretation
SECTION 2. Definitions
§ 2.5.1 INTERPRETATION
When not inconsistent with the context, throughout this Code, words used in the
present tense include the future and vice versa; words in the plural number
include the singular and vice versa; and each gender pronoun includes the
masculine and feminine.
The word “shall” is mandatory and not merely directory; the word “may” is
permissive.
Unless specifically defined, words or phrases shall be interpreted to give them
the meaning they have in common usage and to give these ordinances the most
reasonable application.
§ 2.5.2 DEFINITIONS
   (A)   BOARD means the Board of Trustees of the Village of Los Ranchos de
Albuquerque.
   (B)   FIRE CHIEF means the Chief of the Fire Department of the Village of
Los Ranchos de Albuquerque or the Chief’s designee.
   (C)   FIRE DEPARTMENT means the fire department of the Village of Los
Ranchos de Albuquerque.
   (D)   GOVERNING BODY means the Mayor and the Trustees.
   (E)   MAYOR means the Mayor of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque or
the Mayor’s designee.
   (F)   PERSON means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
estate, trust, receiver, association, cooperative, club, society, household, or
any other organization or entity of any kind and every officer, agent, or
employee thereof.
   (G)   VILLAGE means the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 2, Article 5 (f/k/
a Chapter 9):
Codification enacted February 14, 1996 added Chapter 9. Several corresponding
definitions were removed from specific ordinances such as #108 on alarm
devices.
CHAPTER 3
BUSINESS REGULATION
ARTICLE 1. Business Registration and Licensing
ARTICLE 2. Cable Television
ARTICLE 3. Franchise Agreements
ARTICLE 4. Therapeutic Massage
ARTICLE 5. Tattoo Establishments
ARTICLE 1.
BUSINESS REGISTRATION AND LICENSING
SECTION 1. Business Registration Fee
SECTION 2. Application to do Business
SECTION 3. Renewal
SECTION 4. Taxpayer Identification Number
SECTION 5. Vehicle Registration
SECTION 6. Late Fee
SECTION 7. Penalty
§ 3.1.1 BUSINESS REGISTRATION FEE
   (A)   There is imposed on each place of business conducted in the Village a
business registration fee of thirty-five dollars $35.00. Unless a construction
contractor has at least one permanent location within the Village, place of
business shall include a construction site located within the Village. The fee
is imposed pursuant to §3-38-3 NMSA 1978 as it may be amended and shall be
known as the “Business Registration Fee.” The Business Registration Fee may not
be prorated for businesses conducted for a portion of the year.
   (B)   For any business duly registered in another jurisdiction, and which
only conducts business within the Village at the Los Ranchos Art Market, and
which conducts no other business within the Village, there is imposed a
Vendor’s fee of twenty dollars ($20.00). No other Village business registration
shall be required for such a Vendor at the Los Ranchos Art Market. Businesses
registered with the Village shall not be required to pay the Vendor's fee.
§ 3.1.2 APPLICATION TO DO BUSINESS
Any person proposing to engage in business within the municipal limits of the
Village shall pay a business registration fee for each outlet, branch, or
location within the municipal limits prior to engaging in business.
§ 3.1.3 RENEWAL
Prior to January 1 of each year, any person with a place of business in the
Village that is subject to this Article shall apply for renewal of business
registration with the Village Clerk.
§ 3.1.4 TAXPAYER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER
All applications for issuance or renewal of a business registration shall
include the applicant’s current taxpayer identification number or evidence of
application for a number. The business address listed on the taxpayer
identification number form must be Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque.
§ 3.1.5 VEHICLE REGISTRATION
All vehicles, including trailers and trucks, that will be utilized in the
operation of a business at or on the premises of a business shall be registered
at the business address, with the exception of those businesses which operate
at more than one address and have registered their vehicles at another legal
address of their business.
§ 3.1.6 LATE FEE
Any person who fails to make a timely application for issuance or renewal of
any business registration shall be subject to a late fee of ten dollars
($10.00) per year. The late fee is in addition to any penalties which may be
imposed for violation of this Article.
§ 3.1.7 PENALTIES.
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this Article shall,
upon conviction, be punished by fines or imprisonment up to the maximum allowed
by New Mexico law for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which violation occurs or continues. Any such
penalties shall not affect the right of the Village to pursue such other
remedies as are authorized by law.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 3, Article 1 (f/k/
a Chapter 5):
Ordinance #10, August 2, 1961 - Repealed by ORD #43;
Ordinance #43, August 12, 1981- Repeals ORD #10;
Ordinance #47, April 14, 1982 – Repealed by ORD #76;
Ordinance #76, August 10, 1988 – Repeals ORD # 43 and ORD #47;
Ordinance #134, Codification enacted February 14, 1996 codified as Chapter 5
and removing Sections 6 and 8 of ORD #76;
Ordinance 168, April 10, 2002, amends Codified Ordinance #134 and restates
Chapter 5;
Ordinance #174, May 14, 2003, restates Chapter 5;
Ordinance #206, October 11, 2006;
Ordinance # 239 September 11, 2013, Adopting the numbering system for the 2013
Codified Ordinances of the Village of Los Ranchos
Ordinance # 240, October 9, 2013, Adopting the technical corrections of the
2013 Codified Ordinances of the Village of Los Rancho
Ordinance # 245, February 12, 2014, Adding Section 3.1.7 Penalties;
Offensive & unwholesome businesses § 3-18-13 NMSA 1978;
Ordinance #285, February 9, 2022.
ARTICLE 2.
CABLE TELEVISION
SECTION 1. Definitions
SECTION 2. Initial Review of Basic Cable Rates
SECTION 3. Review of Request for Increase in Basic Cable Rates
SECTION 4. Cable Operator Information
SECTION 5. Automatic Rate Adjustments
SECTION 6. Enforcement
§ 3.2.1 DEFINITIONS
   (A)   BASIC CABLE RATES means the monthly charges for a subscription to the
basic service tier and the associated equipment.
   (B)   BASIC SERVICE TIER means a separately available service tier to which
subscription is required for access to any other tier of service, including as
a minimum, but not limited to, all must-carry signals, all PEG channels, and
all domestic television signals other than superstations.
   (C)   BENCHMARK means a per channel rate of charge for cable service and
associated equipment which the FCC has determined is reasonable.
   (D)   CABLE ACT OF 1992 means the Cable Television Consumer Protection and
Competition Act of 1992, as amended.
   (E)   CABLE OPERATOR means any person or group of persons:
      (1)   who provide cable service over a cable system and directly or
through one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in such a cable
system; or
      (2)   who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of such a cable system.
   (F)   CHANNEL means a unit of cable service identified and selected by a
channel number or similar designation.
   (G)   COST OF SERVICE SHOWING means a filing in which the cable operator
attempts to show that the benchmark rate or the price cap is not sufficient to
allow the cable operator to fully recover the costs of providing the basic
service tier and to continue to attract capital.
   (H)   FCC means the Federal Communications Commission.
   (I)   INITIAL BASIC CABLE RATES means the rates that the cable operator is
charging for the basic service tier, including charges for associated
equipment, at the time the Village notifies the cable operator of the Village’s
qualification and intent to regulate basic cable rates.
   (J)   MUST-CARRY SIGNAL means the signal of any local broadcast station
(except superstations which are required to be carried on the basic service
tier).
   (K)   PEG CHANNEL means the channel capacity designated for public,
educational, or governmental use, and facilities and equipment for the use of
that channel capacity.
   (L)   PRICE CAP means the ceiling set by the FCC on future increases in
basic cable rates regulated by the Village, based on a formula using the GNP
fixed weight price index, reflecting general increases in the cost of doing
business and changes in overall inflation.
   (M)   REASONABLE RATE STANDARD means a per channel rate that is at, or
below, the benchmark or price cap level.
   (N)   SUPERSTATION means any non-local broadcast signal secondarily
transmitted by satellite.
§ 3.2.2 INITIAL REVIEW OF BASIC CABLE RATES
   (A)   NOTICE. Upon the adoption of this Article and the certification of the
Village by the FCC, the Village shall immediately notify all cable operators in
the Village, by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the Village
intends to regulate subscriber rates charged for the basic service tier and
associated equipment as authorized by the Cable Act of 1992.
   (B)   CABLE OPERATOR RESPONSE. Within thirty (30) days of receiving notice
from the Village, a cable operator shall file with the Village its current
rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment and any supporting
material concerning the reasonableness of its rates.
   (C)   EXPEDITED DETERMINATION AND PUBLIC HEARING.
      (1)   If the Board is able to expeditiously determine that the cable
operator’s rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment are within
the FCC’s reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable benchmark,
the Board of Trustees shall:
         (a)   hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         (b)   act to approve the rates within thirty (30) days from the date
the cable operator filed its basic cable rates with the Village.
      (2)   If the Board takes no action within thirty (30) days from the date
the cable operator filed its basic cable rates with the Village, the proposed
rates will continue in effect.
   (D)   EXTENDED REVIEW PERIOD.
      (1)   If the Board is unable to determine whether the rates in issue are
within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard based on the material before it, or
if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the Board shall,
within thirty (30) days from the date the cable operator filed its basic cable
rates with the Village and by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the
following additional periods of time, as applicable, to make a final
determination:
         (a)   Ninety (90) days if the Board needs more time to ensure that a
rate is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard; or
         (b)   One hundred fifty (150) days if the cable operator has submitted
a cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate above the applicable
benchmark.
      (2)   If the Village Board has not made a decision within the ninety (90)
or one hundred fifty (150) day period, it shall issue a brief written order at
the end of the period requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of
all amounts received by reason of the proposed rate and on whose behalf the
amounts are paid.
   (E)   PUBLIC HEARING. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the proposed rate, the Board shall hold at least one public hearing
at which interested persons may express their views and record objections.
   (F)   OBJECTIONS. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed initial basic rate may request the Village Clerk to record the
objection during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing
anytime before the decision resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to
be made part of the record, the objector must provide the Village Clerk with
the objector’s name and address.
   (G)   BENCHMARK ANALYSIS. If a cable operator submits its current basic
cable rate schedule as being in compliance with the FCC’s reasonable rate
standard, the Board shall review the rates using the benchmark analysis in
accordance with the standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on the Board’s
findings, the initial basic cable rates shall be established as follows:
      (1)   If the current basic cable rates are below the benchmark, those
rates shall become the initial basic cable rates and the cable operator’s rates
will be capped at that level.
      (2)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, the rates
shall be the greater of the cable operator’s per channel rate on September 30,
1992, reduced by 10 percent, or the applicable benchmark, adjusted for
inflation and any change in the number of channels occurring between September
30, 1992 and the initial date of regulation.
      (3)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, but the
cable operator’s per channel rate was below the benchmark on September 30,
1992, the initial basic cable rate shall be the benchmark, adjusted for
inflation.
   (H)   COST-OF-SERVICE SHOWINGS. If a cable operator does not wish to reduce
the rates to the permitted level, the cable operator shall have the opportunity
to submit a cost-of-service showing in an attempt to justify initial basic
cable rates above the FCC’s reasonable rate standard. The Board will review a
cost-of-service submission pursuant to FCC standards for cost-of-service
review. The Board may approve initial basic cable rates above the benchmark if
the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a cost-of-service
determination resulting in rates below the benchmark or below the cable
operator’s September 30, 1992 rates minus 10 percent, will prescribe the cable
operator’s new rates.
   (I)   DECISION.
      (1)   By formal resolution. After completion of its review of the cable
operator’s proposed rates, the Board shall adopt its decision by formal
resolution. The decision shall include one of the following:
         (a)   If the proposal is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard or
is justified by a cost-of-service analysis, the Board shall approve the initial
basic cable rates proposed by the cable operator; or
         (b)   If the proposal is not within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard
and the cost-of-service analysis, if any, does not justify the proposed rates,
the Board shall establish initial basic cable rates that are within the FCC’s
reasonable rate standard or that are justified by a cost-of-service analysis.
      (2)   Rollbacks and Refunds. If the Board determines that the initial
basic cable rates as submitted exceed the reasonable rate standard or that the
cable operator’s cost-of-service showing justifies lower rates, the Board may
order the rates reduced in accordance with Paragraph (G) or (H) above, as
applicable. In addition, the Board may order the cable operator to pay to
subscribers refunds of the excessive portion of the rates with interest
(computed at applicable rates published by the Internal Revenue Service for tax
refunds and additional tax payments), retroactive to September 1, 1993. The
method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in accordance with
FCC Regulations as directed in the Board’s decision resolution.
      (3)   Statement of Reasons for Decision and Public Notice. If rates
proposed by a cable operator are disapproved in whole or in part, or if there
were objections made by other parties to the proposed rates, the resolution
must state the reasons for the decision and the Board must give public notice
of its decision. Public notice will be given by advertisement once in a
newspaper of general circulation.
   (J)   APPEAL. The Board’s decision concerning rates for the basic service
tier or associated equipment may be appealed to the FCC in accordance with
applicable Federal Regulations.
§ 3.2.3 REVIEW OF REQUEST FOR INCREASE IN BASIC CABLE RATES
   (A)   NOTICE. A cable operator in the Village who wishes to increase the
rates for the basic service tier or associated equipment shall file a request
with the Village and notify all subscribers at least thirty (30) days before
the cable operator desires the increase to take effect. This notice may not be
given more often than annually and not until at least one year after the
determination of the initial basic cable rates.
   (B)   EXPEDITED DETERMINATION AND PUBLIC HEARING.
      (1)   If the Board is able to expeditiously determine that the cable
operator’s rate increase request for basic cable service is within the FCC’s
reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable price cap, the Board
shall:
         (a)   hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         (b)   act to approve the rate increase within thirty (30) days from
the date the cable operator filed its request with the Village.
      (2)   If the Board takes no action within thirty (30) days from the date
the cable operator filed its request with the Village, the proposed rates will
go into effect.
   (C)   EXTENDED REVIEW PERIOD.
      (1)   If the Board is unable to determine whether the rate increase is
within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard based on the material before it, or
if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the Board shall by
adoption of a formal resolution invoke the following additional periods of
time, as applicable, to make a final determination:
         (a)   Ninety (90) days if the Board needs more time to ensure that the
requested increase is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard as determined
by the applicable price cap; and
         (b)   One hundred fifty (150) days if the cable operator has submitted
a cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate increase above the
applicable price cap.
      (2)   The proposed rate increase is tolled during the extended review
period.
      (3)   If the Board has not made a decision within the 90 or 150 day
period, the Board shall issue a brief written order at the end of the period
requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all amounts received
by reason of the proposed rate increase and on whose behalf the amounts are
paid.
   (D)   PUBLIC HEARING. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the requested rate increase, the Board shall hold at least one public
hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   (E)   OBJECTIONS. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed rate increase may request the Village Clerk to record the
objection during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing
anytime before the decision resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to
be made part of the record, the objector must provide the Village Clerk with
the objector’s name and address.
   (F)   DELAYED DETERMINATION. If the Board is unable to make a final
determination concerning a requested rate increase within the extended time
period, the cable operator may put the increase into effect, subject to
subsequent refund if the Board later issues a decision disapproving any portion
of the increase.
   (G)   PRICE CAP ANALYSIS. If a cable operator presents its request for a
rate increase as being in compliance with the FCC’s price cap, the Board shall
review the rate using the price cap analysis in accordance with the standard
form authorized by the FCC. Based on the Board’s findings, the basic cable
rates shall be established as follows:
      (1)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase is within the price cap
established by the FCC, the proposed rates shall become the new basic cable
rates.
      (2)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase exceeds the price cap
established by the FCC, the Board shall disapprove the proposed rate increase
and order an increase that is in compliance with the price cap.
   (H)   COST-OF-SERVICE SHOWINGS. If a cable operator submits a cost-of-
service showing in an attempt to justify a rate increase above the price cap,
the Board will review the submission pursuant to the FCC standards for cost-of-
service review. The Board may approve a rate increase above the price cap if
the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a cost-of-service
determination resulting in a rate below the price cap or below the cable
operator’s then current rate will prescribe the cable operator’s new rate.
   (I)   DECISION. The Board’s decision concerning the requested rate increase
shall be adopted by formal resolution. If a rate increase proposed by a cable
operator is disapproved in whole or in part, or if objections were made by
other parties to the proposed rate increase, the resolution must state the
reasons for the decision. Objections may be made at the public hearing by a
person requesting the Village Clerk to record the objection or may be submitted
in writing at any time before the decision resolution is adopted.
   (J)   REFUNDS.
      (1)   The Board may order refunds of subscribers’ rate payments with
interest if:
         (a)   the Board was unable to make a decision within the extended time
period as described in Paragraph (C) above; and
         (b)   the cable operator implemented the rate increase at the end of
the extended review period; and
         (c)   the Board determines that the rate increase as submitted exceeds
the applicable price cap or that the cable operator failed to justify the rate
increase by a cost-of-service showing, and the Board disapproves any portion of
the rate increase.
      (2)   The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with FCC Regulations as directed in the Board’s decision resolution.
   (K)   APPEAL. The Board’s decision concerning rates for the basic service
tier or associated equipment may be appealed to the FCC in accordance with
applicable Federal Regulations.
§ 3.2.4 CABLE OPERATOR INFORMATION
   (A)   VILLAGE MAY REQUIRE.
      (1)   In those cases when the cable operator has submitted initial rates
or proposed an increase that exceeds the reasonable rate standard, the Board
may require the cable operator to produce information in addition to that
submitted, including proprietary information, if needed to make a rate
determination. In these cases, a cable operator may request the information be
kept confidential in accordance with this Section.
      (2)   In cases where initial or proposed rates comply with the reasonable
rate standard, the Board may request additional information only in order to
document that the cable operator’s rates are in accord with the standard.
   (B)   REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIALITY.
      (1)   A cable operator submitting information to the Board may request in
writing that the information be kept confidential. A copy of the request shall
be attached to and cover all of the information and all copies of the
information to which it applies.
      (2)   If feasible, the information to which the request applies shall be
physically separated from any information to which the request does not apply.
If this is not feasible, the portion of the information to which the request
applies shall be identified.
      (3)   Each request shall contain a statement of the reasons for
confidentiality and a statement of the facts upon which those reasons are
based.
      (4)   Requests which do not comply with the requirements of this
Subsection shall not be considered.
   (C)   BOARD ACTION. The Board will act upon requests for confidentiality
which comply with the requirements of §
3.2.4(B). The Board will grant the request if the cable operator presents by a
preponderance of the evidence a case for nondisclosure consistent with
applicable Federal Regulations. If the request is granted, the ruling will be
placed in a public file in lieu of the information withheld from public
inspection. If the request does not present a case for nondisclosure and the
Board denies the request, the Board shall take one of the following actions:
      (1)   If the information has been submitted voluntarily without any
direction from the Village, the cable operator may request that the Village
return the information without considering it. Ordinarily, the Village will
comply with this request. Only in the unusual instance that the public interest
so requires, will the information be made available for public inspection.
      (2)   If the information was required to be submitted by the Board, the
information will be made available for public inspection.
   (D)   APPEAL. If the Board denies the request for confidentiality, the cable
operator may seek review of that decision from the FCC within five (5) working
days of the Board’s decision, and the release of the information will be stayed
pending review.
§ 3.2.5 AUTOMATIC RATE ADJUSTMENTS
   (A)   ANNUAL INFLATION ADJUSTMENT. In accordance with FCC Regulations, the
cable operator may adjust its capped base per channel rate for the basic
service tier annually by the final GNP-PI index.
   (B)   OTHER EXTERNAL COSTS.
      (1)   The FCC Regulations also allow the cable operator to increase its
rate for the basic service tier automatically to reflect certain external cost
factors to the extent that the increase in cost of those factors exceeds the
GNP-PI. These factors include retransmission consent fees, programming costs,
state and local taxes applicable to the provision of cable television service,
and costs of franchise requirements. The total cost of an increase in a
franchise fee may be automatically added to the base per channel rate, without
regard to its relation to the GNP-PI.
      (2)   For all categories of external costs other than retransmission
consent and franchise fees, the starting date for measuring changes in external
costs for which the basic service per channel rate may be adjusted will be the
date on which the basic service tier becomes subject to regulation or February
28, 1994, whichever occurs first. The permitted per channel charge may not be
adjusted for costs of retransmission consent fees or changes in those fees
incurred before October 6, 1994.
   (C)   NOTIFICATION AND REVIEW. The cable operator shall notify the Village
at least thirty (30) days in advance of a rate increase based on automatic
adjustment items. The Village shall review the increase to determine whether
the item or items qualify as automatic adjustments. If the Village makes no
objection within thirty (30) days of receiving notice of the increase, the
increase may go into effect.
§ 3.2.6 ENFORCEMENT
   (A)   REFUNDS. The Village may order the cable operator to refund to
subscribers a portion of previously paid rates under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   A portion of the previously paid rates have been determined to be
in excess of the permitted tier charge or above the actual cost of equipment;
or
      (2)   The cable operator has failed to comply with a valid rate order
issued by the Village.
   (B)   FINES. If the cable operator fails to comply with a rate decision or
refund order, the cable operator shall be subject to a fine of $500 for each
day the cable operator fails to comply.
Ordinance and Federal Law References regarding Chapter 3, Article 2 (f/k/
a Chapter 6):
Ordinance #119, March 9, 1994;
The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, Pub.L.
102-385, Oct. 5, 1992, 106 Stat. 1460;
Codification enacted Feb. 14, 1996 codified Ordinance #119 as Chapter 6 and
modified the language.
ARTICLE 3.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
The following ordinances are hereby incorporated into this Code by reference:
§ 3.3.1 USWEST Communications Company Franchise Agreement
Ordinance #136, February 14, 1996;
§ 3.3.2 PNM Electric Franchise Agreement
Ordinance 290, October 12, 2022;
§ 3.3.3 New Mexico Gas Company, Inc.
Ordinance #287, May 11, 2022;
§ 3.3.4 Albuquerque-Bernalillo County Water Utility Authority
Ordinance #291, November 9, 2022;
§ 3.3.5 The Zayo Group, LLC
Comcast of New Mexico, LLC Franchise Ordinance #293, March 8, 2023.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 3, Article 3 (f/k/a Chpt
12):
Ordinance #7, October 7, 1959 granting a franchise to Southern Union Gas
Company Franchise Agreement;
Ordinance #8, October 7, 1959 granting a franchise to Public Service Company of
New Mexico Franchise Agreement;
Ordinance #27, September 25, 1973 granting a franchise to Southern Union Gas
Company Franchise Agreement, (repealing Ordinance #7);
Ordinance #50, January 14, 1983, granting rights to Mercure Telecommunications,
Inc., dba Bernalillo Cablevision;
Ordinance #51, March 9, 1983, granting rights to Mountain States Telephone and
Telegraph Company;
Ordinance #60, January 9, 1985, granting a franchise for electricity to Public
Service Company of New Mexico [expired February 8, 2010];
Ordinance #66, May 14, 1986, granting franchise to Jones Intercable, Inc.,
(repealing Ordinance #50);
Ordinance #136, February 14, 1996, granting a franchise to US West
Communications Company [expired in 2006];
Ordinance #141, July 10, 1996, granting a franchise to PNM Gas Services of New
Mexico, (repealing Ordinance #27) [expires in 25 years];
Ordinance #204, July 12, 2006, granting a franchise to Albuquerque-Bernalillo
County Water Utility Authority [expires in 10 years];
Ordinance #237, March 13, 2013, granting a franchise to The Zayo Group, LLC
[expires in 10 years].
NMSA 1978, § 3-42-1 Franchises; authorization.
Ordinance #287, May 11, 2022, granting a franchise to New Mexico Gas Company,
Inc., (repealing Ordinance #141);
Ordinance #290, October 12, 2022, granting a franchise for electricity to
Public Service Company of New Mexico, (repealing Ordinance #60);
Ordinance #291, November 9, 2022, granting a franchise to Albuquerque-
Bernalillo County Water Utility Authority, (repealing Ordinance #204);
Ordinance #293, March 8, 2023, granting a cable franchise to Comcast of New
Mexico, LLC, (repealing Ordinance #66).
ARTICLE 4
THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE PRACTICES
SECTION 1. Definitions
SECTION 2. License
SECTION 3. Requirements for License
SECTION 4. Penalties
SECTION 5. Violations – Additional Remedies: Injunction
SECTION 6. Severability of Provisions
§ 3.4.1 DEFINITIONS
The following definitions shall apply in interpretation and the enforcement of
this Article:
   (A)   THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. The term "therapeutic massage
establishment" shall include any establishment which is operated for the
purpose of providing therapeutic massage services for renumeration at said
establishment or on a home call or out call basis.
   (B)   THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE. The term "therapeutic massage" shall mean any
method of pressure on or friction against or stroking, kneading, rubbing,
tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external parts of the human
body with the fingers, hands, arms or with the aid of any mechanical or
electrical apparatus or appliance. Therapeutic massage also includes
hydrotherapy, colon irrigation, kineseology therapy, stretching, and reflex
manipulation.
   (C)   THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE PRACTITIONER. A "therapeutic massage practitioner"
is a person who, as "massagist," "masseur,” masseuse," "massage therapist,"
"natural therapeutics specialist" and other such denomination, provides
therapeutic massage services in a therapeutic massage establishment or on an
out call or home call basis. This definition does not apply to persons licensed
under the laws of New Mexico to practice medicine, osteopathy, chiropractic,
physical therapy, podiatry, nursing, dietetics, nutrition, or barbering.
   (D)   ESTABLISHMENT. The word "establishment" shall mean a place of business
together with its grounds and equipment operating as a therapeutic massage
establishment including a person or persons engaging in therapeutic massage on
an out call or home call basis.
   (E)   MAYOR. The term "Mayor" shall mean the Mayor of the Village of Los
Ranchos De Albuquerque or the Mayor's designated representative.
   (F)   PERSON. The term "person" as used in this Article shall mean any
individual, partnership, firm or corporation and indicates any of the above in
both the singular and the plural.
   (G)   LICENSEE. The term "licensee" as used in this Article shall mean any
person holding a therapeutic massage establishment license by virtue of this
Article.
   (H)   REMUNERATION shall mean payment in the form of commission, fee,
salary, pay, gratuity, tip, profit, reward, gift, or any other form of
consideration.
§ 3.4.2 LICENSE
   (A)   License Required. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
within the Village limits a therapeutic massage establishment without first
obtaining a license from the Village. Such license shall be valid only for the
person to whom it is issued, and valid only for the calendar year for which it
is issued. Each such license shall be renewed at the beginning of each calendar
year.
   (B)   Application for License. The Village shall, after the effective date
of this Article, receive written applications in a form prescribed by the Mayor
for licenses to operate therapeutic massage establishments within the Village
limits and shall issue such licenses when the applications meet the
requirements of this Article and any other applicable laws or ordinances. The
application shall be accompanied by copies of required diplomas or
certificates. The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to charge a
fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for the issuance of such license.
   (C)   Display of License. Every license issued by the Village pursuant to
this Article shall be displayed in a prominent location within an
establishment.
§ 3.4.3 REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSE
   (A)   Every establishment shall display a sign which readily identifies the
establishment.
   (B)   Every establishment shall require that any person who practices
therapeutic massage within that establishment possesses any licenses to
practice massage that may be required by the State of New Mexico and shall
comply with any regulations promulgated by the State of New Mexico as they are
from time to time published according to law, and be a graduate of a massage
school accredited by the American Massage Therapy Association or otherwise
certified by passing the practical and written examination of the American
Massage Therapy Association.
§ 3.4.4 PENALTIES
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Article and is found
guilty thereof by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00). Each day's violation shall be
deemed a separate offense.
§ 3.4.5 VIOLATIONS - ADDITIONAL REMEDIES: INJUNCTIONS
As an additional remedy, any practice in violation of any provision(s) of this
Article, which causes a nuisance or creates a potential or actual health
hazard, shall be deemed, and is declared to be, a public nuisance and may be
subject to abatement summarily by a restraining order or injunction issued by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 3.4.6 SEVERABILITY OF PROVISIONS
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of these Regulations is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of these Regulations, it being
the intent of the Village Board of Trustees to enact each section, subsection,
sentence, clause or phrase of these Regulations separately and independently of
each other section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 3, Article 4 (f/k/
a Chapter 27):
Ordinance #84, May 10, 1989; An ordinance regulating Therapeutic Massage
Practices;
Ordinance #134, enacted Feb. 14, 1996, codified ORD #80 as Chapter 27, with
modifications.
ARTICLE 5.
TATTOO ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 3.5.1 DEFINITIONS
Repealed
§ 3.5.2 PROHIBITION
Repealed
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 3, Article 5 (f/k/
a Chapter 27):
Ordinance #80, January 11, 1989;
Ordinance #134, enacted Feb. 14, 1996, codified ORD #80 as Chapter 27, with
modifications.
Ordinance #256, adopted by the Board of Trustees on October 12, 2016 repealed
Chapter 3, Article, 5 Section 1 Definitions, and Section 2, Prohibition.
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC SAFETY AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE 1. Emergency Preparedness
ARTICLE 2. Flood Damage Prevention
ARTICLE 3. Stormwater Management
ARTICLE 4. Water Management
ARTICLE 5. Reserved
ARTICLE 1.
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
SECTION 1. Organization
SECTION 2. Mayor – Powers and Duties
SECTION 3. Emergency Operations Plan
SECTION 4. Override
SECTION 5. Liability
SECTION 6. Commitment of Funds
SECTION 7. Offenses; Penalties
SECTION 8. Limitations
SECTION 9. Repealer
SECTION 10. Severability
SECTION 11. Compiling Clause
§ 4.1.1 ORGANIZATION
There exists an Emergency Management Director of the Village of Los Ranchos de
Albuquerque, which shall be held by the Mayor in accordance with the All Hazard
Emergency Management Act, §§ 12-10-1 to 12-10-10 NMSA 1978.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be responsible for the emergency management program
within the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque and for carrying out the
duties and responsibilities set forth in this Article. He/she may delegate
authority for execution but responsibility shall remain with the Mayor.
   (B)   An Emergency Management Coordinator may be appointed by and serve at
the pleasure of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Emergency Management Organization shall consist of the officers
and employees of the Village as well as organized citizen and volunteer groups
and private sector partners so designated by the Mayor in the Emergency
Operations Plan. The functions and duties of this Emergency Management
Organization shall be distributed among such officers, employees, and
representatives in accordance with the terms of the Emergency Operations Plan.
§ 4.1.2 MAYOR – POWERS AND DUTIES
The duties and responsibilities of the Mayor shall include the following:
   (A)   Survey actual or potential hazards that threaten life and property
within the Village and identify and require or recommend the implementation of
measures that would tend to prevent the occurrence or reduce the impact of such
hazards if a disaster did occur.
   (B)   Supervise the development of an Emergency Operations Plan, and
recommend for adoption by the Board of Trustees all mutual aid arrangements
deemed necessary for the implementation of such plan.
   (C)   Declare a local state of emergency or disaster. The declaration may
not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven (7) days except by
consent of the Board of Trustees. Any order or proclamation declaring,
continuing, or terminating a local state of emergency or disaster shall be
given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the Village
Clerk.
   (D)   Issue necessary proclamations, regulations, or directives which are
necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Article. Such proclamations,
regulations, or directives shall be disseminated promptly by means calculated
to bring its contents to the attention of the general public and, unless
circumstances attendant on the emergency or disaster prevent or impede,
promptly filed with the Village Clerk.
   (E)   Direct and control the operations of the Emergency Management
Organization as well as the training of Emergency Management personnel.
   (F)   Determine all questions of authority and responsibility that may arise
within the Emergency Management Organization of the Village.
   (G)   Maintain liaison with other municipal, county, regional, district,
state, or federal emergency management organizations.
   (H)   Marshal all necessary personnel, equipment, or supplies from any
Department of the Village to aid in the carrying out of the provisions of the
Emergency Operations Plan.
   (I)   Supervise the drafting and execution of mutual aid agreements, in
cooperation with representatives of the State and other local political
subdivisions of the State, and the drafting and execution, of any agreements
with the County of Bernalillo, and other municipalities within Bernalillo
County, for the county-wide coordination of emergency management efforts.
   (J)   Supervise, and authorize the procurement of all necessary supplies and
equipment, including acceptance of private contributions, which may be offered
for the purpose of improving emergency management within the Village.
   (K)   Authorize agreements for use of private property for public shelter
and other emergency purposes.
   (L)   Survey the availability of existing personnel, equipment, supplies,
and services which could be used during an emergency or disaster.
§ 4.1.3 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN
An Emergency Operation Plan shall be developed and maintained. As provided by
State law, the plan shall follow the standards and criteria established by the
New Mexico Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management. When
approved, it shall be the duty of all departments and agencies to perform the
functions assigned by the plan and to maintain their portion of the plan in a
current state of readiness at all times.
The Emergency Operation Plan shall be considered supplementary to this Article
and have the effect of law during the time of a disaster.
§ 4.1.4 OVERRIDE
At all times when the orders, rules, and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this Article are in effect, they shall supersede and override all
existing ordinances, orders, rules, and regulations insofar as the latter may
be inconsistent therewith.
§ 4.1.5 LIABIITY
This Article is an exercise by the Village of its governmental function for the
protection of health, safety and welfare and neither the Village of Los Ranchos
de Albuquerque, the agents and representatives, nor any individual, receiver,
firm, partnership, corporation, association, or trustee, nor any of the agents
thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to comply
with, any order, rule, or regulation promulgated pursuant to the provisions of
this Article shall be liable for any damage sustained to persons as the result
of said activity.
Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who voluntarily
and without compensation grant to the Village a license or privilege, or
otherwise permit the Village to inspect, designate, and use the whole or any
part or parts of such real estate or premises for sheltering persons or for
other emergency purposes during an actual, impending, or practice natural or
man-caused emergency or disaster shall, together with his successors in
interest, if any, not be civilly liable for the death of, or injury to, any
person on or about such real estate or premises under such license, privilege
or other permission or for loss of, or damage to, the property of such person.
§ 4.1.6 COMMITMENT OF FUNDS
No person shall expend public funds to carry out an Emergency Management
activity without prior approval by the Board of Trustees, nor shall any person
bind the Village by contract, agreement, or otherwise without prior and
specific approval of the Board of Trustees. In the event of a declared
emergency or disaster, the Mayor may expend and commit public funds of the
Village when deemed prudent and necessary for the protection of health, safety
and welfare.
§ 4.1.7 OFFENSES; PENALTIES
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, hinder, or delay any
member of the Emergency Management Organization in the enforcement of any rule
or regulation issued pursuant to this Article.
   (B)   It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry, or
display any emblem, insignia, or any other means of identification as a member
of the Emergency Management organization of the Village of Los Ranchos de
Albuquerque, unless authority to do so has been granted to such person by the
proper officials.
   (C)   Violations of the provisions of this Article may be punishable by
fine.
§ 4.1.8 LIMITATIONS
This Article shall not be construed so as to conflict with any State or Federal
statute or with any emergency order, rule, or regulation.
§ 4.1.9 REPEALER
All ordinances, parts of ordinances, or resolutions in conflict herewith are
expressly repealed.
§ 4.1.10 SEVERABILITY
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase, or part hereof
is for any reason declared unconstitutional or invalid, the validity of the
remaining portions hereof shall not be affected since it is the expressed
intent of the Board to pass each section, subsection, paragraph, clause, phrase
and every part thereof separately and independently of every other part.
§ 4.1.11 COMPILING CLAUSE
This Article shall be incorporated in and compiled as a part of the Municipal
Code of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 4, Article 1 (f/k/
a Chapter 8):
Ordinance #17, adopted August 3, 1966;
Codification enacted February 14, 1996 codified Ordinance #17 as Chapter 8 and
modified the language;
Ordinance #215, adopted April 9, 2008;
State Civil Emergency Preparedness Act, NMSA 1978 § 12-10-1, et seq.;
All Hazard Emergency Management Act, NMSA 1978 § 12-10-10.
ARTICLE 2.
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION 1. Statutory Authorization
SECTION 2. Findings of Fact
SECTION 3. Statement of Purpose
SECTION 4. Methods of Reducing Flood Losses
SECTION 5. Definitions
SECTION 6. General Provisions
SECTION 7. Administration
SECTION 8 Development Permit Procedures
SECTION 9. Variance Procedures
SECTION 10. Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
SECTION 11. Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
SECTION 12. Floodways
SECTION 13. Enforcement
SECTION 14. Severability
§ 4.2.1 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION
The Legislature of the State of New Mexico having power to minimize flood
hazard, (Section 3-18-7, NMSA 1978) and for flood control (Section 3-41-1, et
seq., NMSA 1978), delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to
adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the Mayor and
Board of Trustees of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, New Mexico,
ordain as follows:
§ 4.2.2 FINDINGS OF FACT
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque
are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
and extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of
which adversely affects the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in flood plains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   (C)   There are areas of special flood hazard within the Village at this
time, and there exists the potential for localized flooding due to rainfall,
irrigation waters, ditch breaks, and future annexations of lands within areas
of special flood hazard.
§ 4.2.3 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE
It is the purpose of this Article to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, television cable, telephone, and sewer lines, streets and
bridges located in the flood plain;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
§ 4.2.4 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES
In order to accomplish its purposes, this Article uses the following methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and,
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
§ 4.2.5 DEFINITIONS
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this Article shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this Article it’s most reasonable application.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING means flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial
fan or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by
high-velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX means a point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
APPEAL means a request for a Review of the Flood Plain Manager’s interpretation
of any provision of this Article or a request for a variance.
AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD means the land area that would be
inundated by the 1-percent-annual chance (100- year) flood based on future
conditions of hydrology.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING means a designated AO, AH, or VO zone on a community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD means the land in the flood plain within a
community subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any
given year. The area may be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary
Map (FHBM). After detailed rate-making has been completed in preparation for
publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AE, AH, AO,
A1-99, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
BASE FLOOD means the flood having a one-percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE) The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones A,
AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a one percent (1%) chance of equaling or
exceeding that level in any given year – also called the Base Flood.
BASEMENT means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BREAKAWAY WALL means a wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
CRITICAL FEATURE means an integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT means any man-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING means a non-basement building (i) built, in the case of a
building in Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of
the elevated floor, or in the case of building in Zones V1-30, VE, or V, to
have the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the elevated floor
elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers),
or shear walls parallel to the flow of the water, and (ii) adequately anchored
so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of
up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99,
AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, “elevated building” also includes a building elevated
by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient
to facilitate the unimpeded movement of flood waters. In the case of Zones V1-
30, VE, or V, “elevated building” also includes a building otherwise meeting
the definition of “elevated building,” even though the lower area is enclosed
by means of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls meet the standards of
Section 60.3(e) (5) of the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION means for the purpose of determining rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of
the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date.
“Existing construction” may also be referred to as “existing structures.”
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION means a manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION means the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD OR FLOODING means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   the overflow of inland or tidal waters; or,
      (2)   the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY means an examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or
an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e. mudflow) and/or
floodrelated erosion hazards.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM) means an official map of a community on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated the boundaries of the
flood, mud slide (i.e., mud flow) related erosion areas having special hazards
have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM) means an official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS) see Flood Elevation Study.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA means any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source (see definition of flooding).
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT means the operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS means zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGER means that person so designated by the governing body of the
Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque. If this person is an elected official,
he may designate to another person some or all of the duties of the office of
Flood Plain Manager. The Flood Plain Manager shall be a certified floodplain
manager by the New Mexico Flood Plain Managers Association (CFM), or shall
obtain such certification within twelve (12) months of employment by the
Village of Los Ranchos.
FLOOD PROOFING means any combination of structural and non-structural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures and their contents.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM means those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the area within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY) means the channel of a river or other
watercourses and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to
discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface
elevation more than a designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE means a use which cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The
term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for
the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship
repair facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related
manufacturing facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE means the highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE means any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or,
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or,
         (b)   by the Secretary of the Interior directly in states without
approved programs.
LEVEE means a man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM means a flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirement of Section 60.3 of the National Flood Insurance
Program Regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME means a structure transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes, the term “manufactured home” also includes park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. For insurance purposes the term
“manufactured home” does not include park trailers, travel trailers, and other
similar vehicles. The term “manufactured home” does not include a “recreational
vehicle.”
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL means, for purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION means, for the purpose of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the ‘start of construction’ commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, “new construction” means structures for which
the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION means a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE means a vehicle which is:
      (1)   built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and,
      (4)   designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
RIVERINE means relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), streams, brook, etc.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA - see Area of Special Flood Hazard.
START OF CONSTRUCTION (for other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L.97-348)) includes
substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, placement,
or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit
date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
state of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE means a walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to it’s before damaged condition would
equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT means any repair, rehabilitation, addition,
reconstruction, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals
or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before
“start of construction” of the improvement. This includes structures which have
incurred “substantial damage,” regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either,
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations or to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary, or
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary conditions, or,
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure.”
VARIANCE means a grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
Article when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A
variance, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited by this Article. (For full requirements see §
4.2.9, below, and Section 60.6 of the National Flood Insurance Program
regulations.)
VIOLATION means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s flood plain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in Section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION means the height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) (or other datum, where specified), of floods of various
magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
§ 4.2.6 GENERAL PROVISIONS
   (A)   LANDS TO WHICH THIS ORDINANCE APPLIES. The Ordinance shall apply to
all areas within the jurisdiction of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque.
   (B)   BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in
the current scientific and engineering report entitled “The Flood Insurance
Study (FIS) for Bernalillo County, New Mexico and Incorporated Areas,” dated 16
August 2012, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) dated 16
August 2012.
   (C)   ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A Development Permit shall be
required within areas of special flood hazard to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this Ordinance.
   (D)   COMPLIANCE. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered,
or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this
Ordinance and other applicable Regulations.
   (E)   ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS. This Ordinance is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this Ordinance and another ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   INTERPRETATION. In the interpretation and application of this Article,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and,
      (3)   deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (G)   WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY. The degree of flood protection
required by this Article is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions
greater floods can and will occur, and flood heights may be increased by man-
made or natural causes. This Article does not imply that land outside the areas
of special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This Article shall not create liability on the part
of the community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this Article or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
§ 4.2.7 ADMINISTRATION
   (A)   APPOINTMENT. The Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque Director of
Planning and Zoning is hereby appointed Floodplain Manager and may delegate to
the Floodplain Manager (CFM) to administer and implement the provisions of this
Article and other appropriate sections of 44CFR (Emergency Management and
Assistance National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to
floodplain management.
   (B)   DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN MANAGER. Duties and
responsibilities of the Floodplain Manger shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:
      (1)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this Article.
      (2)   Review permit applications to determine whether proposed building
site projects, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      (3)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this Article.
      (4)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits (including those authorized by Section 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) have been
obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required.
      (5)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Manager shall make the necessary interpretation.
      (6)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency which is the New Mexico Department of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management (DHSEM), prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
      (7)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      (8)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
4.2.6(B), the Floodplain Manager shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a Federal,
State, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §
4.2.10.
      (9)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Manager must require that no new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-3- and AE
on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect
of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community.
      (10)   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community’s FIRM which increases the
water surface elevations of the base flood by more than one foot, provided that
the community first completes all of the provisions required by Section 65.12.
§ 4.2.8 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT PROCEDURES
   (A)   Application for a Development Permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Manager on forms furnished by him and may include, but not be
limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions,
and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and proposed
structures, and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special
flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean seal level to which any
nonresidential structure shall be flood-proofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential flood-proofed structure shall meet the flood-proofing
criteria of §
4.2.7.(B)(2);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (5)   A record of all such information in accordance with §
4.2.7(B)(1).
   (B)   Approval or denial of a Development Permit by the Floodplain Manager
shall be based on all of the provisions of this Article and the following
relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as telephone, sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and,
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the most current Village
of Los Ranchos Master Plan.
§ 4.2.9 VARIANCE PROCEDURES
   (A)   The Appeal Board is the Board of Trustees, which shall hear and render
judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this Article.
   (B)   The Appeal Board (Board of Trustees) shall hear and render judgment on
an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement decision
or determination made by the Floodplain Manager in the enforcement or
administration of this Article.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
(Board of Trustees) may appeal such decision in the courts of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Manager shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this Article.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
4.2.9(B) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
Article, the Board of Trustees may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
Article.
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   a showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   a determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      (1)   the criteria outlined in §
4.2.9(A)-(K) are met; and,
      (2)   the structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
§ 4.2.10 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
   (A)   GENERAL STANDARDS. In all areas of special flood hazards in the
Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      (1)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      (4)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and,
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (B)   SPECIFIC STANDARDS. In all areas of special flood hazards where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in (1) §
4.2.6(B), (2) §
4.2.7(B)(8), or (3) §
4.2.10(C)(4), the following provisions are required:
      (1)   Residential Construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement), elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A licensed
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Manager that the standard of this subsection as proposed in §
4.2.8(A)(1), is satisfied.
      (2)   Nonresidential Construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood level or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A licensed professional engineer or
architect shall develop and/or review structural design specifications, and
plans for the construction and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are flood-
proofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Manager.
      (3)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a licensed professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria.
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (4)   Manufactured Homes.
         (a)   All manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community’s FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
         (b)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites (i)
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, (ii) in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, (iii) in an expansion to an existing manufactured
home park or subdivision, or (iv) in an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a
result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest
floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (c)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with
Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions of paragraph (4) of this Section be elevated so that either:
            1. the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the
base flood elevations, or,
            2. the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (5)   Recreational Vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM either:
         (a)   be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days,
         (b)   be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or,
         (c)   meet the permit requirements of §
4.2.8, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for “manufactured homes” in
§
4.2.10(B)(4) of this Article. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use
if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
   (C)   STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall be consistent with Sections 6, 7 and 8 of
this Article.
      (2)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions, including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall meet Development
Permit requirements of §
4.2.8; and the provisions of §
4.2.10 of this Article.
      (3)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions which are greater than fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres, whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §
4.2.6(B) or §
4.2.7(B)(8) of this Article.
      (4)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
      (5)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, which are otherwise required to be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
§ 4.2.11 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES).
Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
4.2.6(B) are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one (1) to three (3) feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions
apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified).
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures:
      (1)   have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified);
and,
      (2)   together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
designed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
   (C)   A licensed professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Manager that the standards of this Article, as
proposed in §
4.2.10(B) are satisfied.
   (D)   Require within Zone AH or AO adequate drainage paths around structures
on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed structures.
§ 4.2.12 FLOODWAYS
   (A)   Floodways – located within areas of special flood hazard established
in §
4.2.6(B) – are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   If §
4.2.12(A) above is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements
shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §
4.2.10.
   (B)   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Regulations, a community may permit encroachments
within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base
flood elevations, provided that the community first applies for a conditional
FIRM and floodway revision through FEMA.
§ 4.2.13 ENFORCEMENT
The provisions of this Article shall be enforced by such persons who are
appointed by the Mayor as zoning enforcement officers. Such persons shall be
employees of the Village of Los Ranchos and shall have the power to issue
citations for the violation of this Article. Such citations shall be heard by
the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque municipal court.
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this Article
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this Article
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this Article or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50), nor more than five hundred dollars ($500) or
imprisoned for not more than ninety (90) days, or both, for each violation, and
a separate violation shall be deemed committed on each day during on or which a
violation occurs or continues; in addition, such person shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the prosecution of the case. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the Village of Los Ranchos from taking such other lawful action
as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
§ 4.2.14 SEVERABILITY
The provisions of this Article are severable, and if any provision, sentence,
clause, section, or part thereof, is held illegal, invalid, unconstitutional,
or in applicable to any person or circumstance, the illegality, invalidity,
unconstitutionality, or inapplicability shall not affect or impair any of the
remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections, or parts of this Article or
their application to other persons or circumstances.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 4, Article 2 (f/k/
a Chapter 11):
Ordinance #77, August 10, 1988;
Ordinance #139, June 26, 1996, repeals Ordinance No. 77;
Ordinance #169, July 10, 2002 (re-writes Chapter 11 and replaces ORD #139,
except Article 6, Section A.);
Ordinance #185, November 12, 2003, amends Chapter 11, Ordinance 169, Section
6B;
Ordinance #219, June 18, 2008, amends Chapter 11, Ordinance 169 & Ordinance
185;
Requirement of Certified Floodplain Manager, NMSA 1978, § 3-18-7C;
Power to minimize floods hazard § 3-18-7 NMSA 1978;
Flood control NMSA 1978, § 3-41-1, et seq.
ARTICLE 3.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION 1. Definitions
SECTION 2. General Regulations
SECTION 3. Illicit Discharge
SECTION 4. Stormwater Discharge
SECTION 5. Administration
SECTION 6. Inspections
SECTION 7. Violations, Noncompliance, Penalty
SECTION 8. Additional Permits
SECTION 9. Appeals
SECTION 10. Severability
§ 4.3.1 DEFINITIONS
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs) means activities or structural improvements
that help reduce the quantity and improve the quality of stormwater runoff.
Best management practices are schedules of activities, prohibitions or
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to prevent or
reduce the pollution of waters of the United States. BMPs also include
treatment requirements, operating procedures and practices to control runoff,
spillage, or leaks; sludge, waste disposal, or drainage from raw material
storage. With regard to construction, these practices may include structural
devices or nonstructural practices that are designed to prevent pollutants from
entering water or to direct the flow of water.
CLEAN WATER ACT (WATER QUALITY ACT): (formerly the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act or Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972). Public
law 92-500; 33 U.S.C. 1251 et. seq.; legislation which provides statutory
authority for the NPDES program. Also known as the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN means the Village of Los Ranchos Comprehensive Plan and
amendments thereto.
CONCEPTUAL GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN means a plan prepared in graphical format
showing existing and proposed grading, drainage, control, flood control and
erosion control information in sufficient detail to determine project
feasibility.
CONVEYANCE means the process of water moving from one place to another.
DIRECTOR means The Director of Planning and Zoning, the official designated to
enforce the comprehensive zoning ordinance, as may be amended from time to
time.
DISCHARGE means the volume of water (and suspended sediment if surface water)
that passes a given location within a given period of time.
DESIGN STORM means a storm which deposits a stated amount of precipitation
within a stated period over a defined area and which is used in calculating
storm runoff and in designing drainage control, flood control and erosion
control measures.
DEVELOPED LAND means any lot or parcel of land occupied by any structure
intended for human occupation, including structures intended for commercial
enterprise.
DEVELOPER means any individual, estate, trust, receiver, cooperative
association, club, corporation, company, firm, partnership, joint venture,
syndicate, or other entity engaging in the platting, subdivision, filling,
grading, excavation, or construction of structures or facilities.
DRAINAGE means storm drainage.
DRAINAGE MANAGEMENT OR TREATMENT means the treatment and/or management of
surface runoff from all storms up to and including a ten-year design storm.
DRAINAGE PLAN means a short, detailed plan prepared in graphical format with or
on a detailed grading plan addressing onsite and off-site drainage control,
flood control, and erosion control issues for lots or parcels of less than five
acres.
DRAINAGE REPORT means a comprehensive analysis of the drainage, flood control,
and erosion control constraints on and impact resulting from a proposed
platting, development or construction project.
EPA means United States Environmental Protection Agency.
EROSION CONTROL means treatment measures for the prevention of damages due to
soil movement and to deposition.
EROSION CONTROL PLAN means a plan for the mitigation of damages due to soil
erosion and to deposition.
EXCAVATION means the process of removing earth, stone, or other materials from
land.
FLOOD CONTROL means the treatment measures necessary to protect life and
property from the 100-year design storm runoff.
FLOOD HAZARD AREA means an area subject to inundation from the 100-year design
storm runoff.
GENERAL PERMIT means a permit issued under the NPDES program to cover a certain
class or category of stormwater discharges. These permits reduce the
administrative burden of permitting stormwater discharges.
GRADING means the cutting and/or filling of the land surface to a desired slope
or elevation.
GRADING PLAN means a plan describing the existing topography and proposed
grading, including retaining wall locations and details, interfaces with
adjacent properties, streets, alleys and channels, referenced to mean sea level
(1929 or 1988 datum) such as city benchmark or NMDOT benchmark, and showing
sufficient contours, spot elevations and cross sections to allow a clear
understanding by reviewers, contractors, and inspectors.
ILLICIT CONNECTION means any discharge to a municipal separate storm sewer that
is not composed entirely of stormwater and is not authorized by an NPDES
permit, with some exceptions (e.g., discharges due to fire fighting
activities).
MAINTENANCE means the cleaning, shaping, grading, repair and minor replacement
of drainage, flood control and erosion control facilities, but not including
the cost of power consumed in the normal operation of pump stations.
MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE (MEP) means a standard for water quality that
applies to all MS4 operators regulated under the NPDES Stormwater Program.
Since no precise definition of MEP exists, it allows for maximum flexibility on
the part of MS4 operators as they develop and implement their programs.
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4) means a publicly owned conveyance
or system of conveyances that discharges to waters of the U.S. and is designed
or used for collecting or conveying stormwater, is not a combined sewer, and is
not part of a publicly-owned treatment works (POTW).
NON-POINT SOURCE (NPS) POLLUTANTS means pollutants from many diffuse sources.
NPS pollution is caused by rainfall or snowfall moving over and through the
ground. As the runoff moves, it picks up and carries away natural and human-
made pollutants, finally depositing them into lakes, rivers, wetlands, coastal
waters, and even our underground sources of drinking water.
NOTICE OF INTENT(NOI) means Notice of Intent.
NPDES: “National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System” the name of the
surface water quality program authorized by Congress as part of the 1987 Clean
Water Act. This is EPA’s program to control the discharge of pollutants to
waters of the United States (see 40 C.F.R. 122.2) Phase II.
NUISANCE WATERS means those waters leaving a site and entering a public right
of way.
ONE HUNDRED (100) YEAR DESIGN STORM means that storm whose precipitation within
a six-hour period and resulting runoff has a one percent chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. A special condition may require/allow
use of storms of longer duration.
OUTFALL means the point where wastewater or drainage discharges from a sewer
pipe, ditch, or other conveyance to a receiving body of water.
PHYSICALLY INTERCONNECTED MS4 means that one MS4 is connected to a second MS4
in such a way that it allows for direct discharges into the second system.
POINT SOURCE POLLUTANT means pollutants from a single, identifiable source such
as a factory or refinery.
POLLUTANT LOADING means the total quantity of pollutants in stormwater runoff.
REGULATED MS4 means any MS4 covered by the NPDES Stormwater Program (regulated
small, medium, or large MS4s).
RETROFIT means the modification of stormwater management systems through the
construction and/or enhancement of wet ponds, wetland plantings, or other BMPs
designed to improve water quality.
RUNOFF means drainage or flood discharge that leaves an area as surface flow or
as pipeline flow. Has reached a channel or pipeline by either surface or sub-
surface routes.
SEDIMENT means soil, sand, and minerals washed from land into water, usually
after rain. Sediment can destroy fish-nesting areas, clog animal habitats, and
cloud waters so that sunlight does not reach aquatic plants.
SITE RUNOFF means any drainage or flood discharge that is released from a
specified area.
SMALL MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM(MS4) means any MS4 that is not
regulated under Phase I of the NPDES Stormwater Program and Federally-owned
MS4s.
STORM DRAIN means a slotted opening leading to an underground pipe or an open
ditch for carrying surface runoff.
STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM means arroyos, storm drains, roadways, culverts, bar
ditches, ponds, pump stations, dams, detention ponds, retention ponds, inlets,
and appurtenant structures and other facilities which convey stormwater.
STORMWATER means precipitation that accumulates in natural and/or constructed
storage and stormwater systems during and immediately following a storm event.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT means functions associated with planning, designing,
constructing, maintaining, financing, and regulating the facilities (both
constructed and natural) that collect, store, control, and/or convey
stormwater.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP) means a plan to describe a process
whereby a facility thoroughly evaluates potential pollutant sources at a site
and selects and implements appropriate measures designed to prevent or control
the discharge of pollutants in stormwater runoff.
STORMWATER QUALITY CONTROL means the treatment methods necessary to protect and
enhance the quality of stormwater.
SURFACE WATER means water that remains on the surface of the ground, including
rivers, lakes, reservoirs, streams, wetlands, impoundments, seas, estuaries,
etc.
TEN-YEAR DESIGN STORM means that storm whose precipitation within a six hour
period and resulting runoff has a ten percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. A special condition may require/allow use of storms
of longer duration.
TOTAL MAXIMUM DAILY LOAD (TMDL) means the maximum amount of pollutants which
can be released into a water body without adversely affecting the water
quality.
URBAN RUNOFF means stormwater from urban areas, which tends to contain heavy
concentrations of pollutants from urban activities.
WET WEATHER FLOWS means water entering storm drains during rainstorms/wet
weather events.
§ 4.3.2 GENERAL REGULATIONS
The Village shall, under direction of the Director of Planning and Zoning,
develop, implement, and enforce, according to EPA standards, a Stormwater
Management Plan designed to reduce the discharge of pollutants from a small MS4
to the maximum extent practicable (MEP), to protect water quality, and to
satisfy applicable surface water quality standards.
   (A)   STORM DRAINAGE.
      (1)   Prevent the creation of public safety hazards and seek to eliminate
existing problems.
      (2)   Prevent, to the extent feasible, the discharge of storm runoff from
public facilities onto private property.
      (3)   Prevent the increased risk of damage to private property caused by
storm runoff from other private property.
      (4)   Coordinate with the M.R.G.C.D., A.M.A.F.C.A., Bernalillo County and
the City of Albuquerque the discharge of storm runoff into M.R.G.C.D. and
A.M.A.F.C.A facilities and minimize impact on downstream facilities.
      (5)   Provide for timely and effective construction and maintenance of
storm drainage facilities.
      (6)   Design storm drainage facilities, which provided effective storm
drainage and flood control.
      (7)   Improve the quality of storm runoff.
   (B)   EROSION CONTROL.
      (1)   Protect the hydraulic capacity of flood control and storm drainage
facilities from losses due to sedimentation and degradation.
      (2)   Preserve public health, safety, and convenience from jeopardy due
to erosion and sedimentation in private and public facilities of all types.
      (3)   Preserve the quality of surface runoff.
§ 4.3.3 ILLICIT DISCHARGE
   (A)   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. It is prohibited to discharge into the storm
sewer system any form of pollutant, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Automotive oils, gasoline, grease, fluids, or other waste products;
      (2)   Floatables – such as plastic bags, fast food wrappers, Styrofoam
cups, soft drink cans, or cups, etc.;
      (3)   Plant refuse – weeds, tree trimmings, leaves, etc,;
      (4)   Water line flushing;
      (5)   Landscape irrigation or sprinkler run off;
      (6)   Fertilizers, pesticides, or poisons;
      (7)   Diverted stream or ditch flows;
      (8)   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
      (9)   Discharges from potable water sources;
      (10)   Foundation drains;
      (11)   Open space or agricultural irrigation water;
      (12)   Car washing between Mullen and Schulte on 4th Street or where
water flows into storm sewer outlets;
      (13)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
      (14)   De-chlorinated swimming pool discharges;
      (15)   Toxic spills;
      (16)   Street wash water;
      (17)   Animal waste;
      (18)   Grease from cooking, commercial and residential;
      (19)   Household cleaning products.
   (B)   ILLEGAL DUMPING. It is prohibited for any person or persons to deposit
trash, household items, yard debris, appliances, or any such items on Village
of Los Ranchos owned or controlled property.
      (1)   All possible investigative means may be utilized to determine the
person or persons responsible for illegal dumping.
   (C)   GROUNDWATER CONTAMINATION. Any activity which contributes to
groundwater contamination through the burying of animal waste, dead animals,
and garbage or toxic chemicals is expressly prohibited.
      (1)   All possible investigative means may be utilized to determine the
person or persons responsible for groundwater contamination.
§ 4.3.4 STORMWATER DISCHARGE
   (A)   NEW CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   All construction, development, and redevelopment projects with land
disturbances equal to or greater than one acre, including sites, which disturb
less than one acre, but are part of a larger common plan of development, must,
at the time of application to the Village, submit:
         (a)   A Notice of Intent permit issued by EPA.
         (b)   A Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) including Best
Management Practices to prevent stormwater discharge in accordance with EPA
NPDES Phase II regulations for construction site stormwater runoff control.
      (2)   The stormwater pollution prevention plan shall outline the BMPs to
be undertaken by the operator/owner of the project to protect stormwater
quality during the construction phase of the project.
         (a)   These BMPs shall be maintained by the owner of the property.
Inspection of these BMPs shall be made at a minimum once a week by the owner
and a log of this inspection shall be kept on-site for review by the Village.
The Village shall also inspect these BMPs on a periodic basis. These BMPs shall
be subject to the approval of the Planning and Zoning Department.
      (3)   Construction and development sites must control and properly
dispose of construction wastes, trash, chemicals, etc.
   (B)   POST CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   All development and redevelopment projects with land disturbances
equal to or greater than one acre, including sites which disturb less than one
acre but are part of a larger common plan of development and all construction
of additions to buildings or of outbuildings over fifty percent (50%) of
existing Floor Area Ratio, must submit a Grading and Drainage Plan with a
Certified Engineer’s stamp showing on-site water retention ponding volumes.
      (2)   For all development and redevelopment projects with land
disturbances equal to or greater than one acre, including sites which disturb
less than one acre but are part of a larger common plan of development, and all
construction of additions to buildings or of outbuildings over fifty percent
(50%) of existing Floor Area Ratio within the Village, post construction water
quality BMPs are required. This requirement is in addition to any other
requirements that may apply. These BMPs shall be subject to the approval of the
Planning and Zoning Department.
      (3)   Contractors or developers must complete the on-site water retention
ponding, berming, banking, ditching, or underground retention system prior to
receipt of Certificate of Occupancy or in case of subdivision, sales of lots to
the public.
      (4)   Maintenance responsibility of stormwater control is the
responsibility of the property owner up to the point where stormwater enters
public facilities.
      (5)   Where a site development, building permit, a major or minor
subdivision, or a replat alters the elevation or location of any designated
100-year floodplain, as shown on current FEMA flood insurance rate maps, the
developer shall be required to provide to the Village all necessary data needed
to effect the flood boundary revision or amendment. Any required fees for
processing shall be the responsibility of the developer.
      (6)   Site development and major or minor subdivisions or replats shall
be designed and constructed such that non-stormwater discharges into storm
sewers, ditches, or watercourses will not occur.
   (C)   STORMWATER DISCHARGE FROM INDIVIDUAL PARCELS.
      (1)   The discharge of nuisance waters from private property to public
streets is prohibited. Arterial and collector streets shall be protected from
damages to the surface and from the safety hazard created by surface flow of
nuisance waters across them.
         (a)   Parking lots, yards, open fields, landscaped areas, developed
and undeveloped lots shall be bermed, banked, ponded, ditched, or otherwise
contoured for on-site water retention to prevent stormwater runoff onto Village
streets and roads or ditches.
§ 4.3.5 ADMINISTRATION
   (A)   The design, construction, and maintenance of all drainage control,
flood control, erosion control, and stormwater quality control facilities
within the Village shall be performed in accordance with procedures, criteria
and standards formulated by the Director of Planning and Zoning and in
accordance with the policies established in this Article.
   (B)   All construction activities within the jurisdiction of the Village
shall conform to the requirements of the Article with respect to drainage
control, flood control, erosion control and stormwater quality control.
      (1)   Construction, grading or paving on any lot within the Village shall
not increase the damage potential to adjacent properties or public facilities.
Damages shall be defined as those caused by flooding, erosion, and
sedimentation from the 100-year design storm and all smaller storms.
      (2)   Any grading shall provide for erosion control and the safe passages
of the ten-year design storm runoff during the construction phase and until the
permanent improvements are completed.
      (3)   Grading, cut, fill or importation of material in excess of 500
cubic yards or grading of any area of one acre or more, or any grading which
will adversely affect other properties, ditches, watercourses or easements
shall conform to drainage control, flood control, erosion control and
stormwater quality control policies and to standards, criteria and procedures
established by the Village with respect to drainage, flood control, erosion
control, and stormwater quality control.
   (C)   The Village may participate with the private sector, other public
bodies, and agencies operating within the jurisdiction of this Article in order
to accomplish the goals and implement the policies adopted herein. This
includes, but shall not be limited to, the development and adoption of master
plans, participation in the construction of projects, and exercising control
through the planning, platting, zoning, and permitting processes.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the Director of Planning and Zoning
to produce, approve, make and retain records of all drainage plans, drainage
reports, design analyses, design drawings, as-built drawings, and maintenance
schedules related to all drainage control, flood control, erosion control, and
stormwater quality control facilities constructed within the Village.
   (E)   Application for all land use changes shall address drainage control,
flood control, and erosion control in terms of the interaction of these
parameters with other requirements and needs produced by the proposed land use
changes, and shall comply with an adopted drainage management plan.
   (F)   Requests for building permits, site plan approval, or the platting of
land for the purpose of major or minor subdivision, and for replats, shall be
accompanied by appropriate grading, drainage control, flood control, erosion
control, and stormwater quality control information.
      (1)   Grading and Drainage plan. Drainage plans are prepared with or on
the detailed grading plan and address both on-site and off-site drainage
control, flood control and erosion control issues.
      (2)   Drainage report. A drainage report is a comprehensive analysis of
the drainage control, flood control, and erosion control constraints on and
impacts resulting from a proposed platting, development, or construction
project. Drainage reports are required for major subdivisions containing more
than five lots or constituting five acres or more, platting or construction
within a designated flood hazard area.
      (3)   Erosion control plan. An erosion control plan is usually
incorporated into the drainage plan or drainage report. Erosion control plans
address all phases of each project from initial grading, through, and including
final occupancy. The ten-year design storm shall be used to determine the
treatment measures necessary for the prevention of damage due to soil movement
for the on-site area of development.
   (G)   All drainage submittals shall be prepared under the direction of and
signed by a registered professional engineer competent in surface hydrology and
drainage, and shall include a statement that the engineer has personally
inspected the land, and a statement as to whether it appears that grading,
filling, or excavation has occurred thereon since the existing contour map was
prepared.
   (H)   Submitted plans will be checked by the Village designated engineer and
the applicant shall bear the cost per Resolution No. 2003-6-2.
   (I)   Drainage control considerations specifically address safety,
convenience, and economics for both private property and public facilities.
§ 4.3.6 INSPECTIONS
   (A)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this Article, the Director of Planning and Zoning or his
authorized representative may enter such premises at any reasonable time to
inspect the premises or to perform any duty imposed upon him; provided,
however, that if such premises is occupied, he shall first present proper
credentials and demand entry. If such premise is unoccupied, he shall first
make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or
control of the premises and demand entry.
   (B)   If entry is refused or if the owner or other responsible person is not
found, the Director or his authorized representative shall proceed according to
§
9.2.24(E).
§ 4.3.7 VIOLATIONS, NONCOMPLIANCE, PENALTY
   (A)   If the Director finds that any of the conditions of this Article are
being violated, he shall notify in writing, the owner, tenant, agent, occupant,
or person in charge of the premises, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering its correction within seventy two (72) hours from the date of
notification, or in case of severe overflow violation, immediate remedy.
   (B)   Where, after investigation, a notice has been issued by the Director
or his authorized representative to the owner, tenant, agent, occupant, or
person in charge of the premises on which a violation has occurred and the
order is not complied with within the designated time, or if the responsible
party or violator cannot be found or determined, the Director may cause such
remedies as are necessary to be made. The reasonable cost of such remedies
shall constitute a lien against the property on which the violation occurred
and was remedied. The lien shall be imposed and foreclosed in the manner
provided in §§ 3-36-1 – 3-36- 6 NMSA 1978.
   (C)   For prohibited dumping or groundwater contamination, or a second
violation of this Article, the Director or designated representative is hereby
authorized to issue citations for violation of this Article. Such citations
shall order the alleged violator to appear on a date certain in Village
Municipal Court at the next regularly scheduled Court session or any special
setting the Judge may designate. Violators will be prosecuted to the full
extent of the law.
   (D)   Where, after investigation, a notice has been issued by the Director
to the owner, tenant, agent, occupant, or person in charge of the premises of
the property on which a violation has occurred and the order is not complied
with, within such reasonable time as may be prescribed by the Director, the
Village may revoke or refuse to renew or issue any permit to the violator and/
or the property owner until such remedies, as are necessary, are made, or if
remedy is made by the Village, until the cost of such remedies is paid to the
Village.
   (E)   It shall be sufficient notice under the provisions of this Article to
make delivery of such notices in person or by registered mail. If the name and
address if the owner cannot be reasonably ascertained from the current county
tax rolls and the premises are unoccupied, it shall be sufficient notice under
this Article to publish the notice in English in a newspaper of general
circulation once a week for four consecutive weeks. The owner of the property
shall have the right to appeal pursuant to §
9.2.25(H) of the 2013 Codified Ordinances of the Village of Los Ranchos.
§ 4.3.8 ADDITIONAL PERMITS
The issuance of a permit by the Village does not relieve the owner/developer
from obtaining any additional grading or fill permits that may be required by
Bernalillo County, the State of New Mexico, M.R.G.C.D., A.M.A.F.C.A., City of
Albuquerque, ABCWUA, agencies, or governmental bodies having jurisdiction over
these areas of the Village by State Law, Joint Powers Agreements, or
Memorandums of Understanding.
§ 4.3.9 APPEALS
An appeal of a determination of the Director may be made in the manner
prescribed in §
9.2.25(H) of the 2013 Codified Ordinances of the Village of Los Ranchos.
§ 4.3.10 SEVERABILITY
Any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Article or the Code
that is held to be unconstitutional or invalid shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this Article or the Code, since the Board of Trustees
expressly intended to pass each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase,
and part of this Article or the Code separately and independently or every
other part.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 4, Article 3:
Ordinance 134, Codification enacted February 14, 1996 codified ORD #108 as
Chapter 2, and modified language;
Ordinance #211, August 8, 2007;
ARTICLE 4.
WATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION 1. Water Management
§ 4.4.1 WATER MANAGEMENT
   (A)   There exists in the State of New Mexico and in the Village of Los
Ranchos de Albuquerque drought conditions in the year 2002 and significant
concerns each year concerning both the availability of water and the efficient
use of water;
   (B)   Some water users in the Village of Los Ranchos do not efficiently
utilize their irrigation and/or sprinkler systems in order to contain water
upon their properties;
   (C)   Irrigation water and water from sprinkler systems which are not
contained upon the user’s property contribute to conditions which lead to
deterioration of the roads and streets of the Village, are also an inefficient
and wasteful use of water and pose a potential danger to pedestrians, cyclists,
equestrians and vehicle traffic.
   (D)   It is the policy of the Village of Los Ranchos to promote safe and
efficient use of water for agricultural and horticultural uses.
   (E)   For the reasons listed above, it is declared that allowing water to
run beyond a property owner’s boundary is prohibited and constitutes a
misdemeanor which may be enforced in Municipal Court.
   (F)   All water users in the Village of Los Ranchos must contain all
irrigation water or water from sprinkler systems completely upon their property
and shall not permit such water to extend beyond the boundaries of their
property either by flowing upon the ground on the neighboring properties or by
water delivered to neighboring properties through an adjacent owner’s sprinkler
system.
   (G)   The Village of Los Ranchos will also have the right to seek and to
recover actual damages caused to public property by the violation of this
Article, including, but not limited to damages caused by allowing irrigation or
sprinkler water to escape beyond the boundary of the water user’s property onto
public property so as to damage said public property, including, but not
limited to, the roads and streets of the Village of Los Ranchos.
   (H)   Violation of this Article shall constitute a misdemeanor and may be
punished by an action in the Municipal Court in the same manner as the
violation of any other Village Ordinances.
   (I)   This Article shall be incorporated and compiled as part of the
Municipal Code of the Village of Los Ranchos.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 4, Article 4:
Ordinance 134, Codification enacted February 14, 1996 codified ORD #108 as
Chapter 2, and modified language;
Ordinance #171, August 14, 2002;
ARTICLE 5.
RESERVED
Editor’s Note:
   Ordinance #286 repealed §§ 4.5.1 through 4.5.14, relating to alarm devices
and systems, on May 11, 2022.
CHAPTER 5
FIRE SAFETY
ARTICLE 1. International Fire Code
ARTICLE 1.
INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE
SECTION 1. Adoption of the International Fire Code
SECTION 2. Amendments to Provisions of the IFC
SECTION 3. Deletions to Provisions of the IFC
SECTION 4. Amendments and Exceptions to Provisions of the IFC
SECTION 5. Compiling Clause and Severability
§ 5.1.1 ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE
The Board of Trustees, the Governing Body of the Village of Los Ranchos de
Albuquerque, hereby adopts by reference the conditions, limitations and terms
of the International Fire Code, hereinafter IFC 2003 Edition, including all
appendices thereto: IFC Appendix A, IFC Appendices B, E, F, and G are adopted
as Code, and IFC Appendices C and D are adopted by reference.
The provisions of the said International Fire Code, 2003 Edition, as amended
hereby, shall be controlling within the limits of the Village of Los Ranchos de
Albuquerque, and shall, except as provided for herein, supersede and replace
any previously adopted fire codes, including the Uniform Fire Code, 1997
Edition.
The adoption of the International Fire Code, 2003 Edition, does not in any way
supersede the provisions set forth in the Village of Los Ranchos Zoning Code.
Occupancy Groups contained in the International Fire Code in no way define or
redefine the Zoning Code designations.
Unless deleted, amended, expanded or otherwise changed herein, all provisions
of the IFC shall be fully applicable and binding. Any and all references in the
International Fire Code, 2003 Edition, as amended hereby, to the National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) codes shall mean the most current edition.
This Article regulates and governs the safety of life and property from fire
and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous
substances, materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or
property in the occupancy of buildings and premises in the Village; provides
for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and repeals
Ordinance Nos. 30, 67, 91, 97 and 159 of the Village of Los Ranchos and
portions thereof codified or uncodified that are or may be inconsistent
herewith.
§ 5.1.2 AMENDMENTS TO PROVISIONS OF THE IFC
The Village of Los Ranchos hereby amends certain provisions of the IFC to add
the following:
   (A)   Section 101.1, Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fire
Code of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, hereinafter referred to as
“this code.”
   (B)   Section 106.2a. The Board of Trustees will by resolution set the
frequency of fire inspections and the fees to be charged for the inspections.
   (C)   Section 109.3, Violation Penalties. Owners who violate a provision of
this code or fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who erect,
install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the fire code official, or of a permit or certificate
used under provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a Misdemeanor. Any
person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this code shall, upon
conviction, be punished by fines or imprisonment up to the maximum allowed by
New Mexico law for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which violation occurs or continues. Any such
penalties shall not affect the right of the Village to pursue such other
remedies as are authorized by law.
   (D)   Section 111.4, Stop Work Order. Any owners who continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation of unsafe condition, shall, upon
conviction, be punished by fines or imprisonment up to the maximum allowed by
New Mexico law for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which violation occurs or continues. Any such
penalties shall not affect the right of the Village to pursue such other
remedies as are authorized by law.
   (E)   Section 3204.3.1., Cryogenic Fluid. The storage and use of flammable
Cryogenic fluids is permitted only in the Village of Los Ranchos C-1 Zone.
   (F)   Section 3404.2.9.5 and Section 3404.2.9.5.1, Storage. The Storage of
Class I and Class II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings is
permitted only in the Village of Los Ranchos C-1 Zone.
   (G)   Section 3406.2.4.4. Locations Where Above-Ground Tanks are Prohibited.
The storage of Class I and Class II liquids in above-ground tanks is prohibited
in all zones with the exception of C-1; use is contingent upon approval of the
Fire Chief.
   (H)   Section 3804.2. Location of Containers. The storage of liquefied
petroleum gas is restricted in all zones with the exception of C-1, contingent
upon approval of the Fire Chief.
   (I)   Section 508, Fire Protection Water Supply; Subsection 508.5.7,
Reflective Markers. Where possible, all fire hydrants shall be clearly
identified by installation of reflective blue markers. The reflector will be
located in the street perpendicular to the hydrant.
   (J)   Section 901, Fire Protection Systems; Subsections 901.2.2 and 901.2.3:
      (1)   901.2.2, Plan Certification for Fire Alarm Systems and Occupant
Notification. All fire alarm and occupant notification system plans submitted
to the fire department for review and approval shall bear a review
certification of a minimum level III NICET in Fire Alarms.
      (2)   901.2.3, Plan Certification for Fire Sprinkler Systems. All fire
sprinkler plans submitted to the fire department for review and approval shall
bear a review certification of a minimum level III NICET in Fire Sprinklers.
   (K)   Section 907, Fire Alarm and Detection; Subsection 907.3.1.11, Records
and Maintenance. The landlord or owner of any rental property, commercial or
residential, shall inspect all smoke detection devices as required under NFPA
72 annually and a record of all inspections and maintenance activities shall be
kept by the landlord or owner and available for inspection upon request by the
Chief.
§ 5.1.3 DELETIONS TO PROVISIONS OF THE IFC
The Village of Los Ranchos hereby amends certain provisions of the IFC to
delete Subsections 903.2 through 903.2.13 by reference.
§ 5.1.4 AMENDMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS TO PROVISIONS OF THE IFC
The Village of Los Ranchos hereby amends certain provisions of the IFC to add
the following provisions with exceptions:
   (A)   903.2, Where Required. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
installed throughout all levels of new Group A, B, E, F, H, I, M, R1, R2, R4,
and S occupancies, in accordance with Section 903 and NFPA 13 Installation of
Sprinkler Systems. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in all
existing structures in Group A, B, E, F, H, I, M, R1, R2, R4 and S occupancies,
in which more than fifty percent (50%) of the structure is structurally altered
and/or added to. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in all new
structures of six thousand (6,000) square feet of heated area or more in Group
R3 occupancy and existing structures in Group R3 occupancies where more than
fifty percent (50%) of the heated area is structurally altered and/or added to
and results in a combined area of more than six thousand (6,000) square feet of
heated area. Only the new addition or remodeled area requires sprinkler systems
installed.
      (1)   Exception: All existing structures constructed prior to effective
date of this Article, that are not structurally altered, or not added to are
not required to have an automatic sprinkler systems installed.
      (2)   Exception: Building in Group A (Assembly areas) shall be equipped
with an approved fire sprinkler system when work exceeds more than ten percent
(10%) of the square footage of the existing building.
      (3)   Exception: All Group U buildings and structures with no “habitable
areas.”
      (4)   Exception: The following accessory structures shall be exempt from
fire sprinkler requirements:
         (a)   Gazebos and ramadas for residential and public use.
         (b)   Independent restroom buildings that are associated with golf
courses, parks, pools and similar uses.
         (c)   Guardhouses for residential and commercial developments.
         (d)   Detached 1, 2 and 3 car garages (without habitable spaces) in
existing R-3 developed parcels which contain existing non-sprinklered
subdivision requirements (i.e., all portions of the structure shall be within
500-foot hydrant spacing).
         (e)   Fuel dispensing canopies not exceeding 1500 square feet
(139.35m²).
         (f)   Any accessory structure using adobe material for the
construction of greater than seventy-five percent (75%) of total area.
      (5)   Exception: Any habitable structure using non-combustible (adobe,
concrete, hollow concrete masonry units, tile, stone, etc.) material for its
four exterior walls, as defined in the 2003 International Building Code,
Chapter 21 Section 2102.
         (a)   Special use non-combustibles as approved by the Fire Chief.
§ 5.1.5 COMPILING CLAUSE AND SEVERABILITY
This Article shall be incorporate and compiled as part of the Codified
Municipal Code of the Village of Los Ranchos.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Article is, for
any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this Article. The Village of Los Ranchos
Board of Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed this Article, and
each section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact
that any or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases be
declared unconstitutional.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 5, Articles 1 and 2 (f/k/
a Chapter 10):
Ordinance #4, April 22, 1959; establishing a Village Fire Department;
Ordinance #30, March 18, 1974, adopting rules and regulations relating to
Flammable and Combustible Liquids, repealed by Ordinance #207;
Ordinance #33, March 31, 1976, regulating Open Burning and providing for
penalties, repealed by Ordinance #207;
Ordinance #67, November 12, 1986, adopting Rules and Regulations relating to
Fire Prevention & Safety, repealed by Ordinance #207;
Ordinance #91, January 10, 1990, adopting the Uniform Fire Code & Uniform Fire
Code Standards, repealed by Ordinance #207;
Ordinance #97, January 9, 1991, amending Ordinance #91, repealed by Ordinance
#207;
Ordinance #159, January 26, 2000, adopting the 1997 Uniform Fire Code, Volumes
1 & 2, including Appendix Chapters IA-VIB, and the Life Safety Code 1997
Edition (NFPA Standard No. 101), repealed by Ordinance #207;
Ordinance #207, March 14, 2007 adopting the 2003 Edition of the International
Fire Code by Reference with additions and amendments, including all appendices;
and Repealing Ordinance Nos. 30, 67, 91 & 159;
Ordinance #225, February 10, 2010 amending Section 4 of Ordinance #207;
Ordinance #235, September 12, 2012, amending Ordinance #207, Section 2.
Ordinance # 244 January 8, 2014 amending Ordinance #207; Amendments and
Exceptions to the Provisions of the IFC.
Ordinance # 250 April 8, 2015 amending §
5.1.4 Amendments and Exceptions to the Provisions of the IFC, clarifying
requirements for automatic sprinkler systems.
Life Safety Code 1981 Edition;
NMSA 1978 §§ 3-17-6A, 3-17-6C;
NMSA 1978 § 3-17-6;
NMSA 1978 § 60-2C-7;
NMSA 1978 § 59A-52-17;
NM Fire Protection Fund Law, § 59A-53-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 6
RESERVED
This chapter is for law enforcement ordinances.
CHAPTER 7
CRIMINAL CODE
ARTICLE 1. Graffiti Vandalism
ARTICLE 2. Animal Control
ARTICLE 3. Antifreeze Safety
ARTICLE 4. Nuisances, Misconduct, and Common Offenses
ARTICLE 5. Penalties for Violation of Ordinances
ARTICLE 1.
GRAFFITI VANDALISM
SECTION 1. Purpose
SECTION 2. Definition
SECTION 3. Prohibition
SECTION 4. Jurisdiction
SECTION 5. Penalties and restitution
§ 7.1.1 PURPOSE
Graffiti is a form of vandalism that injures the Village and its residents and
businesses. It is the purpose of this Article to require the perpetrators of
graffiti to eradicate this visual blight.
§ 7.1.2 DEFINITION
Graffiti means unauthorized painting, writing or inscription with any
substance, material, or object.
§ 7.1.3 PROHIBITION
Placing graffiti on the real or personal property of another, including public
property, is prohibited within the Village.
§ 7.1.4 JURISDICTION
Pursuant to Section 30-15-1.1(B), NMSA 1978 (1995 Repl.), the municipal court
shall have jurisdiction over offenses and complaints under this Article only
where the damage resulting from the graffiti amounts to one thousand dollars
($1,000) or less.
§ 7.1.5 PENALTIES AND RESTITUTION
In addition to the mandatory terms set forth in Section 30-15-1.1(B), NMSA
1978, violation of this Article is punishable by the maximum fine and
imprisonment permitted by state law; however:
   (A)   Upon a defendant’s first conviction, the court shall suspend any fine
or imprisonment it imposes for six months on the condition that the offender
satisfy the mandatory terms set forth in Section 30-15-1.1(B), NMSA 1978.
   (B)   The second conviction will be punishable by at least a fifty dollar
($50.00) fine that is not suspended.
   (C)   The third and subsequent convictions will be punishable by at least a
one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine that may not be suspended.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 7, Article 1 (f/k/
a Chapter 13):
Ordinance # 122, July 13, 1994;
Ordinance #134, enacted February 14, 1996, codified ORD #122 as Chapter 13 with
modifications;
Unauthorized graffiti on personal or real property, § 30-15-1.1, NMSA 1978.
ARTICLE 2.
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION 1. In General
SECTION 2. Administration
SECTION 3. Animal Control Impoundment Procedures
SECTION 4. Permits Required
SECTION 5. Owners’ Duties and Prohibited Activities
SECTION 6. Wild Animals; Canine Hybrids
SECTION 7. Enforcement and Penalties
§ 7.2.1 IN GENERAL
   (A)   SHORT TITLE AND LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
      (1)   This Article shall be known and may be cited as the "Village of Los
Ranchos Animal Control Ordinance."
      (2)   It is the intent of the Board of Trustees that enactment of this
Article will protect animals from neglect and abuse, will protect residents
from annoyance and injury, will encourage responsible ownership of animals as
pets, will assist in providing housing for animals in a control center and will
partially finance the Animal Control Officer's functions of housing,
enforcement and recovery. It is the intent of the Board of Trustees to organize
and utilize advisory groups to assist with improving public awareness about
subjects pertaining to the enactment of this Article.
NOTE: All definitions are italicized in the body of the ordinance for clarity.
   (B)   DEFINITIONS. For the purposes of this Article, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
   Abandon means to leave an animal for more than 24 hours without making
effective provisions for its proper feeding and care.
   Adequate food means access to and the provision of food that is appropriate
to the species and of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to maintain each
animal in good health; is easily accessible to each animal; is prepared so as
to permit ease of consumption for the age, species, condition, size and type of
each animal; is provided in a clean and sanitary manner; is placed so as to
minimize contamination by excrement and pests; and is provided at suitable
intervals for the species, age, and condition of the animal, but at least once
daily, except as prescribed by a licensed veterinarian or as dictated by
naturally occurring states of hibernation or fasting normal for the species.
   Adequate living area means adequate space for exercise suitable to the age,
size, species and breed of animal and includes adequate shelter and shade
independent of shelter.
   Adequate shelter means provision of and access to shelter that is suitable
for species, age, condition, size and type of each animal; provides adequate
space for each animal; is safe and protects each animal from injury, rain,
sleet, snow, hail, direct sunlight, the adverse effects of heat or cold,
physical suffering, and impairment of health; is properly cleaned; enables each
animal to be clean and dry, except when detrimental to the species. Shelter for
companion animals shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Inside the residence of the animal's owner.
      (2)   A shelter that is an enclosed structure of appropriate dimensions
for the breed and size of the animal, consisting of four sides, a roof, an
entryway, a floor, and suitable insulation protecting the animal from the
elements.
      (3)   A structure, including, but not limited to a garage, barn or shed,
that is sufficiently insulated and ventilated to protect the animal from
exposure to extreme temperatures or, if not sufficiently insulated and
ventilated, contains a shelter as provided in the balance of this paragraph
that is accessible to the animal.
   Adequate space to prevent overcrowding includes but is not limited to
sufficient space to allow animals restrained together to be able to move
freely, turn around and lie down without having to come into contact with
another animal or the sides of the enclosure.
   Adequate space for exercise for confined animals shall include but not be
limited to provision within the adequate living area of space that enables the
animal to sit, hop, stand or rear up on its hind legs, run, jump, and play with
others of its species or with toys without hitting him/herself against the top
of the enclosure.
   Adequate water means constant access to a supply of unfrozen, potable water,
provided in a sanitary manner suitable for species, in sufficient amounts to
maintain good health. Such water will be provided in a manner that prevents the
container from being overturned.
   Animal means any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom except humans.
   Animal Control means the staff, facility, programs, shelter, lot, premises,
and buildings maintained and/or contracted by the Village for the
implementation of the control and care of animals.
   Animal Control Officer means the Village Animal Control Officer or
supervisor or his or her designated representative(s).
   Animal fighting paraphernalia means equipment that any reasonable person
would ascertain is used for animal fighting purposes which includes, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   instruments designed to be attached to the leg of a bird, such as
boxing gloves, knife, gaff, or other sharp instrument;
      (2)   items to train and condition animals to fight including, but not
limited to, hides or other material used as hanging devices to strengthen and/
or condition dogs, wooden sticks or handles used to pry open dog's jaws,
performance enhancing drugs or substances, or food or water additives, and;
      (3)   the presence of any animal that appears to be a fighting animal
alone or together with animals suspected of being used as bait animals
including but not limited to rabbits, cats, and other dogs.
   Bait animal is an animal used to train and/or condition other animals to
fight and includes but is not limited to dogs, cats, and rabbits exposed to
attack by other animals used or trained to be used in fighting or to make the
attacking animal more confident and aggressive.
   Bite means an actual puncture or tear of the skin inflicted by the teeth of
an animal.
   Bona fide animal show includes events sanctioned by organizations such as
the American Kennel Club (AKC) or North American Dog Agility Council (NADAC),
generally organized by local clubs, and including conformation events or
performance events such as obedience, agility, and tracking.
   Breeder means a person who keeps, maintains or harbors any intact companion
animal for the purposes of breeding.
   Breeding means permitting, either intentionally or unintentionally, any
animal to produce offspring.
   Canine hybrid means:
      (1)   Any canine which has or had a pure wolf or pure coyote as a parent
or grandparent; or
      (2)   An animal represented by its owner to an Animal Control Officer,
law enforcement officer, or to a veterinarian to be the offspring, cross, mix,
or hybrid of a wolf or coyote within the preceding two generations; or
      (3)   Any animal which, because of its pure wolf or pure coyote ancestry,
cannot be vaccinated against rabies.
   Companion animal means, but is not limited to, dogs, cats, ferrets, guinea
pigs, domestic rabbits, and pot-bellied pigs.
   Confinement means detainment or isolation of an animal.
   Dangerous animal means any of the following:
      (1)   An animal which, when unprovoked, engages in behavior that requires
a defensive action by a person to prevent bodily injury to a person or another
animal which is off the property of the owner of the animal in question; or
      (2)   An animal which, when unprovoked, injures a person or another
animal in a manner which does not result in muscle tears or disfiguring
lacerations, or require extensive corrective or cosmetic surgery; or
      (3)   An animal which, because of its poisonous sting or bite, would
constitute a significant hazard to the public.
   Designee or designated representative means the Animal Control Officer or
other appropriate staff.
   Enclosed means a parcel of land completely surrounded at the perimeter by a
wall or fence of sufficient height and strength to contain animals within.
Establishment means a place of business together with its grounds and
equipment.
   Grooming parlor means an establishment or part thereof maintained for the
purposes of performing cosmetological services for animals.
   Guard dog means a dog that is used to protect a commercial property, but
excludes a dog used exclusively to guard livestock.
   Household means the collection of individuals, related or not, who reside at
one street address.
   Kennel means a commercial establishment operating for intended profit where
dogs or cats are boarded, kept, or maintained.
   Kennel area is a secure space within which an animal is housed that is of
sufficient height and strength to contain the animal within and provide
sufficient room for the animal to comfortably move around within the structure.
   Licensed veterinarian means an individual with a doctor of veterinary
medicine degree who is licensed to practice in the state.
   Livestock means horses, cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, fowl, or any other
domestic animals typically used in the production of food, fiber, or other
products or activities defined by the Animal Control Officer as agricultural.
   Multiple animal site means any property where the number of dogs or cats
owned, harbored or kept exceeds the number of animals allowed in §
7.2.5 (B) of this Article and are not otherwise included within the definition
of professional animal site or shelter site.
   Owner/responsible party means a person 18 years of age or older or the
parent or guardian of a person under 18 years of age who owns, harbors, keeps
an animal, has one in his or her care, or permits an animal to remain on or
about the premises owned or controlled by him or her.
   Person means an individual, household, firm, partnership, corporation,
company, society, association or legal entity, and every officer, agent or
employee thereof.
   Pet shop means any premises, or part thereof, open to the public which
engages in the purchase, sale, exchange or hire of animals of any type, except
the term shall not apply to premises used exclusively for the sale of
livestock.
   Potable water means water that can be consumed without concern for adverse
health effects.
   Premises means a parcel of land and the structures thereon.
   Professional animal site means any kennel, grooming parlor, or pet shops,
with the exception of sites solely dedicated to livestock, state inspected
veterinary hospitals and federally inspected laboratory facilities and zoos.
   Qualified assistance animal means:
      (1)   A dog trained or being trained by a recognized school for training
dogs to assist persons with disabilities; or
      (2)   An animal recognized as a service animal pursuant to the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
      (3)   Any other animal approved by the governor's committee on concerns
of the handicapped as acceptable in public places and trained to provide some
special assistance to a person with a disability.
   Quarantine means detention and isolation of an animal in order to observe
for rabies.
   Rabbit as used in this Article may be either a companion animal or
livestock.
   Research facility means any school, institution, organization or person as
defined in the Animal Welfare Act of 1970, 7 U.S.C. § 2132, and recognized as
exempted from the anticruelty provisions contained in NMSA 1978, § 30-18-1.
   Shade independent of shelter includes, but is not limited to, trees, shrubs,
bushes, patios, awnings or other natural or manmade structures that permit
animals to be sheltered from direct sunlight in a manner that provides adequate
space to prevent overcrowding.
   Shelter facility means a non-profit animal facility operated for the purpose
of bringing aid and comfort to a number of dogs or cats that exceeds the number
of animals allowed in §
7.2.5 (B) of this Article.
   Shelter site means a non-profit facility operated for the purpose of
bringing aid or comfort to a number of dogs or cats that exceeds the number of
animals allowed in §
7.2.5 (B) of this Article.
   Show animal means a dog or cat, which is registered with a recognized
registry organization, or is a member of a breed which is not eligible to be
registered if that breed has been approved by the Animal Control Officer, and
which is involved in bona fide animal shows.
   Sterilized means to be rendered permanently incapable of reproduction.
   Stray means an animal found running at large.
   To run or running at large means any animal free from physical restraint
beyond the boundaries of the owner's premises.
   Vaccination means protection provided against rabies by inoculation with a
vaccine as required by NMSA 1978, § 77-1-3.
   Vicious animal means an animal which kills or severely injures (so as to
result in muscle tears or disfiguring lacerations, require multiple sutures, or
extensive corrective or cosmetic surgery) a person or domesticated animal.
Vicious animal does not include an animal which bites, attacks or injures a
person or animal that is unlawfully upon its owner's premises. The provocation
of an animal by a person is an affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or
harboring a vicious animal.
   Village means the area within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Village
of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, including privately owned land, excluding the
area within the limits of any incorporated municipality or within the
jurisdiction of the United States government or the State of New Mexico.
§ 7.2.2 ADMINISTRATION
   (A)   RULES AND REGULATIONS. Reasonable rules and regulations may be
prescribed by the Board of Trustees to carry out the intent and purpose of this
Article, pursuant to standards created by this Article. The Board of Trustees
may delegate its powers to the Animal Control Officer as it may deem expedient.
An Animal Control officer shall carry appropriate identification.
Identification is to be surrendered to the Village upon cessation of
employment.
   (B)   PROCEDURES AND COMPLAINTS. A complaint alleging any violation of this
Article may be filed with the Animal Control Officer by a person who has
personal knowledge of such violation and who can identify the owner of the
animal involved or the premises where the animal is located. The Animal Control
Officer may require the complainant to provide his name and address and swear
to and affirm the complaint. It is unlawful for any person to intentionally
make a report to the Animal Control Officer, which that person knows to be
false at the time of making it, alleging a violation by another person of any
violation of the Village of Los Ranchos Animal Control Ordinance.
   (C)   PROCEDURES FOR ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
      (1)   The Animal Control Officer shall have the authority, and is
directed to investigate upon probable cause, any alleged violation of this
Article or of any law of the State of New Mexico relating to the care,
treatment, control and prevention of cruelty to animals.
      (2)   Animal Control Officer is authorized to inspect premises as
necessary to perform his/her duties. If the owner or occupant of the premises
objects to inspection, a warrant shall be obtained from a court of competent
jurisdiction prior to inspection. No warrant shall be necessary if probable
cause exists to believe that there is an emergency requiring such inspection or
investigation.
      (3)   Whenever the Animal Control Officer has probable cause to believe
that a person has violated this Article, the Animal Control Officer may prepare
a criminal complaint to be filed with the appropriate court or prepare a
citation for the alleged violator to appear in court. The citation shall
contain the name, address, date of birth and telephone number, if known, of the
person violating this Article, the driver's license number of such violator, if
known, the code section allegedly violated, and the date and place when and
where such person allegedly committed the violation, and the location where
such person shall appear in court and the deadline for appearance. The Animal
Control Officer shall present the citation to the person he has probable cause
to believe violated the code section in order to secure the alleged violator's
written promise to appear in court by having the alleged violator sign a copy
of the citation. The Animal Control Officer shall deliver a copy of the
citation to the person promising to appear.
      (4)   If the alleged violator refuses to give his written promise to
appear, the Animal Control Officer shall prepare a criminal complaint with the
Village of Los Ranchos Municipal Court.
   (D)   FEES FOR PERMITS. Fees for permits required pursuant to this Article
shall be established and adopted through resolution by the Board of Trustees.
§ 7.2.3 ANIMAL CONTROL IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES
   (A)   IMPOUNDING ANIMALS.
      (1)   An Animal Control Officer may take up and impound in any Shelter
Facility or Shelter Site a stray or any animal kept or maintained contrary to
the requirements of this Article.
         (a)   The animal may be confined in accordance with the facilities
regulations.
         (b)   The owner/responsible party shall be responsible for all impound
fees, boarding fees, and other costs whether or not the animal is reclaimed.
         (c)   An unsterilized animal reclaimed by its owner shall be released
without being sterilized upon payment of a $75.00 intact fee for the
sterilization deposit and impoundment fees imposed by the shelter, and the
owner shall sign an agreement stating he will sterilize the animal within 30
days after release or will obtain a breeder permit, intact permit, or its
equivalent.
         (d)   Any stray which is not reclaimed or adopted may be humanely
destroyed in accordance with the impound facility's regulations.
      (2)   An Animal Control Officer may take up and impound in any designated
Animal Control Facility a stray or any livestock kept or maintained contrary to
the requirements of this Article.
         (a)   The owner/responsible party shall be responsible for all reclaim
fees, boarding fees, and other costs at time of reclaim.
         (b)   The Animal Control Officer may require inspection of enclosures
for livestock and the living conditions of animals kept outdoors prior to
reclaim.
      (3)   The Animal Control Officer shall maintain, for a reasonable period
of time or as required by statute, a record of all animals impounded. At least
the following information shall be included:
         (a)   A complete description of the animal;
         (b)   The manner and date of its acquisition;
         (c)   The date, manner, and place of impoundment;
         (d)   The impoundment number.
      (4)   Owners requesting removal of an animal shall be required to sign an
owner's release at the time of impoundment.
      (5)   If a stray animal is not wearing a current rabies tag and is deemed
critically injured or critically ill an Animal Control Officer may deliver the
animal to a licensed veterinarian for euthanization. A report must be filed by
the Animal Control Officer.
      (6)   Whenever the Animal Control Officer finds that any animal is or
will be without adequate care because of injury, illness, incarceration or
other absence of the owner or person responsible for the care of such animal,
the Animal Control Officer may take up such animal for protective care. The
owner of the animal may reclaim the animal after paying all required fees and
costs imposed by the impound facility. If the animal is unclaimed at the end of
the protective custody period, the animal may be humanely destroyed or
otherwise disposed of by the impound facility.
   (B)   SEIZURE OF ANIMALS, EXCLUDING LIVESTOCK.
      (1)   A peace officer or Animal Control Officer who reasonably believes
that the life or health of an animal is endangered due to violation of any
provision in this Article may apply to the district court or the municipal
court for a warrant to seize the animal(s).
      (2)   If the court finds probable cause that the animal's life or health
is endangered as a result of the violation of any provision of this Article,
the court shall issue a warrant for the seizure of the animal. The court shall
also schedule a hearing on the matter as expeditiously as possible within 30
days unless the Village demonstrates good cause for a later time.
      (3)   Written notice regarding the time and location of the hearing shall
be provided to the owner of the seized animal. The court may order publication
of a notice of the hearing in a newspaper closest to the location of the
seizure.
      (4)   If the owner of the animal cannot be determined, a written notice
regarding the circumstances of the seizure shall be conspicuously posted where
the animal is seized at the time the seizure occurs.
   (C)   SEIZURE OF LIVESTOCK.
      (1)   A peace officer or Animal Control Officer who reasonably believes
that the life or health of livestock is endangered because of the violation of
any provision in this Article may apply to district court or municipal court
for a warrant to seize the allegedly endangered livestock.
      (2)   On a showing of probable cause to believe that the life and health
of livestock is endangered as a result of the violations of any provision of
this Article, the court shall issue a warrant and set the matter for hearing as
expeditiously as possible within 30 days unless the Village demonstrates good
cause for a later time. Seizure as authorized by this section shall be
restricted to only those livestock allegedly being kept in a manner that their
life or health is endangered. The Animal Control Officer shall establish
procedures for preserving evidence of violations of this Article.
      (3)   The court executing the warrant shall notify the Animal Control
Officer, have the livestock impounded, and give written notice to the owner of
the livestock of the time and place of the court hearing.
      (4)   After all interested parties have been given an opportunity to
present evidence at the hearing and if the court finds that the owner has
endangered life or health of the livestock by violating any provision contained
in the Article, the court shall order the impoundment of the livestock until
the resolution of proceedings for the ordinance violations. If the court does
not find that probable cause exists that the owner has violated any provision
in this Article, the court shall order the livestock returned to the owner.
   (D)   RETENTION OF STRAYS OR OWNER-SURRENDERED ANIMALS.
      (1)   No person shall, without the knowledge and consent of the owner,
hold or retain possession of any animal for more than 24 hours without first
reporting the possession of the animal to the Animal Control Officer.
      (2)   The report shall contain the person's name and address, a true and
complete statement of the circumstances under which he took up the animal, and
the precise location where the animal is confined.
      (3)   No person having such an animal in his possession shall refuse to
immediately surrender the animal to an Animal Control officer upon demand.
      (4)   Any stray animal identified by microchip or any other
identification must be called into the Animal Control Officer.
§ 7.2.4 PERMITS REQUIRED
   (A)   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
      (1)   Valid permits are required to operate a multiple animal site,
professional animal site, or shelter site, breed dogs or cats, have a litter of
dogs and cats, possess a guard dog or possess an intact dog or cat that has
been impounded as a stray. A person may obtain a permit under the following
conditions:
      (2)   Submission of an application which shall include sufficient
information to identify the name and address of the permit holder and owner for
the property or site and payment of an annual permit fee at the office of the
Animal Control Officer. Failure to renew the permit within 30 days of the
expiration date may result in the assessment of a penalty fee in addition to
the cost of the permit.
      (3)   Multiple animal sites, professional animal site and shelter site
permits require a demonstration of a certification of zoning and land use from
the Village of Los Ranchos Planning and Zoning Department.
      (4)   Upon presenting proper identification and with notice, an Animal
Control Officer shall be allowed access to any multiple animal site,
professional animal site or shelter site for the purpose of inspection. Permits
may be suspended for failure to comply with the requirements of this Article,
as well as for violation of other applicable laws, regulations, and ordinances.
      (5)   Permits must be posted in a conspicuous place on the permitted
premises and are nontransferable.
      (6)   All permit holders engaging in any commercial activity involving
the sale of animals shall comply with the Village of Los Ranchos Business
License Ordinance.
   (B)   SITE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
      (1)   Multiple animal sites, shelter sites and professional animal sites
are required to meet all other provisions of the Village of Los Ranchos Animal
Control Ordinance and the following standards: Food and unused bedding shall be
stored in a location which protects it against excessive moisture, infestation
and contamination. Perishable food shall be refrigerated.
      (2)   The kennel area shall be kept clean and sanitary in a way that
protects animals from disease and injury. Animals shall be protected from
cleaning agents during cleaning. Provisions shall be made to remove animal and
food waste and clean or remove soiled bedding at minimum daily and as often as
necessary to maintain the conditions in accordance with this Article. Disposal
shall be made so as to minimize vermin infestation, odors and the spread of
disease.
      (3)   Kennel area buildings and fences shall be structurally sound and
kept in good repair to keep animals clean and dry, protect them from injury,
contain them and keep predators out. Walls and floors shall be constructed of
material impervious to moisture and easily sanitized. Adequate drainage shall
be maintained and, when required, drains shall be constructed and operated in
accordance with state, county and Village regulations and kept in good repair.
      (4)   Fresh air in kennel area buildings shall be provided by windows,
doors, vents or air conditioning. Ventilation shall minimize drafts, odors and
moisture condensation.
      (5)   Each animal shall be kept in compatible groups and have adequate
space to prevent overcrowding. Kennel areas holding cats must contain an
adequate number of litter boxes.
      (6)   All animals housed in the kennel area shall be provided with an
adequate living area.
      (7)   Unsterilized female animals shall be segregated when in estrous
except for breeding purposes.
      (8)   Each animal shall be observed daily by the person named on the
permit or his/her designee. Any animal in need of veterinary attention, either
due to illness, injury or disease, shall be provided such attention
immediately. Ill and injured animals shall be segregated from other animals
based on veterinary recommendations to prevent disease spread or further
injury.
      (9)   Insects, parasites and rodents shall be controlled.
      (10)   A valid rabies certificate signed by a licensed veterinarian shall
be present for each dog and cat housed at the kennel facility.
      (11)   Records of animal inventory, including acquisitions and
dispositions, inoculations, and disease control and prevention programs shall
be maintained and available for inspection by an Animal Control Officer.
   (C)   BREEDER PERMIT.
      (1)   No person shall keep, maintain or harbor any intact companion
animal for the purposes of breeding without a breeder permit. Each dog or cat
used for the purposes of breeding shall have a breeder permit. The resultant
offspring shall not be sold for resale to commercial outlets or for the purpose
of research.
      (2)   A female dog or cat shall have no more than one litter in any
consecutive 12-month period.
      (3)   Upon presenting identification and with notice an Animal Control
Officer shall be allowed access to any premises housing any animal with a
breeder permit for the purpose of an inspection.
   (D)   LITTER PERMIT.
      (1)   The owner of an intact female dog or cat bred intentionally or
unintentionally that does not possess a breeder permit is required to obtain a
litter permit for each litter.
      (2)   Subsequent to the issuance of a litter permit, the permitted animal
shall be sterilized within 120 days of the issuance of the litter permit.
   (E)   REQUIREMENTS FOR TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
      (1)   No person shall advertise, barter for, sell, or give away any puppy
or kitten unless the applicable permit number is displayed legibly in all
advertisements. The owner shall furnish the litter permit number or breeder
permit number to any potential recipient upon request.
      (2)   Puppies and kittens can only be bartered for, sold, given away or
otherwise transferred or conveyed from the residential location listed on the
litter permit or breeder permit. Puppies or kittens being bartered for, sold,
given away or otherwise transferred or conveyed on public or commercial
property, even with the commercial property owner's permission, are in
violation of this Article.
   (F)   INTACT ANIMAL PERMIT.
      (1)   Any person having a stray unsterilized dog or cat returned to him
or reclaiming an impounded unsterilized dog or cat will obtain an intact animal
permit or have the animal sterilized within 60 days of return. The permit shall
be issued upon payment of the required permit fee and proof of current rabies
vaccination for the animal. The permit will be renewed annually until proof of
sterilization has been provided to the Animal Control Officer.
      (2)   Any animal found running at large twice shall be sterilized within
30 days of the second offense.
      (3)   An intact animal permit is required to keep a dog or cat exempt
from being sterilized as mandated by applicable law when released prior to
impound from an animal shelter.
§ 7.2.5 OWNER’S DUTIES AND PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES
   (A)   ANIMALS BITING PERSONS.
      (1)   The owner of an animal that bites a person and a person bitten by
an animal shall report that occurrence to the Animal Control Officer within 24
hours of the occurrence. The owner of an animal that bites a person shall
surrender said animal to an Animal Control Officer if the officer deems it
necessary to impound said animal for a period of quarantine no less than ten
days from the day of the bite.
      (2)   A physician who renders professional treatment to a person bitten
by an animal shall report to the Animal Control Officer that he has rendered
professional treatment within 24 hours of his first professional attendance.
The physician shall report the name and address of the person bitten as well as
the type and location of the bite. The physician shall report the name and
address of the owner of the animal that inflicted the bite, if known, and any
other facts or details that may assist the Animal Control Officer in
ascertaining the immunization status of the animal.
      (3)   An animal that bites a person shall be confined securely at a place
and for a period of time deemed necessary by the Animal Control Officer. The
owner of the animal shall bear the cost of confinement.
      (4)   If the owner is unwilling or unable to quarantine the animal, the
Animal Control Officer may impound the animal into protective custody for the
period of the quarantine and the owner shall pay all related costs of the
impoundment prior to reclaiming the animal.
      (5)   The Animal Control Officer may consent to quarantine the animal on
the owner's premises. The premises where the home quarantine is to occur shall
be inspected and approved for such purpose by the Animal Control Officer. The
owner of the animal shall be required to enter into an indemnity agreement on a
form approved and prescribed by the Animal Control Officer for such home
quarantine.
      (6)   If the animal shows signs of sickness, abnormal behavior, or if the
animal escapes quarantine, the person having custody of the animal shall
immediately notify the Animal Control Officer. The person having custody of an
animal that dies during the quarantine period shall notify the Animal Control
Officer and surrender the carcass of the animal to an Animal Control Officer.
      (7)   It is unlawful to violate the conditions of quarantine. If an
officer deems it necessary to impound an animal for quarantine for violation of
the above conditions and/or severity of the bite, the owner cannot remove the
animal from observation until the quarantine period is complete. The owner
shall bear the cost of the impoundment.
      (8)   It is unlawful for a person to keep an animal reported to have
bitten any person on two unprovoked separate incidents. The owner has a duty to
destroy said animal humanely or surrender such an animal to the Animal Control
Officer for proper humane euthanization.
   (B)   NUMBER OF ANIMALS ALLOWED. No person or household shall own, harbor or
keep more than a combined total of six dogs, cats or any combination thereof
over the age of three months without, a multiple animal site permit, or shelter
permit.
   (C)   RESTRAINT OF ANIMALS. A person owning or having charge, custody, care,
or control over a companion animal, shall keep the animal upon his or her own
premises within a secure enclosed pen, or in an area containing a fence or wall
of sufficient height surrounding the perimeter of the property. It shall be
unlawful to tether a companion animal as a form of confinement.
      (1)   Fixed point tethering of any companion animal to stationary objects
is permitted in limited circumstances such as picnics or gatherings in a park
or open space, for emergency purposes to permit an individual to render aid to
a human or another animal and only when the owner is immediately present.
      (2)   A dog is permitted on the street and in other public places only if
on a secure leash not exceeding six feet in length. Longer retractable leashes
may be used, provided the person with the dog is capable of controlling the
dog. All other animals must be secured in a fashion acceptable for the species
of animal. A person physically capable of controlling and restraining the
animal must exercise immediate custody. This section does not apply when an
animal is participating in a bona fide animal show authorized by the Village or
appropriate authorities, nor when a dog is in an off-leash park or other
designated off-leash area.
   (D)   VACCINATIONS.
      (1)   It is the duty of any person(s) owning or keeping a dog, cat, or
domestic ferret over the age of three months to have the animal vaccinated
against rabies as prescribed by NMSA 1978, § 77-1-3 as amended. The Animal
Control Officer may require that other animals have annual rabies vaccines.
      (2)   The veterinarian administering anti-rabies vaccines to any animal
shall issue the owner or keeper of the animal a numbered vaccination
certificate. The certificate shall contain the name and address of the owner of
the animal, a description of the animal vaccinated, the date of vaccination,
and the date immunity expires and the microchip number.
      (3)   It is unlawful for the owner of any dog, cat, domestic ferret or
any other member of the canine or feline family to fail to exhibit its
certificate of vaccination upon demand by the Animal Control Officer.
   (E)   ABANDONMENT. It is unlawful for a person to abandon an animal.
Abandonment does not apply to the trap, neuter and return (TNR) of feral cats.
A person or organization managing un-owned cats by trap, neuter and return is
not deemed the owner, harborer, keeper, holder or possessor of such cats.
   (F)   ADMISSION OF QUALIFIED ASSISTANCE ANIMALS TO PUBLIC PLACES.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a qualified assistance animal shall
be admitted to any building open to the public and to all public accommodations
such as restaurants, hotels, hospitals, swimming pools, stores, common carriers
and theaters; provided that the qualified assistance animal is under the
control of a person with a disability or a trainer of assistance animals. No
person shall be required to pay any additional charges for his qualified
assistance animal, but shall be liable for any damage done by his qualified
assistance animal.
   (G)   ANIMALS DISTURBING THE PEACE.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to allow an animal to persistently or
continuously bark, howl or make noise common to their species or otherwise
disturb the peace and quiet of inhabitants of the Village. This provision shall
not apply to any noise from livestock.
      (2)   It is unlawful to keep or maintain an animal in such an unclean or
unsanitary manner that it disturbs others by noxious or offensive odors.
   (H)   ANIMALS KILLING OR INJURING LIVESTOCK OR PROTECTED WILDLIFE.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to keep an animal known to have killed
or injured livestock or protected wildlife. The owner has a duty to destroy
said animal humanely or surrender such an animal to the Animal Control Officer
for proper humane euthanization upon the order of the court.
      (2)   An owner of livestock shall have the right to kill an animal that
has injured or killed livestock or protected wildlife while it is upon property
controlled by the owner of the livestock.
   (I)   ANIMAL POISONING.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to make accessible to any animal, with
the intent to cause harm or death, any substance which has been treated or
prepared with a harmful poisonous substance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to placement of such substance(s) in
order to control vermin of significance to the public health.
   (J)   ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to allow or permit any animal to run at
large in or on any alley, street, sidewalk, vacant lot, public property, other
unenclosed place in the Village, or private property without the permission of
the property owner.
      (2)   An animal permitted to run at large in violation of this section is
declared to be a nuisance and a menace to the public health and safety. Such
animal may be taken up and impounded. An Animal Control Officer may go upon
private property in pursuit of an animal which is running at large unless
permission to make such pursuit is explicitly refused by the occupant. An
officer may not enter a private building or residence in pursuit of an animal.
      (3)   A working dog performing such acts as herding or search and rescue
that is under the control and supervision of the owner or handler shall not be
considered as unleashed while performing its duties. A hunting, obedience,
tracking or show dog that is under the control and supervision of the owner or
handler shall not be considered as unleashed while performing in those
capacities.
      (4)   It is unlawful for an owner, manager, agent, or governing board of
any multiple dwelling unit, including mobile home parks and gated communities,
to permit any animal to run at large upon the common areas of the multiple
dwelling unit.
   (K)   INJURY TO ANIMALS BY MOTORISTS. Every operator of a motor or self-
propelled vehicle upon the streets and ways of the Village shall immediately
upon injuring, striking, maiming or running down any animal provide immediate
notification to the Animal Control Officer, furnishing sufficient facts
relative to the incident. Such animal shall be deemed an uncared for animal
within the meaning of §
7.2.3(A)(5) of this Article. Emergency vehicles are excluded from this
provision.
   (L)   ANIMAL WASTE. It is unlawful to permit a companion animal to defecate
on public or private property other than the property of the owner of the
animal unless such animal waste is immediately removed and properly disposed of
by the person having custody of the animal.
   (M)   BREAKING INTO ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITIES OR VEHICLES. It is unlawful
for a person to break into any animal center, facility, or vehicle wherein
animals are impounded, or to in any manner remove or assist in the removal of
any animal or equipment from such.
   (N)   CARE AND MAINTENANCE (COMPANION ANIMALS). Every person who owns or who
has charge, care or custody of an animal shall comply with each of the
following requirements:
      (1)   Each animal shall be supplied adequate food, adequate water
accessible and adequate space to prevent overcrowding.
      (2)   All animals are to be provided adequate living area and adequate
space to prevent overcrowding and sufficient space for adequate exercise. All
areas where an animal is confined and all animal buildings or enclosures shall
be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (3)   No animal shall be left unattended for more than 24 hours.
      (4)   No condition shall be maintained or permitted that is, or could be
injurious to the animal.
      (5)   No owner or custodian shall fail to provide necessary grooming of
the coat in order to prevent matting, skin irritation, distress or pain,
trapping of fecal matter, and loss of the ability to protect the animal from
adverse weather conditions. An animal shall not be so dirty that it becomes
matted as to provide a home for parasites and insects. No animal shall be
allowed to have a foreign object embedded in its hide, fur or skin other than a
microchip or a medical device implanted by a licensed veterinarian.
      (6)   The owner or custodian shall provide regular basic, necessary, and
emergency professional veterinary care when needed. The owner or custodian
shall take an animal to a licensed veterinarian within a time frame indicated
for an examination and adhere to recommended treatment if the Animal Control
Officer or his agent finds this is necessary in order to maintain the health of
the animal, and so orders.
      (7)   All animals kept outdoors shall be provided with adequate shelter,
accessible at all times, to the animal.
   (O)   CARE AND MAINTENANCE (LIVESTOCK). Every person who owns or who has
charge, care or custody of an animal defined under the Article as livestock
shall comply with each of the following requirements:
      (1)   Each animal shall be supplied an adequate living area, adequate
food, adequate water accessible and adequate space to prevent overcrowding.
      (2)   All areas where an animal is confined and all animal buildings or
enclosures shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (3)   No animal shall be without attention for more than 24 hours.
      (4)   No condition shall be maintained or permitted that is, or could be
injurious to the animal.
      (5)   The owner/responsible party shall provide regular basic, necessary,
and emergency professional veterinary care and dental or hoof care when needed.
The owner or custodian shall take an animal to a licensed veterinarian within
the time frame indicated for an examination and adhere to recommended treatment
if the Animal Control Officer or his agent finds this is necessary in order to
maintain the health of the animal, and so orders.
   (P)   CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE DOGS OR CATS IN MATING SEASON.
      (1)   A person in control of a female dog or cat in mating season shall
confine such dog or cat so as to prevent other dogs or cats from attacking or
being attracted to such female animal, except for intentional breeding
purposes.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to maintain a female dog or cat in mating
season in any manner that creates a public nuisance.
   (Q)   CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to recklessly, willfully, negligently
or maliciously kill, maim, disfigure or torture; beat with a stick, chain, club
or other object; mutilate, burn or scald with any substance, overwork, torment,
harass or otherwise cruelly set upon any animal, except that reasonable force
may be used to drive off vicious, dangerous or trespassing animals.
      (2)   It is unlawful for a person to fail to provide necessary
sustenance, fail to provide necessary basic or emergency medical care, maintain
an animal in an enclosed environment without adequate provisions to prevent
pain or suffering, and perform procedures such as ear-cropping, de-barking,
tail docking on an animal, or otherwise endanger an animal's well-being.
Procedures completed by a licensed veterinarian in accordance to their standard
practices shall not be considered cruelty.
   (R)   FIGHTS.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to promote, stage, hold, manage,
conduct, carry on or attend any game, exhibition, contest or fight in which one
or more animals are engaged for the purpose of injuring, killing, maiming or
destroying themselves or any other animal.
         (a)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, receive, possess,
transport, loan, or give away any animal fighting paraphernalia.
         (b)   It is unlawful for any person to raise, train, condition, sell,
receive, possess, transport, loan, or give away animals for fighting purposes
whether or not the fight is to be conducted inside or outside the jurisdiction
of the Village.
         (c)   No person shall provoke or entice an animal from the property of
its owner for the purpose of engaging the animal in an animal fight.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person from engaging in
legal hunting practices as allowed by state wildlife authorities.
   (S)   FOWL; IMPOUNDING OR CRATING. It is unlawful for a person to confine
any wild or domestic fowl or birds unless provisions are made by such person
for the proper feeding and the furnishing of water to such fowl or birds at
intervals not longer than 12 hours. No person shall impound wild or domestic
fowl or birds in a crate, box or other enclosure unless such fowl or bird is in
a natural erect position unless such position causes injury or damage to the
fowl or bird.
   (T)   HOBBLING.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to hobble, tether, or stake livestock
or other animals by any means which may cause injury or damage to said animal.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to hobble, tether, or stake livestock
or other animals so that they become entangled or are prevented access to any
and all care and maintenance items required by § 7.2.8(R) of this Article.
   (U)   INTERFERENCE WITH THE ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER IN THE PERFORMANCE OF HIS
DUTIES.
      (1)   No person shall attack, assault or in any way threaten or interfere
with the Animal Control Officer in the performance of the duties required by
this Article.
      (2)   No person shall conceal one's true name or identity or disguise
oneself with the intent to obstruct due execution of the law or with the intent
to intimidate, hinder or interrupt an Animal Control officer in the legal
performance of his or her duties.
      (3)   No person shall interfere with or tamper with any equipment used by
Animal Control Officers, including release of animals contained in such
equipment.
      (4)   No person shall engage in conduct that would agitate, obstruct,
oppose, or distract an Animal Control Officer in the legal performance of his
or her duties.
   (V)   KEEPING A SERIOUSLY SICK OR INJURED ANIMAL.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to have, keep or harbor an animal which
is seriously sick or injured, including starvation, without providing proper
veterinary care.
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer may require the owner to provide a
letter of health evaluation from a licensed veterinarian describing the
condition of the animal and the treatment provided. The Animal Control Officer
may utilize a standard body scoring system to evaluate the condition of an
animal.
      (3)   In the absence of proper veterinary care, the Animal Control
Officer may impound such a seriously sick or injured animal in accordance with
the provisions of this Article.
      (4)   Any such animal impounded may be destroyed humanely or otherwise
disposed of according to the normal procedures of the impound facility as soon
thereafter as is conveniently possible.
   (W)   SALE AND DISPLAY OF ANIMALS.
      (1)   A person shall only sell, offer for sale, barter, give away or
otherwise dispose of an animal at the physical address listed on the
appropriate permit issued by the Animal Control Officer. No permit shall be
required for any livestock sold for use as food.
      (2)   No person shall offer for sale, sell, barter or give away turtles
except in conformance with the appropriate federal regulations.
      (3)   No person shall offer an animal as a prize, giveaway or award for a
contest, game, sport or as an incentive to purchase merchandise.
      (4)   Animal exhibits.
         (a)   No person shall operate, conduct, or maintain a permanent or
temporary commercial animal show, circus, animal exhibition, animal ride,
petting zoo or carnival without first having obtained a permit from the Animal
Control Officer. Conditions for permit approval include provisions for the
humane care and treatment of the animals and the protection of public safety.
Permits shall not be issued upon verification that the applicant has been
convicted of charges of animal cruelty, abuse, or neglect, or has violated the
Federal Animal Welfare Act.
         (b)   No person shall operate, conduct or maintain any animal exhibit
under conditions that pose a danger to the public or the animals. Specific
requirements shall be available upon request to the Animal Control Officer.
         (c)   The following are exempt from the requirements of this section:
         (i)   Individuals or groups holding a State of New Mexico regulated
permit or a federally regulated permit.
         (ii)   Events sponsored by a municipal zoo or aquarium facility.
         (iii)   Competitive sporting events.
         (d)   Persons involved in these exempt activities shall comply with
all other applicable sections of this Article.
      (5)   Sale of live companion animals at pet shops is prohibited unless
the pet shop has an approved professional animal site permit. Sale of cats or
dogs in pet shops is prohibited.
      (6)   The sale of rabbits for purposes other than as a companion animal,
which are not otherwise prohibited under this Article, is allowed.
   (X)   STERILIZATION AGREEMENTS/CONTRACTS. It shall be unlawful for a person
to possess any unsterilized animal when such animal is required to be
sterilized under the terms of any applicable sterilization agreement or
contract.
   (Y)   UNLAWFUL USE OF RABIES TAG. It is unlawful for any person to remove or
transfer any rabies tag from one animal to another. It is unlawful for any
person to manufacture or cause to be manufactured or to have in his possession
or under his control a stolen, counterfeit or forged animal license tag, rabies
tag, vaccination certificate or other form of licensing or permitting required
under this Article.
   (Z)   VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor a vicious animal.
When an Animal Control Officer has probable cause to believe that an animal is
vicious, the Animal Control Officer may take up and impound the animal into
protective custody awaiting appropriate court proceedings. Following judicial
determination that an animal is vicious, the court having jurisdiction over the
enforcement of this Article, shall, in addition to any fine or imprisonment
imposed for violation of this section, order the owner or keeper of such
vicious animal to destroy it humanely or turn such animal over to the Animal
Control Officer for destruction.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to maintain a dangerous animal in a manner
which constitutes a threat to any person or other animal. When an Animal
Control Officer has probable cause to believe that an animal is dangerous, the
officer may take up or impound the animal into protective custody awaiting
appropriate court proceedings. Following judicial determination that an animal,
other than a dog, is dangerous, the court having jurisdiction over the
enforcement of this Article shall, in addition to any fine or imprisonment
imposed for a violation of this section, order appropriate conditions for
registration, confinement, and handling of such dangerous animal by the owner.
Any violation of the registration, confinement or handling of such animal by
the owner as set by the Court may result in the immediate impoundment and
humane destruction of such dangerous animal by the Animal Control Officer.
      (3)   The owner of any dog that is deemed dangerous by court
determination or by admission of the owner shall register the dog as a
dangerous animal with Animal Control. The owner of such dangerous dog shall
further comply with all of the registration and handling requirements as listed
in NMSA 1978 § 77-1A-5(A) and 5(C). The Animal Control Officer shall also
comply with §77-1A-5(D) in the event that the owner of such dangerous dog fails
to comply with all registration, confinement, or handling requirements
contained in such sections.
§ 7.2.6 WILD ANIMALS; CANINE HYBRIDS
   (A)   WILD ANIMALS.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to own, harbor, keep or exhibit
on any private or public property in the Village any wild animal of a species
that in its natural life is dangerous or ferocious. Such animals, though they
may be trained and domesticated, remain a danger to others, and include:
         (a)   Wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and other members of the
nondomestic canine families.
         (b)   Lions, pumas, panthers, mountain lions, wild cats, and other
members of the non-domestic feline families.
         (c)   All bears (ursidae), including grizzly bears, black bears, brown
bears, etc.
         (d)   Raccoons (procynnidae), including eastern raccoon, desert
raccoon, ring tailed cat, etc.
         (e)   Primates (hominidae), including all non-human great apes other
than qualified service animals.
         (f)   Skunks.
         (g)   Bats.
         (h)   Non-indigenous poisonous snakes.
         (i)   Alligators, crocodiles, caimans, or poisonous lizards.
         (j)   Venomous fish and piranha.
         (k)   Elephants (elephatidae).
      (2)   This section shall not apply to municipal zoos and aquarium
facilities, veterinary facilities, or individuals or organizations holding a
State of New Mexico regulated permit or a federally regulated permit.
   (B)   CANINE HYBRIDS.
      (1)   No person shall purchase, sell, offer for sale, or advertise for
sale any animal that is represented to be the offspring, cross, mix, or hybrid
of a wolf or coyote.
      (2)   No person shall possess a canine hybrid without a valid canine
hybrid permit. A person may apply for such a permit under the following
conditions:
         (a)   Submission of a permit application.
         (b)   Submission of written proof from a licensed veterinarian that
all animals over the age of six months for which a permit is requested have
been spayed or neutered.
         (c)   All owners of permitted property shall grant reasonable access
to permitted premises. Upon presenting proper identification and at a
reasonable hour, a representative of the Animal Control Officer shall be
allowed access to any permitted premises for the purpose of inspection. Permits
may be suspended for failure to comply with the requirements of this Article,
as well as for violation of other applicable laws, regulations, and ordinances.
         (d)   Payment of the annual permit fee.
      (3)   A permit shall not be issued until the applicant provides an
adequate physical enclosure that completely and effectively confines all
animals to the property of the owner. An Animal Control Officer shall determine
the adequacy of the enclosure. A minimum livable area of 400 square feet must
be provided for up to two canine hybrids, with an additional 100 square feet
per animal for each additional hybrid. An exception to this subpart may be
granted if the animal owner submits a written plan of adequate housing and
exercise to the Animal Control Officer and such plan is approved by the
Department.
      (4)   A canine hybrid permit will not be issued for the ownership of more
than four canine hybrids.
      (5)   Each canine hybrid must be microchipped and wear a collar or
harness displaying an identification tag bearing the name, address, and phone
number of the owner at all times while it is on and off of the owner's
premises. While off of the owner's premises the hybrid shall be on a secure
leash not more than six feet in length and in the immediate custody of a person
physically capable of controlling and restraining the animal.
      (6)   Nothing in this section shall relieve the holder of a permit from
complying with all other applicable sections of this Article.
§ 7.2.7 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
   (A)   PENALTY ASSESSMENT MISDEMEANORS. Any violation of this Article shall
be a penalty assessment misdemeanor. For a first offense within any 12 month
period for violations of §
7.2.4, §
7.2.5 (B), (C), or (D), the Animal Control Officer shall offer the alleged
violator the option of acknowledging guilt of the offense, foregoing a court
hearing, and accepting a penalty assessment as established by resolution of the
Board for the first offense, or of having the matter set for a court hearing.
      (1)   ACCEPTANCE OF PENALTY ASSESSMENT.
         (a)   If the alleged violator accepts the penalty assessment, his
signature on the penalty assessment notice constitutes an acknowledgment of
guilt of the offense stated in the notice.
         (b)   Payments of penalty assessments must be received in the Village
Office within thirty (30) days from the date of citation. If the violation was
under §
7.2.5(D) of this Article, payment must be accompanied by proof of rabies
vaccination.
      (2)   REJECTION OF PENALTY ASSESSMENT.
         (a)   An alleged violator who chooses a court hearing shall be served
with a citation requiring him to appear before the Municipal Court at a date
and time stated in the citation. The citation may be served by mail or in
person.
         (b)   The court shall have discretion to impose any penalties up to
the maximum permitted by state law upon an alleged violator who chooses a court
hearing and is convicted of the offense charged.
   (B)   APPEARANCE. Any person charged with any violation of any section other
than those specified in §
7.2.7(A) of this Article shall be served with a citation requiring the alleged
violator to appear before the Municipal Court at a date and time stated in the
citation. The citation may be served by mail or in person. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such under this Article.
   (C)   MAXIMUM PENALTY. The maximum combined sentence of imprisonment that
may be imposed for all offenses shall not be greater than one hundred seventy-
nine (179) days and the combined maximum fine shall not exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
   (D)   MINIMUM FINES. Minimum fines may be established by resolution of the
Board of Trustees.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 7, Article 2 (f/k/
a Chapter 3):
Ordinance #105, July 22, 1992;
Ordinance #253, June 8, 2016;
Ordinance #255, August 10, 2016;
Animals § 3-18-3 NMSA 1978;
Dogs §§ 77-1-12, 77-1-13 NMSA 1978;
Municipal Court Search Warrants SCRA Rule 8-207;
Maximum Penalty for violation of ordinances: § 3-17-1 (C)(1) NMSA 1978.
General authority relative to animals, NMSA 1978, §§ 4-37-1, 3-18-3; animals
generally, NMSA 1978, § 77-1-1, et seq
ARTICLE 3.
ANTIFREEZE SAFETY
SECTION 1. Short Title
SECTION 2. Findings and Intent
SECTION 3. Bittering Agent Required in Antifreeze
SECTION 4. Penalty
SECTION 5. Severability Clause
SECTION 6. Effective Date
§ 7.3.1 SHORT TITLE
This Article may be known and shall be cited as the “Antifreeze Safety
Ordinance.”
§ 7.3.2 FINDINGS AND INTENT
   (A)   Antifreeze contains ethylene glycol, an extremely toxic yet sweet-
tasting substance that injures many children and kills thousands of animals
every year in the United States.
   (B)   The National Safety Council, the American Medical Association and the
American Association of Poison Control Centers have noted that the addition of
nontoxic bittering agents to toxic household products can make these products
so unpalatable that many children reject the products upon, or shortly after,
tasting them.
   (C)   Organizations that support the health and safety of animals favor the
passage of legislation that requires a bittering agent to be added to
antifreeze.
   (D)   The cost to add the most common bittering agent, denatonium benzoate,
to antifreeze is approximately two cents ($.02) per gallon, and by law the
antifreeze manufacturers already blend antifreeze with this bittering agent for
sale in Oregon and California.
§ 7.3.3 BITTERING AGENT REQUIRED IN ANTIFREEZE
   (A)   Any engine coolant or antifreeze sold in the Village of Los Ranchos
after March 1, 2004, and that contains more than 10 percent (10%) ethylene
glycol, shall include denatonium benzoate at a minimum of thirty (30) parts per
million as a bittering agent within the product so as to render it unpalatable.
Another aversive agent may be used if it meets or exceeds the degree of
aversion in test subjects obtained by utilizing the formulation of thirty (30)
parts per million of denatonium benzoate in antifreeze. Any manufacturer or
packager of a product subject to this Article shall maintain a record of the
trade name, scientific name, and active ingredients of any bittering agent used
pursuant to this Article. Information and documentation maintained pursuant to
this Article shall be furnished to any member of the public upon request.
   (B)   This Article shall not be construed to apply to any of the following:
      (1)   The sale of a motor vehicle that contains engine coolant or
antifreeze.
      (2)   Antifreeze that was, prior to the effective date of this Antifreeze
Safety Ordinance, in the possession of a retail merchant, possession of an
automotive repair or similar business, or possession of a governmental unit
within the Village of Los Ranchos. The exemption provided by this subsection
shall expire on January 1, 2005.
§ 7.3.4 PENALTY
Each sale of antifreeze in violation of this Antifreeze Safety Ordinance is a
separate violation of this Article and subject to the penalties in Chapter 7,
Article 5 of the 2013 Codified Ordinances.
§ 7.3.5 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE
If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, word or phrase of this Article is
for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
provisions of this Article. The Board of Trustees hereby declares that it would
have passed this Article and each section, paragraph, sentence, clause, word or
phrase thereof irrespective of any provision being declared unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid.
§ 7.3.6 EFFECTIVE DATE
This Article shall take effect five (5) days after publication by summary and
title.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 7, Article 3:
Ordinance #187, February 11, 2004;
§ 57-19-38 NMSA 1978 Aversive or bittering agent in engine coolant and
antifreeze; liability limitation; exceptions; penalty;
§ 31-19-1 NMSA 1978 Sentencing authority [;] misdemeanors; imprisonment and
fines; probation.
ARTICLE 4.
NUISANCES, MISCONDUCT, AND COMMON OFFENSES
SECTION 1. Common Offenses Enumerated
SECTION 2. Offenses Defined
SECTION 3. Health or Safety Menace Prohibited
SECTION 4. Action Following Non-compliance
SECTION 5. Costs of Abatement
§ 7.4.1 COMMON OFFENSES ENUMERATED
The following offenses are hereby declared to be nuisances:
   (A)   Disturbing the peace;
   (B)   Engaging in disorderly conduct;
   (C)   Fighting in public; affray;
   (D)   Drunkenness in public;
   (E)   Assault;
   (F)   Assault and battery;
   (G)   Vagrancy;
   (H)   Using scandalous or obscene language in public;
   (I)   Petty larceny (less than one hundred dollars ($100.00));
   (J)   Resisting, interfering with or assaulting a Village Marshal, Deputy
Marshal, Police Officer, Building Inspector, Fire Chief, Mayor, Trustee, Judge
or other Village Official, when in execution of his office;
   (K)   Willful and malicious destruction of or injury to public or private
property;
   (L)   Giving a false fire alarm or police call;
   (M)   Lurking around alleys or prowling about a habitation of another during
the night time;
   (N)   Carrying concealed weapons;
   (O)   Discharging any firearms or air gun in the Village; provided that this
Section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law from
discharging a firearm in the performance of his duty;
   (P)   Trespassing on private property in person or by motor vehicle;
   (Q)   Discarding garbage, swill, cans, scrap metal, bottles, papers, ashes,
refuse, carcasses, offal, trash, rubbish or any noisome, nauseous or offensive
matter in or upon any public right-of-way or public park or property or private
road or property of another, except in receptacles provided for public use for
such purposes;
   (R)   Going in and upon private residences by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers,
itinerant merchants and transient vendors of merchandise, not having been
requested or invited so to do by the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of
said private residences, for commercial purposes including the soliciting of
orders for the sale of goods, wares or merchandise, or disposing of or peddling
or hawking the same;
   (S)   Open burning of refuse, waste materials, vehicles or any other matter
not permitted by §
5.1.1 et seq., Fire Safety;
   (T)   Houses of prostitution;
   (U)   Maintenance of a health and safety menace.
§ 7.4.2 OFFENSES DEFINED
   (A)   GENERAL. With the exception of “health and safety menace,” the above
listed offenses shall be defined and determined in accordance with the
definitions and meanings given them under the Statutes of the State of New
Mexico, if they are therein defined, and if not, they shall be defined and
determined in accordance with the common law.
   (B)   HEALTH OR SAFETY MENACE is defined as anything injurious to health,
safety, morals, or welfare and shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The accumulation of filth, sewage, garbage, refuse, trash, standing
or stagnant water, litter rubbish, ruin, dead weeds, brush, the cotton-like
substance borne by female cottonwood trees, or any waste matter whatsoever.
      (2)   Any plant growth which obstructs traffic visibility on highways and
streets.
      (3)   Excessive noise is such noise as is measured as greater than fifty
(50) decibels at the property line of the subject property in the daytime or
greater than forty (40) decibels from the hours of 10:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m.
These provisions shall not apply to any noise from livestock or agricultural
activities, but shall apply to noise from domesticated animals or household
pets.
      (4)   Individual variances from the limitations prescribed in this
Article may be granted by the Village of Los Ranchos by use of a temporary
permit which allows noncompliance with the limitations prescribed in this
Section for the purposes of amplified sound activities of short duration. The
Mayor may designate one or more employees of the Village of Los Ranchos to
issue such temporary permits. The issuance of such permits will be only for a
time period ending at 10:00 p.m. Permits shall be granted upon application, at
no cost to the applicant, provided an initial investigation assures that the
permit will not result in any condition injurious to health or safety. The
following factors shall be considered in the granting of such permit in order
to determine whether granting the permit will result in a condition injurious
to health and safety:
         (a)   Distance of proposed activities from other residences;
         (b)   Number of amplification devices to be used in the proposed
activities;
         (c)   Anticipated direction of the amplification devices;
         (d)   Anticipated length of the proposed activities;
         (e)   Whether the activity will be held within or without a structure;
         (f)   Any other factors deemed relevant to the permit by the Village
of Los Ranchos.
Any permit issued shall specify a place, duration and any restrictions
appropriate to the proposed site of the activities.
      (5)   For the purposes of this Article, livestock means cattle, llama,
buffalo, horses, mules, donkeys, burros, sheep, goats, rabbits, poultry,
ostriches, or emu. Other domestic animals useful to man not specifically
included herein may be classified as livestock upon application to the Village
with sufficient evidence to allow the Village to determine that said animal is
being used for agricultural purposes.
      (6)   Agricultural use means all methods of production and management of
livestock, crops, vegetation and soil. This includes, but is not limited to
raising, harvesting and marketing. It also includes, but is not limited to, the
activities of feeding, housing and maintaining livestock. It also includes
maintenance of any water distribution or agricultural system designed to
provide water for agricultural activities.
      (7)   No person shall allow a dog in his/her possession or control to
persistently or continuously bark or howl or otherwise to disturb the peace and
quiet of the inhabitants of the Village.
      (8)   Any noise exceeding the decibel level set forth herein at the
property line of the subject property shall be deemed to be a prima facie
evidence of a violation of the provisions of this Article. The provisions of
this Subsection shall not apply to livestock.
      (9)   Violations of this Article shall be prosecuted in the Village
Municipal Court or any other court of competent jurisdiction. On conviction of
a violation of this Article, the Village Municipal Court may impose fines or
imprisonment up to the maximum allowed by New Mexico law, but no greater than
imprisonment of one hundred seventy-nine (179) days or a fine of five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
§ 7.4.3 HEALTH OR SAFETY MENANCE PROHIBITED
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit real property within the
Village to become or remain in a condition constituting a health or safety
menace.
   (B)   The Mayor of the Village, when he determines a health or safety menace
exists, may notify in writing the owner of the real property involved of the
existence of the health and safety menace and request the owner to abate or
commence abatement of such condition within ten (10) days. Notice shall be by
registered mail, addressed to the owner at his last known address. If the
property owner does not comply with the request for abatement of a health or
safety menace the Village may, at the discretion of the Mayor, in addition to
the other remedies provided for by ordinance, file a suit for a mandatory
injunction in any court of competent jurisdiction to compel the owner to comply
with such request.
   (C)   When an immediate abatement of a health and safety menace is necessary
for the protection of health and safety, the Mayor or the Mayor’s designee may
file suit for a mandatory injunction without first giving notice.
§ 7.4.4 ACTION FOLLOWING NONCOMPLIANCE
If an owner fails to comply with a valid injunction, the Mayor or the Mayor’s
designee may abate the health or safety menace. For the purposes of this
Section, the owner shall be deemed to have granted permission to the Village,
its agents, and its employees to enter upon his property.
§ 7.4.5 COSTS OF ABATEMENT
When the Village has affected the abatement of the health or safety menace or
has paid for its abatement, the actual cost thereof, plus accrued interest at
the interest rate authorized for money judgments by New Mexico law from the
date of the completion of the work, shall be paid by the owner of the said real
property to the Village. If not so paid within thirty (30) days from the
request for payment by the Village, the Mayor may file a suit against the owner
of such property in any court of competent jurisdiction seeking judgment for
the amount required by this Section to be paid by the owner.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 7, Article 4 (f/k/
a Chapter 19):
Ordinance #3, May 27, 1959;
Ordinance #21 replaced previous section 1(O) (motor vehicle traffic
violations), January 5, 1972;
Ordinance #22 added section 1(T), November 1, 1972;
Ordinance #24, November 1, 1972;
Ordinance #33, March 3, 1976, codified in 1996 in Chapters 10 and 19;
Ordinance #85, May 10, 1989, replacing Ordinance No. 24;
Ordinance #134 enacted Feb. 14, 1996, codified Ordinances 3, 21, 22, 33 and 85
into Chapter 19, with modifications;
Ordinance #166, October 10, 2001.
§ 3-17-1 NMSA 1978;
Dangerous buildings, § 3-18-5 NMSA 1978;
Industrial nuisances, § 3-18-13 NMSA;
Power to regulate nuisances & offenses, § 3-18-17 NMSA 1978;
NMSA 1978, Article 8 Nuisances.
ARTICLE 5.
PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF ORDINANCES
SECTION 1. Prosecution & Penalties
SECTION 2. Assessment, Disposition and Use of Corrections Fees
SECTION 3. Severability
SECTION 4. Effective Date
SECTION 5. Repealer
SECTION 6. Compiling Clause
§ 7.5.1 PROSECUTION & PENALTIES
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with
any of the requirements of any ordinance is guilty of a petty misdemeanor. Any
violations may be prosecuted in the Village Municipal Court or other court of
competent jurisdiction. Except where otherwise specified in an ordinance, upon
conviction of a violation or violations of any Village ordinance or ordinances,
the Village Municipal Court may impose fines or imprisonment up to the maximum
allowed by New Mexico law, except that if a defendant is charged with more than
one offense arising out of a single transaction, act or occurrence, the maximum
combined sentence of imprisonment that may be imposed for all such offenses
shall not be greater than ninety (90) days.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any penalties imposed under §
7.5.1(A) shall not affect the right of the Village to pursue injunctive relief
or other remedies authorized by law.
§ 7.5.2 ASSESSMENT, DISPOSITION AND USE OF CORRECTIONS FEES
   (A)   In addition to any fine or imprisonment, there is imposed upon any
person convicted of violating any motor vehicle ordinance or any ordinance
which may be enforced by the imposition of a prison term the following fees:
      (1)   a corrections fee of twenty dollars ($20.00);
      (2)   a judicial education fee of three dollars ($3.00); and
      (3)   a court automation fee of six dollars ($6.00).
   (B)   All corrections fees collected shall be deposited in a special
corrections fund in the municipal treasury and shall be used only for municipal
jailer training or juvenile detention officer training, for construction
planning, construction, operation and maintenance of the municipal jail or
juvenile detention facility, for paying the costs of housing the municipality’s
prisoners in a county jail or housing juveniles in a detention facility or for
complying with match or contribution requirements relating to jails.
   (C)   All judicial education fees collected shall be remitted monthly to the
state treasurer for credit to the judicial education fund and shall be used for
the education and training, including production of bench books and other
written materials, of municipal judges and other municipal court personnel.
   (D)   All court automation fees collected shall be remitted monthly to the
state treasurer for credit to the municipal court automation fund and shall be
used for the purchase and maintenance of court automation systems in the
municipal courts. The court automation systems shall have the capability of
providing, on a timely basis, electronic records in a format specified by the
judicial information system council.
§ 7.5.3 SEVERABILITY
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase, or part hereof
is for any reason declared unconstitutional or invalid, the validity of the
remaining portions hereof shall not be affected since it is the expressed
intent of the Board to pass each section, subsection, paragraph, clause, phrase
and every part thereof separately and independently of every other part.
§ 7.5.4 EFFECTIVE DATE
This Article shall take effect and be in full force effective November 17,
2009.
§ 7.5.5 REPEALER
All prior ordinances imposing a Judicial Education Fee are hereby repealed.
§ 7.5.6 COMPILING CLAUSE
This Article shall be incorporated in and compiled as part of the Municipal
Code of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 7, Article 5 (f/k/
a Chapter 20):
Ordinance #88, September 13, 1989;
Ordinance #100, May 22, 1991, repeals Ordinance No. 88;
Ordinance #123, July 13, 1994, amends Ordinance No. 100;
Ordinance #134, enacted Feb. 14, 1996, codified Ordinance #100 as Chapter 20,
with modifications;
Ordinance #150, May 13, 1998, amends Chapter 20, Sections 2 & 3 of the Codified
Ordinance;
Ordinance #178, June 25, 2003, amends Chapter 20 of the Codified Ordinance;
Ordinance #224, November 12, 2009, amends Ordinance No. 178 and Chapter 20;
State law reference: Violations of ordinances, § 3-17-1, NMSA 1978;
Municipal Ordinances: Court costs, collections, purposes,§ 35-14-11, NMSA 1978;
Motor Vehicle Code, § 66-8-130, NMSA 1978 (see Chapter 17 of this Codification
for motor vehicle violations and fee under § 66-8-130).
ARTICLE 6.
PICKETING OR DEMONSTRATING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS
SECTION 1. General Provisions
SECTION 2. Unlawful Picketing in a Residential Zone
SECTION 3. Unlawful Confronting of Persons in a Residential Zone
SECTION 4. Penalty
SECTION 5. Rights Under Other Law
§ 7.6.1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
The Board of Trustees of the Village of Los Ranchos finds that it is in the
best interest of the residents of the Village, for their safety and well-being
and due to the limited law enforcement resources of the Village to restrict
demonstrations, picketing, and similar activities in residential areas of the
Village. The Village finds that due to the fear or apprehension of its
residents in the circumstances set out below; it has a significant governmental
interest and purpose in protecting the health, safety, and well-being of its
residents.
§ 7.6.2 UNLAWFUL PICKETING IN A RESIDENTIAL ZONE
It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to picket or to
demonstrate for any purpose whatsoever when such picketing or a demonstration
is focused on a specific residence in a residential zone. The foregoing shall
apply to any person or persons advocating any political, religious, or other
position as well as any person or persons in opposition to any political,
religious, or other position, or in support of any owner or occupant of a
residence.
§ 7.6.3 UNLAWFUL CONFRONTING OF PERSONS IN A RESIDENTIAL ZONE
It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to confront any person
within a residential zone of the Village for the specific purpose of forcefully
advocating or opposing political, religious, or other position or statement,
without the express consent of the person or persons being so confronted.
Forcefully advocating or opposing a particular position shall not include
activities confined solely to handing out or delivering written material in a
nonthreatening manner.
§ 7.6.4 PENALTY
   (A)   Violation of this Article shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as a misdemeanor pursuant to the Village Ordinances. Each separate
appearance shall be deemed a separate offense. In the event any person or
persons conducting a prohibited activity are ordered to disperse by an
authorized law enforcement officer, failure to so disperse shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (B)   The Village may enforce the provisions of this Article through civil
action, including injunctive relief, damages or other remedy available at law
or equity. In any civil enforcement action, the Village shall be entitled to
recover its costs and attorney fees incurred.
§ 7.6.5 RIGHTS UNDER OTHER LAW
This Article is in addition to and is not intended to restrict or abridge the
rights of any party under any other law, regulation or constitutional claim.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 7, Article 6:
Ordinance #241, September 11, 2013.
CHAPTER 8
TAXATION
ARTICLE 1. Liquor Tax
ARTICLE 2. Taxation
ARTICLE 1.
LIQUOR TAX
SECTION 1. Definitions
SECTION 2. License Tax
SECTION 3. Closing Establishments
§ 8.1.1 DEFINITIONS
   (A)   CLUB means any non-profit group, including an auxiliary or subsidiary
group, organized and operated under the laws of this state, with a membership
of not less than fifty (50) members who pay membership dues at the rate of not
less than five dollars ($5.00) per year and who under the constitution and by-
laws of the club have all voting rights and full membership privileges, and
which group is the owner, lessee, or occupant of premises used exclusively for
club purposes and which group the director finds is operated solely for
recreation, social, patriotic, political, benevolent or athletic purposes.
   (B)   DEPARTMENT means the New Mexico Alcohol and Gaming Division.
   (C)   DIRECTOR means the director of the Department.
   (D)   DISPENSER means any person licensed under the provisions of the Liquor
Control Act selling, offering for sale, or having in his possession with the
intent to sell alcoholic beverages both by the drink for consumption on the
licensed premises and in unbroken packages for consumption and not for resale
off the licensed premises.
   (E)   RETAILER means any person licensed under the provisions of the Liquor
Control Act selling, offering for sale or having in his possession with the
intent to sell any alcoholic beverages in unbroken packages for consumption and
not for resale off the licensed premises.
   (F)   RESTAURANT means any establishment having a New Mexico resident as a
proprietor or manager which is held out to the public as a place where meals
are prepared and served primarily for on-premises consumption to the general
public in consideration of payment, and which has a dining room, a kitchen, and
the employees necessary for preparing, cooking and serving meals; provided that
“restaurant” does not include establishments as defined in Regulations
promulgated by the Director serving only hamburgers, sandwiches, salads and
other fast foods.
§ 8.1.2 LICENSE TAX
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of § 7-24-1 NMSA 1978, on or after the
effective date of this Article, no person who has been issued a State license
from the Department shall be given possession of the license by the
municipality until the person has paid the municipal license tax:
      (1)   in full by July 1st, or
      (2)   in two installments of equal amounts, the first of which is due and
payable by July 1st and the second of which shall be payable on or before
January 1st.
   (B)   The tax rates for the different types of licenses shall be:
      (1)   Dispenser’s License: Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00);
      (2)   Retailer’s License: Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00);
      (3)   Club License: Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00);
      (4)   Restaurant License: Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
§ 8.1.3 CLOSING ESTABLISHMENTS
Failure of any persons holding a retailer’s, dispenser’s, club, or restaurant
license to pay such license tax on the date(s) and in the manner imposed by
this Article, shall be subject to appropriate action by the Governing Body of
the municipality of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, as provided by §
7-24-3 NMSA 1978, relating to the closing of establishments.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 8, Article 1 (f/k/
a Chapter 15):
Ordinance #14, enacted in 1962;
Ordinance #44, enacted December 9, 1981;
Ordinance #72, enacted June 8, 1988, amending ORD #44;
Ordinance #100 enacted May 22, 1991 amending penalty provisions in ORD #44;
Ordinance #109 May 27, 1993, repealing Ordinances #44 and #72
Ordinance #134, enacted Feb. 14, 1996, codifying ORD #109 as Chapter 15, with
modifications;
Transfer, Assignment, Sale, Lease or Renewal of Liquor License § 7-1-82 NMSA
1978;
Liquor Excise Tax Act § 7-17-1 et seq., NMSA 1978;
Liquor License Tax § 7-24-1 NMSA 1978;
Closing of Establishment § 7-24-3 NMSA 1978;
Liquor Control Act § 60-3A-1 NMSA 1978.
ARTICLE 2.
TAXATION
SECTION 1. Imposition of Tax
SECTION 2. General Provisions
SECTION 3. Specific Exemptions
SECTION 4. Dedication
SECTION 5. Effective Date
§ 8.2.1 IMPOSITION OF TAX
   (A)   GROSS RECEIPTS TAX. There is imposed on any person engaging in
business in this municipality for the privilege of engaging in business in this
municipality an excise tax, equal to one and nine sixteenth percent (1.5625%)
of the gross receipts reported or required to be reported by the person
pursuant to the New Mexico Gross Receipts and Compensating Tax Act as it now
exists or as it may be amended. The tax imposed under this section is pursuant
to the Municipal Local Option Gross Receipts and Compensating Taxes Act as it
now exists or as it may be amended and shall be known as the “municipal gross
receipts tax.”
   (B)   MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE GROSS RECEIPTS TAX. There is imposed on any
person engaging in business in this municipality for the privilege of engaging
in business in this municipality an excise tax equal to one-eighth of one
percent (.125%) of the gross receipts reported or required to be reported by
the person pursuant to the New Mexico Gross Receipts and Compensating Tax Act
as it now exists or as it may be amended. The tax imposed under this Article is
pursuant to the Municipal Local Option Gross Receipts Taxes Act as it now
exists or as it may be amended and shall be known as the “municipal
infrastructure gross receipts tax.”
§ 8.2.2 GENERAL PROVISIONS
This Article hereby adopts by reference all definitions, exemptions and
deductions contained in the New Mexico Gross Receipts and Compensating Tax Act
as it now exists or as it may be amended.
§ 8.2.3 SPECIFIC EXEMPTIONS
   (A)   No municipal gross receipts tax shall be imposed on the gross receipts
arising from:
      (1)   The transmission of messages by wire or other means from one point
within the municipality to another point outside the municipality;
      (2)   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor
vehicle, air transportation or any other means from one point within the
municipality to another point outside the municipality; or
      (3)   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a gross receipts tax distribution is made
pursuant to Subsection C of § 7-1-6.4 NMSA 1978.
§ 8.2.4 DEDICATION
   (A)   GROSS RECEIPTS TAX. Revenue from the municipal gross receipts tax will
be used for the General Fund.
   (B)   MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE GROSS RECEIPTS TAX. Revenue from the
municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax will be used for municipal general
purposes.
§ 8.2.5 EFFECTIVE DATE
The effective date of the municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax shall be
either January 1 or July 1, whichever date occurs first after the expiration of
at least three months from the date this Ordinance is delivered or mailed to
the Taxation and Revenue Department.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 8, Article 2 (f/k/
a Chapter 28):
Ordinance #10, August 2, 1961;
Ordinance #35, July 5, 1978;
Ordinance #42, July 8, 1981;
Ordinance #73, June 23, 1988;
Ordinance #75, August 10, 1988, Repeals Ordinance No.s 10, 73, 42 and 35;
Ordinance #94, July 11, 1990, Delayed Repeal of Ordinance No. 75;
Ordinance #110, September 22, 1993, Repealing Ordinance Number #94;
Ordinance #114, December 8, 1993, Repealing Ordinance #110, leaving Ordinance
#94 in effect;
Ordinance #115, December 8, 1993, adopted a municipal infrastructure gross
receipts tax;
Ordinance #134, enacted Feb. 14, 1996, codified Ordinances #94 and #115 as
Chapter 28;
Ordinance #300, enacted September 17, 2024, adopted a municipal gross receipts
tax and repealed Ordinance #115
 
Receipts; disbursements; funds created, § 7-1-6 NMSA 1978;
Gross Receipts and Compensating Tax Act § 7-9-1, et seq., NMSA 1978;
Supplemental Municipal Gross Receipts Tax § 7-19-10, et seq., NMSA 1978;
Municipal Local Option Gross Receipts Taxes § 7-19D-1, et seq., NMSA 1978;
Municipal gross receipts tax; authority to impose rate, § 7-19D-9(D) NMSA 1978;
Municipal Infrastructure Gross Receipts Tax, § 7-19D-11 NMSA 1978.
CHAPTER 9
LAND USE REGULATION
ARTICLE 1. Subdivision, Vacation, and Development
ARTICLE 2. Zoning and Zone Map
ARTICLE 3. Permit for the Sale, Construction and Remodeling of Property
ARTICLE 4. Middle Rio Grande Conservation District Tracts
ARTICLE 5. Building Code
ARTICLE 6. Wireless Telecommunications Facilities
ARTICLE 7. Miscellaneous
ARTICLE 1.
SUBDIVISION, VACATION, AND DEVELOPMENT
SECTION 1. Title
SECTION 2. Authority & Jurisdiction
SECTION 3. Purpose
SECTION 4. Interpretation
SECTION 5. Definitions
SECTION 6. General Information and Guidance
SECTION 7. Procedures and Submission Requirements for Plats
SECTION 8. Requirements for Submittal of Preliminary Plat and Final Plat to the
Commission and Board
SECTION 9. Required Improvements
SECTION 10. Design Standards
SECTION 11. Modification & Exceptions
SECTION 12. Vacation
SECTION 13. Construction Violations
SECTION 14. Fees
SECTION 15. Penalties
SECTION 16. Amendment Procedure
SECTION 17. Public Records
SECTION 18. Severability of Provisions
§ 9.1.1 TITLE
This Article may be cited as the “Subdivision Ordinance.”
§ 9.1.2 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION
   (A)   AUTHORITY. This Article is adopted pursuant to §3-19-6 NMSA, 1978.
   (B)   JURISDICTION. These Regulations are designed to accomplish the
procedures for the processing, consideration, and filing of plats lying within
the corporate boundaries of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque (the
Village), which area is the Village planning and platting jurisdiction pursuant
to §3-19-5 and §3-20-5 NMSA 1978. No subdivision of any land shall hereinafter
be effected within the Village area of jurisdiction except in accordance with
the provisions of these Regulations.
§ 9.1.3 PURPOSE
These Regulations are intended to create orderly, harmonious, and economically
sound development of land in order to establish conditions favorable to the
health, safety, convenience, and general welfare of citizens of the Village and
its area of jurisdiction, and to recognize and preserve the Village of Los
Ranchos history and culture and their importance within the Rio Grande Valley.
More specifically, provisions of these Regulations are designed to achieve
adequate provision for light and air, public open spaces, water supply,
drainage, sanitation including sewer facilities; economy in governmental
expenditures and efficiency in governmental operations; safe, convenient
circulation of people, goods, and vehicles; accurate and complete surveying,
and preparation and recording of plats thereof; safety and suitability of land
for contemplated development; and coordination of land development in
accordance with orderly physical patterns as stated in official plans,
policies, and such ordinances and codes in furtherance of plans and policies as
may have been or may be hereafter adopted by the Village.
§ 9.1.4 INTERPRETATION
These Regulations are intended to be minimum requirements to carry out the
purpose stated herein and are not intended to interfere with any other laws,
covenants, or ordinances. Whenever any of the provisions of these Regulations
are more or less restrictive than other laws, covenants, or ordinances, then
whichever is more restrictive shall govern.
§ 9.1.5 DEFINITIONS
   (A)   ADJACENT PROPERTY. The discrete residences, lots or tracts which are
located within 300 feet of the boundaries of the lot(s) or tract(s) which are
included within the area of a proposed major subdivision.
   (B)   ALLEY. A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary
means of access to abutting property.
   (C)   AREA PLAN. A plan that covers specific subareas of the Village. This
plan provides basic information on the natural features, resources, and
physical constraints that affect development of the planning area. This plan
specifies detailed land-use designations used to review specific development
proposals and to plan services and facilities.
   (D)   BLOCK. Property bounded on one side by a street and on the other sides
by a street, waterway including irrigation facilities, unsubdivided areas, or
other definite barriers.
   (E)   CENTERLINE. The line halfway between the street right-of-way lines.
   (F)   CUL DE SAC. A short street intersecting another street and terminating
in a vehicular turn-around.
   (G)   ADMINISTRATOR (VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR). The individual(s) serving as
the chief administrative officer within the Village.
   (H)   EASEMENT. An acquired or granted right of use which one person may
have in the land of another.
   (I)   FIRE CHIEF (or Designee). An individual certified by the State of New
Mexico with authority to review plats of subdivision for compliance with
applicable regulations delineated by the currently adopted International Fire
Code within the Village.
   (J)   INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS. Changes to the land and facilities
necessary to prepare it for building sites including, but not limited to:
grading, filling, streets, sidewalks, sanitary sewer and water system
facilities, lines, and appurtenances, irrigation, drainage and flood control
facilities, street lighting, and other facilities used by the public or used in
common by owners of lots within a subdivision.
   (K)   IRRIGATION. The technique for flooding agricultural and other lands
from facilities (ditches, laterals, canals, and drains) regulated by the Middle
Rio Grande Conservancy District (MRGCD).
   (L)   IRRIGATION EASEMENT. A public or private platted easement providing
for access to irrigation water as regulated by the Middle Rio Grande
Conservancy District (MRGCD).
   (M)   LOT. A tract or parcel of land:
      (1)   exclusive of public right-of-way, placed on the County Clerk’s
records in accordance with this Article or predecessor ordinances, the
Bernalillo County Subdivision Ordinance or predecessor ordinances, or the laws
of the State of New Mexico, whichever had jurisdiction at time of filing;
      (2)   held in separate ownership, as that parcel was shown on the records
of the County Assessor, prior to October 2, 1950, effective date of passage of
a County Resolution covering Subdivision;
      (3)   exclusive or inclusive of private right-of-way, as platted, and
placed on the County Clerk’s records in accordance with this Article or
predecessor ordinances, the Bernalillo County Subdivision Ordinance or
predecessor ordinances, or the laws of the State of New Mexico, whichever had
jurisdiction at the time of filing;
      (4)   in residential subdivisions of greater than 3 lots, private right-
of-way may not be included in the calculation total lot area calculations.
   (N)   MASTER PLAN. A comprehensive plan or any of its parts, adopted by the
Village Board, for the physical development of the area within the planning and
platting jurisdiction of the Village for the general purpose of guiding and
accomplishing coordinated and harmonious development.
   (O)   MONUMENT. One or more of the following:
      (1)   Benchmark. A brass cap, set in a base with the elevation (mean sea
level datum, 1929) and the land surveyor’s registration number inscribed
thereon.
      (2)   Permanent Survey Monument. A brass cap set in a base, or a standard
B.L.M. monument marking sectionalized corners, containing coordinates
referenced to the New Mexico Coordinate System and the land surveyor’s
registration number inscribed thereon.
      (3)   Subdivision Control Monument. A metal stake or pipe with the land
surveyor’s registration number affixed thereto.
   (P)   PLANNING AND ZONING DIRECTOR (DIRECTOR). The individual serving as the
chief administrative officer of the Planning and Zoning Department of the
Village.
   (Q)   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION (COMMISSION). The body appointed by
Mayor with consent of the Governing Body with the power, authority,
jurisdiction and duty to enforce and carry out the provision of law relating to
planning, platting and zoning; and other power, authority, jurisdiction and
duty incidental and necessary to carry out the purpose of Section 3-19-
1 through 3-19-12 NMSA 1978; and to carry out the requirements of §
4.2.1 et seq., §
9.1.1 et seq. and §
9.2.1 et seq. of the 2013 Codified Ordinances, and Articles 19, 20, and 21 of
Chapter 3 of NMSA, 1978.
   (R)   PLAT. A map, chart, survey, plan or replat certified by a registered
land surveyor which contains a description of a subdivided land with ties to
permanent survey monuments, said plat to be placed on record.
   (S)   PLAT, FINAL. The final map of all or a portion of a subdivision or
site plan conforming with the requirements stated herein, that is presented to
the proper review authority for final approval; recordation in the office of
the County Clerk within thirty (30) days of approval by the Village creates a
legal subdivision.
   (T)   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A map of a subdivision of land conforming with the
requirements stated herein, that is submitted to the proper review authority
for purposes of preliminary consideration and approval; the subdivider achieves
vested rights to subdivision upon preliminary plat approval.
   (U)   PLAT, SKETCH. A sketch or drawing of a subdivision plat conforming
with the requirements stated herein, and used in the pre-application procedure
prior to submission of the preliminary plat for a major subdivision or the
final plat of a minor subdivision.
   (V)   PRIVATE WAY. A portion of a lot, a parcel, or an easement used for
ingress or egress by persons or vehicles which is not a public right-of-way and
which provides access between a public right-of-way and one or more lots. A
private way is platted within a lot, or as a separate parcel from the lots.
   (W)   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. That public area of land deeded, dedicated by
plat, or otherwise acquired by any unit of government and owned in fee for the
purposes of movement of vehicles, pedestrian traffic, and/or for conveyance of
public utility services, irrigation, or drainage.
   (X)   REPLAT. To prepare and record a new plat replacing all or a portion of
a previously recorded plat.
   (Y)   STREET/ROAD. That portion of a public right-of-way or private way
which is devoted to vehicular use.
   (Z)   SUBDIVIDER. Any person creating a subdivision, including the owner,
equitable owner, or any authorized representative.
   (AA)   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   A Subdivision is the division of any real property or any interest
therein into two (2) or more separate parcels, whether by metes and bounds
description by deed, the filing of a plat, the filing of a condominium
declaration or similar document, or the recording of a plat of survey, by court
order or any similar document purporting to create separate parcels or
ownership interest entities, regardless of the purpose for which such division
is made.
   (BB)   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. Any subdivision not classified as Minor.
   (CC)   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. Any subdivision:
      (1)   Creating not more than:
         (a)   Two (2) parcels of land; and,
         (b)   Not containing more than five (5) acres of land; and,
         (c)   Not requiring installation of any significant infrastructure;
or,
      (2)   Resubdivision, where the combination or recombination of previously
platted lots does not increase the total number of lots regardless of total
acreage.
   (DD)   VILLAGE ENGINEER. A professional engineer registered in accordance
with the laws of New Mexico, and employed or contracted by the Village to
perform work as directed.
   (EE)   WAIVER. Foregoing from one or more of the requirements of this
Article, upon making certain findings.
§ 9.1.6 GENERAL INFORMATION AND GUIDANCE
   (A)   GENERAL. This subdivision approval process may take four steps:
preapplication and sketch plat review, preliminary plat heard by the Commission
and by the Board, and final plat heard by the Commission, depending on the size
and complexity of the proposed subdivision. These steps are described in §
9.1.7 and §
9.1.8 of this Article. Every person who desires to subdivide land into two or
more parts shall comply with the requirements of these Regulations and the
Village Zoning Code.
   (B)   SUBDIVISION WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE VILLAGE
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to Subdivide any real property located within
the Village except by:
         (a)   Recording in the office of the County Clerk of Bernalillo
County, New Mexico, a plat which has been approved in accordance with the
ordinances of the Village; or
         (b)   By order of a court having jurisdiction of the property and all
parties owning an interest therein entered by the court in the resolution of
any probate matter or as a judgment in a partition action.
Provided, however, that any Subdivision created in accordance with subparagraph
(b) above shall not be recognized by the Village until a plat of survey,
describing the parcels created, together with a certified copy of the court
order creating the parcel, is recorded in the office of the County Clerk of
Bernalillo County, New Mexico. In no event will the Village recognize a
Subdivision created under subparagraph (b) above for any purpose, if the court
action was initiated or prosecuted for the purpose or intent of avoiding the
subdivision requirements of the Village. In addition, the Village will not
recognize any lot created by a court decree for purposes of issuing building
permits or similar determinations, unless each such lot complies with the
Village Ordinances with respect to lot size and similar requirements.
   (C)   CONSIDERATIONS FOR SUBDIVISION PLATTING. In order to provide guidance
to subdividers concerning acceptable proposed plats, the following matters are
fundamental:
      (1)   Maintenance of Rural Atmosphere.
         (a)   It is the policy of the Village, wherever reasonable, to
encourage the maintenance of the rural atmosphere of the Village.
         (b)   The Village, therefore, will view with favor subdivisions
incorporating irregular size lots, provisions for open space, restrictions on
fences, easements for bicycle and bridle paths, access to the bosque and
maintenance of existing MRGCD irrigation, and other factors calculated to
maintain such an atmosphere.
      (2)   Geographic Suitability.
         (a)   With reference to any officially adopted plans of the Village,
an area shall not be unsuited to the purposes for which it is to be subdivided.
         (b)   Land with the following types of problems shall have subdivision
approval withheld until it is demonstrated that such hazards have been or will
be eliminated:
            1. Special drainage conditions.
            2. Difficult topography.
            3. Soil conditions which are unusually limiting.
            4. Other geographic hazards to life, health, or property.
      (3)   Services. The availability of adequate, surfaced streets, adequate
emergency access, fire protection, police protection, refuse service, public
schools, parks and recreation facilities, and utility services shall all be
weighed in considering the subdividing of land. They are not all necessarily
required. Any subdivision or replat proposal which involves an extension of
public water or sanitary sewer lines will require a statement of water and
sewer availability from the Albuquerque/Bernalillo County Water Utility
Authority (ABCWUA). Burial of all utility systems is desirable in new
subdivisions and failure to incorporate underground utilities may constitute
adequate cause to deny subdivision approval.
      (4)   Preservation. The subdivider shall preserve major trees, scenic
points, acequias, historic places as listed in the Village of Los Ranchos
register, archeological sites in compliance with state statutes, and other
community landmarks as required by the Director, the Commission, or the Board.
      (5)   Area Plan.
         (a)   If the subdivider owns or controls land adjacent to the land he
wishes to subdivide immediately, the Village Board may require the subdivider
to submit a proposed master plan for the total area to be approved or approved
in modified form at the preliminary plat hearing by the Commission and Board
prior to approval of the Final Plat by the Commission. Any plat submitted shall
be the reasonable planning unit in relation to the approved area plan. The
proposed area plan shall show proposed use type and densities as well as
collector and local street alignments.
         (b)   If the Commission or the Board finds that the area plan will
significantly alter the provisions of any officially adopted plans of the
Village, the Commission or the Board shall approve it in modified form, or
reject it.
         (c)   All proposed street alignments shown in the area plan or final
plat related thereto shall extend, complement, or otherwise conform to existing
municipal streets and to officially designated proposed street alignments.
Likewise, all proposed sewer, water and drainage systems shall be made to
extend, complement and conform to existing and proposed municipal facilities.
All proposed irrigation easements and/or systems shall be made to extend,
complement, and conform to existing and proposed MRGCD facilities or other
existing ditches.
      (6)   Conformance of proposal to Master Plan and other Land Use Plans.
Any subdivision or replat proposal which does not conform with goals, policies
or other provisions of the Master Plan or other officially adopted land use
plans shall not be approved.
§ 9.1.7 PROCEDURES AND SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR PLATS
   (A)   PRE-APPLICATION.
      (1)   Pre-Application Conference. Prior to submission of a plat the
subdivider shall discuss with the Planning Director the procedure and
requirements for approval of the plat. The Planning Director shall provide
guidance to the subdivider as to the appropriateness of the proposal in
relation to the Village Master Plan, other Village land use plans, policies,
and zoning. The Planning Director shall advise the subdivider as appropriate
regarding requirements for general layout of streets, for dedications of land,
for provision of infrastructure improvements, drainage considerations, fire
protection, and similar matters, as well as the availability of existing
services. The Planning Director may assist the subdivider in analyzing the
development and plan for its sound integration with the Village, and may
therefore give informal guidance to the subdivider at a state when potential
points of difference can be more easily resolved, thus simplifying official
actions and saving unnecessary expense and delay to the subdivider.
      (2)   Classification of Subdivision. The Planning Director shall
determine, normally as a part of pre-application review, whether the proposal
is a Major or Minor subdivision.
      (3)   Resubdivision. The submittal of a series of two-lot subdivisions on
a tract of land will be considered a subterfuge to defeat the purpose of these
regulations. Therefore, the submission of a resubdivision which creates
additional lots within an area or a plat which was recorded less than twelve
(12) months prior to the submission must be accompanied by an Area Plan. The
Area Plan shall detail the subdivider’s long term proposals for all of the land
that he controls in the area within and adjacent to the land proposed for
resubdivision. The resubdivision\ and Area Plan must be approved simultaneously
by the Commission and the Board and the approved Area Plan shall be kept on
file with the approved resubdivision plat. All future replatting of subject
land shall conform to the area plan. Once approved, the Area Plan may not be
amended within twelve (12) months of its approval by the Commission and the
Board.
   (B)   MINOR SUBDIVISIONS. The subdivider shall apply for and secure approval
of minor subdivisions, in accordance with the following procedure:
      (1)   Application. Upon reaching a general understanding established by
the pre-application procedure, the subdivider shall submit to the Planning
Director a written application together with two (2) copies of a sketch plat
containing the following:
         (a)   Location Map. A location map shall show the relationship of the
proposed plat to existing community facilities which serve it; all abutting
streets, and north arrow.
         (b)   Sketch Plat. A simple sketch plat shall show the proposed layout
of streets, lots, and other features in relation to existing conditions. The
sketch plat may be freehand pencil sketch made directly on a print of the
survey plat.
         (c)   Written Information. General plat information shall list the
name and address of the subdivider or agent, if any; the total area of the
proposed plat; the area of each proposed use; and a description of the existing
conditions of the site and the proposed development as necessary to supplement
the sketch plat. This information may include data on existing covenants and
land characteristics including surface drainage, grading, landfill areas, and
available private and municipal utilities. This information may also describe
the subdivision proposal, such as the number and typical lot width and depth,
business area, public areas, and proposed utilities. A plat proposal which
includes any extension of public water and/or sanitary sewer lines shall
include a statement of water and sewer availability from the Albuquerque/
Bernalillo County Water Utility Authority (ABCWUA).
      (2)   Sketch Plat Review and Comment. Within thirty (30) working days of
submittal of the sketch plat package, the Planning Director shall issue written
comments to the subdivider. These comments shall include an analysis of the
conformance of the proposal to applicable Village Ordinances and a review of
the conditions, if any, which will have to be met in order for the plat to
receive final approval. The comments from the Planning Director may include
requirements or conditions suggested by the Village Designated Engineer, the
Fire Chief or the Village Attorney.
      (3)   Final Approval. Upon receipt of a written confirmation from the
Planning Director that the sketch plat appears to be in substantial conformance
with applicable regulations and policies, the subdivider may apply for final
approval of the plat. Such application must be made within twelve (12) months
of the receipt of such confirmation. The subdivider shall at that time submit a
written application along with a mylar and one copy of the final plat and any
supplementary material that may be required. The final plat shall meet the
standards specified in §
9.1.8 of this Article. The Mayor, after receiving the recommendation of the
Planning Director, shall act to approve or disapprove the final plat within
thirty-five (35) days of its submission. The Mayor’s decision shall be issued
in writing to the subdivider. If the plat is disapproved, the reasons for its
disapproval shall be stated in writing and if the plat is approved with
conditions, such approval conditions shall be stated in writing.
      (4)   Appeals. The Commission shall review any administrative action of
the Planning Director when it is alleged that there is an error in any
determination with regard to a minor subdivision under this Section. Such
appeal shall be made in writing within fifteen (15) days of the decision
appealed and shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth. At the Commission
meeting where the appeal is considered, the Commission may reverse, affirm, or
modify the administrative action being appealed. The Commission’s determination
may be appealed to the Board. Such appeal shall be made in writing within
fifteen (15) days of the decision of the Commission and an appeal must be filed
no less than twenty (20) days prior to the Board meeting at which the appeal
will be heard. The Board’s determination shall be the final decision within the
Village.
   (C)   MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS. The subdivider shall apply for and secure approval
of major subdivisions, in accordance with the following procedure:
      (1)   Application. Upon reaching a general understanding established by
the pre-application procedure, the subdivider shall submit to the Planning
Director a written application together with copies as required by the Planning
Director of a sketch plat. This plat shall contain all information as specified
in this Article plus any additional material which is deemed necessary by the
Planning Director.
      (2)   Sketch Plat Approval. Upon receipt of written confirmation that all
required material has been submitted, a hearing before the Commission shall be
scheduled. The subdivider may present the conceptual plans for subdivision at
that hearing; no action is taken at the Sketch Plat review.
      (3)   Preliminary Plat Approval. Upon receipt of written confirmation
from the Planning Director that the sketch plat, or as heard by the Commission,
appears to be in substantial conformance with applicable regulations and
policies, the subdivider may apply for a preliminary plat hearing by the
Commission. The subdivider shall submit a written application along with copies
as required by the Planning Director of the preliminary plat and any
supplementary material that may be required. Applications that are not complete
by the meeting deadline, or where applicant has not met the regulatory public
notice requirements shall not be placed on the meeting agenda for action. The
preliminary plat shall meet the standards specified in §
9.1.8 of this Article. Upon recommendation of approval of the preliminary plat
by the Commission, the subdivider will be scheduled for a hearing before the
Board for approval of the final preliminary plat. Such application must be made
within twelve (12) months of the receipt of Commission recommendation to the
Board. Final Preliminary Plat Approval shall constitute a recommendation to the
Commission and shall not allow the subdivider to file the plat with the County
Clerk’s office or to transfer lots within a subdivision.
      (4)   Once the approval conditions as specified by the Commission or
Board are fulfilled, the subdivider may apply to the Commission for Final Plat
Approval.
      (5)   Appeal. If a subdivider disagrees with any of the Final Plat
approval findings or conditions of the Commission, he may file an appeal to the
Board, pursuant to the procedures specified in §
9.1.7(B)(4) of this Article. At the Board meeting where the appeal is
considered, the Board may reverse, affirm, or modify the Commission’s
recommendation. The Board may also return the plat to the Commission for
reconsideration together with findings and instructions to the Commission. The
decision of the Board shall be final.
      (6)   Alternate Summary Procedure. For lots, tracts or parcels which meet
the requirements of this Subsection, the Director may, but is not required to,
process the application for subdivision in accordance with the provisions of
NMSA 1978, § 3-20-8.
         (a)   The Alternate Summary Procedure may be used for the following,
excepting the Alternative Summary Procedure may not be used for the purpose of
creating a subdivision by the same property owner or related to the same tract
(s) of property more than once in any twelve (12) month period:
            1. subdivisions of not more than two (2) parcels of land;
            2. subdivisions, or the combination or re-combination of portions
of previously platted lots, that do not increase the total number of lots;
            3. the lots or parcels, including MRGCD tracts, are less than one
(1) acre in size, are contiguous with each other and the plat is being
requested for the purpose of increasing or reducing the size of such contiguous
lots, provided that neither remaining lot or parcel is smaller than the minimum
standard size required by the Village for the zone in which the subdivision is
requested.
         (b)   In the event the Director determines that the Alternate Summary
Procedure is appropriate, the following will be required:
            1. the owner(s) of the property being subdivided must consent in
writing to the subdivision;
            2. the party seeking the subdivision must provide a plat and
certificate of survey prepared and certified to the owner(s) and to the Village
by a surveyor licensed under the laws of the state of New Mexico. The survey
must include the legal description of the new parcel and the legal description
of the remaining parcel, if any, and shall refer to permanent monuments and
show all adjacent public or private roads or access points.
            3. after final approval of the subdivision by the Director (or, as
applicable, the Planning and Zoning Commission or Board of Trustees if there is
an appeal), the applicant must file a copy of the survey with the Bernalillo
County Clerk and the Bernalillo County Assessor.
         (c)   Except as specifically set out in this Section, Minor
Subdivision requirements will be used for processing a subdivision request
under the Alternate Summary Procedure. Any aggrieved party will have a right to
appeal in accordance with Subparagraph (5) above.
         (d)   Effect of Survey Filing. Upon the filing of the survey as
required under Subsection (b)3 above, the parcels created by the subdivision
shall be deemed “lots of record” for purposes of issuance of building permits
and shall be deemed to be a legally platted lot(s).
§ 9.1.8 REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBMITTAL OF A PRELIMINARY PLAT AND FINAL PLAT TO THE
COMMISSION AND BOARD
   (A)   PROCEDURE.
      (1)   Application. Following notice of sketch plat review of a major
subdivision by the Commission, the subdivider shall submit to the Commission a
written application, together with the original and copies as required by the
Planning Director, of the preliminary plat, improvement plans, and other
supplementary material as specified herein. The application package shall be
submitted at least thirty (30) working days prior to the regular meeting of the
Commission and Board at which the plat is to be presented for review. The plat
shall include all land owned or controlled by the subdivider which is or may be
suitable for or susceptible to the subdivision or development, and adjoins the
land proposed to be subdivided. The plat shall be drawn to a scale of no less
than one (1) inch to one hundred (100) feet for the purposes of showing all
details clearly. An adequate number of sheets, no larger than 18 by 24 inches,
shall be used to show the proposed subdivision in its entirety. Where more than
one sheet is required, each sheet shall be numbered in relation to the total
number of sheets involved, and each sheet shall have a small key map showing
its relationship to the whole.
      (2)   Review. The Commission shall review the final plat, supplementary
material, and findings of the Board and comments by Village Consultants and
other governmental agencies as may be appropriate. The Village may require that
restrictive covenants be filed in conjunction with the plat. The subdivider
shall be responsible for all fees for engineering consultant review and
approval.
      (3)   Annexation and/or Rezoning. If annexation and/or rezoning is
proposed or required to accomplish the development envisioned in connection
with the plat, the Commission and Board shall withhold conditional approval of
the plat until such time as annexation and/or rezoning shall be officially
adopted by the Village Board.
      (4)   Decision. If the final plat is approved by the Commission, an
Official Notice of Decision shall be mailed to the subdivider stating the
decision, conditions and findings. Should the final plat be disapproved, the
Commission shall express in writing the reasons for disapproval. The reasons
for disapproval shall be referenced and attached to two (2) copies of the final
plat. One (1) of said copies shall be returned to the subdivider and the other
shall become part of the files of the Village Clerk’s office. Approval or
disapproval shall be given within thirty-five (35) days of the date of
submission of a final plat that meets the requirements of this Article, unless
the subdivider agrees in writing to a deferral.
      (5)   Recording. The final plat is in full force and effect only after
having been duly recorded in the office of the Bernalillo County Clerk and
copies filed with the Director in the Planning and Zoning Department. Approval
of the final plat shall become null and void if the plat is not so recorded
within thirty (30) days after the date of approval, unless an extension of time
is granted by the Commission. Submittal for recording is the subdivider’s
responsibility. In the case of a replat, the subdivider shall request the
Bernalillo County Clerk to mark the original plat with the words “replatted” or
“partially replatted” and refer on the original plat to the filed location of
the replat. The Planning Director shall mark the copies of the original plat on
file in the Planning and Zoning Department of the Village in a similar manner.
      (6)   Replat. After final approval of any plat, no lot or block shall be
further subdivided or the area of any platting of any street, alley, or
easement established by said plat except upon the submission of a replat with
the Commission securing its approval in accordance with the procedures herein
established. Vacation of any portion of public right-of-way or public easement
requires approval of the Board as well as the Commission.
      (7)   Acceptance of Land. Approval of the final plat by the Commission
shall be deemed to constitute acceptance by the Village of dedication of public
rights-ofway, other proposed public easements, and public areas shown on the
plat, provided the final plat is properly recorded with the Bernalillo County
Clerk and the Director of the Planning and Zoning Department, and providing
that all required infrastructure and any other conditions have been met as
imposed by the Commission or Board and have been installed and approved by the
Village.
      (8)   Public Hearing. No preliminary or final plat of a major subdivision
shall be acted upon without a public hearing. An application for the final
approval of a major subdivision plat submitted for approval shall contain the
name and address of the person to whom a notice of hearing shall be sent.
Notice of the time and place of a hearing shall be sent by mail to the address
on the plat not less than five (5) days before the day of the hearing first
class mail to the subdivider or his agent and to the owners of adjacent
property no later than fifteen (15) days in advance of the date of the hearing.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be placed by the Village
Clerk in a daily newspaper of general circulation within the Village at least
fifteen (15) days before the date of the hearing. The subdivider shall be
responsible for all costs of public notice for the public hearing.
   (A)   CONTENTS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
      (1)   Submission for review.
         (a)   Any person or party proposing to subdivide land shall complete
and submit a preliminary plat application, along with copies required by the
Planning Director of all application materials as required in this Section for
review by the Planning Director, the Village Designated Engineer, the Village
Attorney, and the Commission, and the required preliminary plat subdivision
processing fees.
         (b)   The preliminary plat application and submittal materials shall
be filed at least thirty (30) days prior to the regularly scheduled Commission
meeting at which the preliminary plat application shall be heard.
         (c)   If sketch plat submission and approval has been required or
submitted, a preliminary plat application must include proof by the subdivider
that he has addressed and complied with all sketch plat requirements made by
the Commission.
      (2)   Preliminary Plat Requirements. Unless waived by the Commission, the
preliminary plat and accompanying documents shall show at least the following:
         (a)   Proof of financial responsibility on the part of the subdivider.
         (b)   The location of all present property lines, projected section
lines, streets, buildings, watercourses, irrigation easements and facilities,
and other existing features within the area to be subdivided and similar
information (except buildings and property lines) regarding land immediately
adjacent thereto.
         (c)   The proposed location and width of all proposed streets, alleys,
utility and irrigation easements, and areas to be reserved for public use.
         (d)   Existing utilities, irrigation easements and facilities,
drainage courses and culverts within the tract or on streets immediately
abutting thereto; the location and size of the nearest water mains and sewer
lines; and, a letter of water and sewer availability from the Albuquerque/
Bernalillo County Water Utility Authority (ABCWUA).
         (e)   The title under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded
and the name of the land planner, engineer, registered land surveyor, the
subdivider and the owner of the tract, with the address to which any notice is
to be sent.
         (f)   If the property to be subdivided is owned by more than one
individual or corporation, the names and signatures of all title holders shall
be included on the plat.
      (3)   Preliminary Plat Hearing. The Commission shall hold a hearing upon
the preliminary plat application and proposal not later than sixty (60) days
following submission of a completed application as determined by the Planning
Director. Notice of the hearing shall be given by the Planning Director on
behalf of the Commission by mailing a notice to the applicant at the address
set forth on the preliminary plat application, by first class mail.
      (4)   Approval and form of preliminary plat.
         (a)   If upon conclusion of the hearing the Commission shall find that
such preliminary plat satisfies the requirements of this Section, the
Commission shall forward the plat to the Board of Trustees with recommendations
for action. The Board of Trustees shall hold a public hearing on the
preliminary plat application. If upon conclusion of the hearing, the Board
approves the preliminary plat, the Mayor shall sign and date approval thereof
to substantiate the following language, which shall have been previously placed
on the plat: The proposed plan of subdivision as shown in the preliminary plat
herein is approved by the Board of Trustees and the Commission now is ready to
receive the final plat of said subdivision for consideration.
         (b)   One print of such preliminary plat so endorsed shall be returned
to the subdivider by personal delivery or mail, and one print with such
findings shall be placed in the files of the Director in the Planning and
Zoning Department.
         (c)   A subdivider may be required to submit to the Board an amended
preliminary plat for the purpose of complying with any order of the Commission
or Board.
   (B)   CONTENTS OF FINAL PLAT.
      (1)   Preparation of final plat. Receipt by the subdivider of a print of
the preliminary plat approved by the Commission and Board shall constitute
authority for the subdivider to proceed with further plans and specifications
for installation of infrastructure improvements. Applicant shall prepare a
final plat application upon proof of compliance with the terms of the
Commission’s preliminary plat approval, all Village standards, this Section,
and any subdivision improvement agreements and private agreements which the
subdivider may have entered into for the purposes of receiving preliminary plat
approval. The final plat must be prepared by a surveyor licensed and registered
in New Mexico as required in NMSA 1978, Section 3-20-2, and by a licensed
engineer if required.
      (2)   Final plat submission.
         (a)   Following final preliminary plat approval and the presentation
of proof by the subdivider that he has complied with all preliminary plat
requirements, the subdivider shall complete and submit a final plat application
and copies as required by the Planning Director, of all application materials
as required in this Section for review by the Planning Director, and the
Village Designated Engineer, the Village Attorney, and the Commission.
         (b)   The Commission shall hold a hearing on the final plat
application not later than thirty five (35) days following the submittal of a
completed final plat application. The application shall be deemed complete by
the Planning Director.
         (c)   The Commission shall hold a hearing at which the applicant shall
present the proposed development as shown on the final plat application and
submittal. After the hearing, the findings of the Commission shall be made and
the Commission shall note on the final plat application whether the plat has
been approved in whole, approved with conditions, denied, or whether the
applicant shall be required to submit an amended final plat application for the
purpose of demonstrating that the applicant has complied with the orders of the
Board of Trustees and the Commission and with the terms of the Final Plat
approval.
         (d)   Upon receipt of final unconditioned approval of the final plat
by the Commission, and an Official Notice of Decision with conditions and
findings has been provided, the applicant shall record the plat in the Office
of the Bernalillo County Clerk. Two (2) paper copies of the recorded plat shall
be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Department within thirty (30) days of
recordation. No building permits will be approved for development within said
subdivision until a copy of the recorded plat has been received by the
Department.
      (3)   Contents of the Final Plat.
         (a)   The final plat shall be in conformity with the requirements of
applicable state statutes and shall be an accurate drawing designating
specifically the land so laid out, and particularly describing the portions
thereof intended to be dedicated for public use. Such final plat shall be
produced by computer and printed in black ink, or drawn by hand in black ink to
a scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch from an accurate survey. It shall
contain one or more sheets of dimensions not exceeding 18 inches by 24 inches.
If more than two sheets are submitted, an index sheet of the same dimensions
shall be attached showing the entire subdivision on one sheet and the component
area on the remaining sheet.
         (b)   Information. The final plat shall contain the following
information:
            1. Name and legal description of subdivision; name and address of
subdivider and agent; name and certification of licensed surveyor and any other
principal persons preparing the preliminary plat.
            2. Scale and north arrow.
            3. All survey monuments shall be indicated and there shall be at
least one permanent survey monument for each subdivision. Location of and
method of ties to permanent survey monuments and location and type of
subdivision control monuments. Descriptions of all monuments found or set.
Survey monuments shall be referenced to the federal sectionalized land system.
            4. Subdivision boundary lines; bearing in degrees, minutes, and
seconds with basis for bearings noted or shown; distances in feet and
hundredths. Total area of plat to nearest one-hundredth acre.
            5. Lot lines with bearings in degrees, minutes and seconds and
distances in feet and hundredths; public right-of-way and street widths; and
centerline data; indicate roadways intended to be private; locations,
dimensions, and purpose of all easements, public or private and to whom they
are granted; rights-of-way for public services or utilities including
irrigation, and any limitations thereof.
            6. Existing conditions of the site and its environs including the
following:
               a. Present site designation or subdivision name.
               b. Easements on site: location, width and purpose.
               c. Utilities on and adjacent to the site: location and, if
applicable, size of water wells, water lines, sanitary sewers, gas lines, fire
hydrants, irrigation facilities, cable, electric and telephone lines.
               d. Existing storm drainage facilities on and adjacent to the
site.
               e. Other significant conditions on the site: all structures,
trees, etc.
               f. Conditions on adjacent land significantly affecting design of
the subdivision: approximate direction and gradients of ground slope; character
and location of development.
               g. Zoning on and adjacent to the site, including all applicable
setback lines.
            7. Location map showing location of the site in relation to well-
known landmarks, abutting property owners, and municipal boundaries. Indicate
location and distance of public right-of-way providing access to subdivision.
Include name, width, type and specifications of surfacing. Show reference to
recorded subdivision plats of adjoining platted land by recorded name, date,
book and page number in the office of the County Clerk.
            8. Number or letter to identify each lot and block.
            9. Gross and Net lot areas in acres to the nearest third decimal
place. If private roads are proposed, lot areas shall be shown inclusive and
exclusive of the ingress and egress easement.
            10. The accurate location and dimensions of all property for
dedication for public use, with the purpose indicated thereon, and of all
property that is to be reserved by deed covenant for the common use of the
property owners of the subdivision. The ownership of such common property and
the maintenance responsibility for it shall be clearly identified.
            11. The following language shall be placed upon each plat:
Public utility easements shown on this plat are not exclusive and are dedicated
for the common and joint use of the utilities designated on this plat, their
successors and assigns, and for the use of any other public utilities whose use
of said easements is deemed to be in the public interest by the Village of Los
Ranchos de Albuquerque.
         (c)   Consent and Dedication. Statements signed by the owner or agent
of the owner that:
            1. The subdivision is with the free consent and in accordance with
the desire of the owner of the land;
            2. The public rights-of-way and other public areas shown on the
plat are dedicated to the Village.
            3. The easements as shown on the plat are granted for the specified
use, showing to whom they are granted, who is responsible for maintenance and
any conditions associated therewith.
         (d)   Certifications. The following persons shall make the following
certifications:
            1. Land surveyor, in accordance with the laws of the State of New
Mexico and applicable subdivision ordinances certifying the accuracy of the
survey and plat, the date of the survey, that he prepared or supervised
preparation of the plat, and that he has shown all easements of record.
            2. County Treasurer that the previous ten years’ property taxes due
and payable have been paid.
            3. Authorized representatives of the local water and sanitary
sewer, electric, gas, telephone, and cable utilities certifying that their
systems’ needs have been met; this requirement may be waived for subdivision
when the Board determines that the requirements of such utilities are found to
be unreasonable or not in the public interest.
            4. Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District certifying that their
irrigation requirements have been met.
         (e)   Supplementary Material. The following supplementary reports
shall be submitted with the final plat, as required by the Planning and Zoning
Commission or the Board.
            1. Storm Drainage Management. The subdivider shall furnish a plan
for the collection of storm water from the subdivision in accordance with §
4.3.1 et seq., Stormwater Management.
            2. Soils Analysis. The subdivider shall provide a soils analysis by
a qualified soil scientist to determine the adequacy of the soil for the
proposed construction.
            3. Special Problems Analysis. For land with difficult topography or
other geographic hazards to life, health or property, a report and proposed
solution shall be prepared satisfactory to the Board.
            4. Improvement Plan. The subdivider shall provide a detailed plan
with specifications for all improvements required to be installed. These
include road and street construction and surfacing, fences, utilities (water,
gas, electric, sewage), and fire hydrants. Responsibility for maintenance to be
indicated when applicable. The plan shall include a schedule for lot
development, which shall indicate when improvements will be provided.
            5. Any other relevant information as determined by the Commission
or the Board.
§ 9.1.9 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
   (A)   SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS AGREEMENT. Upon approval of plans and
specifications by the Village, the subdivider shall execute a subdivision
improvements agreement which guarantees completion of required improvements.
The format of such agreement shall be set forth by the Village Attorney. After
execution of a satisfactory improvements agreement, the subdivider may proceed
with the construction of all such improvements.
   (B)   INSTALLATION ASSURANCE. In the subdivision improvements agreement, the
subdivider shall post a suitable improvements guarantee to accompany the
subdivision improvements agreement in the amount of 125% of the cost estimated
by a Licensed Professional Engineer with concurrence of the Village. The
guarantee shall be at the discretion of the Commission or the Board. The
improvements are essential to the delivery of Village services and utilities to
the individual lots of the subdivision. Such guarantee may be by bond, letter
of credit, escrow deposit, or other method acceptable to the Commission or
Board. The Village may, at its option, assess all or a portion of the property
in the subdivision for the cost of any outstanding obligations incurred under a
Subdivision Improvements Agreement and may record and foreclose against the
property a municipal lien in accordance with §3-36-1, et seq., NMSA 1978 or its
successor municipal lien statutes.
   (C)   COMPLETION. All improvements shall be certified by Licensed
Professional Engineer and completed to the satisfaction of the Village
Designated Engineer.
§ 9.1.10 DESIGN STANDARDS
   (A)   ACCESS: STREET LOCATION AND ARRANGEMENTS. The area proposed to be
subdivided shall have frontage on and direct access to a street and, if such
street is not improved to the satisfaction of the Commission or the Board, it
shall be so improved. Streets shall be suitably located, of sufficient width,
and adequately improved to accommodate the prospective traffic, and to afford
satisfactory access to police, fire fighting and other emergency vehicles, and
road maintenance equipment, and shall be coordinated so as to compose a
convenient system.
      (1)   Basic Policies.
         (a)   Character. The character, extent, width and location of all
streets shall conform to the policies of the Village and shall be consistent
and appropriate in their relationship to existing and planned streets,
topographic conditions, public convenience, safety and the proposed uses of the
land to be served by such streets.
         (b)   Continuation. The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions
shall make provisions for the direct continuation of the existing principal
street in adjoining subdivision (or their proper projection where adjoining
property is not subdivided) insofar as they may be necessary for public
requirements. In general, such streets shall be a width at least as great as
the existing streets. The street and alley arrangement must also be such as to
provide opportunity for access and use by adjoining property owners.
         (c)   Provision for Future Resubdivision. Where a tract is subdivided
into lots substantially larger than the minimum size required in the zone in
which a subdivision is located, the Commission or the Board may require that
streets and lots be laid out so as to permit future subdivision in accordance
with the requirements contained in this Section.
      (2)   Engineering Criteria. Detailed intersection spacing and geometry,
horizontal alignment for streets, block corner property line configuration, and
cul-de-sac configuration must meet acceptable engineering standards.
         (a)   Cul de Sacs/Dead Ends. Wherever a street is stub-ended so that
it will not at that end open into another street, an adequate turn around with
a minimum radius of forty (40) feet, either circular or Y-shaped, shall be
provided, or an alternate configuration in accordance with accepted engineering
practice, and with the concurrence of the Fire Chief.
         (b)   Turning Radii. All curb corners shall have radii of not less
than twelve (12) feet and at important corners not less than twenty-four (24)
feet or in accordance with accepted engineering practice.
         (c)   Corners. At important intersections and at all acute corners the
property corner shall be rounded.
         (d)   Surfacing. Whenever streets or alleys are paved or surfaced,
such paving or surfacing shall be of a type and strength suitable for the
volume and character of traffic to be expected. Type and width of surfacing
required on both public and private streets will be determined by the Board
based on engineering recommendation.
      (3)   Private Way Standards. Private ways to provide access to
subdivision lots may be created where private streets can adequately serve all
identified transportation, utility, and storm water handling requirements.
Private streets shall be subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Private streets may be platted only where the Commission or the
Board determines that they will always clearly function as local streets.
         (b)   A private street may be narrower than a public street to the
extent appropriate to its function. However, a private road which provides
access to the main body of two (2) to eight (8) lots that do not abut a public
right-of-way, may not be narrower than twenty-five (25) feet. A private street
serving only one lot may not be narrower than twenty (20) feet. Private streets
serving more than eight (8) lots shall meet the same standards as for public
rights-of-way. Private streets shall provide an unobstructed vertical clearance
of at least thirteen (13) feet, six (6) inches.
         (c)   If a proposed private street is planned to serve a lot, it shall
be shown on the plat creating or modifying the lot.
         (d)   The Commission or the Board may require private streets to
include public or private utility easements, including easements for storm
water drainage.
         (e)   If a private street is approved, it shall be clearly identified
as such on the final plat and the responsibility for operation and maintenance
shall be indicated on the plat. Private streets must be sufficiently maintained
to allow access by emergency vehicles. A legal instrument intended to assure
future operation and maintenance of such private street, such as an instrument
creating a homeowner’s association, shall be included in the subdivider’s
submittals to the Commission and to the Board as required in this Article under
Final Plats and shall be referenced on the plat.
      (4)   Public Right-of-Way Standards.
         (a)   Street Right-of-Way and Pavement Width. The minimum right-of-way
for any street shall be forty (40) feet and the minimum paving width shall be
twenty-four (24) feet. Public streets shall provide a minimum vertical
clearance of at least thirteen (13) feet, six (6) inches.
         (b)   Alleys. Right-of-way width shall be sixteen (16) feet.
         (c)   Walkways, Bike Paths, Equestrian Paths, and Water Courses. The
minimum right-of-way of ten (10) feet and a minimum surface width, if any, of
ten (10) feet.
   (B)   WATER AND LIQUID WASTE DISPOSAL SERVICE. The subdivider shall present
evidence that adequate provisions have been made for potable water and liquid
waste service to each lot within the proposed subdivision or replat. Any
development or redevelopment in the Village Center, Gateway or Commercial Zones
of the Village shall be required to connect to the public sanitary sewer.
   (C)   DRAINAGE. Storm sewer systems and other drainage and flood control
improvements shall conform to acceptable engineering standards and the
requirements of the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy.
   (D)   EROSION. No subdivider shall remove or permit to be removed the
existing ground cover in the subdivision without making provisions to prevent
wind and/or water erosion and resultant damage to adjacent properties. In
addition, subdividers may be required to provide restrictive covenants which
shall prohibit unnecessary removal of ground cover.
   (E)   EASEMENTS. Easements of at least ten (10) feet in width shall be
provided and dedicated on each side of all rear and side lot lines where
necessary for poles, wires, conduits, storm, sanitary sewer, gas, water and
other mains. An adequate easement shall be dedicated along all important water
courses for the purpose of widening, deepening, sloping, improving, or
protecting the channel for drainage purposes.
   (F)   LOTS. The lot arrangement and design shall be such that all lots will
provide satisfactory and desirable building sites properly related to
topography and the character of adjacent development.
   (G)   PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES. Where a proposed park, playground,
school or other public use shown in the master plan is located in whole or in
part in a subdivision, the Commission or the Board may require the dedication
or reservation of such area within the subdivision in those cases in which the
Commission or the Board deems such requirements to be reasonable.
   (H)   FIRE HYDRANTS. Adequate fire protection shall be required for all
subdivision and replats. The number and placement of fire hydrants required
shall be as regulated by the International Fire Code and International Fire
Code Standards as adopted and amended by the Village. The Fire Chief or
Designee shall approve all hydrant locations and may impose more stringent
requirements than those of this Article if necessary in order to provide
adequate fire protection to the subdivision.
§ 9.1.11 MODIFICATION AND EXCEPTIONS
Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or shape and/or
surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the strict
application of the infrastructure requirements of this Article would result in
real difficulties and substantial hardships, the Commission or the Board may
waive, vary or modify those requirements, so that the subdivider is allowed to
develop the property in a reasonable manner, but at the same time so that the
public welfare and interests are preserved. However, such relief may not be
granted if it is detrimental to the public good or impairs the intent and
purpose of this Article or the desirable development of the community in
accordance with the plans and policies of the Commission. Any modification
granted shall be entered in the records of the Commission setting forth the
reasons which justified the modification. Further, in granting the
modifications and exception, the Commission or the Board may place conditions
which will, in its judgment, substantially secure the objectives of the
standards or requirements involved.
§ 9.1.12 VACATION
Public rights of way may be vacated (voided) by recording a new subdivision
plat as described by §
9.1.8 and §
9.1.9 of this Article. Such a request may be initiated by a request to vacate
filed by all the owners of property directly affected by the proposed vacation
or filed by the Village where it is found to be in the public interest. A
request to vacate shall be processed under the procedures relating to major
subdivision applications in this Article.
§ 9.1.13 CONSTRUCTION VIOLATIONS
Construction which violates any provision of this Article is strictly
prohibited and no building permit shall be authorized, except in those cases
where modifications or exceptions have been granted through the variance
procedure by the Commission prior to start of construction. Violations without
authorization by the Commission shall be cause for legal action by the Village
to have the construction violation stopped, corrected and/or removed and a
penalty assessed.
§ 9.1.14 FEES
Fees will be established by resolution of the Board and will be subject to
annual review and update.
§ 9.1.15 PENALTIES
Any owner, or agent of the owner, of any land located within the platting
jurisdiction of the Village who transfers, sells, agrees to sell, or negotiates
to sell the land by reference to or exhibition of or by other use of a plat or
subdivision of the land before the plat has been approved as provided in this
Article and recorded in the office of the Bernalillo County Clerk, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Upon conviction, the owner or his agent shall pay a
penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each lot transferred or sold, or
agreed or negotiated to be sold. The description by metes and bounds in the
instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or
transferring shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties. The Village,
through its Attorney, may enjoin the transfer or sale or agreement by action
for injunction or may recover the penalty by civil action.
§ 9.1.16 AMENDMENT PROCEDURE
The Board may, from time to time, amend or modify this Article after public
hearing, due notice of which shall be given as required by law.
§ 9.1.17 PUBLIC RECORDS
The Village Clerk shall keep public records of findings, decisions, and
recommendations concerning all subdivision plats filed for review, including
such actions as may be taken by the Commission and Board through appeals or
amendments to this Article.
§ 9.1.18 SEVERABILITY OF PROVISIONS
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Article is for
any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Article, it being the
intent of the Board to enact each section, subsection, sentence, clause or
phrase of this Article separately and independently of each other section,
subsection, sentence, clause or phrase.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 9, Article 1 (f/k/a Chpt
26):
Ordinance #32, October 4, 1974;
Ordinance #65, January 8, 1986, repealing Ordinance #32.
Section 14 (Fees) set by Resolution #86-1-1, January 8, 1986. Repealed.
Ordinance #79, January 11, 1989;
Ordinance #111, October 13, 1993, amending Ordinance #65 and repealing
Resolution 86-1-1.
Ordinance #113, January 12, 1994, revising subdivision regulations of Ordinance
#65
Ordinance #124, November 9, 1994, revising subdivision regulations of Ordinance
#65
Ordinance #133, October 11, 1995, repealing Ordinance #79
Ordinance #134, enacted Feb. 14, 1996, codified the above-listed Ordinances,
with modifications;
Ordinance #170, July 10, 2002, amending Codified Ordinances #134, Chapter 26
Ordinance #182, October 22, 2003, amending Ordinance #170
Ordinance # 239 September 11, 2013, Adopting the numbering system for the 2013
Codified Ordinances of the Village of Los Ranchos
Ordinance # 240 October 9, 2013, Adopting the technical corrections of the 2013
Codified Ordinances of the Village of Los Ranchos
Ordinance # 242, January 8, 2014, amending definition of subdivision
Subdivision regulations § 3-19-6 NMSA 1978;
Ordinance #257, August 9, 2017, addition of Alternate Summary Procedure to §
9.1.7
Planning & Platting §§ 3-19-1 through 3-19-12 NMSA 1978;
Subdivisions § 3-20-1, et seq., NMSA 1978;
Planning & Platting Jurisdiction §§ 3-19-5 and 3-20-5 NMSA 1978;
Zoning § 3-21-1 et. seq., NMSA1978;
Municipal Lien § 3-36-1, et seq., NMSA 1978.
ARTICLE 2.
ZONING AND ZONE MAP
SECTION 1. General Provisions
SECTION 2. Planning and Zoning Commission
SECTION 3. Definitions
SECTION 4. General Regulations
SECTION 5. Establishment and Interpretation of Zones and Character Areas
SECTION 6. Transfer of Development Rights Regulations
SECTION 7. Agricultural/Residential Zone (A-1)
SECTION 8. Agricultural/Residential Zone (A-2)
SECTION 9. Agricultural/Residential Zone (A-3)
SECTION 10. Residential Zone (R-2)
SECTION 11. Residential Zone (R-3)
SECTION 12. Commercial Retail Zone (C-1)
SECTION 13. Gateway District Zone (GD)
SECTION 14. Village Center Zone (V-C)
SECTION 15. Agricultural-Commercial Zone (A-C)
SECTION 16. Special Use Zone
SECTION 17. Special Use Permit (SUP)
SECTION 18. Off-street Parking Regulations
SECTION 19. Landscaping Regulations
SECTION 20. Dark Skies Regulations
SECTION 21. Design Regulations
SECTION 22. Signs
SECTION 23. Non-conforming Uses and Structures
SECTION 24. Implementation, Enforcement and Penalties
SECTION 25. Application and Approval Process
SECTION 26. Fees
SECTION 27. Conservation Development Standards Permit (CDP)
§ 9.2.1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
   (A)   TITLE. This Article and all amendments thereto shall be known as the
“Comprehensive Zoning Code.”
   (B)   JURISDICTION. This Article governs all property located within the
zoning jurisdiction of the Village.
   (C)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. It is the purpose of this Article to require
development and redevelopment of land in the Village in a manner that retains
and enhances the economic, historical, architectural, educational, civic,
social, cultural, and aesthetic values, and the overall quality of life within
the community. The intent is to implement the goals and objectives of the
adopted Master Plan.
   (D)   STANDARDS. The purposes listed in paragraph (C), along with goals and
policies of the Master Plan in effect at the time, and the applicable criteria
for specific land uses, shall be the standards that the Board or Commission
will apply when making zoning determinations. In accordance with the public
health, safety, and general welfare, these regulations are intended to protect
the unique character of the Village by:
      (1)   The maintenance and encouragement of a diversified and balanced
land use pattern including adequate levels of community retail services and
multi-family residential development opportunities within the commercial areas,
single-family residential use, and special light manufacturing uses.
      (2)   The protection and enhancement of scenic vistas of the Sandia
Mountains.
      (3)   The encouragement of pedestrian building scale and facades in new
commercial developments.
      (4)   The provision of plazas, courtyards, malls, and other public
amenities which serve to enhance the pedestrian environment along Fourth
Street.
      (5)   The beautification of the streetscape through appropriate
landscaping, street furniture, and sidewalk surface treatment.
      (6)   The protection of architecturally, historically, and culturally
significant structures.
      (7)   The preservation of traditionally diverse and harmonious
architectural styles and design preferences reflecting the community’s history,
and to encourage complementary design and construction.
      (8)   These regulations are intended to improve retail, cultural and
residential uses and the provision of off-street parking standards.
   (E)   AUTHORITY. The Director of Planning and Zoning or designee is hereby
given the authority to interpret and implement the Comprehensive Zoning Code
for the Village.
   (F)   SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause,
phrase, or part of this Article is for any reason declared unconstitutional or
invalid, the validity of the remaining portions hereof shall not be affected
since it is the expressed intent of the Board to pass each section, subsection,
paragraph, clause, phrase and every part thereof separately and independently
of every other part.
   (G)   COMPILING CLAUSE. This Article shall be incorporated in and complied
as a part of the Municipal Code of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, New Mexico.
   (H)   EFFECTIVE DATE, REPEAL, AND PUBLICATION. This Article shall take
effect and be in full force five days after adoption.
§ 9.2.2 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
There is hereby created the Village of Los Ranchos Planning and Zoning
Commission (hereinafter referred to as the Commission), which will carry out
the requirements of Chapter 9 as specified therein and related provisions of
the Code and Articles 19, 20 and 21 of Chapter 3 of NMSA 1978.
   (A)   MEMBERSHIP. The Commission shall consist of seven (7) members who
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the members of
the Governing Body. To the extent practicable, the Commission should reflect
and support the diversity of the Village and the unique land uses within the
Village. The members shall serve a term of one year and be reappointed for more
years by the Mayor with approval of the Board of Trustees. Members shall reside
within the Village limits. No member shall be appointed to a term that will
extend their tenure beyond five (5) full years. A member who is absent from two
consecutive regularly scheduled Commission meetings without being excused in
advance by the Chair, or for any conduct unbecoming of a Commissioner is
subject to removal from the Commission by the Mayor.
   (B)   VACANCY. A vacancy in the membership of this Commission shall be
filled by appointment by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Governing
Body. The appointed members shall serve out the unexpired term of the persons
replaced.
   (C)   CHAIRMAN, REGULAR MEETINGS, RECORDS. The Commission shall:
      (1)   elect one (1) of its members to be chair for a one-year term;
      (2)   create and fill other offices, to include a vice-chair and a
secretary;
      (3)   hold at least one (1) regular meeting each month unless there are
no pending applications or business to be heard;
      (4)   adopt rules for the transaction of business, which will include, as
a minimum, those rules established below; and
      (5)   keep a public record of its transactions, findings, resolutions,
and determinations.
   (D)   AUTHORITY DELEGATED. The Commission shall have the authority to:
      (1)   Oversee the periodic review and updating of the Master Plan.
      (2)   Conduct hearings and make decisions on all permit applications
provided for under the Zoning Code with the exception of those matters reserved
by the code for decision by the Board of Trustees or to the Director of
Planning and Zoning; and
      (3)   On matters reserved for the Board of Trustees, the Commission shall
hold hearings and make recommendations to the Board of Trustees. The Board
specifically reserves final action on applications for major subdivision
approval, zoning map and code changes and site development plans.
   (E)   RULES AND PROCEDURES. The Commission shall adopt the rules below and
whatever other rules are necessary to govern the Commission process.
      (1)   Duties of the Chair include presiding at all meetings of the
Commission; calling special meetings as necessary; in coordination with the
Planning Director, reviewing agenda for all meetings; assuring that all
applications are acted upon by the Commission in accordance with the Village
Code, and other relevant laws and regulations, signing official documents; and
all other duties as may be established by law.
      (2)   Duties of the Vice-Chair include all the duties of the Chair, in
the absence of the Chair.
      (3)   Duties of the Secretary shall include: presiding or performing all
the duties of the Chair during the absence, disability or disqualification of
the Chair and Vice-Chair; keeping copies of and signing official documents and
the minutes of all meetings, and preparing or informing the Commission of all
correspondence relating to the business of the Commission.
      (4)   Regular meetings shall be held monthly unless there are no
applications to be heard or other business to conduct. Special meetings may be
called by the Chair or by a majority of Commissioners for a time and date
certain at a location fully accessible to the public in the Village of Los
Ranchos. Public notices of regular and special meetings shall specify the date,
time, location and subject matter of the meeting. Notice shall be in accordance
with the Open Meetings Act of the New Mexico Statutes and such Open Meetings
Resolutions adopted by the Village of Los Ranchos Governing Body and the
Commission.
      (5)   A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a
quorum for transaction of business.
      (6)   All persons (other than NM –licensed attorneys appearing on behalf
of a client) giving testimony before the Commission shall be sworn in under
oath before proceeding and shall be obligated thereby to testify in a truthful
manner.
      (7)   Roberts Rules of Order will be used for meetings procedure of the
Commission.
      (8)   Decisions by the Commission shall be made on motion by a
Commissioner, duly seconded. Approval of a motion shall occur on the
affirmative verbal vote of a majority of Commissioners present. If the decision
is unanimous, the Chair shall state so for the record. In event of a divided
vote, the Chair will announce, and the minutes shall reflect, those
Commissioners voting for, voting against and those abstaining. Commissioner
shall abstain from voting only when the commissioner has a conflict of
interest, as set forth in §§ 3-10-4, 3-10-5 and 3-10-7 NMSA 1978.
      (9)   It will be the responsibility of the applicants to present all
relevant written information in accordance with ordinances and present all
relevant testimony prior to decisions by the Commission. Applicants must make
timely presentation of written materials to the planning and zoning staff.
Applicants will not be allowed to provide materials directly to Commissioners,
nor to supplement or add new documents after the Commission’s action. All
testimony, information and documents submitted to the Commission prior to its
decision, and the minutes of the meeting and the transcript of the meeting will
constitute the record in the event of an appeal.
      (10)   Following receipt of testimony, the Commission has the right to
keep the record open for a period not to exceed the time until the next
scheduled meeting, and reserves the right to postpone vote and decision making
to a subsequent meeting, providing the Village Code or laws do not require that
a decision be made within a specified shorter time.
      (11)   It will be the responsibility of Village Staff to distribute, in a
designated place at the Village Hall, all written material needed for
preparation for decision making by the Commission at least ten calendar days
prior to regular or special meetings.
      (12)   When an item has been placed on the agenda, it becomes a matter
under jurisdiction of the Commission, and subject to legal restraints on ex
parte communications. If a Commissioner believes they have been contacted ex
parte on a pending matter, it is their obligation to inform the other members
of the Commission prior to the matter’s consideration. If the contact was made
in writing, the Commissioner shall submit it and it will become part of the
record.
      (13)   Applications presented to the Commission for decision may present
the potential for conflicts of interest for individual Commissioners. A
conflict could exist if a decision conferred a financial or personal benefit to
a member of the Commission or benefit to someone with whom the Commissioner has
a business or kinship relationship. It is the obligation of each Commissioner
to declare for the record any instance where a conflict of interest or the
appearance of a conflict of interest might exist with regard to matters pending
before the Commission. Such Commissioner must then withdraw from further
deliberations, including participation in discussion, and any decision making.
   (E)   INTERPRETATION. The Planning Director or designee is hereby given the
authority to interpret and implement the Zoning Code for the Village.
   (G)   ACTION MATRIX.
ACTION MATRIX   STAFF COMMISSION BOARD
(Code citation)
ACTION MATRIX                                        STAFF    COMMISSION BOARD
(Code citation)
R= Recommendation F= Final
Amendment to Conditions of Approval Sec.             Director
9.2.25(D)(1)
Conservation Development
(See Site Development Plans and Subdivision - Major)
Conservation Development - Deviations Sec.                               F
9.2.27(N)(3)
Conditional Use Sec.                                 Director
9.2.25(D)(2)
Conditional Use – adverse comments Sec.                     F
9.2.25(E)(2)
Sign Permit Sec.                                     Director
9.2.22(D)
Site Development Plans – Sketch Plat Sec.                   No action
9.2.25(E)(4)(c)(1)
Site Development Plans – Preliminary Sec.                   R
9.2.25(E)(4)(c)(2)
Site Development Plans – Final Sec.                                    F
9.2.25(E)(4)(c)(6)
Special Use Permit Sec.
9.2.17 and Sec.                                               R          F
9.2.25(E)(5)
Subdivision – Minor Sec.                           Director
9.1.7(B)
Subdivision - Major Sketch Plat Sec.                          No action
9.1.7(C)(2)
Subdivision - Major Preliminary Plat Sec.                     R          F
9.1.7(C)(3)
Subdivision – Major Final Plat Sec.                         F          F**
9.1.8.(A)(4)
**Final approval may come back to BOT if requested
Variance Sec.                                                 F
9.2.15(E)(7)
Village Center Project Area Economic Plan/Site
Development Plan Sec.                                         R          F
9.2.14(C),
9.2.25(E)(4)
VC Final Development Plan Sec.                                           F
9.2.14(C)(1)(b)(3)
VC Economic/Site Development Plan Amendment Sec.              R          F
9.2.14(C)(1)(b)(4)
Zone Changes and Zone Map Amendment Sec.                      R          F
9.2.25(E)(8)
Bed and Breakfast Permits Sec.                                F
9.2.25(E)(1)
Business Registrations – new Sec                   Director
3.1.2.
Business Registrations – renewal Sec.              Staff
3.1.3
Home Occupation – License Sec.                     Director
9.2.25(D)(4)(a)
Home Occupation – Renewal Sec.                     Director
9.2.25(D)(4)(d)
Home Occupation Adverse Comment/Revocation Sec.               F
9.2.25(E)(3)
Zone Review for Building Permits Sec.                Staff
9.5.1**
Reconstruction/Temporary Permits Sec.                Director
9.2.25(D)(7)&(10)
Sidewalk Café Sec.                                  Director
9.2.25(D)(9)
Tract Real Estate Office Permits Sec.                Director
9.2.25(D)(11)
**   The Uniform Building Code establishes a building department for the
Village. Because the Village has a joint powers agreement with Bernalillo
County for building permits and inspections, the Village only does a Zone
Review for building permits.
   All Ordinances may be viewed at Village Hall, Planning and Zoning, or
www.losranchosnm.gov.
 
§ 9.2.3 DEFINITIONS
   (A)   GENERAL TERMS.
      (1)   The word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, or corporation, as well as an individual.
      (2)   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular.
      (3)   The words “shall” and “must” are always mandatory and not merely
directory. The word “may” is permissive.
      (4)   All references to “he” or “she” herein are deemed to be gender-
neutral, unless specifically indicated otherwise.
      (5)   The definitions in this Section shall supersede any dictionary
definition; however, when not defined Merriam/Webster’s Dictionary shall be
used.
   (B)   SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS.
ABANDONMENT means ceasing or discontinuing a land activity for a period of one
hundred eighty (180) days, but excluding temporary or short-term interruptions
to a land use activity during periods of remodeling, maintaining, or otherwise
improving or rearranging a facility, or during normal periods of vacation or
seasonal closure.
ABUT means touching and/or separated by nothing more than a ditch, canal, or
right-of-way.
ABUTTING means touching and/or separated by nothing more than a ditch, canal or
right-of-way.
ACCESS means a legal vehicular entry-way to a piece of property.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE means a secondary structure incidental to and on the same
lot as the principal structure and is compatible with the permitted use of the
main structure under zoning regulations applicable to the property. An
accessory structure is not considered a dwelling unit and cannot be used for
lodging or dwelling.
ACCESSORY USE (See also HOME OCCUPATION) means a use incidental to, and on the
same lot as, a principal use. A use that is: a) clearly incidental to and
customarily found in connection with a principal use; b) is subordinate to and
serves a principal use; c) is subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the
principal use served; d) contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity
of occupants, business, or industry in the principal use served; e) is located
on the same lot as the principal use served; and, f) the combination of the
accessory uses shall not exceed the principal use in scale or activity.
ACEQUIA (Spanish) means a man-made conveyance for water, part of the Middle Rio
Grande Conservancy District irrigation system.
ADDITION means an extension or increase in floor area or height of a building
or structure attached to at least twenty percent (20%) of a common wall of the
existing portion of that building or structure.
ADJACENT means property contiguous to one another.
ADJACENT PROPERTY means the lots or tracts that are located within three
hundred (300) feet of the boundaries of the lot or tract of land under
consideration.
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW means any decisions made by Village staff.
AGRICULTURE means the use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming,
dairying, pasturage agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, and
animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary accessory uses for packing,
treating, or storing the materials to produce; provided, however, that the
operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of normal
agricultural activities.
AGRICULTURAL BUILDING means a structure on agricultural land designed,
constructed, and used to house farm implements, livestock, or agricultural
produce or products used by the owner, lessee, or sub-lessee or their immediate
families, their employees, and persons engaged in the pick-up or delivery of
agricultural produce or products grown or raised on the premises. The term
“agricultural buildings” shall not include dwellings. An agricultural building
shall not be used for human habitation.
ALLEY means a public way permanently reserved as a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
ALTERATION means any change, addition, or modification of use or occupancy of
an existing structure.
ALTERATION, STRUCTURAL means any change in the supporting members of a building
or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders; provided,
however, that the application of any exterior siding material to an existing
building for the purpose of beautifying and modernizing shall not be considered
a structural alteration.
AMUSEMENT ARCADE means a building or part of a building in which five (5) or
more pinball machines, video games, or other similar player-operated amusement
devices are maintained.
ANCILLARY KITCHEN FOR IN-HOME CARE GIVER means the addition of kitchen
appliances or facilities normally used for food preparation that are not
otherwise allowed by the existing zoning in an existing Dwelling, Single
Family, for the purpose of use by the In-Home Care Giver.
ANIMAL means any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom other than humans.
ANIMAL, DOMESTIC means an animal that is customarily kept for the use or
enjoyment within or around the home that is tame or domesticated and not
normally found in the wild state. A tame animal that is subject to the dominion
and control by an owner and accustomed to living in or near human habitation
without requiring extraordinary restraint or unreasonably disturbing such human
habitation.
ANTENNA means equipment designed to transmit or receive electronic signals
through the air.
APPLICATION means all the documents required for a permit or land use approval.
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE means part, portion, or projection adding to the beauty
or elegance of a building, exclusive of signs, not necessary for the structural
integrity or habitability of the building.
AUTOMATIC TIMING DEVICE means a device, which automatically turns on and off
outdoor light fixtures or circuits. Photo-controls are not considered automatic
timing devices.
AUTOMOBILE means every vehicle, except motorcycles, designed for carrying ten
(10) passengers or less and used for the transportation of persons.
AUTOMOBILE PARTS/SUPPLY RETAIL means the use of any land area for the display
and sale of new or used parts for automobiles, panel trucks or vans, trailers,
or recreation vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR SERVICES or AUTOMOBILE REPAIR SHOP means any building,
structure, improvements, or land used for the repair and maintenance of
automobiles, motorcycles, trucks, trailers, or similar vehicles including but
not limited to body, fender, muffler or upholstery work, oil change and
lubrication, painting, tire service and sales, or installation of CB radios,
car alarms, stereo equipment or cellular telephones.
AUTOMOBILE SALES means storage and display for sale of more than two (2) motor
vehicles or any type of trailer provided the trailer is unoccupied, and where
repair or body work is incidental to the operation of the new or used vehicle
sales. Motor vehicle sales include motor vehicle retail or wholesale sales.
AUTOMOBILE SALES LOT means any premises on which new or used passenger
automobiles, trailers, mobile homes or trucks in operating condition are
displayed in the open for sale or trade.
BANQUET HALL (FACILITY) means a facility or hall available for lease by private
parties. An establishment which is rented by individuals or groups to
accommodate private functions including, but not limited to banquets, weddings,
anniversaries and other similar celebrations, outdoor gardens or reception
facilities.
BAR OR LOUNGE means an establishment or part of an establishment used for the
selling, serving, or dispensing and drinking of malt, vinous, or other
alcoholic beverages, where alcoholic beverages are obtainable within or
thereon, and where such beverages are consumed on the premises.
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT means a type of short-term rental with the
operator present on site, where the dwelling unit(s) contains at least one (1)
but not more than four (4) guestrooms where lodging is provided, with or
without meals, for compensation, in a residential zone; or, a type of short-
term rental with the operator present on site, where the dwelling unit(s)
contains not more than eight (8) guest bedrooms in the Agricultural Commercial
zone, where lodging is provided, with or without meals, for compensation. Such
establishment shall not permit unauthorized guests.
BED AND BREAKFAST OPERATOR means the natural person or persons who own and
operate a bed and breakfast establishment within the Village, live on site, and
is authorized to respond to any violation of the bed and breakfast permit or
Village ordinances and take remedial action. The operator may be the property
owner or otherwise authorized resident of the property. A Bed and Breakfast
Operator may only operate a single Bed and Breakfast Establishment.
BEDROOM means any room used principally for sleeping purposes, an all-purpose
room, a study, or a den, provided that no room having less than one hundred
(100) square feet of floor area be so designated, and is separable from other
rooms by a door.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES (BOARD) means the governing body of the Village of Los
Ranchos de Albuquerque.
BREWPUB means a commercial business, which conducts the retail sale of beer
(malt beverages with alcohol content as defined by federal law), which is
brewed on the premises in compliance with applicable state and federal laws.
Such establishments may also include restaurants as an accessory use.
BUFFER means an area of land separating two distinct land uses that acts to
soften or mitigate the effects of one land use on the other.
BUFFER, LANDSCAPING means an area of landscaping separating two distinct land
uses, or a land use and a public right-of-way, and acts to soften or mitigate
the effects of one land use on the other.
BUILD means construct, assemble, erect, convert, enlarge, reconstruct, or
structurally alter a building or structure.
BUILD TO LINE means a line drawn on a subdivision plat, a site development
plan, or a plot plan, indicating a plane up to which structures must be
constructed when such lines are approved by the Board if different from
setbacks established in this Chapter.
BUILDABLE AREA means the portion of a lot upon which structures may be placed
in accordance with the Floor Area Ratio (FAR), where such FAR has been imposed
upon that zone; or the portion of a lot remaining after required setbacks have
been provided.
BUILDING means a structure completely enclosed within exterior walls, built,
erected and framed of a combination of materials, whether portable or fixed,
having a roof, to form a structure for the shelter of persons, animals or
property.
BUILDING HEIGHT (see Height).
BUILDING MASS means structures that comprise the principal part of the
development.
BUILDINGS, SINGLE STORY means a building (residential home, second dwelling,
commercial, apartment, agricultural building, garage, accessory building) which
contains all of its enclosed space on a single, at grade, floor; limited to
seventeen (17) feet in height.
BUILDINGS, TRI-LEVEL means a building (residential home, second dwelling,
commercial, apartment, agricultural building, garage, accessory building),
which contains three different floor heights with one of the floors built below
grade, one at grade and a third above grade.
BUILDINGS, TWO STORY means a building (residential home, second dwelling,
commercial, apartment, agricultural building, garage, accessory building),
which contains enclosed space on two floors, one at grade and the second floor
located above the ceiling of the first floor. For Floor Area Ratio calculation,
any portion of a building over seventeen feet in height constitutes a second
story.
BULK means the size of buildings or structures, and their relationships to each
other and to open areas and lot lines, and therefore includes: (1) the size of
a building or structure; (2) the area of the lot upon which a building or
structure is located, and the number of dwelling units within such building or
structure in relation to the area of the lot; (3) the shape of a building or
structure; (4) the location of exterior walls of a building or structure in
relation to lot lines, to other walls of the same building or structure, to
legally required windows, or to other buildings or structures; and (5) all open
areas relating to a building or structure and their relationship thereto.
BULK MATERIALS means uncontained solid matter such as powder, grain, stone,
sand, etc.
CANNABIS shall have the same definition as set forth in § (2)(B) of the
Cannabis Regulation Act.
CANNABIS CONSUMPTION AREA  shall have the same definition as set forth in § (2)
(C) of the Cannabis Regulation Act.
CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT shall have the same definition as set forth in §(2)(E)
of the Cannabis Regulation Act.
CANNABIS PRODUCT shall have the same definition as set forth in Section (2)(K)
of the Cannabis Regulation Act.
CANNABIS REGULATION ACT  means §§ 26-2C-l through 26-2C-42, NMSA 1978. as
amended and supplemented.
CAR WASH means an area of land and/or a structure with machine- or hand-
operated facilities used primarily for cleaning, washing, polishing, or waxing
of motor vehicles. A building or area that provides facilities for washing and
cleaning motor vehicles, which shall use production line methods with a
conveyor, blower, or other mechanical devices, and which shall employ some hand
labor; provided, however, that occasional fund raising activities by charitable
organizations shall not be considered to be “car washes.”
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE means a document issued by the Planning Director or
Building Official setting forth that a non-residential building, structure, or
site complies with the provisions required by this Article and therefore may be
used or occupied for the purposes stated on the permit. Such a certificate is
issued for non-residential construction or when a change in commercial use
would require alterations or additions to the site or existing structures.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY means a document issued by the proper authority
(building inspector) allowing the occupancy or use of a building and certifying
that the structure or use has been constructed or will be used in compliance
with all the applicable municipal codes, ordinances and regulations.
CHARACTER AREA means a distinct section or neighborhood identified by unique
characteristics such as lot patterns, density, prevalent uses, street character
or historic structures. Nine distinct character areas have been defined in the
2020 Village Master Plan.
CHILD CARE means provision of care for children under the age of seventeen (17)
distinguished among types of child care establishments, either family child
care or group child care for a period of time less than twenty-four (24) hours.
CHILD CARE CENTER, GROUP, CLASS A means a building, structure, or facility
where care, protection, and supervision are provided to children under the age
of seventeen (17) on a regular schedule, for a fee for a period of time less
than twenty-four (24) hours.
CHILD CARE HOME, FAMILY means a private residence where care, protection, and
supervision are provided, for a fee, at least twice a week to no more than six
(6) children under the age of seventeen (17) at one time, including children of
the adult provider.
CHURCH means a building for public or private worship. (see MEGACHURCH)
CIDERY means the making of hard (alcohol content) cider from fruits such as
apples, pears, peaches, plums in compliance with applicable state and federal
laws.
CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE means an area of unobstructed vision at street
intersections and driveways between three (3) and eight (8) feet above the
roadway level and within a triangular area bounded by the street property lines
of the corner lot, and a line connecting points twenty-five (25) feet distant
from the intersection of the property lines of such lot.
CLINIC means a building designed and used by health care providers for the
diagnosis and treatment of human patients that does not include overnight care
facilities.
CLUB means an organization of persons for special purposes or for the
promulgation of sports, arts, literature, politics, or the like, but not
operated for profit, excluding churches, synagogues, or other houses of
worship.
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER is the officer and other designated authority charged
with the enforcement of this Article. A code enforcement official shall be a
Village employee, contractor or agent, authorized by the Mayor.
COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY  shall have the same definition as set forth in §
(2)(R) of the Cannabis Regulation Act.
COMMERCIAL USE means an occupation, employment, or enterprise that is conducted
by the owner, lessee, or licensee. The purchase, sale, or transaction involving
the disposition of any article, substance, commodity, or service; the
maintenance or conduct of offices, professions, or recreational or amusement
enterprises including renting of rooms, business offices, and sales display
rooms and premises.
COMMISSION means the Planning and Zoning Commission of the Village of Los
Ranchos.
COMMUNITY CENTER means a place, structure, area, or other facility used for and
providing religious, fraternal, social, and/or recreational programs generally
open to the public and designed to accommodate and serve significant segments
of the community.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT means a land use specifically identified in this Article
as being acceptable in a given zone at a place approved for this use under
conditions and limitations approved by the Director, Commission or Board and
upon the issuance of a Conditional Use Permit by the appropriate authority.
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL means restrictions attached to a specific use by the
Board or Commission.
CONDOMINIUM DECLARATION means a condominium declaration meeting the
requirements of the New Mexico Condominium Act, NMSA 1978, §47-7A-1, et seq.,
as amended and having been approved by the Village in zones which allow
condominiums.
CONSERVATION AREA means land set aside and maintained in perpetuity for the
purpose of agriculture, recreation open space, and/or conservation open space
in a Conservation Development. The conservation area is dedicated, designated,
or reserved for public or private use.
CONSERVATION DEVELOPMENT means a subdivision in which lot sizes are reduced
below those normally required in the zoning district in which the development
is located, in return for the provision of permanent conservation areas. This
development concentrates buildings in specific areas on a site to allow the
remaining land to be used for open space conservation, agriculture, habitat,
and/or recreation.
CONSERVATION DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT means an initial small-scale
implementation of three (3) projects or less used to test potential
alternatives to traditional development by providing initial regulations for
applicants to follow, allowing alternative development to occur, and reviewing
results prior to making a decision on a more widespread adoption.
CONSERVATION DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS PERMIT means a permit issued to allow
development standards which meet the requirements specified in §§
9.2.27 et seq. and may involve exceptions authorized and approved by the Board
of Trustees. This permit requires approval by the Board of Trustees.
CONTIGUOUS means property directly connected to one another; property that
touches other property or shares a property line.
CONTRACTOR’S YARD means a parcel used for the outdoor storage of a contractor’s
equipment and materials customarily used in the trade carried on by the
construction contractor. Does not include the storage of chemicals, fertilizers
or other toxic chemicals.
CORRIDORS mean the three major north/south areas of the Village, Rio Grande,
Guadalupe Trail and Fourth Street, as defined in the Village Master Plan.
DAY CARE CENTER (see CHILD CARE, FACILITY).
DAY CARE HOME (see CHILD CARE, HOME).
DEDICATED LAND  means land set aside in perpetuity for the purpose of
agriculture, recreation open space, and/or conservation open space in a
conservation development. Maintenance of such areas is not the responsibility
of the Village and shall be set forth in the form of restrictive covenants or
an easement, which shall guarantee the maintenance of these areas.
DENSITY means the number of dwelling units permitted per acre, or part of an
acre, of land.
DENSITY BONUS means the additional dwelling units allowed in a Conservation
Development beyond the number allowed in the property’s zone, the total square
footage of said dwelling units meeting the requirements specified in §
9.2.27(F).
DETACHED means, when used in reference to a building or structure, not attached
to the exterior wall or walls of another building or structure.
DEVELOPMENT means all structures and other modifications of the natural
landscape above and below ground or water, on a legal lot. The division of land
into two or more parcels; the construction, reconstruction, conversion,
structural alteration, relocation, or enlargement of any structure; any mining,
excavation, landfill, or land disturbance; and any use or extension of the use
of land.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT means a contract entered into between the Village of Los
Ranchos and any person, corporation or agent setting forth specifically a plan
for development of real property. The Agreement shall contain a time schedule
for the proposed development and surety or guaranty, in a form deemed
sufficient by the Village based upon the scope of the development to ensure the
project and its infrastructure is completed in a timely manner at no expense to
the Village.
DIRECTOR OF PLANNING AND ZONING (PLANNING DIRECTOR) means the Director of the
Planning and Zoning Department of the Village of Los Ranchos.
DOMESTIC ANIMALS (see HOUSEHOLD PET).
DOUBLE FRONTAGE (see LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE).
DRAINAGE PLAN means a document prepared by an engineer, licensed in New Mexico,
which describes the expected on and off-site drainage impacts, structural and
non-structural stormwater management plans of a proposed subdivision, land use
change or building construction project and which meets the requirements of §
4.2.1 et seq., Flood Damage Prevention and §
4.3.1 et seq. Storm Water Management.
DRIVE-IN, DRIVE-THROUGH, DRIVE-UP FACILITY means an establishment that, by
design of physical facilities or by service or packaging procedures, encourages
or permits customers to receive a service or obtain a product while in a motor
vehicle on the premises or to be entertained while remaining in an automobile.
Any portion of a building or structure from which business is transacted, or is
capable of being transacted, directly with customers located in a motor vehicle
during such business transactions.
DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY means a dwelling unit designed and used for a single
family occupancy.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY means one (1) of two (2) or more residential buildings
having a common or party wall that separates living facilities, each having a
kitchen facilities for sleeping, sanitation, bathing and living; a dwelling or
group of dwellings on one lot, containing separate living units for three or
more families, having separate or joint entrances, and including apartments,
group homes, row houses, and condominium; also multiple dwellings.
DWELLING, MULTI-RESIDENTIAL UNITS means residential units that have a common
wall(s) such as condominiums or townhouses. Multi-Residential Units do not
include multifamily or apartment developments designed as rental properties.
DWELLING UNIT means a single, on site built, modular unit or mobile home a
minimum of eight (8) feet wide and forty (40) feet long providing a minimum of
320 square feet of heated living area, that provides the complete independent
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provision for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation. These areas include, but are not
limited to one or more rooms designated and used for a bedroom, one or more
bathrooms with sanitation service and a shower or tub for bathing, one or more
closets for hanging or storing clothing, and other facilities conducive to long
term residential living quarters.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN means a plan developed for the Project Area of the
Village Center Zone to address the justification of the development for the
type of commercial, residential and open space proposed. The justification
shall specifically address: site coverage, residential density, heights,
setbacks, entrances, parking, open space and operating plan for the commercial
portion of the development.
         (a)   Site Development Plans for the Project Area shall have an
Economic Development Plan included as part of the application.
         (b)   Site Development Plan applications for Village Center zoned
properties (VC Zone) that are not in the Project Area and do not require a
platting action shall be processed under the regulations set forth in §
9.2.25.(E)(4).
         (c)   Site Development Plan applications for Village Center zoned
Properties that are not in the Project Area, but do require a platting action
may be processed without an economic development plan to justify the
development for the type of commercial, residential and open space proposed.
ENCLOSED AREA means all areas of a building enclosed by a continuous perimeter
wall.
FACADE means the exterior wall of a building exposed to public view or that
wall viewed by persons not within the building.
FAMILY means one or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided
that unless all are related by blood, marriage, or legal adoption, no such
family shall contain over five (5) unrelated persons. This provision shall not
apply to dwellings for persons who are disabled as that term is used in the
Americans with Disabilities Act.
FENCE means an enclosure or barrier, such as wooden posts, wire, iron, etc.,
used as a boundary, means of protection, privacy screening or confinement but
not including hedges, shrubs, trees or other natural growth.
FENCE, OPEN means a fence (including any gates in said fence) that permits
direct vision through at least 90 percent of any one square foot segment of
vertical fence surface area, excluding pilasters.
FENCE SOLID means an enclosure or barrier, including solid entrance and exit
gates, that effectively conceals from viewers in or on adjoining properties,
streets, alleys, or public ways, materials stored and operations conducted
behind it. A barrier constructed of solid material, wood or masonry, through
which no visual images may be seen.
FIRE ACCESS ROAD means a roadway designed to the most recently adopted
International Fire Code including, but not limited to twenty (20) foot wide
unobstructed all weather road, with a thirteen (13) foot overhead clearance
leading from a right-of-way to a private lot.
FIRE EQUIPMENT ACCESS means the nearest location where a fire truck can access
a structure.
FIRE HYDRANT means a fire water source as defined by the most recently adopted
International Fire Code.
FLAG LOT (see LOT, FLAG).
FLEA MARKET means an occasional or periodic commercial sales activity held
within a building or structure where groups of individual sellers offer goods,
new and used, for sale to the general public, not to include private garage
sales, shopping centers, individual retail operations, or sales conducted by a
non-profit or charitable organization.
FLOODPLAIN means any land area as identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency susceptible to being inundated by water from any source, or
any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of run-off or surface
waters from any source.
FLOOR AREA means the combined area of each separate story under the roof as
measured from the outer dimensions of the building enclosing the area.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR) means a relationship between net lot size and allowable
square footage of buildings and structures as defined by the adopted FAR table.
The ratio of the total floor area to net lot area, excluding two-thirds (2/3)
of any Village of Los Ranchos designated Sensitive Areas as defined herein.
FLOOR AREA, TOTAL means all building area above or accessible to grade
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Attic spaces with a clear ceiling height of 7’0” or greater;
         (b)   Open carports;
         (c)   Agricultural buildings;
         (d)   Greenhouses;
         (e)   Shops;
         (f)   Detached garages.
Floor area total does not include:
         (g)   Basements and below grade wine cellars not accessible to grade
         (h)   Open porches, portals, gazebos;
         (i)   Non-enclosed outdoor “living areas” or other such non-enclosed
spaces.
FRONT YARD (see SETBACK, FRONT).
FRONTAGE (see LOT, FRONTAGE).
GARAGE, PRIVATE means a building for the use of the occupants of a principle
building, situated on the same lot as the principle building, for the storage
of motor vehicles with no facilities for mechanical service or repair of a
commercial or public nature, or storage of commercial vehicles.
GARAGE, PUBLIC means a building or portion thereof designed and used for the
storage of automotive vehicles operated as a business enterprise with a service
charge or fee being paid to the owner or operator for the parking or storage of
privately owned vehicles.
GARAGE, REPAIR (see AUTOMOBILE REPAIR SERVICES).
GAS STATION (see SERVICE STATION).
GRADE means the average of the surface of the existing ground measured from the
proposed façade of the building at a ninety-degree angle to nearest property
line.
GREENHOUSE (see NURSERY) means a building or structure constructed chiefly of
glass, glasslike or translucent material, cloth or lath, which is devoted to
the protection or cultivation of flowers or other plants.
GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE means the creation of plant or tree areas, gardens, etc.
on an individual lot or throughout an area to reduce greenhouse gas emission
and urban heat effects and clean the air and storm water. Used in conjunction
with Low Impact Development (LID).
GROUP HOME means a residential facility in which no more than six (6) persons
are provided, for remuneration, lodging and/or care consisting of counseling
and/or therapy. Such lodging and care is provided for persons who are
physically, developmentally, mentally challenged, or who are persons who have
disabilities associated with aging, or as the term “disability” is defined by
the Americans with Disabilities Act. A group home may include additional
persons acting as house parents or guardians or caregivers. Care of infants is
excluded from this definition.
GUEST HOUSE means a second dwelling unit either in or added to an existing
single-family detached dwelling, or in a separate accessory structure on the
same lot as the main dwelling, for use as a complete, independent living
facility with provision within the guest house for cooking, eating, sanitation,
and sleeping. Such a dwelling is an accessory use to the main dwelling.
GUEST RANCH means a use incorporating two or more guest rooms, other than a
boarding house, hotel, or motel, and including outdoor recreational facilities,
such as, but not limited to, horseback riding, swimming, tennis courts,
shuffleboard courts, barbecue and picnic facilities, and dining facilities
intended primarily for use by the guests of the guest ranch.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS means any substances or materials that, by reason of their
toxic, caustic, corrosive, abrasive, or otherwise injurious properties, shall
be detrimental or deleterious to health of any person handling or otherwise
coming into contact with such material or a substance defined as hazardous by
the most recently adopted International Fire Code.
HEALTH/FITNESS FACILITY or HEALTH CLUB/SPA means an indoor facility where
members or nonmembers use, for a fee, game courts, exercise equipment, locker
rooms, ‘Jacuzzi,’ and/or sauna, or other customary and usual recreational
activities and related retail sales.
HEIGHT means the vertical distance measured from grade, the finished surface of
ground, to the highest point of the roof or coping of a building or structure,
including freestanding signs and telecommunications facilities.
HEIGHT OF BUILDING means the vertical distance measured from grade, as defined
herein, (the existing surface of ground), to the top of the pitch, top of the
parapet or top of the mansard roofline.
HOME OCCUPATION (see also HOME OCCUPATION, DE MINIMIS) means an occupation or
activity regulated by §
9.2.25(D)(4)/(5), Planning Director/ Commission issued permits that is clearly
incidental and subordinate to the use of the residence as a dwelling unit and
must not change the residential character of the dwelling unit or adversely
affect the character of the surrounding neighborhood. Home Occupation involves
the design, preparation, production or distribution of goods and/or services.
HOME OCCUPATION, DE MINIMIS means a classification of home occupation activity
that produces no visible or invisible effect at the property such as providing
an internet service, and which can be approved by the Planning Director after
administrative review.
HOMEGROWN OR HOMEMADE CANNABIS  shall have the same definition as set forth in
§ (2)(R) of the Cannabis Regulation Act.
HOUSEHOLD PET (see ANIMALS, DOMESTIC) means animals that are customarily kept
for the use or enjoyment within the home.
HOTEL (see also MOTEL) means a facility offering transient lodging
accommodations to the general public and may provide additional services, such
as restaurants, meeting rooms, and recreational facilities, and is not a Bed
and Breakfast Establishment or Group Home as defined herein.
INCIDENTAL means “nonessential to the whole.”
INFRASTRUCTURE, SIGNIFICANT means private or public improvements required by
the subdivision code, changes in land use, or residential or commercial
building construction. Such improvements shall include water, sewer, electrical
and gas utilities, communications utilities, fire protection access, roads,
fire access lanes, drainage improvements, irrigation improvements, street
improvements, sanitary sewer, landscape improvements, or any other necessary
changes to allow the land to be used for its intended purpose.
IN-HOME CARE means care provided for a person who is a resident otherwise
authorized by the Zoning Code to reside in a Dwelling, Single Family, by an In-
Home Care Giver.
IN-HOME CARE GIVER means a person or persons, not a family member, who resides
temporarily or permanently at the residence of a person requiring In-Home Care,
for the primary purpose of caring for such individual(s). Family member as used
in this definition, but not for other purposes outside the Zoning Code, shall
mean a person(s) related by blood or by marriage to the person requiring In-
Home Care, but does not include any person who is related only by a community
of interest.
IN-HOME CARE GIVER, ANCILLARY KITCHEN means the addition of kitchen appliances
or facilities normally used for food preparation, which are not otherwise
allowed by the existing zoning in an existing Dwelling, Single Family, for the
purpose of use by the In-Home Care Giver.
IN-HOME CARE PERMIT means a permit issued to allow an In-Home Care Giver, in
accordance with §
9.2.7(B)(12), In-Home Care Permit, which may or may not include a permit for an
Ancillary Kitchen for the In-Home Care Giver.
JUNK means scrap or waste material of whatsoever kind or nature collected or
accumulated for resale, disposal, or storage, including but not limited to old,
dilapidated, scrap or abandoned metal, paper, building material and equipment,
bottles, glass, appliances, furniture, beds and bedding, rags, rubber, motor
vehicles, machinery, scrap, iron, steel, other ferrous and nonferrous metals,
tools, implements or portions thereof, glass, plastic, cordage, building
materials, or other waste or parts that have been abandoned from its original
use.
JUNKYARD means a parcel of land or building, or portion thereof, on which junk,
waste material or inoperative vehicles and other machinery, waste paper, rags,
bottles, rubber tires, or discarded materials are collected, stored, salvaged,
or sold.
KENNEL means an establishment licensed to operate a facility housing dogs,
cats, or other household pets and where grooming, breeding, boarding, training,
or selling of animals is conducted as a business, which is not accessory to an
agricultural use.
KITCHEN means an area of a dwelling where there are cooking facilities, water/
sink for food preparation and dishwashing, and a refrigerator, not including a
bar, butler’s pantry, or similar room adjacent to or connected with a kitchen.
Facilities for cooking - storing, cooking and cleaning - shall normally be
considered as establishing a kitchen.
LANDSCAPING means the planting and maintenance of live plants including trees,
shrubs, ground cover, flowers or other low-growing plants that are native or
adaptable to the climate and soil conditions, sufficient to soften building
lines, provide shade and generally produce a pleasing visual effect of the
premises. Landscaping may include other natural and manufactured materials,
such as bark mulch or rock, which does not constitute more than twenty-five
percent (25%) of the total required landscaping square foot area.
LANDSCAPING BUFFER (see BUFFER, LANDSCAPING).
LAUNDRY, SELF-SERVICE (also LAUNDROMAT) means a facility where patrons wash,
dry, iron, or dry clean clothing or other fabrics in machines operated by the
patron.
LEGAL ACCESS means that which is described in the Warranty Deed for a specific
lot or parcel, whether private easement or public right-of-way.
LIGHTING, PEDESTRIAN SCALE means light standards or placements no greater than
fourteen (14) feet in height located along walkways or other rights-of-way.
LOCALIZED STORMWATER means surface water deposited on a particular area of land
by direct precipitation and not by an overflow of surface waters from other
land areas.
LOT means a parcel or tract of land platted by metes and bounds description and
recorded with the Bernalillo County Clerk in accordance with the appropriate
laws of the State of New Mexico and the 2013 Codified Ordinances of the Village
of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque in effect at the time of recording.
LOT OF RECORD means a Lot that is part of a recorded subdivision or a parcel of
land that has been recorded with the Bernalillo County Clerk’s office, but does
not include Middle Rio Grande Conservation District Tracts.
LOT AREA means the area of horizontal planes bounded by the vertical planes
through front, side, and rear lot lines. The total horizontal area within the
boundary lines or lot lines of a lot, exclusive of any area in a public or
private right-of-way open to public uses.
LOT AREA, GROSS means the total area of Lot.
LOT AREA, NET means the total of Lot excluding road or access easement.
LOT, CORNER means a platted parcel of land abutting two road rights-of-way
(either public or private) at their intersection.
LOT COVERAGE means an area determined by dividing that area of a lot which is
occupied or covered by buildings, roofed areas or impermeable paving surfaces,
including covered porches and accessory buildings, by the net area of that lot.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE means, when used in reference to a lot for purposes of
determining setback requirements, frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT, FLAG means a lot or parcel that the Village has approved, with less
frontage on a public street than is normally required. The access corridor to a
flag lot or parcel located behind lots or parcels with normally required street
frontage is a private right-of-way adequate for public safety purposes.
LOT, FRONTAGE means that part of a lot or lot line abutting on a street or way;
except that the ends of incomplete streets, or streets without a turning
circle, shall not be considered frontage.
LOT, INTERIOR means a lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT (see also YARD, FRONT) means a line connecting the foremost
points of the side lot lines and dividing the lot from the access right-of-way.
the line separating the front of the Lot from the street. When a lot, or
building site, is bounded by a public street and one or more alleys or private
street easements or private streets, the front lot line shall be the nearest
right-of-way line of the public street.
LOT LINE, REAR means the lot line not intersecting a front lot line that is
most distant from and most closely parallel to the front lot line. A lot
bounded by only three lot lines will not have a rear lot line. The rear
property line of a lot is that lot line opposite to the front property line.
Where the side property lines of a lot meet in a point, the rear property line
shall be assumed to be a line not less than ten (10) feet long, lying within
the lot and parallel to the front property line. In the event that the front
property line is a curved line, then the rear property line shall be assumed to
be a line not less than ten (10) feet long, lying within the lot and parallel
to a line tangent to the front property line at its midpoint.
LOT LINE, SIDE means any lot line not a front or rear lot line.
LOT LINE, STREET means a side lot line separating a lot from a street.
LOT, SUBSTANDARD means a lot or parcel of land that has less than the required
minimum area or width, as established by the zone in which it is located, and
provided that such lot or parcel was of record as a legally created lot on
October 27, 2003.
LOT WIDTH means the horizontal distance between side lot lines, measured along
a line that is parallel to the front lot line and located the minimum exterior
setback distance from the front lot line. When a lot has more than one street
lot line, the required lot width shall be measured along the narrowest street
lot line.
LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT means an approach to land development or re-development
that treats stormwater as a precious resource and not a waste product and works
with nature to manage stormwater as close to its source as possible. Low Impact
Development practices and principles include on-site water retention, water
harvesting and recycling, swales, berms, artificial streams and infiltration
systems.
LUMINAIRE (LIGHT FIXTURE) means a complete lighting unit consisting of a light
source and all necessary mechanical, electrical, and decorative parts.
LUMINOUS TUBE LIGHTING means gas filled tubing which, when subjected to high
voltage, becomes luminescent in a color characteristic of the particular gas
used, e.g. neon, argon, etc.
MANUFACTURED HOUSING means a manufactured or mobile home that is a single
family dwelling with a heated area of at least thirty-six (36) by twenty-four
(24) feet in dimension and at least eight hundred sixty-four (864) square feet
in area, constructed in a factory to the standards of the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development, the National Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. § 5401 et seq., and
the Housing and Urban Development Code, as amended to the date of the unit’s
construction, and installed consistent with the Regulations made pursuant
thereto pertaining to ground level installation and anchoring.
MANUFACTURING, HEAVY means the manufacture or compounding process of raw
materials. These activities or processes would necessitate the storage of large
volumes of highly flammable, toxic matter or explosive materials needed for the
manufacturing process. These activities may involve outdoor operations as part
of the manufacturing process.
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT means the manufacture, predominantly, from previously
prepared materials, or finished products or parts, including processing,
fabrication, assembly, treatment and packaging of such products, and incidental
storage, sales, and distribution of such products, but excluding basic
industrial processing and custom manufacturing.
MANUFACTURING, MEDIUM means the processing and manufacturing of materials or
products predominately from extracted or raw materials. These activities do not
necessitate the storage of large volumes of highly flammable, toxic matter or
explosive materials needed for the manufacturing process.
MANUFACTURING, SECONDARY means establishments engaged in the manufacture of
products for final use or consummation. This involves the secondary processing,
fabrication, or assembly or semi-finished products from a primary manufacturing
industry.
MEGACHURCH means a large, specialized type of house of worship that includes
such nontraditional accessory uses as retail sales, residential uses, amusement
parks, and sports and entertainment facilities, as an integrated part of the
development.
MAXIMUM OVERALL DENSITY means the maximum number of single family residential
dwelling units that would be permitted on a tract or parcel calculated as if
the tract or parcel was not subject to the Setback. The calculation of Maximum
Overall Density will be calculated by considering the requirements and
restrictions set out in the Codified Ordinances, including but not limited to,
the gross acreage of the property, area required for access including public
and private roads, and the ordinances relating to floor area ratios. For
purposes of calculating Maximum Overall Density, guest houses constructed
pursuant to a Conditional Use Permit will not be deemed a dwelling unit.
MOBILE HOME means a moveable or portable housing structure which was originally
constructed with a chassis allowing portability, being a minimum of eight (8)
feet in width, forty (40) feet in length and providing a minimum of 320 square
feet of heated living area.
MODIFICATION means any physical change or alteration to use or structure from
what was approved by the Village at the time of the issuance of the necessary
permits or authorizations.
MODULAR HOUSING means Structures constructed in a similar fashion to “site
built” buildings complying with all residential building codes, excepting that
all or portions of the structure may be constructed offsite and then assembled
into a completed structure on site and commonly referred to as permanent
modular construction. Modular construction specifically does not include
structures commonly referred to as manufactured or mobile housing. All modular
components must be assembled and finished on site so as to be indistinguishable
in function and appearance from residences built on site without use of modular
components.
MORTUARY means a building or part thereof used for human funeral services. Such
a building may contain space and facilities for the following: a) embalming and
the performance of other services used in preparation of the human dead for
burial; b) the performance of autopsies and other surgical procedures; c) the
storage of caskets, funeral urns, and other related funeral supplies; and, d)
the storage of funeral vehicles, but shall not include facilities for
cremation. Where a funeral home is permitted, a funeral chapel shall be
permitted. This classification excludes cemeteries, crematoriums, and
columbariums.
MOTEL (see also HOTEL) means a building or group of detached or connected
buildings designed or used primarily for providing sleeping accommodations for
transient guests and having a parking space adjacent to or nearby to a sleeping
room, offered to the public for compensation. An automobile court or a tourist
court with more than one (1) unit or a motor lodge shall be deemed a motel.
NIGHTCLUB or BAR means a commercial establishment dispensing alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises and in which dancing, television, and
musical entertainment is permitted.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING means any structure or building the size, dimensions, or
location of which was lawful prior to the adoption of, revision, or amendment
to the Zoning Code, but which fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or
amendment to conform to the present requirements of the Zoning Code.
NONCONFORMING LOT or LOT, NONCONFORMING means a lot not in compliance with the
dimensional regulations of the Zoning Code, but which was in compliance prior
to the adoption of, revision, or amendment to the Zoning Code. Does not include
Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District tracts.
NONCONFORMING USE or USE, NONCONFORMING means a use or activity which lawfully
existed prior to the adoption, revision, or amendment of this Article, but
which fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to
the zone in which it is located.
NON-PERMEABLE SURFACE means any surface which does not allow the absorption of
water into the ground; a hard surface such as roofing materials, concrete and
asphalt driveways, walkways, concrete pool decks or other such materials which
does not allow water to be absorbed.
NPDES: "National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System” means the name of the
surface water quality program authorized by Congress as part of the 1972 Clean
Water Act. This is EPA's program to control the discharge of pollutants to
waters of the United States (see 40 CFR 122.2).
NURSERY (PLANT NURSERY) means any land primarily used to raise trees, shrubs,
flowers, and other plants for sale or for transplanting, and accessory items
directly related to their care, and which requires licensing and inspection by
the New Mexico Department of Agriculture. An establishment for the growth,
display and/or sale of plants, shrubs, trees, and materials used in indoor or
outdoor planting, conducted within or without an enclosed building.
OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENT means that no building or structure shall be occupied
unless a Certificate of Occupancy or a Certificate of Completion has been
issued by the Building Inspector and/or the Planning Director.
OFFICE means a building or portion of a building wherein services are performed
involving predominately administrative, professional, or clerical operations.
ON SITE means within the limits of the area encompassed by the tract, lot, or
parcel on which the activity is conducted.
OPEN SPACE, CONSERVATION means open space that is essentially unimproved and
set aside, dedicated, designated, or reserved for public or private use or for
the use and enjoyment of owners or occupants, which is comprised of plant or
wildlife habitat.
OPEN SPACE, PRIVATE means a usable space adjoining and directly accessible to a
dwelling unit, reserved for the exclusive use of residents of the dwelling unit
and their guests.
OPEN SPACE, RECREATION  means open space that may be improved and set aside,
dedicated, designated, or reserved for recreational facilities such as swimming
pools, play equipment for children, ball fields, court games, or picnic tables.
OPEN STRUCTURE means all area of a building not enclosed by a continuous
perimeter wall.
OPERABLE/OPERATIVE means vehicles physically capable of being driven legally on
a public right-of-way.
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING DISPLAY (see also SIGN) means a fixed or portable
appliance, structure, or surface, including the supporting structure made
necessary thereby, erected upon the ground, on the wall of a building, or above
the roof of a building, and used and erected for the public display of posters,
painted displays, electrical displays, pictures, or other pictorial or reading
matter for the benefit of a person, organization, business, or cause.
OUTDOOR STORAGE means the keeping of personal or business property or motor
vehicles in a required open parking space or any other area outside of a
building for a period of time exceeding seventy-two (72) consecutive hours.
OUTDOOR STORAGE, SEASONAL means outdoor storage of items for retail sale that
are, by their nature, sold during a peak season, including such items as
fruits, vegetables, Christmas trees, pumpkins, lawn accessories, bedding
plants, etc.
OWNER OF RECORD means one with whom legal or equitable title rests; and may
include more than one person, any part owner, joint owner, owner of a community
or partnership interest, trust, estate, life tenant in common, or joint tenant,
of the whole or part of such building or land.
PARAPET (see COPING) means that portion of a wall that extends above the
roofline.
PARCEL means a tract or plot of land created by partition, subdivision, deed,
or other instrument and recorded with the Bernalillo County Clerk.
PARK means an area that is predominately open space, used principally for
recreation, or any area designated by the Village as a park.
PARKING AISLE means the clear space for either one or two-way traffic movement
and maneuvering between rows of parking stalls.
PARKING LOT (see also GARAGE, PUBLIC) means an open, hard-surfaced area, other
than street or public way, to be used for the storage, for limited periods of
time, of operable passenger automobiles and/or commercial vehicles, and
available to the public, whether for compensation, free, or as an accommodation
to clients or customers.
PARKING, OFF STREET means a space adequate for parking a motor vehicle with
room for opening doors on both sides, with access to a public street or alley,
a minimum of ten (10) feet in width and twenty (20) feet in length.
PARKING, ON-STREET means the storage space for an automobile that is located
within the street right-of-way.
PARKING, SHARED means the development and/or use of parking areas on two or
more separate properties for joint use by more than one business or residence.
PARKING SPACE means an area designated for parking of automobiles, RV campers,
trucks, or other motorized vehicles, which meets the dimensions required by §
9.2.18 et seq., Off-Street Parking Regulations.
PARKING SPACE, HANDICAP means a space not less than thirteen (13) feet in width
and twenty (20) feet in length clear dimension, on a hard-surfaced paved area,
reserved exclusively for an automobile registered with the NM handicapped
license plates and/or displaying an official city- or state- issue handicapped
placard.
PAVED SURFACE AREA means ground surface covered with clay-fired bricks,
concrete precast paver units, poured concrete with or without decorative
surface materials, blacktop, or other asphaltic or rubber mixture which may
include sand or gravel as an ingredient and which creates a hard surface.
Permeable paving may also be permitted.
PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT means development designed with an emphasis
primarily on the street sidewalk and on pedestrian access to the site and
buildings, rather than on auto access and parking areas. The building is
generally placed close to the street, and the main entrance is oriented to the
street sidewalk, with streetscapes. There are generally windows or display
cases along building facades that face the street. Typically, buildings cover a
large portion of the site. Although parking areas may be provided, they are
generally limited in size and they are not emphasized by the design of the
site.
PEDESTRIAN WAY means a designated area specifically designed for pedestrian
traffic and designated as a “Pedestrian Way” on the Site Development Plan
approved by the Village.
PERFORMANCE BOND means a document issued by a surety, in return for a fee or
premium, guaranteeing the performance of the terms and conditions of a
development agreement.
PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE means any security that may be accepted by this
municipality as assurance that improvements required as part of an application
for development are satisfactorily completed without expense to the Village.
PERMEABLE SURFACE means any surface which allows the absorption of water into
the ground; open area of soil, landscaped areas, agriculture, grass, etc.; a
surface covered by crusher fine, brick without mortar joints, pavers or similar
materials which allow water to be absorbed into the ground through its surface.
PERVIOUS SURFACE (PERMEABLE SURFACE) means a surface that presents an
opportunity for water to infiltrate into the ground.
PET SHOP means a retail sale establishment primarily involved in the sale of
animals, such as dogs, cats, fish, birds, and reptiles, but excluding
facilities selling only horses, goats, sheep, poultry, and other livestock.
PHARMACY or DRUG STORE means a place where drugs and medicines are prepared and
dispensed.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT means land under unified control to be planned and
developed as a whole in a single development operation or a programmed series
of development operations or phases. A planned development includes principle
and accessory structures and uses substantially related to the character and
purposes of the planned development. A planned development is built according
to general and detailed plans that include not only streets, utilities, lots
and building location, and the like, but also site plans for all buildings as
are intended to be located, constructed, used, and related to each other, and
plans for other uses and improvements on the land as related to the buildings.
A planned development includes a program for the provisions, operations, and
maintenance of such areas, facilities, and improvements as will be for common
use by some or all of the planned development district, but which will not be
provided, operated, or maintained at general public expense.
PLANNING AREA means the area directly addressed by the master plan. The
Village’s planning area encompasses the municipal limits and potentially
annexable land.
PLANNING AND ZONING, DIRECTOR (also PLANNING DIRECTOR) means the person
empowered by the Board to administer and enforce this Article, who is the agent
of the Village for code enforcement and all other tasks assigned by the
Village.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION means a public body of a local government
consisting of five to seven members, appointed pursuant to NM statutes relating
to planning boards, having the powers and duties set forth by NM statutes, the
2013 Codified Ordinances of the Village, or as specified by the Board.
PLANTING STRIP means a section of land not less than ten (10) feet in width
intended to contain plant materials and for the purpose of creating a visual
separation between uses or activities.
PLAT means a document, prepared by a registered surveyor or engineer, in
accordance with the NM Standards for Professional Surveyors and Engineers, that
delineates property lines and shows monuments and other landmarks for the
purpose of identifying property.
PLAT, FINAL means the final map of all of a portion of a subdivision or site
plan that is presented to the proper review authority for final approval.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY means a map of a subdivision of land showing required
features that is submitted to the platting authority for purposes of
preliminary consideration and approval.
PLAT, SKETCH means a rough sketch map of a proposed subdivision or site plan of
sufficient accuracy to be used for the purpose of discussion and
classification.
PLAZA means an open space that may be improved, landscaped, or paved and often
surrounded by buildings or streets, open to the public, provided with
amenities, such as seating, drinking and ornamental fountains, art, trees, and
landscaping for use by pedestrians.
PLOT means land occupied or to be occupied by a building or use, and its
accessory buildings and accessory uses, together with such yards and open
spaces as are required, not defined as a LOT for legal purposes.
PLOT PLAN means a plat of a lot drawn to scale, showing the actual
measurements, the size and location of any existing structures, or structures
to be erected, the location of the lot in relation to abutting streets, and
other such information as required by law.
POLICY means a specific statement of principle or of guiding actions that
implies clear commitment but is not mandatory. A general direction, that a
governmental agency sets to follow in order to meet its goals and objectives
before undertaking an action program.
POOL/BILLIARD HALL means a business establishment containing more than two pool
or billiard tables for the use of patrons.
PREDOMINATELY means more than fifty percent (50%) of the subject.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING means a building in which the primary use of the lot on
which the building is located is conducted.
PRINCIPAL USE means the main use of land or structures, as distinguished from a
secondary or accessory use. The primary use and chief purpose of a lot or
structure.
PRINT SHOP means a facility for the custom reproduction of written or graphic
materials on a custom order basis for individuals or businesses. Typical
processes include, but are not limited to, photocopying, blueprint, and
facsimile sending and receiving, and including offset printing.
PRIVATE ROAD (see STREET) means a thoroughfare or street not owned or
maintained by any public entity.
PROCESSING means to subject to some special process or treatment, as in the
course of manufacture; change in the physical state or chemical composition of
matter; the second step in use of a natural resource; examples include saw
mill, alfalfa pellet mills, food canning or packing, creation of glass, ceramic
or plastic materials, gravel crushing, cement manufacture, concrete batching
and the like.
PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS means the site improvements and facilities that are
planned and designed to provide for a particular development project and that
are necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or users of the
project.
PROJECT SITE means that portion of any lot, parcel, tract, or combination
thereof that encompasses all phases of the total project proposal.
PROPERTY, ABANDONED means personal property of any type the owner of which has
failed to make satisfactory claim and proof of ownership within sixty (60) days
after notice has been provided.
PROVIDER, CARE means a person residing in the home where a personal care
facility operates, whose duties include, but are not limited to, direct care,
supervision, and guidance of personal care recipients.
PUBLIC ACCESS means physical approach to and along areas available to the
general public.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT means any improvement, facility, or service together with
its associated public site or right-of-way necessary to provide transportation,
drainage, public utilities, cable television, or similar services.
PUBLIC NOTICE means notification of the public as provided in §
9.2.25(F) of this Article and New Mexico law.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY means dedicated and accepted public land deeded to the
Village, reserved by plat, or otherwise acquired by the Village, Bernalillo
County, or the State of New Mexico. A strip of land occupied or intended to be
occupied by a street, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or
gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or other
special use.
PUBLIC UTILITY STRUCTURE means a facility that supports gas, electricity, and
telephone, with the exception of wireless facilities.
REAR YARD (see SETBACK, REAR).
RECREATION, COMMERCIAL means any establishment that serves the general public
with an activity and where tickets are sold or fees are collected for the
activity. Includes, but not limited to, skating rinks, water slides, miniature
golf courses, arcades, bowling alleys, and billiard hall, but not movie
theaters.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) means any building, structure, or vehicle designed
and/or used for temporary living or sleeping and/or recreational purposes and
equipped with wheels to facilitate movement from place to place, and
automobiles when used for living or sleeping purposes and including pick-up
coaches (campers), motorized homes, boats, travel trailers, and camping
trailers, but not meeting the specifications required for a manufactured home
or mobile home and which shall not be used as a residential dwelling.
REDEVELOPMENT means to demolish, increase or decrease the overall floor area
existing on a property irrespective of whether a change occurs in land use,
however internal remodel and repair/replacement of portions of existing
buildings for structural integrity is not considered redevelopment.
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION means a church or place of worship or religious assembly
with related facilities such as the following in any combination: rectory or
convent; private school, meeting hall, offices for administration of the
institution, licensed child or adult daycare, playground, cemetery.
REPAIR OR MAINTENANCE means an activity that restores the character, scope,
size, or design of a serviceable area, structure, or land use to its previously
existing, authorized, and undamaged condition. Activities that change the
character, size, or scope of a project beyond the original design are not
included in this definition.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT means a business that engages in research, or research
and development, of innovative ideas in technology-intensive fields. Examples
include research and development of computer software, information systems,
communication systems, transportation, geographic information systems, multi-
media and video technology. Development and construction of prototypes may be
associated with this use.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CENTERS (also “THINK TANKS”) means research,
development, and testing laboratories that do not involve the mass manufacture,
fabrication, processing, or sale of products. Such uses shall not violate any
odor, dust, smoke, gas, noise, radiation, vibration, or similar pollution
standard as specified herein.
RESIDENCE means a structure or part of a structure containing dwelling units or
rooming units, including single-family or multifamily dwellings, boarding or
rooming houses, or apartments. Residences do not include: such transient
accommodations as hotels, motels, tourist cabins, or trailer courts; or
dormitories; in a mixed-use structure, that part of the structure not used for
any nonresidential uses, except accessory to residential uses; recreational
vehicles.
RESIDENTIAL means land designated in the Village master plan and Zoning Code
for buildings consisting only of dwelling units and accessory structures. May
be improved, vacant, or unimproved.
RESIDENTIAL COMPLEX means a residential development with fifteen (15) or more
dwelling units situated on the same parcel.
RESIDENTIAL STORAGE STRUCTURE means a structure to be used, or intended to be
used, for the private noncommercial, non-industrial storage uses by the
property owner and may be in place prior to the construction of a residence on
the property.
RESTAURANT means a commercial establishment where food and beverages are
prepared, served, and consumed primarily within the principal building and
where food sales constitute more than eighty percent (80%) of the gross sales
receipts for food and beverages.
RESTAURANT, CARRY-OUT/TAKE-OUT means a restaurant where food, frozen dessert,
or beverages are primarily sold in a packaged, ready-to-consume state, intended
for ready consumption by the customer primarily off the premises.
RESTAURANT, ENTERTAINMENT means an establishment where food and drink are
prepared, served, and consumed, within a structure that includes, as an
integral component of the facility, music, electronic or mechanical games of
skill, simulation, and virtual reality, play areas, video arcades, or similar
uses, billiards, and other forms of amusement.
RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD means an establishment engaged primarily in the business
of preparing food and purveying it on a self-serve or semi self-serve basis.
Customer orders and/or service may be by means of a walk-up counter or window
designed to accommodate automobile traffic. Consumption may be either on or off
the premises.
RESUBMITTAL means the act of re-submitting an application.
RETAIL SALES means sales of small amounts of product sold directly to the
consumer on a daily basis.
RETAIL SALES ESTABLISHMENT means a business having as its primary function the
supply of merchandise or wares to the end consumer. Such sales constitute the
“primary function” of the business when such sales equal at least eighty
percent (80%) of the gross sales of the business.
RETREAT CENTER means a facility used for professional, educational, or
religious conclaves, meetings, conferences, or seminars and which may provide
meals, housing, and recreation for participants during the period of the
retreat or program only.
RIDING STABLE/RIDING ACADEMY means an establishment where horses are boarded
and cared for, and where instruction in riding, jumping, and showing is
offered, and where horses may be hired for riding.
RIGHT-OF-WAY means an area of land that is dedicated for public or private use
to accommodate a transportation system and necessary public utility
infrastructure (including, but not limited to, water lines, sewer lines, power
lines, and gas lines).
ROAD, PRIVATE (see also RIGHT-OF-WAY AND STREET) means a way open to vehicular
ingress and egress which may or may not be established as a separate tract for
the benefit of certain, adjacent properties or for designated persons. This
definition shall not apply to driveways.
ROAD, PUBLIC (see also RIGHT-OF-WAY and STREET) means right-of-way reserved,
used, or dedicated for vehicular traffic for the general public dedicated to
and maintained by the Village.
ROADWAY means that portion of a public right-of-way or private access easement
that is primarily devoted to vehicular use.
ROOF LINE means the highest point on any building. The term “roof line”
includes the top of any parapet wall, or coping, providing said parapet wall or
coping extends around the entire perimeter of the building at the same
elevation. A horizontal line intersecting the highest point or points of a
roof.
SCENIC BYWAY means a road or street that, in addition to its transportation
function, provides opportunities for the enjoyment of natural and man-made
scenic resources and access or direct views to areas or scene of beauty or
historic or cultural interest. The aesthetic values of scenic routes often are
protected and enhanced by regulations governing the development of property or
the placement of outdoor advertising.
SCENIC BYWAY CORRIDOR means the area outside a byway right-of-way that is
generally visible to persons traveling on the byway.
SCHOOL means a facility that provides a curriculum of preschool, elementary
and/or secondary academic instruction, including nurseries and kindergartens,
elementary schools, middle schools, and high schools, but not including DAYCARE
CENTERS.
SCREENING (see also BUFFER, BUFFERING) means a method or materials used to
visually conceal one (1) element of a development from other elements or from
adjacent or contiguous development. Screening may include one or a combination
of materials of sufficient mass to be opaque or that shall become opaque after
twelve (12) months and which shall be maintained in an opaque condition.
SEARCHLIGHT (see also SIGN, PROHIBITED) means searchlights that are considered
to be signs that are used to announce, direct attention to, or advertise
businesses. A sign, which in its entirety or in part, moves in a revolving or
similar manner. Such motion does not include methods of changing copy.
SEPTIC SYSTEM means a sewage-treatment system that includes a settling tank
through which liquid sewage flows and in which solid sewage settles and is
decomposed by bacteria in the absence of oxygen, and approved by the NM
Environment Department, and which has obtained a permit specifying the volume
of tank and linear measurements of the infiltration lines (drain field), as
well as the horizontal distance from wells on the subject property and on
adjacent properties.
SERVICE STATION means any premises where gasoline and other petroleum products
are sold and/or light maintenance activities such as engine tune-ups,
lubrication, minor repairs, and carburetor cleaning are conducted. Service
stations shall not include premises where heavy automobile maintenance
activities such as engine overhauls, automobile painting, and body fender work
are conducted.
SETBACK means the minimum distance by which any portion of a building or
structure (not including fences, walls and signs), must be separated from the
boundary line of the lot upon which such structure is located or a street
right-of-way.
SETBACK, FRONT (see also LOT LINE, FRONT) means a minimum distance of clear
unoccupied space extending along the full width of a front lot line between
side lot lines and which depth is established for the zone in which the
premises is located.
SETBACK, REAR means a minimum distance of clear unoccupied space extending
across the full width of a rear lot line between the side lot lines and which
depth is established for the zone in which the premises is located.
SETBACK, SIDE means a minimum distance of clear unoccupied space lying between
the sideline of the lot extending from the front yard to the rear yard. The
side yard width shall be measured at right angles to side lines of the lot and
shall intersect with a roadway and which width is established for the zone in
which the premises is located.
SETBACK LINE means a line within a lot parallel to a corresponding lot line,
which is the boundary of any specified front, side, or rear yard, or the
boundary of any public right-of-way whether acquired in fee, easement, or
otherwise, or a line otherwise established to govern the location of buildings,
structures or uses.
SHIELDING means a technique or method of construction, which causes light
emitted from an outdoor light fixture to be projected below an imaginary
horizontal plane passing through the fixtures.
SHOPPING CENTER means a group of stores planned and designed for the site on
which it is built, functioning as a unit, with off-street parking, landscaped
areas, and pedestrian malls or plazas provided on the property as an integral
part of the unit.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL means rental of all or part of a dwelling unit for the
purpose of overnight lodging for less than 30 consecutive days to the same
person or persons. The only form of short-term rental allowed in the Village is
a Bed and Breakfast Establishment.
SHRUB means a woody plant that usually remains low and produces shoots or
trunks from the base; it is not usually tree-like or single stemmed.
SIDEWALK means an improved pedestrian surface that is typically located
adjacent to a roadway.
SIDEWALK CAFÉ means an area adjacent to and directly in front of a street-level
eating or drinking establishment located near, but not within the public right-
of-way exclusively for dining, drinking, and pedestrian circulation.
SITE PLAN means a plan, drawn to scale containing sketches, text, drawings,
maps, photographs, and other material intended to present and explain certain
elements of a proposed development, including physical design, siting of
buildings and structures, interior vehicular road and pedestrian access,
grading and drainage/stormwater management plans, the provision of
improvements, and the interrelationship of these elements.
SLOPE (see GRADE).
SPECIAL USE PERMIT means a use, which meets the requirements specified in §
9.2.17 et seq., and requires the approval of the Board.
STREET means a public or private thoroughfare used, or intended to be used, as
passage or travel by motor vehicles. Streets are further classified by the
functions they perform.
      (a)   Residential access streets have the sole purpose of providing
frontage for service and access to private lots. These streets carry only
traffic having either destination or origin on the street itself. The
elimination of through traffic and the geometric design of the street are means
to promote safety and to create a desirable residential neighborhood.
      (b)   Residential subcollectors are access streets that provide frontage
for residential lots and shall carry a small amount of residential through
traffic collected only from tributary residential access streets.
      (c)   Residential collectors are streets that conduct and distribute
traffic between other residential streets of lower order in the street
hierarchy and higher order streets or major activity centers. This is the
highest order of streets appropriate to a residential neighborhood and
residential frontage along it shall be prohibited or severely restricted.
      (d)   Higher order streets exist but do not belong within a residential
area and shall be excluded. These include arterials, which are interregional
roads conveying traffic between towns, boroughs, and other urban centers.
Efficient movement is the primary function of arterial roads; hence, private
access and frontage shall be controlled and limited to high-volume generators
of vehicle trips.
STREET, COLLECTOR means right-of-way designed to carry short range traffic
primarily originating in residential areas and to provide access to arterials
from these areas.
STREET, LOCAL/RESIDENTIAL means right-of-way designed to carry only traffic
within residential neighborhoods.
STREET, MAJOR ARTERIAL means a component of the regional transportation system.
Major arterials passing through the Village include Montaño and Paseo del Norte
on the south and north, with no access onto Rio Grande and, in the case of the
latter, Fourth Street. Second Street is a major arterial passing to the east of
the Village as is Alameda Boulevard to the north.
STREET, MINOR ARTERIAL means right-of-way designed to carry intermediate range
trips between abutting communities and to connect principle arterials, within
the Village municipal boundary, Rio Grande Boulevard, Fourth Street and Osuna
Road. Outside of the Village limits or for territory that is annexed to the
Village after October 27, 2003, it refers to street or roadways defined as such
by Transportation Policy Board of the Mid Region Council of Governments, the
Metropolitan Planning Organization for the Albuquerque area.
STRUCTURE means anything constructed or erected above, below or at ground level
but not including a tent, vehicle, vegetation, paving, or public utility pole
or line, and which exceeds six (6) square feet in area, or four (4) feet in
height. Manufactured shipping containers, (vehicles manufactured for the
transport of goods whether wheeled or unwheeled), are not structures and may
not be used as structures other than for temporary storage units.
SUBDIVISION is the division of any real property or any interest therein into
two (2) or more separate parcels, whether by metes and bounds description by
deed, the filing of a plat, the filing of a condominium declaration or similar
document, or the recording of a plat of survey, by court order or any similar
document purporting to create separate parcels or ownership interest entities,
regardless of the purpose for which such division is made. Refer to §
9.1.1 et seq.
SUBSTANTIAL PORTION means fifty percent (50%) or greater of the total.
TENT means any temporary structure or enclosure, the roof of which or one-half
or more of the sides are constructed of silk, cotton, canvas, fabric, or a
similar pliable material.
TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS means that development rights may be purchased
and conveyed by the local government and transferred to an area that then may
be developed beyond its base development limits.
TRIPA (Spanish) means long narrow lots formed when land is sub-divided while
also maintaining access to ditch irrigation and which by virtue of its shape
receives special zoning consideration.
UNAUTHORIZED GUEST means any person not authorized to occupy the space by the
Bed and Breakfast Operator in excess of two or more persons for a single
bedroom or twice the allowed occupancy of a short-term rental.
UNCONTAINED BULK MATERIALS means material directly off-loaded from a transport
vehicle without restocking for retail sales.
VARIANCE means a deviation from the strict application of the Zoning Code for
an individual parcel of property, due to unusual or unique circumstances of the
land or other considerations, as a method of alleviating unnecessary hardship
by allowing a reasonable departure from the Code, according to standards and
criteria as fully described in the Variance section of the Code.
VEHICLE MOVEMENT PLAN means the proposed layout of a commercial drive-in,
drive-up or drive-through facility, including all provisions for vehicle
ingress and egress to that facility.
VIEW means a range of sight including pleasing vistas or prospects or scenes.
Views include, but are not limited to, the sight of geologic features, open
fields and vegetation, agricultural activity, waterways.
VIEW CORRIDOR, VIEW SHED means the line of sight identified as to height,
width, and distance of an observer looking toward an object of significance to
the community, such as the Sandia Mountains and the Rio Grande Bosque from a
defined observation point; the route that directs the viewer’s attention.
VILLAGE MASTER PLAN means that group of goals and policies adopted by the Board
that form the basis of all zoning and land use regulations in the Village.
VILLAGE SENSITIVE AREAS means areas of land determined and recognized by the
Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, to be of special environmental
importance to preserve for wildlife and for vista preservation, and maintain
free from development for the enjoyment of all residents and future
generations, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Wetlands as determined by a State or Federal Agency;
         (b)   Open Space Trust lands;
         (c)   Lands where the development rights have been transferred to
another location in the Village for development purposes;
         (d)   Designated walking trails.
WAIVER means release from a requirement granted by the Director or Commission/
Board, but not release from requirements that need approval of a Variance (such
as a requirement for an engineered drainage plan for a parcel that is laser
leveled, irrigated farmland).
WALL means a constructed solid barrier of concrete, stone, brick, tile, wood or
similar type of material that closes, marks, or borders a field, yard, or lot,
and that limits visibility and restricts the flow of air and light.
WAREHOUSE means a building used primarily for the storage of goods and
materials.
WAREHOUSING AND DISTRIBUTION means a use engaged in storage, wholesale, and
distribution of manufactured products, supplies, and equipment, but excluding
bulk storage of materials that are flammable or explosive or that create
hazardous or commonly recognized offensive conditions.
WINERY means an agricultural processing facility operated in accordance with
all Federal, State and local regulations, used for the purpose of processing
grapes grown on the property, including grapes grown off-site, to produce wine.
Processing includes crushing, fermenting, blending, aging, storage, bottling,
administrative functions, wholesale sales, tasting facilities and retail sales
of wine by the bottle, by the case, and by the glass. Sales of wine related
items are permissible, including but not limited to foods prepared on or off-
site, wine glasses, accessories, reference books, decorative arts, and insignia
clothing. Sales to the public may take place during hours when the winery is
open to the public and during events as prescribed by this Article. Commercial
and non-profit events may take place as allowed by Special Events Permit.
ZONE means a portion of the territory of the Village, exclusive of streets,
alleys, and other public ways, within which certain uses of land, premises, and
buildings are permitted and within which certain yards and open spaces may be
required and certain height limits are established for buildings. A mapped area
to which a uniform set of regulations applies, or a uniform set of regulations
described by a use designator, and an optional special area designator.
ZONE AMENDMENT means a revision, change, addition or deletion in the text of
the Comprehensive Zone Code, or a change in a zoning classification of one or
more properties within the Village and shown on the official Zone Map. An
amendment shall include the placement of a zoning designation on property not
before classified by a Village zoning designation, such as annexed property.
ZONE DISTRICT means an area within the jurisdiction, delineated on the official
Zone Map with specific regulations for individual zones.
ZONE MAP means the map or set of maps that delineate the boundaries of the
zoning districts within the Village.
§ 9.2.4 GENERAL REGULATIONS
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. These general regulations shall apply to all
development and redevelopment in the Village for the purpose of implementation
of the goals of the Master Plan. These regulations shall be construed as
minimum requirements.
   (B)   AREAS SUBJECT TO FLOODING. All buildings and structures erected or
improvements constructed upon any lot within the Village shall conform to §
4.2.1 et seq. Flood Damage Prevention and §
4.3.1 et seq. Storm Water Management.
   (C)   CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE. At all roadway intersections, no obstruction to
view shall be placed or maintained within the clear sight triangle.
   (D)   DEVELOPMENT. All properties developed for residential purposes whether
they are occupied or not shall be regularly maintained so that they are not
allowed to fall into a state of disrepair and neglect. They shall consistently
present a neat and orderly appearance to the general public as well as adjacent
or nearby tenants and property owners. All properties developed for commercial
purposes whether occupied or not shall be regularly maintained so that they are
not allowed to fall into a state of disrepair and neglect and they shall be
brought up to current regulations and codes, i.e., storm water retention,
lighting, signage, landscaping, ADA access, upon additional construction,
including interior remodeling, exterior renovation or parking lot improvements.
All properties shall be maintained free of hazards, accumulations of weeds,
refuse, trash, attractive nuisances, construction or demolition debris or any
other health and safety menace. A property shall not be used to accumulate soil
for development unless a grading and drainage plan has been approved by the
Village and a zoning permit and construction permit have been issued.
   (E)   DITCH PRESERVATION. This Article shall be interpreted and enforced to
preserve the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District’s network of irrigation and
drainage facilities to the greatest degree possible and encourage continued
irrigation.
   (F)   DRIVEWAY ACCESS TO STRUCTURES. All structures shall be located such
that safe and legal access is provided for emergency vehicles, service
vehicles, police and fire protection, and are required to provide off-street
parking or loading. All development on parcels in the Fourth Street corridor
shall provide driveways for vehicular access based on the following
restrictions:
      (1)   For every one hundred and fifty (150) feet of roadway frontage,
there shall be no more than one (1) driveway providing ingress and egress.
Shared access shall be encouraged between parcels wherever practicable.
      (2)   No driveway shall have a width in excess of twenty-eight (28) feet
unless greater width is specifically required by the Village.
      (3)   All driveway areas shall be clearly defined.
      (4)   Corner lots may make use of public side streets for egress provided
they are at least seventy-five (75) feet from other driveways measured from the
center of the respective driveways.
      (5)   Any driveway within seventy-five (75) feet of an intersection must
be approved by the Village.
      (6)   Driveway curve radius shall be no greater than fifteen (15) feet.
Sidewalks shall be constructed in a continuous horizontal plane across
driveways.
   (G)   FIRE HAZARD AND FIRE HYDRANT ACCESS. All property, developed or
undeveloped, shall be maintained in such a manner so as not to be a fire hazard
as defined by applicable State and Village-adopted Fire Codes. There will be a
minimum of a three (3) foot clear radius around every fire hydrant.
   (H)   HEALTH AND VECTOR CONTROL. All property, developed and/or undeveloped,
shall be maintained in such a manner not to allow harboring or attracting of
vermin such as rodents, mosquitoes, flies, and cockroaches.
   (I)   LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS. All exterior lighting shall be arranged and
shaded and in compliance with §
9.2.20, Dark Skies.
   (J)   MOBILE HOMES / RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. All mobile homes shall be
skirted within ninety (90) days of placement in an approved Mobile Home Park
with material similar in color and texture to the exterior of the mobile home.
In no case shall a gap be visible between the bottom of the mobile home and its
skirting.
      (1)   Recreational Vehicles (RV) shall not be leased as permanent
dwelling units, even in a mobile home park, however, an owner of an RV unit may
lease space from a mobile home park and is considered transient.
   (K)   OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENTS. No building or structure shall be occupied
unless it is connected to a well or water supply system permitted by the State
Engineer; private or community liquid waste system which is permitted by the
State of New Mexico Environment Department or its succeeding agency or public
sanitary sewer. No building or structure shall be occupied unless a Certificate
of Occupancy has been issued by the Building Inspector or a Certificate of
Compliance issued by the Building Official/Planning Director.
   (L)   PUBLIC NUISANCE (UNSAFE BUILDINGS OR DWELLING UNITS)
      (1)   General. Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be
used for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation,
decay, damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the Code Enforcement
Officer or Director of Planning and Zoning, to be unsanitary, unfit for human
habitation or in such a condition that it is likely to cause sickness, disease
or death, is deemed a dangerous building or structure.
      (2)   All buildings or structures (including Mobile Homes and RVs)
regulated by this Code that are structurally inadequate or have inadequate
egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human
life are, for the purpose of this section, unsafe buildings or dwelling units.
      (3)   Service Equipment. Building service equipment, which constitutes a
fire, electrical, health hazard, unsanitary condition, or is otherwise
dangerous to human life, is for the purpose of this section, unsafe. Any use of
buildings, structures or building service equipment constituting a hazard to
safety, health or public welfare by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, disaster, damage or abandonment is,
for the purpose of this section, an unsafe use.
      (4)   Projections. Parapet walls, cornices, spires, towers, tanks, signs,
statuary and other appendages or structural members which are supported by,
attached to, or are a part of a building and which are in deteriorated
condition or otherwise unable to sustain the design loads which are specified
in the International Building Code are hereby designated as unsafe building
appendages.
      (5)   Abatement. All such unsafe buildings, structures, dwelling units or
appendages and building service equipment are hereby declared to be public
nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal
in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Dangerous Building Code or
such alternate adopted by this jurisdiction. As an alternative, the Planning
Director or other employee or official of this jurisdiction as designated by
the governing body may institute any other appropriate action to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   (M)   SHELTER FOR SMALL ANIMALS. Shelter for small animals, including but
not limited to chickens, rabbits, canines, Avery, sheep, goats, etc., is exempt
from building permit requirements of the adopted Building Code, but do require
a zone review from the Village if shelter exceeds 50 square feet.
   (N)   SIGNS AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISEMENT. All signs shall conform to the
applicable regulations delineated in §
9.2.22 et seq., Signs.
   (O)   STORM WATER RETENTION/DETENTION. Storm water retention and/or
detention shall be in accordance with all applicable Village, County and State
statutes, ordinances and requirements. All lots improved or developed, after
October 27, 2003, shall retain additional localized storm water generated by
development on site in accordance with §
4.3.1 et seq., Stormwater Management.
   (P)   UTILITY EASEMENT RESTRICTIONS. Trees expected to attain a mature
height of more than twenty-five (25) feet shall not be planted within fifteen
(15) feet of the centerline of overhead utility lines.
   (Q)   WATER AND WASTEWATER REQUIREMENTS. All structures constructed within
the Village shall be in compliance with applicable regulations established by
the New Mexico Environment Department and the New Mexico State Engineer’s
Office concerning water and wastewater facilities and systems as well as §
13.1.1 et seq., Sewer Systems. All commercial properties in the C-1, GD or VC
Zones must connect to the public sanitary sewer upon development or
redevelopment.
   (R)   WELFARE OF ANIMALS. §
7.2.1 et seq., Animal Control is hereby incorporated by reference and any
violation of the Animal Control Ordinance shall also be a violation of the
Village Zoning Code.
   (S)   PROHIBITED USES. Any use not classified as a permissive or conditional
use within a particular zoning district is hereby prohibited from that zoning
district.
   (T)   USE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY. No improvements, including landscaping or other
obstructions, shall be placed in the right-of-way without the written consent
of the Village prior to such improvement being placed. The Village shall have
the right to order the removal of any right-of-way encroachments and the
failure to comply with such order shall be a violation of this Article.
   (U)   FOURTH STREET DEVELOPMENT. For any undeveloped lot with frontage on
Fourth Street, a mandatory condition of approval for a site development plan or
subdivision is the dedication of no less than seven (7) feet of right-of-way
along the property frontage for the future use of the Village, either with
pedestrian and aesthetic amenities specified by the Village installed by the
developer or property owner, or for pedestrian and aesthetic amenities to be
installed by the Village. Likewise, for a lot with Fourth Street frontage being
redeveloped, a mandatory condition of approval for a site development plan or
subdivision is the dedication of no less than seven (7) feet of right-of-way
along the property frontage unless said dedication has already occurred on the
property. The Village reserves the right to require greater dedications to
comply with approved development plans of the Village. For properties along
Fourth Street with pedestrian and aesthetic amenities already installed, the
Village may waive this requirement.
   (V)   TWO HUNDRED EIGHTY (280) FOOT SETBACK PROCEDURE
      (1)   Purpose and Intent. Codified ordinances §§
9.2.4(U),
9.2.7(E)(3),
9.2.8(E)(2)(B) and
9.2.9(E)(2)(B) establish a setback from Rio Grande Boulevard of 280 feet
(“Setback”) and do not allow the construction of any building between the
Setback and Rio Grande Boulevard. Each such Section also includes the following
language:
“To preserve development rights, all properties affected by this setback may be
developed to the maximum overall density that would otherwise been allowed on
the property, however, all development must take place behind the setback.”
The land between the Setback and Rio Grande Boulevard is referred to as the
“Restricted Property.” Land outside the Restricted Property will be referred to
herein as the “Development Property.”
The Codified Ordinances do not specify the type or conditions of development
which may be undertaken on the Development Property so as to achieve the
maximum overall density (“Maximum Overall Density”). The purpose and intent of
this Ordinance is to specify conditions, procedures, and other elements
required or permitted to undertake development of and construction on the
Development Property consistent with the intent of the Setback to preserve open
space along the Rio Grande corridor.
      (2)   Limited Effect. The provisions of this Section are limited to
development and construction in areas affected by the sections recited in
Section A together with development affected by Section
9.2.8(E)(2)(D) and shall not be deemed to change zoning, or affect or specify
standards for development or construction on any property not specifically
subject to the Code Sections set out in Paragraph (1) above.
      (3)   Determination of Maximum Overall Density. Any owner of property
restricted by the Setback or any agent of an owner of property restricted by
the Setback and acting pursuant to a written designation of authority, may
request a determination of the Maximum Overall Density by the Director of
Planning and Zoning (“Director”). Such request shall be in writing and shall
provide the name of the owner of the property, the legal description of the
property, a description of any existing buildings or improvements on the
property and such other information as the Director may request. Within forty-
five (45) days after receipt of a request, together with all information
requested by the Director, the Director will provide a written determination as
to the Maximum Overall Density for the property based upon then current Village
ordinances and design criteria. If the property owner disagrees with the
determination by the Director, the property owner may provide such objections
to the Director in writing, in which event the Director will issue a written
decision of the Maximum Overall Density after taking such objections into
account. If the property owner still disagrees or objects to such
determination, such owner may appeal the decision of the Director to the
Planning Zoning Commission (“Commission”) by filing a Notice of Appeal within
fifteen (15) days after the date of the decision by the Director. Appeals to
the Commissioners are subject to established appellate procedures.
      (4)   Acceptable Development. Subject to review and approval as set out
hereinafter, development on the Development Property will be allowed in the
form of single-family residential and Cluster Developments.
      (5)   Preservation of Open Space. Each development of the Development
Property will require the filing of covenants or restrictions which allocate or
otherwise preserve the open space within the Restricted Property and within the
Development Property to each residential unit(s), regardless of type, so as to
assure the area within the Restricted Property and within the Development
Property is not subject to further development and/or construction based upon
change of conditions or other factors.
      (6)   Setbacks. Setback requirements between construction on the
Development Property and the Restricted Property are hereby waived. All other
setbacks will be maintained in accordance with existing ordinances, where
maintaining such setbacks does not unreasonably interfere or make development
of the property within the Development Property not feasible. In the event
maintaining existing setback requirements unreasonably interferes with or makes
development of the Development Property impractical, exceptions to such
setbacks may be granted (but shall not be required to be granted) in the
approval of the Site Plan without the necessity of complying with the criteria
for granting of variances under the applicable zoning ordinances. Internal
setbacks between buildings on properties in the Development Property shall be
as established by the Site Development Plan approved by the Village in
accordance with the provisions hereof.
      (7)   Development Process.
         (a)   Any party seeking to develop within the Development Property is
encouraged to meet informally with the Director prior to undertaking formal
planning for the property. The Director will discuss concerns and issues
identified by the Village; however, the property owner understands the Director
is not the final approving authority and opinions by the Director are not
binding upon the Village, except as otherwise provided herein.
         (b)   After determining the type of development that may be
undertaken, the property owner must submit an application for a Site
Development Plan showing the type of development, the number of dwelling units,
the lot size(s), the general layout of all buildings, subdivision requirements,
access, setbacks, height of buildings and such other elements as are requested
by the Director. Procedures for applying for and approval of a Site Development
Plan shall be in accordance with ordinances existing at the time of
application. The final Site Development Plan, as finally approved (final
approval must be by the Board of Trustees), with modifications and additions as
may be added or amended during the approval process, shall be the governing
document related to the development. All items which the Village deems to be
mandatory shall be placed in the Site Development Plan, the Subdivision Plat,
or in covenants which shall be recorded in the real property records of
Bernalillo County so as to give notice to subsequent purchasers, prior to the
transfer of the property to any third party.
         (c)   Regardless of the size of the property, any subdivision plat
will be processed as a Major Subdivision with the notice provided in accordance
with the procedures governing Major Subdivisions. Subdivision plats must comply
with all requirements for major subdivision plats, including but not limited
to, access, drainage, and utilities. The plat may also be required to contain
references to covenants or restrictions as set out herein above.
         (d)   All projects developed pursuant to this ordinance must connect
to public water and liquid waste facilities.
         (e)   Development under this Section shall, when reasonably possible,
protect and accommodate use of MRGCD water rights for irrigation of any open
space or common areas including the Restricted Property.
      (8)   Special Consideration. In exceptional circumstances, when the
Maximum Overall Density cannot be reasonably achieved without construction
within the Restricted Property or the Setback as specified in Section
9.2.8 (E)(2)(D), the Board of Trustees may approve exceptions from the Setback
and allow limited construction within the Restricted Property in order to
reasonably achieve the intent of the ordinances which provide for construction
to the Maximum Overall Density.
      (9)   Existing Structures. In cases in which there are existing
residences or structures already within the Restricted Property, such uses
shall be deemed legally nonconforming; however, the Village may approve
remodeling, demolition and reconstruction and other such activity of any
existing residences, provided any remodeled or reconstructed residence is in
approximately the same location as the original residence and does not increase
the total square footage under roof of the building(s), including heated and
non-heated areas, by more than twenty-five percent (25%). Notwithstanding other
provisions of any ordinance, residences located in the Restricted Property
shall not be entitled to a conditional use for a Guest House. Any Conditional
Uses otherwise provided for in the existing zoning for the property may be
constructed or used, but only within the Development Property.
      (10)   Densities. Nothing in this section, shall authorize densities in
excess of the Maximum Overall Density, whether by special use permit, variance,
or otherwise. However, the foregoing shall not restrict the authority of the
Village to adopt new or different zoning ordinances which would affect the
overall densities permitted in the Development Property.
§ 9.2.5 ESTABLISHMENT AND INTERPRETATION OF ZONES AND CHARACTER AREAS
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT The purpose of this Section is to establish and
interpret the zones, uses, development regulations, and property rights
associated with each piece of real property in the Village.
   (B)   ZONES. In order to carry out the provisions of this Section, the area
within the jurisdiction of the Village is hereby divided into zones, which
shall be known as:
         A-1 Agricultural/Residential Zone (1 dwelling unit/one acre);
         A-2 Agricultural/Residential Zone (1 dwelling unit/two acres);
         A-3 Agricultural/Residential Zone (1 dwelling unit/three acres);
         R-2 Semi-Rural Residential Zone (1 dwelling unit/one half [.5] acre);
         R-3 Semi-Rural Residential Zone (1 dwelling unit/one third [.333]
acre);
         C-1 Retail Commercial Zone (1 dwelling unit/one third [.333] acre
residential) (6 common wall [condominium, townhouse] dwellings/acre);
         GD Gateway District Zone Mixed use residential/commercial zone
(residential, commercial and mixed use allowable) (1 dwelling unit/one twelfth
[.0833] acre);
         VC Village Center Zone (1 dwelling unit/one third [.333] acre)
         V-C Project Area (dwelling units established by Economic Development
Plan);
         SU-1 Special Use Zone (zones formerly approved within the Village, but
no longer available to be granted as a zone).
   (C)   ZONE MAP. The zones and boundaries of zones are shown on the official
Zone Map dated 2/23/12 incorporated into this Section. The Director of Planning
and Zoning shall maintain the Zone Map and copies will be made available to the
public for viewing and purchase for a reasonable price. The Board must
interpret the Zone Map when the Planning Director is uncertain as to the exact
boundary of a zone shown on the Zone Map. All notations and references shown on
the Zone Map are as much a part of this Section as though specifically
described herein.
      (1)   The zone boundaries are streets, ditches, or alleys unless
otherwise shown, and where the designation on the Zone Map indicates that the
various zones are bounded by a street, ditch or alley line, such street, ditch,
or alley line shall be the boundary line.
      (2)   Where the property has been divided into blocks, the zone
boundaries shall be the block lines, and where the designations on the Zone Map
are bounded by lot lines, said lot lines shall be the boundary of the zone.
      (3)   In the event any street, alley, ditch, or other public way forming
the boundary of a zone is vacated, the new zone boundary shall be the
centerline of said vacated street, alley, ditch, or other public way.
   (D)   MULTIPLE ZONED LOT. For property that is contiguous and abuts Fourth
Street and is zoned commercial (C-1) and residential (A-1, R-2, R-3) the depth
of the commercial zone shall be limited to three hundred feet (300’) unless
otherwise specified from the property line that abuts Fourth Street.
   (E)   CHARACTER AREAS. The Character Areas, as identified in the 2020 Master
Plan, were designated so as to create areas that have some common elements for
purposes of future development, construction or other changes. However, within
each Character Area are many times diverse developments or uses which must be
taken into account in any Village decisions. In administering the Zoning,
Subdivision and other Code Sections, the diverse developments or uses within
any given Character Area will be reviewed and considered in those decisions.
However, in no event shall these reviews be deemed a change or modification of
the existing zoning on any property. Because of the diversity contained within
each Character Area, in many cases it will be deemed necessary to review the
area immediately surrounding the property affected by any application as well
as the entire Character Area.
   (F)   SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause,
phrase, or part hereof is for any reason declared unconstitutional or invalid,
the validity of the remaining portions hereof shall not be affected since it is
the expressed intent of the Board of Trustees to pass each section, subsection,
paragraph, clause, phrase and every part thereof separately and independently
of every other part.
§ 9.2.6 TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS REGULATIONS
   (A)   PURPOSES AND DEFINITIONS:
      (1)   This Section is adopted to further the land use goals of the
Village of Los Ranchos as set forth in the 2010 Master Plan including, but not
limited to, promoting economic development, preserving the agricultural
character of the Village, preserving the scenic views of the Village and
protecting and promoting commercial development on Fourth Street.
      (2)   This Section shall govern and control the allocation, transfer and
use of transferable development rights within the Village of Los Ranchos.
      (3)   This Section authorizes the Village of Los Ranchos to create a TDR
bank, where development rights may be purchased and conveyed by the local
government, in order to stabilize the market in development rights and to
regulate or control the development of property the local government wishes to
protect. The Village may create its own TDR bank or may cooperate with a
private entity in establishing such a TDR bank.
      (4)   Definitions:
         (a)   Developed means a lot with at least one existing dwelling unit
or commercial structure.
         (b)   Development Rights means the right of the owner of a parcel of
land, under land development regulations, to place that parcel and the
structures thereon to a particular use or to develop that land and the
structures thereon to a particular area, density, bulk or height.
         (c)   Residential Sending Areas means the following residential zones:
A-1, A-2 and A-3.
         (d)   Minimum Sending Lot Sizes means the smallest lot size that
qualifies as a sending site for TDRs. The minimum size refers to the area of
the entire lot, not just a lot portion located within one of two or more
sending site categories.
         (e)   Net Sending Area means the land area of a lot or lot portion
after the following area deductions: (1) the area of land precluded from
development by dedications and deed restrictions imposed prior to TDR deed
restrictions, (2) for each existing dwelling unit, the net sending area shall
be reduced by the minimum lot size allowed in the underlying zoning district.
         (f)   Receiving Area is an area designated by this Section as
appropriate for development beyond its base development limits through the
transfer of development rights from sending areas.
         (g)   Sending Area means an area designated by this Section as a
sending area appropriate for the conveyance of transferable development rights
from the area.
         (h)   Transferable Development Rights (“TDRs”) means the potential
development that may be transferred from a sending area as designated by this
Section and used at a designated receiving site to allow additional residential
or non-residential development as determined by this Section. TDR allocations
and requirements are expressed in whole numbers, rounding up if .5 or higher.
         (i)   Transfer Development Right Threshold (“TDR Threshold”) is the
existing underlying zoning in the Village.
         (j)   Transfer of Development Rights means the procedure described in
this Section whereby the owner of a parcel in the sending district may convey
development right to the owner of a parcel in the receiving district. The
development rights conveyed are extinguished on the sending parcel and may be
exercised on the receiving parcel in addition to the development rights already
existing on that parcel. However, the receiving parcel is entitled to use the
transferred development rights only after the instrument conveying those rights
have been recorded with the Clerk of Bernalillo County, New Mexico.
         (k)   Receiving Parcel means a parcel of land in the receiving area
that is the subject of a transfer of development rights, where the owner of the
parcel is receiving development rights from a sending parcel, and on which
increased density and/or intensity is allowed by reason of the transfer of
development rights.
         (l)   Undeveloped means a lot with no existing dwelling units or
commercial structures.
         (m)   Village means the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque.
   (B)   ADOPTION OF SENDING AREA AND RECEIVING AREA MAP. The residential
sending area and commercial receiving area map is attached to this Section. The
sending areas and receiving areas shown on that map are hereby created,
established and adopted.
   (C)   SENDING AREAS. Owners of land within any sending area are not required
to transfer TDRs. The transfer of TDRs is an option that owners may voluntarily
choose to use or not use.
      (1)   A-1 Zone
         (a)   Minimum Sending Lot Size:
            1. Undeveloped: No minimum lot size
            2. Developed: 2 acres
      (2)   A-2 Zone
         (a)   Minimum Sending Lot Size:
            1. Undeveloped: No minimum lot size
            2. Developed: 2 acres
      (3)   A-3 Zone
         (a)   Minimum Sending Lot Size:
            1. Undeveloped: No minimum lot size
            2. Developed: 3 acres
   (D)   RECEIVING AREAS.
      (1)   Receiving Area 1: C-1 Zone
         (a)   The Comprehensive Zoning Code designates a threshold density in
this zone. No TDRs are required to achieve the threshold density. To exceed the
threshold density, one TDR must be transferred to this area for each additional
three (3) dwelling units permitted in excess of the TDR threshold or baseline
density.
      (2)   Receiving Area 2: Village Center Zone
         (a)   The Village Center Zone designates a threshold density in this
zone. No TDRs are required to achieve the threshold density. To exceed the
threshold density, one TDR must be transferred to this area for each additional
ten (10) dwelling units permitted in excess of the TDR threshold.
   (E)   SENDING AREA PROCEDURES.
      (1)   Sending Area Owner Options. In conjunction with the deed
restrictions of an undeveloped sending site, a property owner may request to
convey title to that land to the Village or to other entities authorized by the
Village to accept title including private land trusts and non-profit
organizations. The TDR Manager shall determine whether or not to accept title
based on guidelines approved by the Village Board of Trustees. In developing
these guidelines, the Village may elect to only allow the conveyance of title
to a land trust, non-profit organization or other entity rather than the
Village. Any landowners requesting to convey title shall demonstrate that the
subject site meets environmental standards set forth in those guidelines.
      (2)   Sending Site Owner Applies for TDR Easement Approval and
Recordation. Property owners who wish to transfer TDRs shall apply for approval
and recordation of a TDR Easement by submitting to the TDR Manager an
application, application fee, title report and signed but unrecorded TDR
Easement using forms approved by Village. The TDR Easement shall specify the
amount of future development to be retained, if any, and the uses allowed on
the sending site following recordation. The TDR easement shall state that the
grantee of the easement is the Village and/or a land trust or non-profit
organization authorized by the Village. In all circumstances, the sending area
site may be used for agricultural purposes, both commercial and noncommercial
but no structures may be erected.
      (3)   TDR Manager Approves the Application and Records the TDR Easement.
The TDR Manager shall review the application, title report and unrecorded TDR
Easement. If satisfied that the information is complete, the TDR Manager shall
approve the TDR Easement. The easement shall include the number of TDRs
available for transfer and the serial numbers assigned to these TDRs. The TDR
Manager shall record the completed and approved TDR Easement. The TDR Easement
shall be recorded before recordation of a Deed of Transfer of Development
Rights and before final development plan approval of the receiving site
development that requires these TDRs.
      (4)   Deed of Transfer of Development Rights. In order to transfer TDRs,
the sending site owner shall complete and record a Deed of Transfer of
Development Rights using a form approved by the Village. This Deed shall not be
recorded prior to recordation of the corresponding TDR Easement. The Deed shall
identify the TDR Easement that created the TDRs, the number of rights conveyed
by the Deed, the property to which these TDRs were originally attached and
prior Deeds of Transfer of Development Rights, if any. A new Deed of Transfer
of Development Rights shall be recorded each time TDRs are conveyed. TDRs may
be conveyed to brokers, developers, investors or any other party before they
are ultimately used at a TDR receiving site. A TDR right shall not be conveyed
to the receiving property until after the recorded Deed of Transfer of
Development Rights has been received by the Village.
   (F)   RECEIVING AREA PROCEDURES.
      (1)   Receiving Area Designation. This Section designates TDR receiving
areas and states the number of TDRs needed to exceed the TDR threshold. Other
than the requirement to obtain TDRs to exceed this threshold, all other
requirements and procedures of the Comprehensive Zoning Code shall control.
      (2)   Timing of TDR Acquisition. Landowners wishing to exceed threshold
density must acquire TDRs to receive preliminary development plan approval.
      (3)   Sending Area Development Rights Extinguishment Procedures. Prior to
final development plan approval of a receiving site project requiring TDRs, the
developer of that project shall provide to the TDR Manager a signed, written
confirmation that the development rights on the sending area property have been
extinguished. This document shall indicate the number of TDRs being used, the
recorded Deed of Transfer of the TDRs, and the receiving site project where
these TDRs will be used. The document shall also state that the subject TDRs
cannot be thereafter conveyed or used. If satisfied that all the information
outlined above has been submitted and is complete, the TDR Manager shall record
the confirmation document and notify the Village Planning and Zoning Department
that the TDR requirements needed for final development plan approval of the
receiving site project have been met.
      (4)   Deed Restrictions Requirements. Along with the confirmation
document, a recorded deed that indicates the restrictions to the deed after the
TDR transfer shall be submitted.
   (G)   REJECTION. The bases for rejecting a proposed development transfer
are:
      (1)   The development rights released by the instrument vary
significantly from the development rights that the sending parcel is supposed
to be releasing pursuant to the transfer of development rights, or there is
some other significant error in the instrument;
      (2)   The proposed receiving parcel is not in the receiving district; or
      (3)   The transfer would increase the density or intensity of development
on the receiving parcel to a degree that is inconsistent with the Master Plan
or is incompatible with the land uses on neighboring lots or parcels.
   (H)   CONVEYANCE OF RIGHTS. Any instrument purporting to convey a
conservation easement or development right is void unless the Village of Los
Ranchos has indicated its approval on the instrument of conveyance.
   (I)   AUTHORITY. The Village of Los Ranchos is authorized to enter into an
agreement with a private, non-profit entity to effectuate the transfer of
development rights. The non-profit entity may constitute the TDR bank and may
purchase TDRs and hold such TDRs until a buyer is found for the development
right. Rules and procedures that govern the relationship between such an entity
and the Village of Los Ranchos shall be developed with the entity acting as the
TDR bank at such time as such an entity is formed or an existing entity agrees
to act as a TDR bank. The public purpose of such a private entity is to retire
development rights regardless of whether a present market exists for receiving
such development rights.
§ 9.2.7 A-1 AGRICULTURAL/RESIDENTIAL ZONE (1 residential unit/one acre)
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. The purpose of this section is to preserve the
residential/agricultural character of the area and accompanying open spaces
while allowing low density residential development permitted in this zone at
one (1) dwelling unit per one acre in conformance with the Master Plan.
   (B)   PERMISSIVE USES. A building or premise shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      (1)   One (1) dwelling (site built or modular) unit per lot of record.
      (2)   Display and sale of agricultural products, including animals raised
on the premises and products incidental to the sales activity, but not
including the sale or distribution of cannabis or cannabis products.
      (3)   Accessory building, structure, or use customarily incidental to and
on the same lot with a permitted use, including garages, barns, corrals, and
animal pens.
      (4)   Agricultural activities, including, but not limited to the raising,
harvesting, and storage of fruits, vegetables, grain, hay and feed, poultry,
rabbits, and the keeping and raising of livestock, riding stables and
academies. All animal activities shall be conducted in accordance with §
7.2.1 et seq., Animal Control. If the agricultural activity requires a state
license requiring proof of water availability, a copy of that evidence must be
submitted to the Village of Los Ranchos. The cultivation, intentional growth,
manufacture, and distribution of cannabis and cannabis products except for
homegrown or homemade cannabis, are prohibited.
      (5)   Parking incidental to uses permitted in this zone.
      (6)   Permitted Home Occupations.
      (7)   Bed and Breakfast Establishments.
      (8)   Public parks and accessory uses customarily incidental to that use.
      (9)   Outdoor storage of materials incidental to agricultural uses is
permitted as long as it is orderly and not a threat to health, safety and
welfare up to one thousand (1,000) square feet in area per acre.
      (10)   Storage of two (2) inoperable motor vehicles provided they are
completely screened by a solid fence from the public right-of-way and/or
adjacent properties. Agricultural vehicles are excluded from this regulation.
      (11)   Garage sales, estate sales, home distributor parties, trunk shows
or other similar activities provided the activity does not run for more than
three (3) consecutive days and is conducted a maximum of four times a year.
      (12)   In-Home Care Permit.
         (a)   An In-Home Care Permit may be issued by the Village upon
application therefore by the Homeowner, accompanied by a statement from a
Licensed Medical Doctor who is the primary treating physician of the person
needing In-Home Care outlining the circumstances surrounding the need for In-
Home Care and that an In-Home Care Giver is necessary for the well being of the
resident.
         (b)   If an Ancillary Kitchen for In-Home Care is requested, the
application shall describe the kitchen facilities and appliances to be added
and shall designate the area in which the Ancillary Kitchen will be placed for
the convenience of the In-Home Care Giver, including a site plan and floor plan
drawn to scale.
         (c)   The In-Home Care Permit shall be time limited dependent upon the
need for In-Home Care.
         (d)   Upon receipt of the application for an In-Home Care Permit, the
Director of Planning and Zoning shall review the application, make an on-site
visit to the residence and determine if the permit should or should not be
issued. If the Director determines the In-Home Care Permit is justified and if
an Ancillary Kitchen is reasonably required for the In-Home Care Giver, if
requested, findings shall be made to support such conclusions. If the In-Home
Care Permit is denied, the Director shall state the reasons for denial. If the
In-Home Care Permit is granted, the Director may also make additional
requirements and/or conditions so as to assure that the additional kitchen
facilities and the location thereof do not create an area conducive for rental
to third parties after termination of the In-Home Care Permit.
         (e)   All modifications to the building shall comply with applicable
Building Codes. Applicable building permits must be obtained from the Village
and Bernalillo County.
         (f)   On an annual basis, an affidavit of continuing need shall be
submitted to the Village and verified by the Village. The Director may
investigate the need for continuation of the In-Home Care Permit at any time.
         (g)   Only one Ancillary Kitchen for In-Home Care is allowed for each
Dwelling, Single Family and shall not be issued for a guest house.
         (h)   The application fee for an In-Home Care Permit is $100.00.
         (i)   An In-Home Care Permit is required only when the In-Home Care
Giver is going to reside in the dwelling.
   (C)   CONDITIONAL USES. The following uses may be allowed when approval has
been obtained as set forth in §
9.2.25(D)(2), §
9.2.25(E)(2):
      (1)   Childcare facilities provided the facility abides by the Village
and State regulations, and traffic, noise and hours of operation are mitigated.
      (2)   Public utility structures such as a transformer, switching,
pumping, or similar technical installation essential to the operation of a
public utility.
      (3)   Place of worship, excluding a Megachurch.
      (4)   Mobile home used as a dwelling during the construction of a
dwelling on the same premises, provided such use shall be limited to a maximum
period of one (1) year; or as approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission
per §
9.2.25(E)(2); a one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) bond must be posted to ensure
compliance with the conditions of the use. The one year period shall commence
on the date that conditional use approval is granted or the date the use
actually began, if earlier, or as approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
      (5)   Guest house or additional dwelling.
         (a)   The guest house is limited to one thousand (1,000) square feet
of heated floor area with facilities for cooking (not necessarily a full
kitchen (microwave, coffee pot, etc.), sleeping and sanitation
         (b)   Guest houses may not have a garage.
         (c)   Occupants shall not be charged rent unless an explicit
conditional use allowing rental has been approved by the Commission or rent is
for only short-term rental as all or part of a permitted Bed and Breakfast
Establishment.
         (d)   Guest houses shall not have a separate address.
         (e)   Upon lots with at least twice the minimum lot area, one (1)
dwelling per minimum lot area, but limited to a maximum of three (3) dwellings
per lot. One (1) dwelling shall be the principal single family dwelling and any
additional dwelling shall be for use as a guest and/or caretaker’s house
limited to one thousand (1,000) square feet of heated floor area with
facilities for cooking (not necessarily a full kitchen i.e. microwave, coffee
pot, etc.), sleeping and sanitation and providing the structures have access to
public water and sewer or obtains a wastewater permit from the NMED stating the
maximum flow rate on the lot.
            1. Upon lots with a lot area less than twice the minimum lot area,
one guest house may be approved providing it has access to public water and
sewer or obtains a wastewater permit from the NMED stating the maximum flow
rate on the lot.
            2. The additional dwelling(s) shall meet the current building and
zoning code requirements of the Village.
      (6)   Government buildings and accessory uses customarily incidental to
that use. Government buildings and surroundings shall be constructed in
southwestern or compatible architectural style as determined by the Planning
Director.
      (7)   Outdoor recreational facilities accessory to public or private
schools.
      (8)   Public or private schools, educational facilities or learning
centers.
   (D)   ACCESSORY USES. Uses customary and incidental to primary use of the
lot, that is in conformance with the zone.
   (E)   AREA REGULATIONS. These regulations apply to all A-1 zoned properties
in the Village.
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be one (1) acre (43,560 square feet).
The minimum lot width shall be seventy-five (75) feet.
      (2)   Setback limits apply to all buildings and structures, including
swimming pools.
         (a)   Except as provided in §
9.2.7(E)(3), (G)(4)(a) and (H) of this Section, the setbacks from the property
line to the nearest structure shall be as follows:
            1. Front setback shall be: twenty-five (25) feet.
            2. Side setback shall be: fifteen (15) feet.
            3. Rear setback shall be: twenty-five (25) feet.
            4. For any property line bounded by an irrigation ditch or drain,
the setback shall be twenty-five (25) feet.
      (3)   Preservations of Open Space and Vistas.
         (a)   For all properties which border on Rio Grande Boulevard, as
described in South Rio Grande Area A Illustration §
9.2.7(E)(3)(a), roughly bounded on the west side of Rio Grande Blvd.,, to the
south by the north boundaries of Tinnin Farms, and Rob Lee Meadows subdivisions
to the south;, and west side of Rio Grande Boulevard, to the west by the
Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque municipal boundary [at the Atrisco Feeder
Canal] to the west;, and to the north by the southern boundary of the Guadalupe
Woods subdivision to the north;, and on the west east side of Rio Grande
Boulevard, to the north by Chamisal Road; to the east by the Pueblo Lateral;
and to the south by Green Valley Road, and for the South Rio Grande Area B
Illustration §
9.3.7(E)(3)(a), roughly bounded on the west side of Rio Grande Blvd., to the
south by Montano Road; to the west by the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque
municipal boundary [at the Atrisco Feeder Canal]; to the north by the southern
boundaries of Tinnin Farms, and Rob Lee Meadows subdivisions, and on the east
side of Rio Grande Blvd. to the north by the Gallegos Lateral; to the east by
the Griegos Drain; and to the south by Montano Road, a setback of two hundred
eighty (280) feet from the centerline of Rio Grande Boulevard is established.
(See Map A & B).
         (b)   For properties in the North Rio Grande Character Area, the
setback shall be equal to a straight line connecting the fronts of the nearest
dwelling on each side facing the same street when that straight line falls
within a corridor of minimum eighty (80) feet from the center of Rio Grande
Blvd to one half (.5) the distance of the depth of the lot. (See Illustration §
9.2.7(E)(3)(b)). (c) If the straight line connecting the fronts of the nearest
dwelling on each side facing the same street falls in front of or crosses the
eighty (80) foot minimum setback, then the setback shall be eighty feet from
the middle of Rio Grande Blvd.
         (d)   If the straight line connecting the fronts of the nearest
dwelling on each side facing the same street crosses or falls behind one half
(.5) the distance of the depth of the lot, then the one half (.5) distance of
the depth of the lot shall be the setback.
         (e)   Existing development is non-conforming and exempt from the
setback, however redevelopment is not exempt, nor can new structures be added
in the setback area of non-conforming lots.
         (f)   To preserve development rights, all properties affected by this
setback shall be allowed to developed to the maximum overall density (FAR) that
would have otherwise been allowed on the property, however, all development
must take place behind the setback.
         (g)   When necessary to allow development in a conventional
residential configuration, the rear setback may be reduced to fifteen (15)
feet, side setbacks may be reduced to ten (10) feet, without requiring the
Variance process, with Planning Director approval on a case by case basis.
      (4)   Where lots have double frontage, the required front setback shall
be provided on both sides, except those houses facing Rio Grande Blvd. subject
to the North Rio Grande Character Area and South Rio Grande Character Areas A &
B.
      (5)   For very narrow (less than sixty (60) feet wide) tripa, unusually
small, and/or unusual shaped lots, one side yard setback may be reduced to less
than ten (10) feet providing building height meets the conditions of this
Section.
      (6)   For legally non-conforming lots fifty percent (50%) or smaller than
the minimum lot area, setbacks may be reduced to conform to the setbacks of the
R-2 zone. These reductions may be approved by the Planning Director on a case-
by-case basis without requiring the Variance process, provided the reductions
are in conformity with the goals and policies of the Master plan and are not
contrary to the public interest.
      (7)   Permeable surfaces shall be a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of lot
area.
   (F)   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The floor area ratio of structures shall be
determined by the allowable floor area listed in the adopted 20% All Village
FAR TABLE for net lot area.
      (1)   FLOOR AREA RATIO APPLICATION IN SUBDIVISIONS WITH SUBSTANDARD LOT
AREA. In consideration of those previously approved subdivisions that were
approved with SU-1 Zoning or Special Use Permit and less than one/third acre
(.333) lot size, (those being Nico Trail, Rincones de Los Ranchos and Los
Prados de Guadalupe), the Planning Director shall consider applications for
building permits limiting the size of the dwelling to that which is reasonably
consistent with other houses in the development, considering such factors as
total lot coverage and average square footage of previously developed lots
without applying the floor area ratio. All other code requirements such as
height, step-back, setbacks, etc. must be met.
   (G)   HEIGHT REGULATIONS. The height of buildings shall be limited to
twenty-six (26) feet from existing grade (the existing surface of the ground),
to the top of the pitch, top of the parapet or top of the mansard roofline.
      (1)   Single Story Buildings shall not exceed seventeen (17) feet in
height. The first floor building height shall be measured at seventeen (17)
feet from the existing grade.
         (a)   If the single story height exceeds seventeen (17) feet, that
portion of the building shall be considered a second floor and shall be counted
as square footage for Floor Area Ratio purposes. Second floors shall be
regulated by the second floor percentages and limitations of §
9.2.7(G)(2)(a).
         (b)   Detached garages, including those for recreational vehicles,
shall not be more than seventeen (17) feet in height.
      (2)   Two Story Buildings shall not exceed twenty-six (26) feet in height
measured from the existing grade, to the top of the pitch, top of the parapet,
or top of the mansard roof line.
         (a)   Second floor areas, including all covered patios, porches,
portals, balconies, and other open and accessible living areas, shall be
limited to a total of sixty percent (60%) of the first floor enclosed square
footage, as defined by §
9.2.3((B) Enclosed Area.
      (3)   Height of Facades. No single façade wall length shall be greater
than fifteen percent (15%) of the calculated perimeter of façade walls of the
first floor, and exceed seventeen (17) feet in height. Any portion of a façade
wall exceeding the fifteen percent (15%) perimeter length shall be limited to
seventeen (17) feet in height or shall be stepped back by four (4) feet or
equal to a forty-five degree (45°) plane drawn from a perpendicular point on
the adjacent property line. See illustration §
9.2.7(G)(3).
      (4)   Solar Access. Building Height Limitations to Preserve Solar Access:
For any new construction in the A-1 Zone submitted after May 14, 2007, the
height of any building shall not exceed a thirty-one degree (31°) angle plane
drawn upward from a horizontal line located two (2) feet above the existing
grade, ten (10) feet within the northern property line (See illustration §
9.2.7(G)(4)(a)).
      (5)   The maximum height limit is twenty-six (26) feet for buildings and
structures with the exception for the following structures and uses, which
shall have a maximum height per the following:
         (a)   Chimneys shall not exceed twenty-nine (29) feet in height.
         (b)   Flag poles shall not exceed forty (40) feet in height.
         (c)   Non-commercial radio towers regulated by the Federal
Communications Commission shall not exceed forty (40) feet in height.
         (d)   Windmills (both wind generators and water) shall not exceed
forty (40) feet in height.
   (H)   FENCES AND WALLS.
      (1)   No open fence located in the setback areas shall exceed six (6)
feet in height.
      (2)   No solid wall or fence located within the rear or side setback area
shall exceed six (6) feet in height.
      (3)   No solid wall or fence located within the front setback area shall
be more than four (4) feet in height. Open fencing may be placed upon the four
foot solid wall to a maximum height of six (6) feet.
      (4)   No solid wall or fence shall be located within the clear sight
triangle of a driveway and a public or private right-of-way.
      (5)   No solid wall or fence located within the side or rear setback area
and along a public or private right-of-way shall be more than six (6) feet in
height.
      (6)   No wall or fence shall be constructed unless a building permit has
been approved by the Village.
      (7)   Concertina (razor wire) wire is prohibited.
      (8)   Gate entrance pillars may reach a maximum height of eight (8) feet
and must observe the clear sight triangle distance from the street and shall
not exceed more than two (2) feet width on either side of the gate itself.
   (I)   SUBDIVISION. No land containing existing structures shall be
subdivided into an area less than the allowable lot size for the Floor Area
Ratio of the existing structures on the land.
   (J)   EXISTING BUILDING. If an existing structure(s) is to be demolished,
upon completion of a new dwelling on the same lot, the demolition must take
place within one (1) year.
   (K)   DARK SKIES REGULATIONS. As set forth in §
9.2.20 Dark Skies.
Illustration South Rio Grand Area A ss
9.2.7(C)(3)(a)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-937.png]
 
Illustration South Rio Grande Area B ss
9.2.7(C)(3)(a)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-939.png]
 
Illustration §
9.2.7(G)(3)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-941.png]
 
Illustration §
9.2.7(G)(4)(a)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-943.png]
 
Floor Area Ratio Table
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-945.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-947.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-949.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-951.png]
§ 9.2.8 A-2 AGRICULTURAL/RESIDENTIAL ZONE (1 residential unit/two acres)
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. The purpose of this Section is to preserve the
rural/agricultural character of the area with particular emphasis on the
protection of groundwater resources and open areas while allowing low density
residential development permitted in this zone at one (1) dwelling unit per two
(2) acres in conformance with the Village Master Plan.
   (B)   PERMISSIVE USES. A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Any permissive use as allowed and regulated in §
9.2.7 A-1 Zone.
   (C)   CONDITIONAL USES. The following uses shall be allowed when permission
has been obtained as set forth in §
9.2.25, Application and Approval Process:
      (1)   Any Conditional Use as allowed and regulated in §
9.2.7 A-1 Zone.
   (D)   ACCESSORY USES. Uses customary and incidental to the primary use of
the lot, in conformance with the zone.
   (E)   AREA REGULATIONS.
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be two (2) acres (87,120 square feet)
and minimum lot width shall be one hundred fifty (150) feet.
      (2)   Setbacks. Setback limits apply to all buildings and/or structures
including swimming pools.
         (a)   Except as provided elsewhere in §
9.2.8, the minimum front setback shall be twenty-five (25) feet, the minimum
side setback shall be fifteen (15) feet, and the minimum rear setback shall be
twenty-five (25) feet. For any property bounded by an irrigation ditch or
drain, the minimum setback along the ditch or drain shall be twenty-five (25)
feet.
      (3)   Preservations of Open Space and Vistas.
         (a)   For all properties which border on Rio Grande Boulevard, as
described in South Rio Grande Area A Illustration §
9.2.7(E)(3)(a), roughly bounded on the west side of Rio Grande Blvd., to the
south by the north boundaries of Tinnin Farms, and Rob Lee Meadows
subdivisions; to the west by the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque
municipal boundary [at the Atrisco Feeder Canal]; and to the north by the
southern boundary of the Guadalupe Woods subdivision; and on the east side of
Rio Grande Boulevard, to the north by Chamisal Road; to the east by the Pueblo
Lateral; and to the south by Green Valley Road, and for the South Rio Grande
Area B Illustration §
9.3.7(E)(3)(a), roughly bounded on the west side of Rio Grande Blvd., to the
south by Montano Road; to the west by the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque
municipal boundary [at the Atrisco Feeder Canal]; to the north by the southern
boundaries of Tinnin Farms, and Rob Lee Meadows subdivisions, and on the east
side of Rio Grande Blvd. to the north by the Gallegos Lateral; to the east by
the Griegos Drain; and to the south by Montano Road, a setback of two hundred
eighty (280) feet from the centerline of Rio Grande Boulevard is established.
(See Map A & B).
         (b)   For properties in the North Rio Grande Character Area, the
setback shall be equal to a straight line connecting the fronts of the nearest
dwelling on each side facing the same street when that straight line falls
within a corridor of minimum eighty (80) feet from the center of Rio Grande
Blvd to one half (.5) the distance of the depth of the lot. (See Illustration §
9.2.7(E)(3)(b)).
         (c)   If the straight line connecting the fronts of the nearest
dwelling on each side facing the same street falls in front of or crosses the
eighty (80) foot minimum setback, then the setback shall be eighty feet from
the middle of Rio Grande Blvd.
         (d)   If the straight line connecting the fronts of the nearest
dwelling on each side facing the same street crosses or falls behind one half
(.5) the distance of the depth of the lot, then the one half (.5) distance of
the depth of the lot shall be the setback.
         (e)   Existing development is non-conforming and exempt from the
setback, however redevelopment is not exempt, nor can new structures be added
in the setback area of non-conforming lots.
         (f)   To preserve development rights, all properties affected by this
setback shall be allowed to developed to the maximum overall density (FAR) that
would have otherwise been allowed on the property, however, all development
must take place behind the setback.
         (g)   When necessary to allow development in a conventional
residential configuration, the rear setback may be reduced to fifteen (15)
feet, side setbacks may be reduced to ten (10) feet, without requiring the
Variance process with Planning Director approval on a case by case basis.
      (4)   Where lots have double frontage, the required front setback shall
be provided on both sides, except those houses facing Rio Grande Blvd. subject
to the North Rio Grande Character Area and South Rio Grande Character Areas A &
B setbacks.
      (5)   For very narrow tripa, unusually small, and/or unusual shaped lots,
one side yard setback may be reduced to less than ten (10) feet providing
building height meets the conditions of this Section.
   (F)   FLOOR AREA RATIO for residential buildings for all A-2 zoned
properties in the Village with Floor Area, Total as defined in §
9.2.3(B), Definitions.
      (1)   The floor area ratio of all single family residential units shall
be determined by the allowable floor area listed in the adopted 20% All Village
FAR TABLE for the net lot area as defined in §
9.2.3(B), Floor Area Ratio (FAR).
   (G)   HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
      (1)   Height of residential buildings shall be limited to twenty-six (26)
feet from existing grade (the existing surface of the ground, to the top of the
pitch, top of the parapet or top of the mansard roof line.
      (2)   Single Story Buildings shall not exceed seventeen (17) feet in
height. The first floor building height shall be measured at seventeen (17)
feet from the existing grade.
         (a)   If the single story height exceeds seventeen (17) feet, that
portion of the building shall be considered a second floor and shall be counted
as square footage for Floor Area Ratio purposes. Second floors shall be
regulated by the second floor percentages and limitations of §
9.2.8(G)(3)(a).
         (b)   Detached garages, including those for recreational vehicles,
shall not be more than seventeen (17) feet in height.
      (3)   Two Story Buildings shall not exceed twenty-six (26) feet in height
measured from the existing grade, to the top of the pitch, top of the parapet
or top of the mansard roof line.
         (a)   Second floor areas, including all covered patios, porches,
portals, balconies, and other open and accessible living areas, shall be
limited to a total of sixty percent (60%) of the first floor enclosed square
footage, as defined by §
9.2.3(B), Enclosed Area.
      (4)   Height Of Facades.
         (a)   No single façade wall length shall be greater than fifteen
percent (15%) of the calculated perimeter of façade walls of the first floor
and exceed seventeen (17) feet in height. Any portion of a façade wall
exceeding the fifteen percent (15%) perimeter length shall be limited to
seventeen (17) feet in height or shall be stepped back by four (4) feet or
equal to a 45° plane drawn from a perpendicular point on the adjacent property
line. (See Illustration §
9.2.7(G)(a)).
      (5)   Other Structures.
         (a)   Chimneys shall not exceed twenty-nine (29) feet in height.
         (b)   Flag Poles shall not exceed forty (40) feet in height.
         (c)   Non-commercial radio towers regulated by the Federal
Communications Commission shall not exceed forty (40) feet in height.
         (d)   Windmills (both wind generators and water) shall not exceed
forty (40) feet in height.
   (H)   FENCES AND WALLS.
      (1)   No open fence located in the setback areas shall exceed six (6)
feet in height.
      (2)   No solid wall or fence located within the rear or side setback area
shall exceed six (6) feet in height.
      (3)   No solid wall or fence located within the front setback area shall
be more than four (4) feet in height along the public right-of-way. Open
fencing may be placed upon the four foot solid wall to a maximum height of six
(6) feet.
      (4)   No solid wall or fence shall be located within the clear sight
triangle of a driveway and a public or private right-of-way.
      (5)   No solid wall or fence located within the side or rear setback area
and along a public or private right-of-way shall be more than six (6) feet in
height.
      (6)   No solid wall or fence shall be constructed unless a building
permit has been approved by the Village.
      (7)   Concertina (razor wire) wire is prohibited.
      (8)   Gate entrance pillars may reach a maximum height of eight feet and
must observe the clear sight triangle distance from the street and shall not
exceed more than two (2) feet width on either side of the gate itself.
   (I)   SOLAR ACCESS. Building Height Limitations to Preserve Solar Access:
For any new construction submitted after May 19, 2008 the height of any
building shall not exceed a 31° angle plane drawn upward from a horizontal line
located two (2) feet above the existing grade, ten (10) feet within the
northern property line (See illustration §
9.2.7(G)(4)(A).
   (J)   SUBDIVISION. No land containing existing structures shall be
subdivided into an area less than the allowable lot size for the Floor Area
Ratio of the existing structures on the land.
   (K)   EXISTING BUILDING. If an existing structure(s) is to be demolished,
the demolition must take place within one (1) year of the final approval of the
subdivision.
   (L)   PERMEABLE SURFACES.
      (1)   Permeable surfaces shall be a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of lot
area.
   (M)   DARK SKIES REGULATIONS. As set forth in §
9.2.20.
§ 9.2.9 A-3 AGRICULTURAL/RESIDENTIAL ZONE (1 residential unit/three acres)
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. The purpose of this Section is to preserve the
rural/agricultural character of the area with particular emphasis on the
protection of groundwater resources and open areas while allowing very low
density residential development permitted in this zone at one (1) dwelling unit
per three (3) acres in conformance with the Village Master Plan. This zone
encompasses only the area of the Los Poblanos Estates Subdivision as shown on
the plat thereof filed in Volume D3, Folio 134 of the Records of the Bernalillo
County Clerk. (See map adopted with Ord. #129).
   (B)   PERMISSIVE USES. A building or premise shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Any Permissive Use as allowed and regulated in §
9.2.7 A-1 Zone.
   (C)   CONDITIONAL USES. The following uses shall be allowed when approval
has been obtained as set forth in §
9.2.25, Application and Approval Process:
      (1)   Any Conditional Use as allowed and regulated in §
9.2.7 A-1 Zone.
   (D)   ACCESSORY USES. Uses customary and incidental to primary use of the
lot, in conformance with the zone.
   (E)   AREA REGULATIONS.
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be three (3) acres (130,680 square feet)
and minimum lot width shall be one hundred fifty (150) feet.
      (2)   Setbacks. Setback limits apply to all buildings and/or structures
including swimming pools.
         (a)   Except as provided elsewhere in §
9.2.9(E) of this Article, the minimum front setback shall be twenty-five (25)
feet, the minimum side setback shall be fifteen (15) feet, and the minimum rear
setback shall be twenty-five (25) feet. For any property bounded by an
irrigation ditch or drain, the minimum setback along the ditch or drain shall
be twenty-five (25) feet.
      (3)   PRESERVATION OF OPEN SPACE AND VISTAS.
         (a)   For all properties which border on Rio Grande Boulevard, as
described in South Rio Grande Area A Illustration §
9.2.7(E)(3)(a), roughly bounded on the west side of Rio Grande Blvd., to the
south by the north boundaries of Tinnin Farms, and Rob Lee Meadows
subdivisions; to the west by the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque
municipal boundary [at the Atrisco Feeder Canal]; and to the north by the
southern boundary of the Guadalupe Woods subdivision; and on the east side of
Rio Grande Boulevard, to the north by Chamisal Road; to the east by the Pueblo
Lateral; and to the south by Green Valley Road, and for the South Rio Grande
Area B Illustration §
9.3.7(E)(3)(a), roughly bounded on the west side of Rio Grande Blvd., to the
south by Montano Road; to the west by the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque
municipal boundary [at the Atrisco Feeder Canal]; to the north by the southern
boundaries of Tinnin Farms, and Rob Lee Meadows subdivisions, and on the east
side of Rio Grande Blvd. to the north by the Gallegos Lateral; to the east by
the Griegos Drain; and to the south by Montano Road, a setback of two hundred
eighty (280) feet from the centerline of Rio Grande Boulevard is established.
(See Map A & B).
         (b)   Existing development is non-conforming and exempt from the
setback, however redevelopment is not exempt, nor can new structures be added
in the setback area of non-conforming lots.
         (c)   To preserve development rights, all properties affected by this
setback shall be allowed to developed to the maximum overall density (FAR) that
would have otherwise been allowed on the property, however, all development
must take place behind the setback.
         (d)   Where necessary to allow development in a conventional
residential configuration, the rear setback may be reduced to fifteen (15)
feet, side setbacks may be reduced to ten (10) feet, without requiring the
Variance process with Planning Director approval on a case by case basis.
      (4)   Where lots have double frontage, the required front setback shall
be provided on both sides, except those houses facing Rio Grande Blvd. subject
to the North Rio Grande Character Area and South Rio Grande Character Areas A &
B.
      (5)   For very narrow tripa, unusually small, and/or unusual shaped lots
one side yard setback may be reduced to less than ten (10) feet providing
building height meets the conditions of this Section.
   (F)   FLOOR AREA RATIO for residential buildings for all A-3 zoned
properties in the Village with Floor Area, Total as defined in §
9.2.3(B), Definitions.
      (1)   The floor area ratio of all single family residential units shall
be determined by the allowable floor area listed in the adopted 20% All Village
FAR TABLE for the lot area as defined in §
9.2.3(B), Floor Area Ratio (FAR).
   (G)   HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
      (1)   Height of residential buildings shall be limited to twenty-six (26)
feet from existing grade (the existing surface of the ground), to the top of
the pitch, top of the parapet or top of the mansard roof line.
      (2)   Single Story Buildings shall not exceed seventeen (17) feet in
height. The first floor building height shall be measured at seventeen (17)
feet from the existing grade.
         (a)   If the single story height exceeds seventeen (17) feet, that
portion of the building shall be considered a second floor, and shall be
counted as square footage for Floor Area Ratio purposes. Second floors shall be
regulated by the second floor percentages and limitations of §
9.2.9(G)(3)(a).
         (b)   Detached garages, including those for recreational vehicles,
shall not be more than seventeen (17) feet in height.
      (3)   Two Story Buildings shall not exceed twenty-six (26) feet in height
measured from the existing grade, to the top of the pitch, top of the parapet
or top of the mansard roof line.
         (a)   Second floor areas, including all covered patios, porches,
portals, balconies, and other open and accessible living areas, shall be
limited to a total of sixty percent (60%) of the first floor enclosed square
footage, as defined by §
9.2.3(B), Enclosed Area.
      (4)   Height Of Facades.
         (a)   No single façade wall length shall be greater than fifteen
percent (15%) of the calculated perimeter of façade walls of the first floor,
and exceed seventeen (17) feet in height. Any portion of a façade wall
exceeding the fifteen percent (15%) perimeter length shall be limited to
seventeen (17) feet in height or shall be stepped back by four (4) feet or
equal to a 45° plane drawn from a perpendicular point on the adjacent property
line. (See Illustration §
9.2.7(G)(3)).
      (5)   Other Structures.
         (a)   Chimneys shall not exceed twenty-nine (29) feet in height.
         (b)   Flag Poles shall not exceed forty (40) feet in height.
         (c)   Non-commercial radio towers regulated by the Federal
Communications Commission shall not exceed forty (40) feet in height.
         (d)   Windmills (both wind generating and water) shall not exceed
forth (40) feet in height.
   (H)   FENCES AND WALLS.
      (1)   No open fence located in the setback areas shall exceed six (6)
feet in height.
      (2)   No solid wall or fence located within the rear or side setback area
shall exceed six (6) feet in height.
      (3)   No solid wall or fence located within the front setback area shall
be more than four (4) feet in height. Open fencing may be placed upon the four
(4) foot solid wall to a maximum of six (6) feet.
      (4)   No solid wall or fence shall be located within the clear sight
triangle of a driveway and a public or private right-of-way.
      (5)   No solid wall or fence located within the side or rear setback area
and along a public or private right-of-way shall be more than six (6) feet in
height.
      (6)   No solid wall or fence shall be constructed unless a building
permit has been approved by the Village.
      (7)   Concertina (razor wire) wire is prohibited.
      (8)   Gate entrance pillars may reach a maximum height of eight (8) feet
and must observe the clear sight triangle distance from the street and shall
not exceed more than two (2) feet width on either side of the gate itself.
   (I)   SOLAR ACCESS. Building Height Limitations to Preserve Solar Access:
For any new construction submitted after May 19, 2008, the height of any
building shall not exceed a 31° angle plane drawn upward from a horizontal line
located two feet above the existing grade, ten feet within the northern
property line (See illustration §
9.2.7(G)(4)(a)).
   (J)   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   No land containing existing structures shall be subdivided into an
area less than the allowable lot size for the Floor Area Ratio of the existing
structures on the land.
   (K)   EXISTING STRUCTURES.
      (1)   If an existing structure(s) is to be demolished, the demolition
must take place within one (1) year of the final approval of the subdivision.
   (L)   PERMEABLE SURFACES.
      (1)   Permeable surfaces shall be a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of lot
area.
   (M)   DARK SKIES REGULATIONS. As set forth in §
9.2.20.
§ 9.2.10 R-2 RESIDENTIAL ZONE (one residential unit/one half (.5) acre)
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. The purpose of this Section is to allow
residential development permitted in this zone at one dwelling units per one
half (.5) acre in conformance with the Village Master Plan, except as noted
below in §
9.2.10 (E)(1). This zone includes large and small lot mixed residential and
commercial development, and historic clusters of homes as well as the
traditional tripas and ditch irrigation.
   (B)   PERMISSIVE USES. A building or premise shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Any permissive use as allowed and regulated in §
9.2.7 A-1 Zone.
   (C)   CONDITIONAL USES. The following uses shall be allowed when approval
has been obtained as set forth in §
9.2.25, Application and Approval Process:
      (1)   Any conditional use as allowed and regulated in §
9.2.7 A-1 Zone.
   (D)   ACCESSORY USES. Uses customary and incidental to primary use of the
lot, that are in conformance with the zone.
   (E)   AREA REGULATIONS.
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be three-fourths (¾) of an acre (32,670
square feet), except where community water and sewer facilities are available,
the lot area shall be reduced to half (½) of an acre (21,780 square feet).
Minimum lot width shall be sixty (60) feet.
      (2)   Setbacks. Setback limits apply to all buildings and/or structures,
including swimming pools.
         (a)   The minimum front setback shall be twenty (20) feet; the minimum
side setback shall be ten (10) feet; and the minimum rear setback shall be
fifteen (15) feet. For any property bounded by an irrigation ditch or drain,
the minimum setback along the ditch or drain shall be twenty-five (25) feet.
            1. Where lots have double frontage, the required front setback
shall be provided on both sides.
         (b)   For very narrow tripa, unusually small, and/or unusual shaped
lots one side yard setback may be reduced to less than ten (10) feet providing
building height meets the conditions of this Section.
   (F)   FLOOR AREA RATIO for residential buildings for all R-2 zoned
properties in the Village with Floor Area, Total as defined in §
9.2.3(B), Definitions.
      (1)   The floor area ratio of all single family residential units shall
be determined by the allowable floor area listed in the adopted 20% All Village
FAR TABLE for the net lot area as defined in §
9.2.3(B), Floor Area Ratio (FAR).
   (G)   HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
      (1)   Height of residential buildings shall be limited to twenty-six (26)
feet from existing grade (the existing surface of the ground), to the top of
the pitch, top of the parapet or top of the mansard roofline.
      (2)   Single Story Buildings shall not exceed seventeen (17) feet in
height. The first floor building height shall be measured at seventeen (17)
feet from the existing grade.
         (a)   If the single story height exceeds seventeen (17) feet, that
portion of the building shall be considered a second floor and shall be counted
as square footage for Floor Area Ratio purposes. Second floors shall be
regulated by the second floor percentages and limitations of §
9.2.10(G)(3)(a).
         (b)   Detached garages, including those for recreational vehicles,
shall not be more than seventeen (17) feet in height.
      (3)   Two Story Buildings shall not exceed twenty-six (26) feet in height
measured from the existing grade, to the top of the pitch, top of the parapet
or top of the mansard roof line.
         (a)   Second floor areas, including all covered patios, porches,
portals, balconies, and other open and accessible living areas, shall be
limited to a total of sixty percent (60%) of the first floor enclosed square
footage, as defined by §
9.2.3(B), Enclosed Area.
      (4)   Height Of Facades.
         (a)   No single façade wall length shall be greater than fifteen
percent (15%) of the calculated perimeter of façade walls of the first floor
and exceed seventeen (17) feet in height. Any portion of a façade wall
exceeding the fifteen percent (15%) perimeter length shall be limited to
seventeen (17) feet in height or shall be stepped back by four (4) feet or
equal to a 45° plane drawn from a perpendicular point on the adjacent property
line. (See Illustration §
9.2.7(G)(3)).
      (5)   Other Structures.
         (a)   Chimneys shall not exceed twenty-nine (29) feet in height.
         (b)   Flag Poles shall not exceed forty (40) feet in height.
         (c)   Non-commercial radio towers regulated by the Federal
Communications Commission shall not exceed forty (40) feet in height.
         (d)   Windmills (both wind generators and water) shall not exceed
forty (40) feet in height.
   (H)   FENCES AND WALLS.
      (1)   No open fence located in the setback areas shall exceed six (6)
feet in height.
      (2)   No solid wall or fence located within the rear or side setback area
shall exceed six (6) feet in height.
      (3)   No solid wall or fence located within the front yard setback area
shall be more than four (4) feet in height. Open fencing may be placed upon the
four (4) foot solid wall to a maximum height of six (6) feet.
      (4)   No solid wall or fence shall be located within the clear sight
triangle of a driveway and a public or private right-of-way.
      (5)   No solid wall or fence located within the side or rear setback
area, and along a public or private right-of-way shall be more than six (6)
feet in height.
      (6)   No solid wall or fence shall be constructed unless a building
permit has been approved by the Village.
      (7)   Concertina (razor wire) wire is prohibited.
      (8)   Gate entrance pillars may reach a maximum height of eight (8) feet
and must observe the clear sight triangle distance from the street and shall
not exceed more than two (2) feet width on either side of the gate itself.
   (I)   SOLAR ACCESS. Building Height Limitations to Preserve Solar Access:
For any new construction submitted after May 19, 2008, the height of any
building shall not exceed a 31° angle plane drawn upward from a horizontal line
located two feet above the existing grade, ten feet within the northern
property line (See illustration §
9.2.7(G)(4)(a)).
   (I)   SUBDIVISION. No land containing existing structures shall be
subdivided into an area less than the allowable lot size for the Floor Area
Ratio of the existing structures on the land.
   (K)   EXISTING STRUCTURE. If an existing structure(s) is to be demolished,
the demolition must take place within one (1) year of the final approval of the
subdivision.
   (L)   PERMEABLE SURFACES.
      (1)   Permeable surfaces shall be a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of lot
area.
   (M)   DARK SKIES REGULATIONS. As set forth in §
9.2.20.
§ 9.2.11 R-3 RESIDENTIAL ZONE (one residential unit/ one third (.33) acre)
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. The purpose of this Section is to allow
residential development permitted in this zone one dwelling units per one third
(.33) acre in conformance with the Village Master Plan, except as noted below
in §
9.2.11 (E)(1). This zone includes mixed residential and commercial development,
some agricultural use, and historic segments of the original “US Route 66” and
El Camino Real.
   (B)   PERMISSIVE USES. A building or premise shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Any permissive use as allowed and regulated in §
9.2.7 A-1 Zone.
   (C)   CONDITIONAL USES. The following uses shall be allowed when approval
has been obtained as set forth in §
9.2.25, Application and Approval Process:
      (1)   Any conditional use as allowed and regulated in §
9.2.7 A-1 Zone.
   (D)   ACCESSORY USES. Uses customary and incidental to primary use of the
lot, that is in conformance with the zone.
   (E)   AREA REGULATIONS.
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be three-quarters (¾) of an acre (32,670
square feet), except where community water and sewer facilities are available,
the lot area may be reduced to one third (1/3) of an acre (14,520 square feet).
Minimum lot width shall be sixty (60) feet.
      (2)   Setbacks. Setback limits apply to all buildings and/or structures
including swimming pools.
         (a)   The minimum front setback shall be twenty (20) feet; the minimum
side setback shall be ten (10) feet; and the minimum rear setback shall be
fifteen (15) feet. For any property bounded by an irrigation ditch or drain,
the minimum setback along the ditch or drain shall be twenty-five (25) feet.
            1.   Where lots have double frontage, the required front setback
shall be provided on both sides. For very narrow tripa, unusually small, and/or
unusual shaped lots, one side yard setback may be reduced to less than ten (10)
feet providing building height meets the conditions of this Section.
   (F)   FLOOR AREA RATIO for residential buildings for all R-3 zoned
properties in the Village with Floor Area, Total as defined in §
9.2.3(B), Definitions.
      (1)   The floor area ratio of all single family residential units shall
be determined by the allowable floor area listed in the adopted 20% All Village
FAR TABLE for the net lot area as defined in §
9.2.3(B), Floor Area Ratio (FAR). allowable floor area listed in the adopted
20% All Village FAR TABLE for net lot area.
      (2)   FLOOR AREA RATIO APPLICATION IN SUBDIVISIONS WITH SUBSTANDARD LOT
AREA. In consideration of those previously approved subdivisions that were
approved with SU-1 Zoning or Special Use Permit and less than one/third acre
(.333) lot size (those being Nico Trail, Rincones de Los Ranchos and Los Prados
de Guadalupe), the Planning Director shall consider applications for building
permits limiting the size of the dwelling to that which is reasonably
consistent with other houses in the development, considering such factors as
total lot coverage and average square footage of previously developed lots
without applying the floor area ratio. All other code requirements such as
height, step-back, setbacks, etc. must be met.
   (G)   HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
      (1)   Height of residential buildings shall be limited to twenty-six (26)
feet from existing grade (the existing surface of the ground), to the top of
the pitch, top of the parapet or top of the mansard roofline.
      (2)   Single Story Buildings shall not exceed seventeen (17) feet in
height. The first floor building height shall be measured at seventeen (17)
feet from the existing grade.
         (a)   If the single story height exceeds seventeen (17) feet, that
portion of the building shall be considered a second floor and shall be counted
as square footage for Floor Area Ratio purposes. Second floors shall be
regulated by the second floor percentages and limitations of §
9.2.11(G)(3)(a).
         (b)   Detached garages, including those for recreational vehicles,
shall not be more than seventeen (17) feet in height.
      (3)   Two Story Buildings shall not exceed twenty-six (26) feet in height
measured from the existing grade, to the top of the pitch, top of the parapet
or top of the mansard roof line.
         (a)   Second floor areas, including all covered patios, porches,
portals, balconies, and other open and accessible living areas, shall be
limited to a total of sixty percent (60%) of the first floor enclosed square
footage, as defined by §
9.2.3(B), Enclosed Area.
      (4)   Height Of Facades.
         (a)   No single façade wall length shall be greater than fifteen
percent (15%) of the calculated perimeter of façade walls of the first floor
and exceed seventeen (17) feet in height. Any portion of a façade wall
exceeding the fifteen percent (15%) perimeter length shall be limited to
seventeen (17) feet in height or shall be stepped back by four (4) feet or
equal to a 45° plane drawn from a perpendicular point on the adjacent property
line. (See Illustration §
9.2.7(G)(3)).
      (5)   Other Structures.
         (a)   Chimneys shall not exceed twenty-nine (29) feet in height.
         (b)   Flag Poles shall not exceed forty (40) feet in height.
         (c)   Non-commercial radio towers regulated by the Federal
Communications Commission shall not exceed forty (40) feet in height.
         (d)   Windmills (both wind generators and water) shall not exceed
forty (40) feet in height.
   (H)   FENCES AND WALLS.
      (1)   No open fence located in the setback areas shall exceed six (6)
feet in height.
      (2)   No solid wall or fence located within the rear or side setback area
shall exceed six (6) feet in height.
      (3)   No solid wall or fence located within the front yard setback area
shall be more than four (4) feet in height. Open fencing may be placed upon the
four (4) foot solid wall to a maximum height of six (6) feet.
      (4)   No solid wall or fence shall be located within the clear sight
triangle of a driveway and a public or private right-of-way.
      (5)   No solid wall or fence located within the side or rear setback area
and along a public or private right-of-way shall be more than six (6) feet in
height.
      (6)   No solid wall or fence shall be constructed unless a building
permit has been approved by the Village.
      (7)   Concertina (razor wire) wire is prohibited.
      (8)   Gate entrance pillars may reach a maximum height of eight (8) feet
and must observe the clear sight triangle distance from the street and shall
not exceed more than two (2) feet width on either side of the gate itself.
   (I)   SOLAR ACCESS. Building Height Limitations to Preserve Solar Access:
For any new construction submitted after May 19, 2008, the height of any
building shall not exceed a 31° angle plane drawn upward from a horizontal line
located two (2) feet above the existing grade, ten (10) feet within the
northern property line. (See illustration §
9.2.7(G)(4)(a)).
   (J)   SUBDIVISION. No land containing existing structures shall be
subdivided into an area less than the allowable lot size for the Floor Area
Ratio of the existing structures on the land.
   (K)   EXISTING BUILDING. If an existing structure(s) is to be demolished,
the demolition must take place within one (1) year of the final approval of the
subdivision.
   (L)   PERMEABLE SURFACES.
      (1)   Permeable surfaces shall be a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of lot
area.
   (M)   DARK SKIES REGULATIONS. As set forth in §
9.2.20.
§ 9.2.12 C-1 RETAIL COMMERCIAL ZONE
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. The purpose of the C-1 Retail Commercial Zone is
to allow commercial, residential, and mixed use development in conformance with
Section 8.2 of the 2020 the Master as may be amended from time to time. The
goal is to retain a village character through:
      (1)   Diversified residential land uses.
      (2)   Density and intensity of Village scale commercial development
appropriate to Village needs, primarily focused on Fourth Street.
Commercial activities include office, service, institutional, specific retail
uses as well as light manufacturing uses along Fourth Street as identified and
limited below. This zone includes the Fourth Street corridor developed as
commercial, agricultural, residential, mixed-use, and mixed parcels of diverse
uses. The termini of Fourth Street at the Village municipal limits serve as
Gateways to the Village, and denote segments of the original “US Route 66” and
El Camino Real.
   (B)   USES. Properties within the C-1 Commercial Retail Zone are required to
conform to the Use Table below. Uses designated as “Permissive” may be denied
if the proposed use is deemed by the Village to be a nuisance or injurious to
adjacent property, the neighborhood, or the Village of Los Ranchos.
Use Table                                                                      
Key:                                                                           
Permissive Uses                                                               P
Conditional Uses                                                              C
Prohibited Uses                                                               X
All uses must comply with ordinances and regulations for permits and
development as required by the Village Codified Ordinances.
                                                                              
Agricultural                                                                  P
Cannabis (as qualified below)                                                 P
Facilities shall not be located within three-hundred (300) feet of a school
or daycare in existence at time of state application. Facilities shall not be  
located within three-hundred (300) feet of one another, based upon distance
at time permit is sought.
Neither cannabis nor hemp shall be grown in landscaping.                       
Cultivation, provided that it not exceed ten percent (10%) of the lot size.
Structures shall be equipped with an activated carbon HVAC filtration system
sized to effectively abate odor emissions and shall be fully enclosed and not P
open-air. Greenhouses used to grow cannabis shall be limited to one thousand
(1,000) square feet in enclosed area.
Retailer excepting that sale between 8:00 pm to 9:00 am is prohibited.        P
Cannabis consumption area.                                                    X
Product manufacturing, provided that structures shall be equipped with an
activated carbon HVAC filtration system sized to effectively abate odor       C
emissions and shall be fully enclosed and not open-air.
Residential (as qualified below)                                              P
Multi-Family (including Assisted living, etc.) with a maximum density of      C
sixteen (16) dwelling units per acre.
Adult or child daycare facilities                                             P
Mixed-Use (where not less than fifty percent (50%) ground floor area is       P
retail). The maximum number of dwelling units per acre is sixteen (16).
Mixed-Use (where not less than 50% around floor area is commercial, including
non-retail uses). The maximum number of dwelling units per acre is sixteen    C
(16).
Garage sales, estate sales, with a limit of 2 weekends each calendar year for
each address. For Mixed-Use, Multi-Family and townhouse or condominium        P
projects, all units in the project will be considered as one address for
purposes of this section.
Single-family, detached, townhouse, or condominium. The maximum number of     P
dwelling units per acre is sixteen (16).
Single-family detached, townhouse, or condominium on more than one (1) acre
of land and when over sixteen (16) dwelling units are proposed. The maximum   C
number of dwelling units per acre is sixteen (16).
                                                                              
Institutional (as qualified below)                                            P
Government buildings and accessory uses customarily incidental to that use    P
Place of worship                                                              C
Schools, public or private, education facilities, or learning centers         C
Theaters                                                                      C
                                                                              
Food, beverage, and alcohol service (as qualified below)                      P
Alcohol sales between 12:00 am and 2:00 am                                    C
Alcohol sales between 2:00 am and 8:00 am                                     X
                                                                              
Lodging                                                                       P
                                                                              
Services (as qualified below)                                                 P
Dry cleaning, laundry, clothes pressing operations, laundromats               P
Ferrier services                                                              P
Large animal boarding facilities                                              C
Mortuary                                                                      C
Rental centers                                                                C
                                                                              
Office                                                                        P
                                                                              
Retail (as qualified below)                                                   P
Adult bookstore or video store                                                X
Adult entertainment establishments                                            X
Fireworks stores, both temporary and permanent                                X
Large format retail exceeding 50,000 square feet in a single level            X
                                                                              
Light manufacturing such as of materials, food, or beverage                   P
                                                                              
Auto-oriented Uses                                                             
Auto sales                                                                    C
Auto parts and supplies, including service stations                           P
Farm equipment, sales and service                                             P
Commercial car washes                                                         P
Construction yards and commercial storage facilities                          C
Establishments with drive-up facilities                                       C
Self-storage units                                                            C
Trailer or recreational vehicle sales or service                              C
                                                                              
Civic Support                                                                  
Parking lots and parking structures                                           C
Public utility structures such as transformers, switching, pumping, or
similar technical installations essential to the operation of a public        C
utility
 
Conditional Uses as referenced herein must be approved in accordance with
Section
9.2.25(E) of the Village Codified Ordinances.
   (C)   ACCESSORY USES. Uses that are customary and incidental to the primary
use of the lot and in conformance with the zone.
   (D)   AREA REGULATIONS.
      (1)   Commercial buildings. All commercial buildings and/or structures
with the exception of signs must comply with the following setback
requirements.
         (a)   Except as provided in §
9.2.12(E)(2)(b), minimum setbacks when the lot does not abut a residentially
zoned property shall be:
 
Front Five (5) feet minimum
Side  Zero (0) feet minimum
Rear  Zero (0) feet minimum
 
         (b)   Where a C-1 lot abuts a residentially zoned lot, the minimum
setback, on the side abutting the residentially zoned property, shall be:
 
Front Five (5) feet minimum
Side  Ten (10) feet minimum
Rear  Fifteen (15) feet minimum
 
         (c)   Where lots have frontage on two public streets, the required
minimum front setback shall apply to both sides of the lot abutting public
streets.
      (2)   Setback limits for residential buildings.
         (a)   For any residential or mixed use building other than single
family detached dwellings, the minimum setback (including swimming pools) is:
 
Front Five (5) feet minimum
Side  Zero (0) feet minimum
Rear  Fifteen (15) feet minimum
 
         (b)   For any single family detached residential the minimum setback
is:
 
Front Fifteen (15) feet minimum
Side  Ten (10) feet minimum
Rear  Fifteen (15) feet minimum
 
         (c)   For any property adjoining an MRGCD maintained irrigation ditch
or drain, the minimum setback along the ditch or drain shall be twenty-five
(25) feet from the nearest bank/edge of the ditch, or the property line,
whichever is greater.
      (3)   FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR) In the C-1 Commercial Residential Zone the
FAR shall only apply to single family detached residential properties.
   (E)   HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
      (1)   Building height in the C-1 Zone shall be limited to twenty-six (26)
feet from the predevelopment grade to the top of the pitch, top of the parapet
or top of the mansard roof line.
         (a)   Second floor areas in single family detached buildings,
including all covered patios, porches, portals, balconies and other open and
accessible living areas, shall be limited to a total of sixty percent (60%) of
the first-floor enclosed square footage, as defined by § 9.2.3(B), Enclosed
Area. For all other development in the C-1 Zone, covered patios, porches,
portals, balconies and other open and accessible areas may exceed sixty percent
(60%) of enclosed area but must not extend beyond the footprint of the first-
floor. Where a non-single family detached building abuts Fourth Street,
balconies may extend up to five (5) feet beyond the first-floor footprint, even
if within the setback, if it is supported from the structure and not the
ground.
      (2)   Height of Facades.
         (a)   No single façade wall length shall be greater than fifteen
percent (15%) of the total perimeter of the façade walls of the first floor and
exceed seventeen (17) feet in height. Any portion of a façade wall exceeding
the fifteen percent (15%) perimeter length shall be limited to seventeen (17)
feet in height or shall be stepped back by four (4) feet or equal to a 45°
plane drawn from a perpendicular point measured at the property line. (See
Illustration §9.2.7(G)(3))
      (3)   Other Structures.
         (a)   Chimneys must not exceed twenty-nine (29) feet in height.
         (b)   Flag Poles must not exceed forty (40) feet in height.
         (c)   Non-commercial radio towers regulated by the Federal
Communications Commission must not exceed forty (40) feet in height.
         (d)   Windmills (both wind generators and water) are limited to forty
(40) feet in height.
   (F)   FENCES AND WALLS.
      (1)   No open fences located in the setback areas shall exceed six (6)
feet in height.
      (2)   No solid wall or solid fence located within the rear or side
setback area shall exceed six (6) feet in height.
      (3)   No solid wall or solid fence located within the front yard setback
area more than four (4) feet in height will be permitted. Open fencing may be
placed on top of the solid wall to permit a combined maximum height of six (6)
feet.
      (4)   No solid wall or solid fence shall be located within the clear
sight triangle of a driveway or public or private road or driveway and a public
or private right-of-way.
      (5)   No solid wall or solid fence located within the side or rear
setback area and along a public or private right-of-way shall be more than six
(6) feet in height, with the exception for residential use (§
9.2.12(G)(6)).
      (6)   No solid wall or fence of any kind shall be constructed unless a
zone review permit has been approved by the Village.
      (7)   Concertina (razor wire) wire is prohibited.
      (8)   Gate entrance pillars may reach a maximum height of eight (8) feet
and must observe the clear sight triangle distance from the street and shall
not exceed more than two (2) feet width on either side of the gate itself.
   (G)   EXISTING STRUCTURE. If in a Site Development Plan approval an existing
structure(s) is to be demolished, the demolition must be completed within one
(1) year of the final approval of the Site Development Plan.
   (H)   DESIGN REGULATIONS.
      (1)   The design of the commercial and residential developments within
the C-1 Zone (footnote 4), will be determined in the Site Development Plan
application and approval process.
      (2)   Windowless walls shall not be permitted facing a public street.
Facades that face Fourth Street must have transparent glazing for a minimum of
30% of the area of the façade.
      (3)   Lots that face Fourth Street must have buildings along a minimum of
fifty (50) percent of the property line/setback line adjacent to Fourth Street.
      (4)   The primary entry of all buildings shall open onto a sidewalk
readily accessible to the public. Secondary entries maybe accessible from
private parking lots.
   (I)   OFF STREET PARKING REGULATIONS.
      (1)   Parking is permitted at the side and rear of a building. Parking
cannot be located between the front of the building and the public sidewalk. If
parking is located on the side of a building adjacent to a public roadway, it
shall be screened from the roadway by an opaque wall or evergreen hedge that
shall be a minimum of thirty (30) inches and a maximum of forty (40) inches in
height.
      (2)   The minimum requirements for off-street parking spaces for property
shall be as follows:
Use                    Required off street parking spaces
Amusement facility     Four (4) spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
                       gross floor area
Residential            One (1) space per residence
Dining, bar, nightclub Five (5) spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
                       gross floor area
Retail, office         Two (2) spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
                       gross floor area
Assembly               Four (4) spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
                       gross floor area
Lodging                One (1) space per room
Light manufacturing    One (1) space per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
                       gross floor area
Institutional          Three (3) spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
                       gross floor area
 
   (J)   LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS. As set forth in §
9.2.19.
   (K)   DARK SKIES REGULATIONS. As set forth in §
9.2.20.
   (L)   SIGNS. As set forth in §
9.2.22.
   (M)   OUTDOOR STORAGE REGULATIONS. If outdoor storage is allowed in
conjunction with a permitted use in this Section:
      (1)   Stored materials shall be fenced and screened.
      (2)   Stored materials shall be safely contained.
      (3)   Stored materials and inoperable vehicles shall be appropriately
buffered from public view.
   (N)   OUTDOOR DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE. If outside display of merchandise is
permitted in conjunction with a permitted use in this Section. Publicly owned
sidewalks of roadways may not be used for outdoor display of merchandise.
      (1)   The total area allowed for outdoor display of merchandise. Is
limited to five (5) percent of the total gross square footage of the lot upon
which the display is located.
      (2)   Displayed merchandise shall be safely stored and shall not utilize
required parking spaces or impede pedestrian use of interior walkways.
      (3)   The displays shall be temporary and be erected during business
hours only.
      (4)   Displays shall be located not less than twenty (20) feet from any
residentially zoned property.
   (O)   TRANSIT REGULATIONS. If there is an existing bus stop located directly
adjacent to a property, granting of an easement for a new sheltered bus stop
will be a development requirement, as approved by the Commission/Board.
   (P)   APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS. As set forth in §
9.2.25.
§ 9.2.13 GD – GATEWAY DISTRICT ZONE
   (A)   SHORT TITLE. This Section may be cited as the Gateway District Zone
Code
   (B)   PURPOSES. The purpose of the Gateway District Zone, referred to as
“GD,” is to encourage the development of a transit-supportive mixed-use
neighborhood of commercial and residential uses that fosters pedestrian
activity and a sense of community. It recognizes the importance of linkages to
the broader community and the importance of public transit as a viable
alternative to the automobile by providing appropriate densities and land uses
within walking distance of bus terminals, bike and pedestrian formal trails and
the Rail Runner Los Ranchos/Journal Center Station. It is the intent of this
Section that the Gateway District Zone should focus on maintaining Village
style, scale and character. The Gateway District Zone will permit both
commercial and residential uses on the same lot or tract.
   (C)   DEFINITIONS. As used in the Gateway District Zone Code of the Village
of Los Ranchos.
      (1)   GENERAL TERMS.
         (a)   The word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, limited liability company and corporation, as well
as an individual.
         (b)   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular.
         (c)   The words “shall,” “will” and “must” are always mandatory and
not merely directory. The word “may” is permissive.
         (d)   All references to “he” or “she” herein are deemed to be gender-
neutral, unless specifically indicated otherwise.
         (e)   The definitions in this Section shall supersede any dictionary
definition.
      (2)   DEFINITIONS.
         CONDOMINIUM DECLARATION means a condominium declaration meeting the
requirements of the New Mexico Condominium Act, NMSA 1978 § 47-7A-1, et seq.,
as amended and having been approved by the Village pursuant to the Subdivision
Code.
         GATEWAY DISTRICT means that specific area beginning on Fourth Street
at the southeast corner of Villa Christina Road to El Pueblo Road and
continuing east parallel to El Pueblo Road to Second Street as shown on the
accompanying Zone Map for the Gateway District.
         KIOSK means a permanent freestanding structure or mobile cart located
within a pedestrian circulation area, but not in a pedestrian way, and used for
the purpose of sale of food, flowers, newspapers or other goods, with a Village
issued license.
         LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT means an approach to land development (or re-
development) that treats stormwater as a valuable resource and not a waste
product and works with nature to manage stormwater as close to its source as
possible, in accordance with standards adopted by the Village. Low Impact
Development practices and principles include on-site water retention, water
harvesting and recycling, swales, berms, artificial streams and infiltration
systems.
         MULTI-RESIDENTIAL UNIT means residential units which have a common
wall(s) such as condominiums or townhouses. Multi-Residential Units do not
include multifamily or apartment developments designed as rental properties.
         MULTI-USE BUILDING means a building specifically designed for
residential and commercial use such as live/work where part of the building is
commercial space and part is residential. Residential and commercial use may be
independent of each other.
         PEDESTRIAL WAY means a designated area specifically designed for
pedestrian traffic and designated as a “Pedestrian Way” on the Site Development
Plan approved by the Village.
   (D)   ESTABLISHMENT OF GATEWAY DISTRICT ZONE.
      (1)   Each lot, parcel or tract of land in the Gateway District is hereby
zoned Gateway District Zone.
      (2)   The boundaries of the Gateway District are shown on the attached
map and are incorporated into this Section. The Village Zone map is hereby
amended to include the Gateway District and the Gateway District Zone.
      (3)   In the event the properties east of Fourth Street shown within the
area designated future Gateway District on the attached map are annexed into
the Village, such properties shall become a part of the Gateway District and
shall be zoned Gateway District Zone.
   (E)   PERMISSIVE USES.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USES AND MIXED RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL USES. The
following uses shall be permissive uses in commercial and in mixed residential
and commercial developments; mixed residential and commercial developments
shall be permitted on a single parcel or on separate parcels:
         (a)   All uses permitted in §
9.2.7 A-1 Zone except as may be specifically modified or prohibited herein.
         (b)   All uses permitted in §
9.2.12 C-1 Zone except as expressly modified or prohibited herein.
         (c)   Kiosks. Kiosks may freely move, but shall not block the
Pedestrian Way, bicycle or vehicular travel path. Kiosks may not exceed 28
square feet in total size. Kiosks must be permitted in accordance with the
procedures adopted by the Village and NMED if selling food. Signage shall be
limited to identification of products or services sold by the Kiosk.
         (d)   All residential uses as permitted in subsection §
9.2.13(E)(3) hereof.
      (2)   CONDITIONAL USES. The following uses may be allowed when approved
as set forth in §
9.2.25(D)(3); §
9.2.25(E)(2):
         (a)   Animal keeping in excess of that allowed by permissive use.
         (b)   Animal boarding kennels, provided animal smells and noises are
mitigated.
         (c)   Assisted living (adult) facilities, provided the facility
complies with Village, State and Federal regulations.
         (d)   Bars, lounges, or restaurants serving liquor, provided hours of
operation and associated impacts such as noise are mitigated.
         (e)   Bed and Breakfast establishments, without limitation on number
of units, which meet §
9.2.25(E)(1) Application and Approval Process.
         (f)   Contractor yards with approved hours of operation, dust control,
storage, buffering from adjoining neighbors and noise mitigation.
         (g)   Dry cleaning, laundry, clothes pressing operation and
laundromat, provided:
            1. Only non-flammable or non-combustible materials are used in the
cleaning process;
            2. That portion of the structure in which any cleaning process is
done is at least fifty (50) feet from any residential use.
         (h)   Group home, with proper approvals and/or licenses as required by
the State of New Mexico.
         (i)   Indoor amusement enterprise such as auditorium, billiards or
pool hall, bowling alley, dance hall, theater or indoor shooting range.
         (j)   Mobile home, only if used as an office or dwelling during the
construction of a dwelling on the same project, provided such use may be
limited to a maximum period of one (1) year. A bond in the amount of $1,000.00
or the then current cost of removal must be posted to ensure compliance with
the conditions of the use. The one (1) year period shall commence on the
earlier of the date that conditional use approval is granted or the date the
mobile home is first located on the premises after approval. Recreational
Vehicles (RVs) and campers are not allowed as a dwelling unit. Mobile homes may
not be used as a permanent dwelling unit except in existing approved mobile
home parks.
         (k)   Public utility structures such as a transformer, switching,
pumping, or similar technical installation essential to the operation of a
public utility.
         (l)   Service and gasoline stations, including the retail sale of
petroleum products, tube and tire repair, but not including automobile repair
services.
         (m)   Schools, public and private, educational facilities, or learning
centers, provided hours of operation are in compliance with all applicable
Federal, State and Village laws, Code, Ordinances and Regulations.
         (n)   Wineries, breweries and distilleries, including on-site
consumption and sale of products, in accordance with State and Village
regulations.
         (o)   Wireless telecommunication (“cellular tower”) facilities, when
disguised as some other structure such as a flagpole, tree, light fixture or is
incorporated into a building and meets all requirements of §
9.6.1 et seq.
      (3)   RESIDENTIAL USES. The following uses shall be Permissive Uses in
residential developments which are not commercial or mixed residential/
commercial developments:
         (a)   All uses permitted in §
9.2.7 A-1 Zone except as may be specifically limited or modified herein.
         (b)   Single-family Residential dwelling units (site-built or modular)
with a maximum of one dwelling unit per one twelfth (.0833) acre.
         (c)   Multi-Residential Units with a maximum of twelve (12) dwelling
units per acre.
         (d)   Garage sales, estate sales, home distribution parties, trunk
shows or other similar activities, provided the activity is conducted on single
family dwellings or residential condominium property, does not run for more
than three (3) consecutive days and is conducted a maximum of four (4) times a
year. In the case of a garage sale or estate sale, one (1) sign no larger than
six (6) square feet in area may be placed on the premises four (4) hours prior
to and for the duration of the sale.
         (e)   Public parks and accessory uses customarily incidental to that
use.
         (f)   Outdoor sale of food and agricultural products must adhere to
the NMED, Bernalillo County and Village environmental or other regulations.
      (4)   CONDITIONAL USES. The following uses shall be allowed when approval
has been obtained as set forth in §
9.2.25(D)(2), §
9.2.25(E)(2) Application and Approval Process, of the Zoning Code:
         (a)   Childcare facilities provided the facility abides by Village and
State regulations, and traffic, noise and hours of operation are mitigated.
         (b)   Public utility structures such as a transformer, switching,
pumping, or similar technical installation essential to the operation of a
public utility.
         (c)   Place of worship, excluding a Megachurch as defined in §
9.2.3(B) of the Zoning Code.
         (d)   Mobile home used as a dwelling during the construction of a
dwelling on the same premises, provided such use may be limited to a maximum
period of one (1) year; or as approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission; a
one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) bond must be posted to ensure compliance with
the conditions of the use. The one-year period shall commence on the date that
conditional use approval is granted or the date the use actually began, if
earlier, or as approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
         (e)   Guest house.
            1. The guest house is limited to 1,000 square feet of heated floor
area with facilities for cooking, (not necessarily a full kitchen, microwave,
coffee pot, etc.), sleeping and sanitation
            2. Guest houses may not have a garage.
            3. Occupants shall not be charged rent unless an explicit
conditional use allowing rental has been approved by the Commission or rent is
for only short-term rental as all or part of a permitted Bed and Breakfast
Establishment.
            4. Guest houses shall not have a separate address.
            5. Floor Area Ratio applies.
         (f)   Government buildings and accessory uses customarily incidental
to that use. Government buildings and surroundings shall be constructed in
southwestern or compatible architectural style as determined by the Planning
Director.
         (g)   Outdoor recreational facilities accessory to public or private
schools.
         (h)   Public or private schools, educational facilities or learning
centers.
      (5)   PROHIBITED USES IN THE GATEWAY DISTRICT ZONE:
         (a)   Adult entertainment establishments.
         (b)   Apartment buildings or other dwelling units designed primarily
as rental units.
         (c)   Automobile sales.
         (d)   Commercial car washes.
         (e)   Drive through facilities for any business establishment.
         (f)   Hazardous material manufacturing, storage or handling
activities.
         (g)   Hotels, motels or extended stay units.
         (h)   Manufactured or mobile homes (except as described under §
9.2.13(E)(2)(j).
         (i)   Mortuaries.
         (j)   Commercial outdoor storage facilities.
         (k)   Parking or storage of more than one motorized Recreational
Vehicle (RV) per lot of record. Recreational Vehicles do not include small All
Terrain Vehicles (ATV).
         (l)   Self storage units.
         (m)   Storage or sale of well drilling equipment.
         (n)   Tractor/Trailer sales and service.
      (6)   ANCILLARY USES. Uses that are customary and incidental to the
primary use of the lot and in conformance with the zone. Ancillary Uses shall
be permitted only as shown in the approved Site Development Plan.
   (F)   SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
      (1)   APPLICATION AND APPROVAL. A Site Development Plan shall be required
for (i) all new development; (ii) redevelopment of any lot(s) which shall
include a change in use of the lot(s); (iii) for a structural alteration to 20%
or more of an existing structure; and (iv) for the addition of square footage
equal to 20% or more of existing square footage in any existing structure.
Applications for a Site Development Plan or modification of an approved Site
Development Plan shall be submitted in accordance with §
9.2.25(E)(4) Application and Approval Process requirements for approval of Site
Development plans, and in addition shall include the following:
         (a)   A Preliminary/Sketch Plat Site Development Plan Application
shall be submitted to the Village in accordance with Village adopted
procedures. The Application shall set out the commercial and residential
building areas, egress, parking, setbacks and other schematic plans for the
proposed development.
         (b)   The Preliminary Site Development Plan Application shall include
the viability of the development and the justification of the size and location
of the main elements of the proposed development.
         (c)   After the Sketch Plat Review (no vote taken) by the Planning and
Zoning Commission, a Preliminary Site Development Plan Application shall be
submitted providing required detail. The Preliminary Site Development Plan
shall receive a recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Commission to the
Board of Trustees.
         (d)   The Preliminary Site Development Plan shall include, but shall
not be limited to, specifics to that particular development which shall
include:
            1. Lot area coverage of structures – including Floor Area Ratio (if
required) and number of dwelling units per acre.
            2. Height and number of stories per structure.
            3. Setbacks.
            4. Street layout and design.
            5. Pedestrian Ways and Bike Paths.
            6. Stormwater Management Plan, which includes grading, and drainage
plan (Low Impact Development is recommended).
            7. A plan for noise, light and sound mitigation for the surrounding
neighborhood(s).
            8. A list of all facilities/amenities maintenance responsibilities
and to whom they are assigned.
            9. Architectural style and color.
            10. All other requirements of the Village Codified Ordinances
relating to Site Development Plans.
         (e)   The Final Site Development Plan shall be submitted for final
action by the Board of Trustees of the Village.
         (f)   All Site Development Plan approvals will require the developer
of commercial projects or mixed residential/commercial buildings to comply with
commercial construction standards.
   (G)   AREA REGULATIONS.
      (1)   Residential density shall be a maximum density of one dwelling unit
per one twelfth (.0833) acre.
      (2)   Lot size shall be governed by the terms set out in the Site
Development Plan approved by the Board of Trustees, but for a residential lot
shall not be less than .12 acre (3,630 square feet).
         (a)   The Floor Area Ratio (FAR) requirements of the Village Wide FAR
per the Zoning Code shall be met in single family residential developments
calculated on the basis of the net lot area excluding right-of-ways and common
areas, Bike Paths and Pedestrian Ways, (if included in the development).
         (b)   Commercial and mixed commercial/residential developments will be
exempt from the Floor Area Ratio requirements of the Zoning Code.
      (3)   Minimum setback limits for lots or parcels abutting property which
is zoned residential and not within the Gateway District, shall be as follows:
         (a)   The front setback for all buildings shall be as approved in the
Site Development Plan.
            1. For single family residential houses, staggered front setbacks
shall be implemented to avoid the “row house” look.
            2. The side yard setback shall be ten (10) feet.
            3. The rear yard setback shall be fifteen (15) feet.
            4. Minimum setback limits for properties abutting an M.R.G.C.D.
irrigation ditch or drain shall be twenty-five (25) feet from the property line
abutting the M.R.G.C.D. facility.
            5. The maximum height of buildings or structures is twenty-six (26)
feet measuring the vertical distance from the existing grade after grading and
drainage plan implementation to the top of the parapet on a flat roof or the
apex of a pitched roof.
      (4)   All condominiums, residential or commercial, to be sold to
individual owners must have a Village approved Condominium Declaration prepared
in accordance with § 47-7A-1, et seq., NMSA 1978 and a condominium plat.
      (5)   All commercial buildings or mixed residential/commercial buildings
must meet commercial building codes for the proposed usage.
      (6)   All buildings within the Gateway District Zone shall be built using
conventional on-site or modular construction.
   (H)   PEDESTRIAN WAY. Pedestrian Ways and Bicycle Paths designated to enable
the free movement of pedestrians or bicyclists with a specific development are
encouraged in developments with the Gateway District Zone. Development design
may include, where possible, the following elements:
      (1)   A Pedestrian Walkway, consisting of a stable permeable surface –
pavers, permeable asphalt or concrete.
      (2)   A Bike Path consisting of a stable permeable surface – pavers,
permeable asphalt or concrete, which shall be separate from the Pedestrian Way,
shall be provided from public streets or other Bike Paths to a bicycle parking
area within the project, from which the Pedestrian Walkway is accessed.
      (3)   A safety buffer separating the walkway and Bike Path from the
street to promote pedestrian and bicycle safety.
      (4)   Pedestrian Ways and Bike Paths shall tie into other public
Pedestrian Ways or Bike Paths wherever connection is possible.
      (5)   No walls or fences are allowed within a Pedestrian Way or Bike
Path. Low planters no more than two feet, six inches (2.5 feet) in height are
allowable in either side of the Pedestrian Walkway area or Bike Path.
      (6)   Vehicular driveways shall be perpendicular to Pedestrian Ways and
clearly marked by color, pavers or texture and shall not block the continuous
walkway surface.
   (I)   DESIGN CRITERIA.
      (1)   All new buildings are required to have a street facing entrance.
The intent is to make major entrances to buildings obvious and welcoming using
architectural details, lighting and signage.
      (2)   Massing articulation is required on all buildings.
         (a)   Massing articulation methods may include:
            1. distinctive roof forms;
            2. changes in materials;
            3. window patterns;
            4. different colors.
      (3)   Modulation shall extend to the roof, except at balconies. The
purpose is, to the extent reasonably possible, avoid creating a rigid,
rectangular building, but to break up the mass in creative ways.
      (4)   Flat, blank walls shall be prohibited for distances of more than a
fifteen (15) foot length.
      (5)   All mechanical equipment located on the roof shall be concealed by
architectural screening or treatment designed into the roof form. Merely
painting rooftop mechanical equipment or surrounding it with fencing will not
meet the requirements of this Section.
      (6)   Construction shall be appropriate for the architectural style.
Materials such as aluminum siding, metal wall panels, mirrored glass and
unstuccoed masonry units (except brick) or concrete are not allowed.
   (J)   ENVIRONMENTAL AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
      (1)   All development, new or remodel, shall meet required Federal, State
and local EPA National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
requirements and the Air Quality program administered by the City of
Albuquerque. All sites shall provide for noise abatement.
         (a)   Low Impact Development practices and principals for on-site
water retention, water harvesting and recycling, swales, berms, artificial
streams and infiltration systems are recommended.
   (K)   LIGHTING.
      (1)   All lighting within the Gateway District Zone shall conform to §
9.2.20, Dark Skies.
   (L)   NON-CONFORMING USES.
      (1)   Developed properties within the Gateway District which are existing
on November 19, 2012 are an approved non-conforming use, if the use was in
compliance with existing zoning. This Section shall not be interpreted to
approve any use, development or construction that was not in compliance with
existing zoning and development standards as of November 19, 2012. All future
development on the nonconforming parcels shall be governed by the requirements
of the Gateway District.
   (M)   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   No land containing existing structures shall be subdivided into an
area less than the allowable lot size for the Floor Area Ratio of the existing
structures on the land.
   (N)   TRANSIT REGULATIONS. If there is an existing bus stop located directly
adjacent to a property, granting of an easement for a new sheltered bus stop
will be a development requirement, as approved by the Commission/Board.
§ 9.2.14 VC – VILLAGE CENTER ZONE
   PURPOSE AND INTENT. In accordance with the Village of Los Ranchos Master
Plan, the purpose and intent of this Section is to establish a Village Center
Zone surrounding the Fourth Street/Osuna Boulevard/Chavez Road Intersections in
the Village of Los Ranchos that promotes a more viable commercial center for
the Village while protecting the established neighborhoods abutting Fourth
Street and Osuna.
   In creating the Village Center Zone the Village envisions a pleasurable
destination for Village residents to gather and shop, an area that can be
utilized for public gatherings such as markets and special events with a mix of
complementary uses. Commercial development should be limited to those uses
which are deemed to encourage pedestrian activity and draw large numbers of
individuals to the area for the use of the general retail, restaurant and
service establishments. To support the desired commercial development, the
Village Center Zone should be the highest density residential zoning district
in the Village of Los Ranchos.
   The Village Center Project Area includes land within the Village Center
Zone, but does not include all of the land within the Village Center Zone. In
this Project Area, the Village will encourage the types of development
envisioned, and may control development parameters by requiring economic
development plans, entering into development agreements and to the extent the
land may be owned or controlled by the Village, by filing of covenants and
restrictions dealing with development and use of the Land, in addition to the
zoning ordinances.
   (A)   LOCATION AND AREA. In accordance §
9.2.5, the boundaries of the Village Center Zone and the Village Center Project
Area are shown on the official Zone Map.
      (1)   The Project Area boundaries may be amended by the Board of Trustees
in accordance with §
9.2.25(E), Commission/Board Issued Permits.
   (B)   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN. An Economic Development Plan may be
required for any development within the Village Center Project Area and the
content shall be defined by the terms of a Development Agreement entered into
between the Village and the property owner or developer. The Economic
Development Plan will be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission, which
may make recommendations with regard to the Economic Development plan, and
approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   USES. Properties within the Village Center Zone shall conform to the
Use Table below. Uses designated as “Permitted” may be denied if the proposed
use is not in conformance with the Master Plan, or is deemed by the Village to
be a nuisance or injurious to adjacent property, the neighborhood, or the
Village of Los Ranchos.
Use Table                                                                      
Key:                                                                           
Permissive Uses                                                               P
Conditional Uses                                                              C
Prohibited Uses                                                               X
All uses shall meet regulations for permits as required by the Village Codified
Ordinances.
Agricultural                                                                  C
As an ancillary use in support of an on-site permissive use, limited to an
area not to exceed 10% of the area of the permissive use it supports, and not C
to include livestock
Cannabis establishment                                                        X
Residential (as qualified below)                                              P
Assisted living (adult) facilities                                            C
Daycare (adult) facilities                                                    C
Duplex                                                                        X
Garage sales, estate sales, home distribution parties, trunk shows or other   X
similar activities.
Single-family detached                                                        X
Townhouses are required to provide a minimum of 24 dwelling units per gross   C
acre.
Triplex                                                                       X
Institutional (as qualified below)                                            P
Government buildings and accessory uses customarily incidental to that use.   C
Places of worship                                                             C
Schools, public or private, educational facilities, or learning centers       C
Theaters                                                                      C
Food and alcohol service (as qualified below)                                 P
Alcohol sales between 12:00 am and 2:00 am                                    C
Alcohol sales between 2:00 am and 8:00 am                                     X
Lodging (densities consistent with residential use requirements)              P
Services (as qualified below)                                                 P
Dry cleaning, laundry, clothes pressing operations, laundromats               C
Ferrier services                                                              X
Large animal boarding facilities                                              X
Mortuary                                                                      X
Rental centers                                                                X
Office                                                                        P
Retail (as qualified below)                                                   P
Adult bookstore or video store                                                X
Adult entertainment establishments                                            X
Fireworks stores, both temporary and permanent                                X
Large format retail exceeding 50,000 square feet at ground level              X
Light Manufacturing such as jewelry, pottery, ceramics, glass, and metal art  P
Auto-oriented Uses                                                             
Auto sales, parts and supplies, including service stations and farm equipment X
Commercial car washes                                                         X
Construction yards and commercial storage facilities                          X
Establishments with drive-up facilities                                       C
Self-storage units                                                            X
Trailer or recreational vehicle sales or service                              X
Civic Support                                                                  
Parking lots and parking structures                                           C
Public utility structures such as transformers, switching, pumping, or
similar technical installations essential to the operation of a public        C
utility
 
   (D)   AREA REGULATIONS.
      (1)   Residential density is limited by area regulations in the Village
Center zone.
      (2)   Lot widths in the Village Center Zone shall be a minimum of sixteen
(16) feet and a maximum of one hundred twenty (120) feet. Within the Project
Area lot widths shall be a minimum of sixteen (16) feet and a maximum of two
hundred (200) feet. These widths shall apply to buildings on existing lots with
dimension in excess of that allowed in lieu of requiring subdivision.
      (3)   Setbacks
         (a)   Setbacks for properties in the Project Area that abut
residential zoned property shall be:
 
Front Five (5) feet minimum and eighteen (18) feet maximum
Side  Fifteen (15) feet minimum
Rear  Fifteen (15) feet minimum
 
         (b)   Setbacks for properties in the Project Area that do not abut
residential zoned property shall be:
 
Front Five (5) feet minimum and twelve (12) feet maximum
Side  Zero (0) feet minimum or six (6) feet maximum
Rear  Zero (0) feet minimum
 
         (c)   Setbacks for properties not in the Project Area abutting C-1 or
VC property:
 
Front Five (5) feet minimum and twelve (12) feet maximum
Side  Zero (0) feet minimum or six (6) feet maximum
Rear  Ten (10) feet minimum
 
         (d)   Minimum setbacks for properties abutting an M.R.G.C.D.
irrigation ditch or drain shall be twenty-five (25) feet from the nearest edge
of the ditch or the required property line setback, whichever is greater.
      (4)   Building height shall be regulated in stories and maximum height
pursuant to the following restrictions. Measurements for the Height limits will
exclude masts, flues, or elevator bulkheads.
         (a)   Maximum Building heights shall be the lesser of three (3)
stories or forty-eight (48) feet.
   (E)   DESIGN REGULATIONS.
      (1)   The design of the commercial and residential development within the
Project Area will be determined in the Site Development Plan application and
approval process.
      (2)   Blank exterior building walls (walls with no openings and a single
color, material, and uniform texture on a single plane) greater than 15 feet in
length shall not be permitted. Exterior walls that face Fourth Street or Osuna
Road must have glazing with clear glass for a minimum of 30% of the area of the
façade.
      (3)   Lots that face Fourth Street shall have buildings along a minimum
of fifty (50) percent of the property line/setback adjacent to Fourth Street.
      (4)   The primary entry of all buildings shall face a sidewalk readily
accessible to the public. Secondary entries may face private parking lots.
      (5)   Pedestrian and bicycle paths shall be encouraged. Development
standards for pedestrian and bicycle paths shall include:
         (a)   Stable, permeable surface including pavers, permeable asphalt or
concrete.
         (b)   A continuous planter separating the path from the street.
         (c)   Paths shall connect to existing sidewalks and bike paths if
connections are possible.
         (d)   Shade shall be provided for a minimum of fifty (50) percent of
the pedestrian or bicycle path.
         (e)   No barriers shall be permitted within the path including,
meters, utility poles, signage, furniture, or walls. Planters not exceeding
thirty (30) inches in height may abut bicycle and pedestrian paths.
      (6)   Parkland provided in new development shall comply with the
following standards:
         (a)   All parks shall be publicly accessible and visible from the
right-of-way.
         (b)   Parks may be in the form of a plaza, community garden, or pocket
park. A minimum of fifty (50) percent of a plaza perimeter shall be a public
street. Plazas may be landscaped or paved, or a combination of both pavement
and landscaping, shall provide a minimum of twenty (20) percent shade, and
shall provide seating.
   (F)   OFF STREET PARKING REGULATIONS.
      (1)   Excepting for areas within the Project Area parking may be
permitted at the side of a building, but may not be located between the front
of the building and the public sidewalk. If parking is located on the side a
building, it shall be screened from the roadway by an opaque wall or evergreen
hedge that shall be a minimum of thirty (30) inches and a maximum of forty (40)
inches in height.
      (2)   Off street parking requirements for the Project Area shall be
determined by the Site Development Plan.
      (3)   The minimum requirements for off-street parking spaces for property
not in the Project Area shall be as follows:
Use Required off street parking spaces
Use                    Required off street parking spaces
Amusement facility     Four (4) spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
                       gross floor area
Residential            One (1) space per residence
Dining, bar, nightclub Five (5) spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
                       gross floor area
Retail, office         Two (2) spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
                       gross floor area
Assembly               Four (4) spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
                       gross floor area
Lodging                One (1) space per room
Light manufacturing    One (1) space per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
                       gross floor area
Institutional          Three (3) spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
                       gross floor area
 
   (G)   LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS.
      (1)   The Site Development Plan will establish the landscaping
requirements for the Project Area. Landscape maintenance shall comply with §
9.2.19 (F)
      (2)   The requirements of §
9.2.19 of the Zoning Code provide the basic guidelines for designing the
landscaping in the non-Project Area excepting buffer widths shall be equal to
or less than the required side or rear setback.
   (H)   DARK SKIES REGULATIONS. The regulation of §
9.2.20 of the Zoning Code shall govern all site lighting in the Village Center
Zone.
   (I)   SIGNS.
      (1)   The Site Development Plan will establish the sign requirements for
the Project Area.
      (2)   The requirements of §
9.2.22 of the Zoning Code will apply as to the basic guidelines in the non-
Project Area except as follows.
         (a)   Sandwich board signs may be permitted during business hours but
they must not impede pedestrian or bicycle access. Sandwich boards may be
permitted on a public sidewalk.
         (b)   Height. Maximum height of a free-standing sign shall not exceed
eight (8) feet in height from the elevation of the sidewalk closest to the base
of the sign. The sign will not be permitted within the clear site triangle for
any roadway.
   (J)   OUTDOOR STORAGE REGULATIONS.
      (1)   Stored materials shall be fenced, screened, and fully buffered from
public view.
      (2)   Stored materials shall be safely contained.
   (K)   OUTDOOR DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE.
      (1)   The outdoor display of merchandise will be permitted if it is
ancillary to a primary business.
      (2)   The total area allowed for the ancillary outdoor display of
merchandise (excluding agriculture) shall be less than five (5) percent of the
total gross square foot area of the principal building unless otherwise
approved by the Village.
      (3)   Displayed merchandise shall be safely stored and shall not utilize
required parking spaces or impede pedestrian use of interior walkways.
      (4)   The displays shall be temporary and may be erected and used during
business hours only.
      (5)   Outdoor displays shall be located not less than fifteen (15) feet
from any residentially zoned property which is outside of the Village Center
Zone
   (L)   APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS. All applications for development
requiring platting actions other than the Project Area shall be approved in the
manner set forth in §
9.2.25 of the Zoning Code.
   (M)   TRANSIT REGULATIONS. If there is an existing bus stop located directly
adjacent to a property, granting of an easement for a new sheltered bus stop
will be a development requirement, as approved by the Commission/Board.
§ 9.2.15 AC – AGRICULTURAL-COMMERCIAL ZONE
The purpose of this zone is to encourage the development of sustainable and
economically viable agricultural activities on larger tracts within the Village
in keeping with the historic pattern of land use in the area. The creation of
this zone is compatible with the goals, ideals and aspirations of the Master
Plan.
AC Zone status may be applied to any property in the A-1, A-2 or A-3 Zones in
the Village if the conditions set forth herein are met and if at least one acre
or 66% of the lot area, whichever is larger, is open space dedicated to
agricultural use, exclusive of parking or access areas.
   (A)   PERMISSIVE USES. A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Any permissive use as allowed and regulated in the A-1, A-2 or A-
3 Zones.
      (2)   Commercial activities associated directly and exclusively with
horticulture, equestrian activities and general agricultural activities
including, but not limited to, the raising and selling of vegetables, fruits,
crops and livestock, as well as the care, feeding, training and boarding of
livestock, but not to include the cultivation, intentional growth, manufacture,
or distribution of cannabis or cannabis products.
      (3)   Commercial Recreational Facilities:
         (a)   Limited to rodeo arenas, polo grounds, riding academies and
boarding stables;
         (b)   Wineries with proper state licensing;
         (c)   Keeping of livestock in numbers exceeding that currently
permitted by Village 2013 Codified Ordinances, subject to conditions that may
be imposed upon such use to ensure that the keeping of livestock does not
become a nuisance to neighboring properties by the omission of such activities
as the prompt removal of waste, dust control and insect control;
         (d)   Bed and breakfast establishments of eight (8) or fewer rooms.
   (B)   ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
      (1)   Retail uses may not exceed 1,000 sq feet of floor space in lots
four (4) acres or less. A maximum of 2,000 sq feet is allowed on lots exceeding
four (4) acres.
      (2)   Parking: Number of spaces as set forth in §
9.2.18 for retail uses (minimum 1 space/225 sq. feet.) Landscaping of parking
area as set forth in §
9.2.18 and §
9.2.19 of the zoning code. Parking areas in the AC Zone must be constructed of
porous materials and have adequate dust control (eg, aggregate base course and
gravel). Additional buffering of the parking use from adjacent residential
property may be ordered by the Planning Director.
      (3)   The retail use must be directly associated with the agricultural
use of the parcel. For example, sales of wine and related products for a
winery; tack at a horse arena, fruit at an orchard, etc. If the agricultural
use for which the AC Zone was granted ends, the retail use must also end.
      (4)   Lighting shall conform to the residential section of the Dark Skies
Section of the code, §
9.2.20.
      (5)   Hours of operation: Retail sales are limited to seven (7) days a
week, and may begin not earlier than 9 AM and must end by 6 PM, unless a
special event is taking place.
      (6)   Signage: A single permitted permanent sign of no more than six (6)
square feet in area is allowed. One additional permitted sandwich-type sign may
be displayed during business hours in accordance with §
9.2.22 Signs, for commercial properties.
      (7)   The keeping of all livestock and other animals, private and
commercial, must be in accordance with §
7.2.1 et seq., Animal Control. Any violation of the Animal Control Ordinance
relating to livestock and property regulations shall also constitute a
violation of the Zoning Code.
   (C)   SPECIAL EVENTS. Definition of “Special Event:” Any gathering at which
attendees are expected to pay for admission, entertainment, food, beverages,
services or retail goods, held either for profit or for charitable benefit.
Community Supported Agricultural Events, including, but not limited to the
Grower’s Market, Harvest Festival and Corn Maze, are exempt from this
definition. Events related to the Balloon Fiesta, and occurring in conjunction
with the Balloon Fiesta may be approved administratively by the Planning
Director. Horse shows are special events which are characterized by a paid
entry process, formal judging of entries and typically involve the awarding of
recognition for accomplishments during the competition.
      (1)   Permissive Events:
         (a)   Fifty (50) persons plus up to seven (7) employees, occurring no
more often than eight (8) times in a calendar month and four (4) events per
calendar month with up to one-hundred fifty (150) persons plus eleven (11)
employees beginning no earlier than 8 AM and ending prior to 11 PM are
permissive in the AC Zone, provided that adequate off-street parking is
available and the property is fully in compliance with the requirements of this
Section and all other applicable regulations of the Village of Los Ranchos de
Albuquerque.
         (b)   Horse arenas may have up to ten (10) horses in the arena at any
time during business hours that comply with §
9.2.15(B)(5).
         (c)   Retail uses that comply with §
9.2.15(B) are not considered “special events.”
         (d)   Horse shows limited to four (4) shows per year provided that
off-street parking is available and the property is fully in compliance with
the requirements of this Section and all other applicable regulations of the
Village.
      (2)   Special Event Permits (SEP). All other special events, not covered
under §
9.2.15(C)(1) require the issuance of a Special Event Permit by the Village
Administrator.
   (D)   BUFFERING OF ADJACENT PROPERTIES. AC properties with retail uses must
provide landscape buffering as required elsewhere in the code for the C-1 Zone
to buffer retail use from residentially zoned property. Other uses shall
require buffering as specified elsewhere in this Section.
   (E)   APPROVALS.
      (1)   Applicants with properties meeting all requirements listed above
may apply for AC zoning. The applicant must submit a site plan detailing the
proposed agricultural and accessory uses, as well as plans for parking,
lighting, landscaping, irrigating and buffering sufficient to demonstrate
compliance with the above-detailed requirements for the AC Zone.
      (2)   The application and approval process for changes to AC zoning shall
follow §
9.2.25(E)(8) Zone Map Amendments. Public notice requirements shall follow §
9.2.25(F).
   (F)   CONDITIONAL USES. The following uses may be allowed only when approval
has been obtained from the Village:
      (1)   Any conditional use allowed and regulated in A-1 and A-3 Zones.
      (2)   Conference centers and meeting facilities.
      (3)   Bed-and-Breakfast establishments larger than eight (8) rooms so
long as such facility has at least 66% of the property as open space.
      (4)   Storage and repair of agricultural machinery and equipment.
      (5)   The Village will consider the following matters in approving a
conditional use and any other matters deemed appropriate in the sole discretion
of the Village based upon the facts and circumstances of each individual
application for a conditional use. In all conditional use applications, the
Village will consider the character and conditions of the surrounding property
and the surrounding neighborhood; signage requirements for the use; parking
requirements for the use; the distance between the use and all neighboring
residences; the hours of operation of the conditional use; noise generated by
the use; all traffic needs of the use; adequacy of parking on the premises for
the use; lighting needs of the use; and any conditions deemed appropriate by
the Village of Los Ranchos Fire Department. The Village shall place such terms
and conditions upon the use as is deemed necessary by the Village to minimize
the effect of the conditional use on the surrounding premises.
   (G)   SPECIAL USES.
      (1)   Commercial Horse Facilities having more than ten (10) horses on
site shall require a special use permit. Conditions of approval for a special
use permit under this zone shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Twenty-five (25) foot setback of edge of arena to property line.
         (b)   Buffering consisting of either a six (6) foot solid wall/fence
or similar height dense landscaping, to provide a visual buffer.
         (c)   Detailed parking plan, with ingress/egress acceptable to the
Village Engineer, Fire Department and Planning Department.
         (d)   Maximum of four (4) horse exhibitions or clinics per month, such
events to be held between the hours of 9 AM and 5 PM.
         (e)   Compliance with §
7.2.1 et seq., Animal Control, including an approved drainage plan, manure
handling plan and dust/pest mitigation plan.
   (H)   AREA REGULATIONS minimum lot area and width. The minimum lot area
shall be two (2) acres (87,125 sq. feet) and the minimum lot width shall be
one-hundred (100) feet.
   (I)   SETBACKS. Unless otherwise restricted by this Section, for all
structures, the minimum front setback shall be twenty-five (25) feet, the
minimum side setback shall be fifteen (15) feet and the minimum rear setback
shall be twenty-five (25) feet. Greater setbacks may be imposed if the proposed
use should, in the discretion of the Village, be further setback herein from
neighboring homes. However, such setbacks can be no greater than double those
set forth herein. For any property bounded by an irrigation ditch or drain, the
minimum setback along the ditch or drain shall be twenty-five (25) feet.
   (J)   HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
      (1)   Buildings and structures. As regulated in A-1 Zone.
      (2)   Fences and walls. Fences and walls may be erected for livestock in
a manner and with sufficient height in order to contain the livestock safely
and to prevent the livestock from trespassing on neighboring property. However,
despite the foregoing sentence, no solid wall or fence shall be allowed which
faces a street, road or alley and exceeds four (4) feet in height as measured
from the center line of such street, road or alley, unless specifically
approved by permit. If a wall of four (4) feet is insufficient to contain the
livestock on such property, a non-solid fence may be erected as a portion of
the solid wall or a solid wall of sufficient height to contain the livestock
may be erected at a distance established by the Village sufficiently removed
from the property line to ensure all view corridors remain open.
   (K)   SPLIT ZONES.
      (1)   The owner of any property of sufficient size may request that the
zoning on said property be split between residential and agricultural-
commercial if only a portion of the property is devoted to agricultural-
commercial use.
      (2)   In order to obtain AC Zoning, the applicant must submit a detailed
site development plan with precise and complete information disclosing the
nature and full extent of the commercial-agricultural use. The Village may
impose such conditions on the uses as are necessary to protect the quiet
enjoyment of neighboring properties.
   (L)   ACEQUIA IRRIGATION.
      (1)   Continuation of any existing acequia irrigation is a requirement of
any agricultural/commercial use in this zone.
      (2)   Abandonment of irrigation rights by the land owner may be cause to
remove the AC Zone status and revert to previous zoning.
§ 9.2.16 SPECIAL USE ZONE
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. The purpose of this section is to recognize that
certain areas within the Village were given a designation of Special Use
Zoneunder a special use zoning ordinance which has now been repealed. Pursuant
to previous ordinances, such zones were recognized,but no provision or other
procedure was specified as to how the Special Use Zones could be modified,
rezoned, or conditions stated therein amended. This revision is adopted to
establish future use, modification and procedures relating to recognized
Special Use Zones.
   (B)   APPROVED SPECIAL USE ZONES. The following projects or areas are hereby
recognized as having been granted a Special Use Zone. No other projects or
areas shall be approved and granted a Special Use Zone under existing
ordinances of the Village.
      (1)   4803 Rio Grande Blvd., Los Poblanos Inn and Cultural Center
      (2)   324 Ranchitos Rd.
      (3)   328 Ranchitos Rd.
      (4)   330-380 Los Ranchos Rd
      (5)   6770 Fourth St.
      (6)   6798 Fourth St.
      (7)   6847 Fourth St.
      (8)   7010 Fourth St.
      (9)   7702 Fourth St.
      (10)   8223 Fourth St.
      (11)   8301 Fourth St.
      (12)   8601 Fourth St.
      (13)   Los Poblanos Orchards Planned Development
      (14)   Los Prados de Guadalupe Planned Development
      (15)   Los Terrones Planned Development
      (16)   Nara Visa Commons Planned Development
      (17)   Ortega Compound Planned Development
      (18)   Rancho Farms Planned Development
   (C)   PERMITTED USES. The permitted uses in each Special Use Zone shall be
those specifically listed as conditionsor uses as were adopted by the Village
at the time the Special Use Zone was adopted or approved by amendment to the
Special Use Zone in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance. All uses
not identified as permitted uses in a Special Use Zone shall be deemed a
prohibited use.
   (D)   ADOPTION OF PERMITTED USES. It is the intent of the Village to
incorporate into this Ordinance the permitted uses for each special use zone.
Until such permitted uses are specifically incorporated herein or included
herein by amendment of this Ordinance, the uses approved in the ordinance,
resolution or other action adopting the Special Use Zone and those contained on
the site plan or plat approved by the Village for each Special Use Zone shall
be deemed permitted uses.
   (E)   PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL SPECIAL USE ZONES. The provisions of this
section shall be applicable to each Special Use Zone unless specifically
modified by ordinance, resolution, or other action adopting the Special Use
Zone in the original approval or in an amendment to such Special Use Zone.
      (1)   Floor Area Ratio. All Special Use Zones shall be subject to the
Floor Area Ratio as defined in §
9.2.3(B) if any property in the Special Use Zone is used for residential
purposes.
      (2)   Residential building height shall be limited to twenty-six (26)
feet from the existing grade (the existing surface of the ground prior to fill
and compaction [Existing Grade]) to the top of the parapet or top of the
mansard roof line.
      (3)   The height of single-story building shall not exceed seventeen (17)
feet in height from the Existing Grade. If any portion of the building exceeds
seventeen (17) feet in height from the Existing Grade, that portion of the
building shall be considered a second-floor and shall be regulated by the
second-floor percentages and limitations as set out in §
9.2.16(E)(5)
      (4)   Detached garages, including those for recreational vehicles, if
permitted, shall not be more than seventeen (17) feet in height above the
existing grade.
      (5)   For two-story buildings, the second floor areas, including all
covered patios, porches, portals, balconies and other open and accessible
living areas, shall be limited to a total of sixty percent (60%) of the first
floor enclosed square footage as defined by §
9.2.3(B).
      (6)   No facade wall length shall be greater than fifteen percent (15%)
of the calculated perimeter of facade walls of the first floor and shall not
exceed seventeen (17) feet in height. Any portion of a facade wall exceeding
fifteen percent (15%) of the perimeter length shall be stepped back by the
greater of four (4) feet or equal to a forty-five degree (45.) plane drawn from
a perpendicular point on the adjacent property line.
      (7)   Chimneys shall not exceed twenty-nine (29) feet in height.
      (8)   Flagpoles shall not exceed forty (40) feet in height.
      (9)   Noncommercial radio towers regulated by the Federal Communications
Commission shall not exceed forty (40) feet in height.
      (10)   Solar Access. Building Height Limitations to Preserve Solar
Access: For any new construction submitted after May 19, 2008, the height of
any building shall comply with the following additional height to setback
limitations, either:
         (a)   The building height shall not exceed the following height,
determined by the setback distance cardinally south from the northern boundary
of the lot as follows:
 
Lot Line - Feet Height - Feet
10              14
15              17
20              20
26              26
 
   or:
         (b)   The height shall not exceed a thirty-one degree (31°) angle
plane drawn upward from a horizontal line located two (2) feet above the
existing grade, ten (10) feet within the northern property line. (See
Illustration A).
      (11)   Fences and Walls.
         (a)   No open fence shall exceed six (6) feet in height. Open fence as
used herein shall mean a fence constructed in a manner which allows not less
than fifty percent (50%) visibility through the fence from a position that is
perpendicular at a right angle to the fence.
         (b)   No solid wall or solid fence located within the rear or side
setback area shall exceed six (6) feet in height.
         (c)   No solid wall or fence located within the front yard setback
area shall be more than four (4) feet in height.
         (d)   No solid wall or solid fence shall be located within the clear
sight triangle of a driveway and a public or private right-of-way.
         (e)   No solid wall or solid fence located within the specified
setback area and along a public or private right-of-way shall be more than four
(4) feet in height.
         (f)   No solid wall or solid fence shall be constructed unless a
permit has been approved by the Village.
         (g)   Concertina wire (razor wire) is prohibited in all cases.
         (h)   Lands within a Special Use Zone shall not be subdivided, except
upon application under and in compliance with all Village Subdivision
Ordinances, Chapter 9, Article 1.
      (12)   Residential setback requirements as set out in §
9.2.7(E)(2) and (3) shall apply to all Special Use Zones.
      (13)   Except as specifically set out herein or in the Ordinance adopting
the Special Use Zone, all projects/properties in the Special Use Zone shall be
subject to all provisions of Chapter 9, Article 2; excepting, however, land
uses within a Special Use Zone shall not be eligible for a Special Use Permit
under §
9.2.17, nor the continued existence and/or occupation of a Nonconforming Use as
defined in §
9.2.23, unless approved in the Special Use Zone conditions.
      (14)   All facilities in a Special Use Zone generating liquid waste shall
be required to connect to the public sanitary sewer system, regardless of the
distance of the property from the public sanitary sewer line.
      (15)   Sixty percent (60%) of the area within each lot in a Special Use
Zone shall have a permeable surface.
      (16)   Open-space set-asides, floor area ratio or density requirements in
any Special Use Zone shall not entitle the owner of the parcel to transfer any
development credits as provided in §
9.2.6.
   (F)   AMENDMENT. A Special Use Zone may be modified or amended by
application and approval of a text amendment pursuant to §
9.2.25(E)(6).
   (G)   LOS POBLANOS INN AND CULTURAL CENTER. The approved uses and conditions
for the Special Use Zone for the Los Poblanos Inn and Cultural Center ("Inn")
are as follows:
      (1)   Approved Uses.
         (a)   Hotel/inn with guest rooms;
         (b)   Dining/restaurant facilities;
         (c)   One single detached single family dwelling;
         (d)   Farm shop for retail sale of agricultural and related products;
         (e)   Bakery to provide fresh baked goods for the restaurant and for
sale in the Farm Shop
         (f)   Farming, husbandry and other related agricultural uses,
including processing of products with due regard for surrounding residential
areas as to scale;
         (g)   The sale, dispensing and manufacture of alcoholic beverages;
         (h)   Maintaining facilities for public and private events and
gatherings.
         (i)   Accessory Uses to support the above listed uses including
housekeeping, laundry, parking, storage, office, education, recreation, and
smallscale processing facilities, which shall not cumulatively exceed 15,000
square feet of enclosed area.
Such Approved Uses are further qualified as set out in subsections (2) through
(12) below.
      (2)   Guestrooms.
         (a)   The Inn shall have a maximum of fifty (50) guestrooms and/or
suites. Twenty-six (26) of the guestrooms/suites may be new construction, with
the remaining suites either existing within the Inn or repurposed areas within
existing structures. Guestrooms/suites may include individual guestrooms and/or
suites of up to two (2) bedroom units with seating areas and kitchenettes. The
location of all new construction for guestrooms/suites and/or repurposed
structures shall be as shown on an approved site plan.
      (3)   Dining (Non-Event Related). The Los Poblanos Inn and Cultural
Center may provide on-site food-service for guests and the general public
pursuant to the following limitations:
         (a)   The restaurant area is allowed internal seating for no more than
one-hundred (100) patrons. Attached verandas and patios shall be limited to
seating for not more than fifty (50) patrons.
         (b)   Restaurant non-event operating hours shall be limited as
follows:
            1. Outdoor dining areas may not open prior to 7:00 AM and must
close by 10:00 PM.
            2. There shall be no time limit for opening of the indoor dining,
but indoor dining facilities must close at 11:00 PM with the exception of New
Year's eve, when dining may continue until 1:00 AM on January 1 of each year.
            3. Outdoor food-service shall be permitted prior to 7:00 AM during
the Balloon Fiesta and beginning one (1) day prior to the Balloon Fiesta.
         (c)   The Farm Shop shall be permitted to sell packaged foods and
beverages for consumption on or off the property; provided, however, food
consumption on patios and verandas not in accordance with the foregoing hour
limitations shall not be permitted.
      (4)   Retail. The Farm Shop shall be permitted to conduct retail sales
including value-added farm products, regional specialty items, Los Poblanos
branded goods, baked goods, and packaged foods and beverages pursuant to §
9.2.16(G)(2)(c) .
      (5)   Farming. The Los Poblanos Inn and Cultural Center may grow, process
and commercially produce crops, livestock, poultry, honeybees, and the products
thereof. The farming production may include wholesale use and the processing
and sale of value-added products grown off site. Animal populations are limited
to one cow, horse, mule donkey or alpaca per 10,000 square feet of open lot
area or more than 2000 square feet of open lot area for any other livestock,
excluding fowl and rabbits which have no area requirement.
      (6)   Events.
         (a)   "Events" may include, but are not limited to, meetings,
retreats, seminars, dinners, classes, social occasions, memorials, weddings and
receptions.
         (b)   The Inn may schedule events subject to the following
limitations:
            1.   Fewer than 85 invited guests - no limitation;
            2.   86 to 150 invited guests - not more than three (3) per week;
            3.   151 to 250 invited guests - not more than four (4) per month,
but limited to two (2) in any seven (7) day period.
            4.   251 to 300 invited guests - four (4) per year, but may not
exceed one (1) in any seven (7) day period.
         (c)   Events shall not exceed a total of 300 invited guests or
attendees, whichever is lesser, at any given time, with the exception of
possible community events pursuant to §
9.2.16(G)(4)(e). This maximum does not include guests at the Inn, Farm Shop, or
restaurant dining not specifically invited as guests.
         (d)   Subject to the foregoing limitations, events may be held in the
hay barn only between 7:00 AM and 7:00 PM.
         (e)   Community events of up to 500 attendees may be held no more than
twice per year. However, these events require sponsorship by the Village of Los
Ranchos or a non-profit organization which is aligned with the Innfs mission
of agritourism, education and sustainability. These events require Village
approved off-site parking, shuttles, or other form of non-vehicular access.
         (f)   The property may be used for the filming of movies/television
and advertisements under the same terms, if at all, as permitted on C-1 zoned
properties within the Village. Promotional filming, journalistic coverage and
documentaries shall be permitted for marketing purposes.
      (7)   Alcohol. The Inn shall be permitted to own and use liquor
dispensers' licenses or restaurant licenses subject to compliance with all
state of New Mexico and federal regulations. The Inn shall be permitted to
produce and sell or serve alcoholic beverages (beer, wine or distilled
spirits); provided, however, if production of alcoholic beverages requires
production from off-site deliveries, the Village may impose traffic volume or
other limitations. Permits for construction or installation of any production
facilities must be approved by the Village and shall be subject to appropriate
state and federal regulations.
      (8)   Operational Hours and Music.
         (a)   Outdoor events, including dining, may not take place prior to 7:
00 AM and must conclude outdoors by 10:00 PM. Outdoor music, food service and
alcohol service shall end at 10:00 PM. Additional time will be permitted for
participant dispersal, but shall be completed by 11:00 PM.
         (b)   Indoor events, including dining, may continue until 10:30 PM
with the exception of New Year's Eve when events may continue until 1:00 AM.
Food service and alcohol service shall end at 10:30 PM (or 1:00 AM on New
Year's Eve). Additional time will be permitted for participant dispersal, but
shall be completed by 11:30 PM (or 2:00 AM on New Year's Eve). The portals are
integral to the interior building spaces and may not be disassociated from the
interior spaces but are subject to the conditions set out in subsection (d)
below. Minimal amplification is allowed for speeches from speakers on the
Portals associated with La Quinta events.
         (c)   Events shall be permitted prior to 7:00 AM during Balloon
Fiesta.
         (d)   Outdoor, un-amplified music is permitted between the hours of
10:00 AM and 9:00 PM. Portals shall not be used after 10:00 PM or when
amplified music is present at an indoor event.
      (9)   Parking.
         (a)   Two hundred (200) parking spaces shall be maintained at all
times with parking stalls to be a minimum of 9 x 18 feet with a fifteen (15)
foot backup area for valet parking and twenty-four (24) foot backup area for
all other spaces. Valet parking shall be required for events anticipated to
have 150 or more cars.
         (b)   Not more than twenty-five (25) parking spaces may be located in
the southeast service court beside La Quinta.
         (c)   Except during community events, parking on Rio Grande Boulevard,
Rio Grande Place or Rio Grande Lane shall not be permitted.
      (10)   Ingress and Egress.
         (a)   The north service road exiting onto Rio Grande Place shall not
be used for La Quinta or Restaurant guests.
         (b)   The south service road shall not be used between 9 p.m. and 6
a.m. A gate shall be installed east of the La Quinta parking lot and it shall
be closed during these times.
         (c)   Kitchen and service staff shall not use the south service
entrance at any time.
         (d)   Truck deliveries shall only be permitted between 8 a.m. and 7
p.m.
      (11)   Landscape Buffer.
         (a)   An eight (8) foot wide landscape buffer is installed and shall
be continually maintained and irrigated along the southern and western
perimeter of the tract that contains the Inn to screen the structures and
associated parking from adjoining lots and MRGCD property. A solid coyote fence
shall be installed and maintained along the southern property line from the
service parking lot to the western boundary.
         (b)   A fifteen (15) foot wide landscape buffer along Rio Grande Place
is installed and shall be continuously maintained and irrigated.
         (c)   Solid walls along Rio Grande Place shall not exceed six (6) feet
in height and shall be south of the fifteen (15) foot landscape buffer. No
solid walls shall be permitted at the perimeter of the property along Rio
Grande Boulevard. The existing coyote fencing on the northwesterly side of the
property may remain on the western 300 feet of the north property line.
      (12)   Lighting.
         (a)   All outdoor lighting shall be shielded and must shine only onto
the property.
         (b)   Outdoor lighting shall comply with §
9.5.1 (Commercial Lighting Code).
         (c)   Height above that permitted by the Dark Skies requirements
contained in §
9.2.20 may be permitted, after design approval by the Village, as required for
security and safety; provided, however, the fixtures comply with the intent to
minimize light pollution and trespass onto neighboring properties.
      (13)   Design.
         (a)   The architecture of new guest rooms shall incorporate one or
more architectural elements similar to the existing buildings on site:
southwestern or northern New Mexico architectural features such as, but not
limited to, portals, vigas, pueblo style elements, territorial elements or
early twentieth century agricultural buildings.
         (b)   For purposes of site development, Tracts A-1, A2A and A3A shall
be treated as a single parcel pursuant to setbacks and lot coverage.
         (c)   Specific boundary setbacks are as follows:
            1. Eastern boundary facing Rio Grande Boulevard: 280 feet.
            2. Northern boundary facing Rio Grande Place: 15 feet, except new
casitas shall have a northern setback of 30 feet.
            3. Southern boundary: 20 feet.
            4. Western boundary: 15 feet.
            5. Structures constructed before December 1, 2014 shall be
permitted as built.
         (d)   Building heights shall be set pursuant to §
9.2.16(E)(3) and §
9.2.16(E)(4). Agricultural buildings shall not exceed seventeen (17) feet in
height from the existing grade.
            1. Structures constructed before December 1, 2014 shall be
permitted as built.
         (e)   Building massing shall not be subject to §
9.2.16(E)(5) and §
9.2.16(E)(6).
         (f)   All utilities installed or constructed after the date hereof
shall be underground.
      (14)   Open Space.
         (a)   The site plan shall designate 12.5 acres of Open Space.
         (b)   The pond, roadways to and from the Inn and future farm tracts
may be counted towards the 12.5 acre Open Space requirement.
         (c)   The remaining Open Space may be used for agricultural
activities, including commercial agriculture and educational activities.
Agricultural outbuildings may be constructed within the Open Space, but outside
of the setback areas, to service husbandry or horticulture and animal shelter.
Provided, however, structures in the Open Space shall not cumulatively exceed
5,000 square feet and shall not be more than seventeen (17) feet in height.
         (d)   In addition to the restrictions found in the Special Use Zone
approval, the Open Space shall be preserved in perpetuity through a
conservation easement approved by the Village prior to issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for any new construction.
      (15)   Other.
         (a)   The Inn shall abide by the Village Fire and Safety Code (Chapter
5).
         (b)   The facilities which generate liquid waste shall comply with
applicable ABCWUA sewer and water regulations.
         (c)   The structures in the Special Use Zone shall abide by §
9.5.1.
         (d)   No modification shall be made to the Los Poblanos Inn and
Cultural Center which jeopardizes the National or State Historic District
Register Listings or designations.
         (e)   The Los Poblanos Special Use Zone shall be developed only in
accordance with an approved site plan. Storage Buildings 1.A and 1.D, located
in the SW corner of the site and as shown on the approved 2008 Site Plan shall
be allowed to proceed with construction and use prior to the approval of an
updated site plan.
         (f)   The Village shall be entitled to conduct inspections of the
property upon prior verbal or written notice to the owners or owners' managing
agent to assure compliance with the provisions hereof.
   (H)   IMPLEMENTATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES. All notices and
prosecutions of violations of these conditions of approval shall follow §
9.2.24(c)(1)-(4).
§ 9.2.17 SUP – SPECIAL USE PERMIT
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. The purpose of this permit is to provide for uses
that are special because of their unusual nature, infrequent occurrence,
effects on surrounding properties, or because the location of such uses will
assist in the implementation of the Master Plan. Special Use Permits shall be
issued where the proposed use is not provided for in any other zone, approval
is granted by the Board and the Board may impose such limitations and
conditions as it deems necessary.
   (B)   POTENTIAL USES. The Board may allow one (1) or more of the following
uses:
      (1)   Auction yard.
      (2)   Automobile repair shop, provided that:
         (a)   All repair work shall be done within a completely enclosed
building at least twenty (20) feet from any residential zone;
         (b)   Storage of not more than five (5) automobiles awaiting repair
shall be permitted provided that those automobiles are enclosed by a solid wall
or fence at least six (6) feet in height;
         (c)   The use is located at least three hundred (300) feet from
another automobile repair business; and,
         (d)   The use is located at least two hundred fifty (250) feet from
the nearest use of residential zone.
      (3)   Automobile restoration shop for vintage or classic vehicles
provided that:
         (a)   All repair work shall be done within a completely enclosed
building at least twenty (20) feet from any residential zone;
         (b)   Storage of not more than thirty (30) vehicles awaiting repair
shall be permitted provided that those vehicles are enclosed by a solid wall or
fence at least six (6) feet in height;
         (c)   Storage of automobiles or vehicles awaiting restoration:
            1. is allowed for not more than one hundred twenty (120) days;
            2. is allowed in excess of one hundred twenty (120) days upon
application and approval as set forth in §
9.2.25, Application and Approval Process.
         (d)   The use is located at least two hundred fifty (250) feet from
the nearest use of residential zone.
         (e)   The definition of ‘vintage’ and ‘classic’ are as defined in NM
statute.
      (4)   Automobile sales provided the operator of the business is licensed
by the State of New Mexico Division of Motor Vehicles.
      (5)   Food processing and wholesale sales.
      (6)   Golf course and/or driving range.
      (7)   Machine shop.
      (8)   Package liquor stores.
      (9)   Overnight campgrounds, provided that:
         (a)   The minimum area shall be five (5) acres.
         (b)   The maximum gross density shall be ten (10) campsites per acre.
Land that is not accessible to campers shall not be included in the calculation
of gross density.
         (c)   Liquid waste disposal shall be via a non-discharging on-site
system or public sanitary sewer. Any on-site system shall meet with the
approval of the New Mexico Environment Department, or its succeeding agency and
shall conform to §
13.1.1 et seq., Sewer Systems.
      (10)   Radio or television studio or station.
      (11)   School bus operation and parking lot.
      (12)   Mobile home parks and greater than one year use of a mobile home.
      (13)   Wireless communication facility not disguised as another structure
such as a flag pole, light fixture or incorporated into a building.
      (14)   Non-commercial radio towers regulated by the Federal Communication
Commission in VC Zone.
      (15)   Other uses not specified herein and not adequately allowed or
controlled in other zones relative to a specific site, provided that:
         (a)   The proposed use is not provided for in any other zone; and
         (b)   The proposed use is not detrimental to the neighborhood where it
is proposed to be located; and
         (c)   It can be shown that the use proposed is beneficial to the
Village, is in accordance with the goals and policies of the Village Master
Plan and will assist in the implementation of the Village Master Plan.
   (C)   ACCESSORY USES. Uses that are customarily associated with a potential
use provided it is incidental to the major use.
   (D)   OTHER REGULATIONS. The regulations below apply to any property granted
a special use permit, unless explicitly excepted in the permit conditions:
         HEIGHT REGULATIONS. In accordance with Zone regulations.
         DESIGN REGULATIONS. As set forth in §
9.2.21.
         OFF STREET PARKING REGULATIONS. As set forth in §
9.2.18.
         LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS. As set forth in §
9.2.19.
         DARK SKIES REGULATIONS. As set forth in §
9.2.20.
         SIGN REGULATIONS. As set forth in §
9.2.22.
         OUTDOOR STORAGE REGULATIONS. As set forth in §
9.2.12.
         OUTDOOR STORAGE OF MERCHANDISE. As set forth in §
9.2.12.
         APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS. As set forth in §
9.2.25.
§ 9.2.18 OFF STREET PARKING
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. It is the purpose of this Section to:
      (1)   encourage commerce;
      (2)   enhance the appearance of Fourth Street by encouraging parking on
sides and rear of buildings;
      (3)   conserve resources by moderating parking requirements;
      (4)   promote shared parking;
      (5)   promote “Park once, shop several places;” and
      (6)   encourage pedestrian, bicycle, and transit as means of
transportation within the business district.
   (B)   OFF-STREET PARKING REGULATIONS. In all zones there shall be provided
at the time any building or structure is occupied, being erected, or
structurally altered, off-street parking spaces as follows:
      (1)   Amusement facility (other than drive-in theater, uses with fixed
seating and those listed elsewhere in this Section), including swimming pool,
amusement park, miniature golf course, golf driving range, dance hall, skating
rink, or similar recreation establishment: One (1) space for each two hundred
(200) square feet of building.
      (2)   Bowling alley: Two (2) spaces for each alley.
      (3)   Religious institution, club or lodge: One (1) parking space for
each eight (8) members or thirty (30) inches of pew seating in the main area of
the structure.
      (4)   Community center, library, museum, or art gallery: Ten (10) parking
spaces plus one (1) additional space for each three hundred (300) square feet
of floor area in excess of two thousand (2,000) square feet, and the required
handicap access space(s).
      (5)   Dwelling: One (1) parking space for each bedroom or fraction
thereof provided in the dwelling, but not less than two (2) spaces per dwelling
unit.
      (6)   Light manufacturing or industrial establishment: One and one-half
(1.5) spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet of floor area.
      (7)   Medical or dental office, clinic, including veterinary clinic: Two
(2) parking spaces for each examination or treatment room plus one (1) space
for each doctor, and the required handicap access space(s).
      (8)   Mortuary: One (1) parking space for each one thousand (1,000)
square feet of gross floor area plus one parking space for each three (3) seats
in the funeral chapel area.
      (9)   Motel, hotel, bed and breakfast establishment, guest ranch: One (1)
parking space for each sleeping room or rental unit; one (1) parking space for
each employee per shift; one (1) parking space for each service vehicle
associated with the facility; and, two (2) parking spaces for the home owner
and/or property manager.
      (10)   Private club, lodge, or union headquarters: One (1) parking space
for each five (5) members.
      (11)   Restaurant, bar, nightclub, café: One (1) parking space for each
one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor area.
      (12)   Retail store, office (other than medical or dental), or service
establishment not otherwise specified herein: One (1) parking space for each
three hundred (300) square feet of floor area for the first floor and four
hundred (400) square feet for the second and third floor.
      (13)   Rooming or boarding house: One (1) parking space for each sleeping
room.
      (14)   School: One (1) parking space for each four (4) seats in the main
auditorium or three (3) spaces for each classroom, whichever is greater.
      (15)   Theater, auditorium, sports arena, stadium, gymnasium, rodeo
arena, polo grounds: One (1) parking space for each four (4) seats or seating
spaces.
      (16)   Mobile home park: One and one-half (1.5) parking spaces for each
trailer or dwelling unit.
   (C)   ALTERNATE PARKING PLAN. An Alternate Parking Plan may be submitted for
approval, demonstrating how parking will be accommodated through a combination
of onsite, off-site (whether public or private), shared, and/or on-street
parking. Alternate Parking Plans may be based on a lesser number of spaces than
that required under §
9.2.18(B) Off-Street Parking Regulations, provided it is demonstrated that a
nuisance will not be created thereby.
   (D)   GENERAL RULES FOR DETERMINING PARKING REQUIREMENTS. To compute the
number of required off-street parking spaces, the following shall govern:
      (1)   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required shall
be construed to be the next highest number when fifty percent (50%) or above.
      (2)   The parking space requirements for a use not specifically mentioned
herein shall be the same as that required for a similar use as determined by
the Director.
      (3)   In the case of mixed uses, the parking spaces required shall equal
the sum of the requirements of the mixed uses required separately.
      (4)   Each thirty (30) inches of pew or bench space is considered one (1)
seat.
   (E)   LOCATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF PARKING AREAS.
      (1)   All parking spaces required herein shall be located on the same
site with the building or use served unless an Alternate Parking Plan is
approved by the Village as to form and content and approved by the Commission/
Board.
      (2)   All open parking areas in the Commercial Zone provided in
compliance with this Section shall be surfaced with a durable surface
consisting of concrete or bituminous material or of compacted gravel, soil,
cement, or crushed stone as approved by the Planning Director.
      (3)   Parking spaces shall be a minimum of nine (9) feet in width by
twenty (20) feet in length except for ADA designated spaces. Parking spaces may
be reduced to eighteen (18) feet in length if there are parking bumpers
installed that allow for a two (2) foot vehicle overhang. In no instance shall
a vehicle overhang a parking bumper whereby pedestrian traffic will be impeded.
      (4)   Parking spaces shall be accessed by a twenty-four (24) foot wide
aisle.
      (5)   Parallel parking spaces in front of commercial establishments on
Fourth Street in the C-1 Zones shall not exceed one vehicle per twenty (20)
lineal feet of Fourth Street frontage.
   (F)   OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACES. Off-street loading and
unloading spaces shall be required as determined by the Director and shall be
so located that loading and unloading activity will not block or restrict a
public way.
   (G)   PARKING FOR PHYSICALLY CHALLENGED MOTORISTS. For any nonresidential
structure the required minimum number of parking spaces for persons with
significant mobility limitations is as is required in the Uniform Traffic
Ordinance (UTO) 12-9-10 or the latest revisions thereof, or §208 Parking Spaces
of the ADA Accessibility Standards or the latest revisions thereof, whichever
is more restrictive. Such space dimensions shall follow §502 Parking Spaces of
the ADA Accessibility Standards or the latest revisions thereof. Such spaces
shall also be:
      (1)   designated for use by the physically challenged by the
international symbol of accessibility as required by §216.5 Parking, §502.6
Identification, and §703.7.2.1 International Symbol of Accessibility of the ADA
Accessibility Standards or the latest revisions thereof;
      (2)   near or centrally located between related building entrances;
      (3)   so located that occupants of vehicles in these spaces can go to the
related building:
         (a)   without going behind parked vehicles;
         (b)   along a path at least forty-two (42) inches wide or the ADA
minimum, whichever is more restrictive; and
         (c)   unobstructed by bumpers, curbs, or other obstacles to
wheelchairs.
      (4)   appropriately marked to indicate the location of the spaces either
through parking bumpers, paint, or signs.
   (H)   SHARED PARKING. In the commercial zones (C-1, VC or Special Use
Permits) shared parking may be permitted by the Planning Director, subject to
the following:
      (1)   All shared parking facilities shall be located within a three
hundred (300) foot radius measured from the property line.
      (2)   The applicant shall show there is no substantial conflict in the
principal operating hours of the buildings or uses for which the shared parking
is proposed.
      (3)   Parties involved in the shared use of a parking facility or
facilities shall show evidence of an agreement for such shared use and
maintenance thereof by a proper legal instrument approved by the Village
Attorney as to form and content.
      (4)   Any shared parking facility shall be provided with adequate signs
on the premises indicating the availability of that facility for patrons of
participating uses.
      (5)   Subsequent modifications to the structure or substantive change in
tenant occupancy shall require review by the Planning Director for conformance
to this Section and issuance of a Certificate of Compliance.
      (6)   The application shall include a site plan to show where additional
parking will be provided in the event future parking is needed to meet future
parking demand.
      (7)   Shared parking requests shall be approved by the Planning Director
for two (2) or more different land uses located adjacent or in close proximity
to one another.
The application shall be reviewed for safety and security of patrons and
employees of the participating uses.
§ 9.2.19 LANDSCAPING
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. The purpose of this Section is to improve the
appearance, quality and quantity of landscaping visible from public rights-of-
way and adjacent properties. The emphasis is on buffer landscaping and
landscaping adjacent to or visible from Fourth Street.
   (B)   APPLICABILITY. These regulations shall apply to the following:
      (1)   All buildings erected, parking lots constructed, or alterations in
lot coverage exceeding twenty percent (20%) of the lot area occurring after
October 27, 2003, in the VC and C-1 Zones.
      (2)   Expansion of existing commercial development in which the square
footage of a structure, lot coverage, or parking area is increased by twenty
percent (20%) or more.
   (C)   LANDSCAPING PLAN. The landscaping plan shall be submitted for approval
by the Planning Director, Commission, or Board depending upon the type of
permit being sought. The landscape plan shall include:
      (1)   a site map drawn to scale showing topography in the form of
finished contour lines and areas proposed to be landscaped upon completion of
the building construction project;
      (2)   common or botanical names of the plants to be used, indicating
plant size, location, and spacing shown on the site map;
      (3)   the location, type, and size of any underground or overhead utility
lines on the site with reference to the landscaped areas;
      (4)   type and layout of the irrigation system, if required, for
landscaping areas indicating connections to the water supply source; and
      (5)   a stormwater drainage plan for the site shall be attached or
referenced in accordance with §
9.2.25(E)(2)(e)3, Grading and Drainage Plan – NPDES Stormwater Management Plan.
   (D)   LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS. All landscaping created pursuant to these
regulations shall be planned, designed, and installed in compliance with the
following requirements:
      (1)   A minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of the unbuilt area shall be
landscaped in a manner that will meet the intent of these Regulations. Corner
lots or double fronted unbuilt area shall provide a minimum of twenty percent
(20%) of the lot as landscaped area. Landscaping may consist of trees, shrubs,
ground cover, or other low-growing plants, and may include natural or
manufactured materials such as rocks, walls, pavement for walkways or patios,
works of art, and outdoor furniture as long as such materials comprise no more
than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total landscape area required. Siberian
Elm, Tamarisk, and Russian Olive shall not be used in the landscape plan, and
if existing on the lot, may not be included as part of the required trees or
shrubs.
There shall be a landscape strip at least five (5) feet deep along Fourth
Street, excluding driveways, except that in the VC Zone (where there is no
building setback requirement) if the building is set back from the right-of-way
the gap shall be landscaped up to five (5) feet.
Landscaping, in addition to natural vegetation, to meet the requirements of
this Section shall be provided in the following minimum numbers, sizes, and
growth capabilities:
         (a)   Trees.
            1. There shall be a minimum of one shade tree or ornamental tree
planted for each five hundred (500) square feet of required landscaped area.
            2. Shade trees or ornamental trees shall be at least two (2) inches
in caliper measured at the trunk two feet above grade or the tree shall be at
least ten (10) to twelve (12) feet in height at the time of planting.
            3. Siberian Elm trees, Tamarisk (Salt Cedar), and Russian Olive
shall not be planted to meet the requirements of this Section.
         (b)   Groundcover. Groundcover shall be planted to provide general
ground coverage within one growing season after planting.
         (c)   Shrubs and Bushes. Shrubs and bushes shall be at least five (5)
gallon or larger container sizes.
         (d)   Vegetation that has thorns or spines is not allowed adjacent to
the pedestrian walkway.
      (2)   Drought tolerant (xeriphytic) plantings and native New Mexican
plants are encouraged in all landscaped designs.
      (3)   To the extent possible, healthy existing trees, excluding Siberian
Elm, Tamarisk, and Russian Olive, and shrubs shall be preserved, especially if
drought tolerant, and incorporated into the landscaped area.
      (4)   Trees shall be planted as a landscape border along all abutting
roadways and shall be planted as an interior landscape border within vehicle
parking areas. Trees shall be no greater than thirty (30) feet on center along
the public right-of-way except when access to the subject site is required by
the Village Engineer.
      (5)   Vegetation may be used to satisfy a screen requirement in
accordance with the Village Zoning Code to separate the land use on the
commercial development site from an abutting residential land use.
      (6)   Landscaping shall not create a physical or visual obstruction to
vehicular traffic whether on or off public rights-of-way. Street trees shall
meet the clear sight triangle requirements for all access points onto a public
right-of-way.
      (7)   Placement of new trees shall avoid locations where future tree
growth might interfere with the utility lines or cause structural upheaval of
pavements or buildings.
      (8)   All landscape areas shall make use of stormwater catchment and
retention on site for purposes of flood control, water pollution abatement,
prevention of soil erosion, and increased soil moisture for vegetation. On-site
stormwater retention structures shall be designed to ensure public health and
safety during and following storms. Landscaping shall be installed according to
plans approved by the Planning Director, Commission, or Board and shall be
completed within one growing season after issuance of a certificate of
occupancy by the Planning Director.
      (9)   Any damage to the utility lines resulting from the negligence of
the property owner, his agents or employees in the installation and maintenance
of the landscaped treatment shall be the responsibility of such land owner.
   (E)   BUFFER LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS. The purpose of the landscape buffer
shall be to minimize noise, light and sight impact of the non-residential
activities upon the residential area(s).
      (1)   Where any parcel is wholly or partially zoned C-1, VC or issued a
Special Permit for non-residential uses that abuts residentially zoned
property, buffer landscaping shall be provided. The purpose of such a buffer
shall be to minimize noise, light, and sight impact of the non-residential
activities upon the residential area(s).
      (2)   Standard buffer landscaping may be a landscaping strip at least
fifteen (15) feet wide located along the boundary between residential use and
non-residential use.
      (3)   The Planning Director may approve an alternative landscaping if he
finds that:
         (a)   noise, light, and sight buffering of the residential zone can be
accomplished at least as well with the alternate plan;
         (b)   the alternate landscaping plan allows better use and functioning
of the non-residential premises;
         (c)   the alternate landscaping plan does not result in less
landscaped area than would have been required with the standard buffer
landscaping;
         (d)   there is a solid wall or fence at least six (6) feet in height
along all residential/non-residential boundaries that do not have the standard
buffer landscaping;
         (e)   the alternate plan meets or exceeds the existing regulations in
conforming to goals of the Village Master Plan; and
         (f)   alternate landscaping plans will be viewed favorably if open
space is provided and existing cottonwood trees are preserved.
      (4)   Standard buffer landscaping shall consist primarily of trees with a
minimum caliper of two (2) inches at planting or shrubs which grow at least
fifteen (15) feet within eight (8) years of planting. Normally, the trees or
shrubs in the landscaping strip shall be evergreen and form a largely opaque
screen.
      (5)   The installation of standard buffer landscaping shall not eliminate
the requirement for a six (6) foot fence or wall if parking is adjacent to such
landscaping.
   (F)   MAINTENANCE STANDARDS. All landscaping installed in compliance with
these regulations shall be maintained by the property owner according to the
following maintenance standards:
      (1)   Any plant material in areas of required new landscaping that does
not survive shall be replaced with an equivalent size and species of plant
within three (3) months of notification by the Planning Director.
      (2)   Plants shall be pruned as necessary to control size or shape, but
not to endanger its health, in order to prevent visual and physical
obstructions to pedestrians or vehicles.
      (3)   Regular landscaping maintenance shall ensure water efficiency and
include, but not be limited to, pruning, mulching, weeding, litter, and dead
plant removal, fertilizing, insect and disease control, and improvements or
repair of nonvegetative materials.
      (4)   Modifications to landscaping will require review and approval of a
revised landscape plan by the Planning Director.
      (5)   Irrigation systems will be maintained and replaced as necessary to
minimize loss of water due to leaks or inefficient use of water.
      (6)   All landscaping shall be completed within twelve (12) months of
approval and must be maintained.
      (7)   A landscape maintenance plan designed to implement the above
requirements shall be required in all site development plans. Failure to adhere
to the maintenance plan at any time shall be considered a violation of this
Section.
§ 9.2.20 DARK SKIES
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. It is the purpose of this Section to maximize the
preservation of the "valley" character of the Village and to minimize light
pollution for the enjoyment of the citizens of the Village by:
      (1)   using fixtures with good optical control to distribute light in the
most effective and efficient manner;
      (2)   using minimum amount of light to meet the lighting criteria;
      (3)   using shielded outdoor light fixtures where required and wherever
else feasible;
      (4)   assuring that the light generated by outdoor fixtures does not
extend beyond the property line of the property from which it emanates; and
      (5)   requiring that certain outdoor light fixtures be turned off between
11:00 p.m. and sunrise per §
9.2.20(B)(1)(f).
   (B)   GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
      (1)   Outdoor light fixtures installed and maintained upon private
property within commercial or residential zones shall comply with the
following:
         (a)   Outdoor light fixtures shall be shielded such that light rays
emitted by the fixture are projected at 45° from a point on fixture where light
is emitted.
         (b)   Where used for security purposes, or to illuminate walkways,
roadways, equipment yards and parking lots, only shielded outdoor light
fixtures shall be utilized.
         (c)   Where used for on or off premise signs or for decorative effects
or recreational facilities such as for building, landscape or ball field
illumination, the outdoor light fixtures shall be equipped with automatic
timing devices, be shielded and or focused to minimize light pollution.
         (d)   Outdoor fixtures shall be required to have all light focused
downward.
         (e)   Outdoor light fixtures shall be limited to fifteen (15) feet in
height.
         (f)   All outdoor light fixtures existing or hereafter installed and
maintained upon private property within commercial or residential zones shall
be turned off between 11:00 p.m. and sunrise except when permitted by the
Director of Planning and Zoning. A permit will be issued if, in the opinion of
the Director of Planning and Zoning:
            1. the applicant can demonstrate that a legitimate threat to
property or public safety would exist without continuous lighting;
            2. the proposed recreational use is nonrecurring; and
            3. the lighting is in all other ways in conformance with this
Section.
      (2)   All illuminated on-premise signs for advertising purposes shall be
turned off between 11:00 p.m. and sunrise except that on-premise signs may be
illuminated while the business facility on the premises is open to the public.
      (3)   All outdoor light fixtures shall be installed in conformity with
all other applicable provisions of the Village 2013 Codified Ordinances.
      (4)   Lighting exterior to the structures shall be shielded in such a
manner as to confine emitted light within the boundary of the property from
which it originated.
      (5)   All non-conforming residential outdoor lighting installed prior to
the October 27, 2003 shall be altered or replaced in order to conform within
two (2) years.
      (6)   All non-conforming commercial outdoor lighting installed prior to
the October 27, 2003 shall be altered or replaced in order to conform within
two (2) years.
   (C)   PROHIBITED LIGHTING.
      (1)   Street lighting in residential areas is prohibited.
      (2)   Rotating, flashing, moving or stationary beacons of light used for
advertising purposes or public events are prohibited.
FIGURE 1: Street and Lot Light Cut-Off at Property Line
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-953.png]
FIGURE 2: Free-Standing Lights
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-955.png]
FIGURE 3: Off-Wall, Building, Foliage, Sign, and Escarpment Lights
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-957.png]
FIGURE 4: Acceptable Shielding, Hooding, and Aiming of Outdoor Wall-Mounted
Light Fixtures
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-959.png]
§ 9.2.21 DESIGN REGULATIONS
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. The purpose of this Section is to beautify Fourth
Street by creating a consistency of style.
   (B)   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
      (1)   All buildings in the C-1 Zone constructed after October 27, 2003
shall incorporate one of the following architectural styles: Northern New
Mexico, Spanish Colonial, Pueblo Revival, Territorial, Mission/Mediterranean,
and “Ranch,” and combinations thereof.
Figures 20-1 through 20-6 present pictorial examples of these styles. The
pictorial examples along with the following text are intended as guidelines.
         (a)   Spanish Colonial. Flat roofed with low rounded parapets.
Material is block adobe with stucco or mud plaster. Usually has only an outside
door to each room and few very small windows. Wood details include projecting
vigas, canales, portales (often on inside courtyards or a short portal within a
“C” shaped building). The portales are built of plain log posts and simple
carved zapatas or corbels.
         (b)   Pueblo Revival. Based on, and a combination of, early New
Mexican pueblos and Spanish buildings; flat roofed with rounded parapets
(sometimes embellished with a real or false bell tower); earth-toned batter
(sloping walls; one to three stories in height, with upper stories usually set
back; portales have log posts, wood beams, and zapatas or corbels. Details also
include projecting vigas, canales, and exposed wood lintels above the windows.
Pueblo Revival structures usually have little ornamentation.
         (c)   Territorial. Flat-roofed, sometimes with brick coping edging the
parapet; multi-paned windows, and sometimes shutters; main entries feature
sidelights and a top light. Details include pedimented lintels over windows and
doors, and portales with squared, often chamfered, posts without corbels.
         (d)   Northern New Mexico. Also called Western Victorian. Pitched or
hipped (often of raised ridge metal roofs with a slope of 45 degrees) roof
bungalows or cottages with wide unenclosed (rafters exposed) eave overhang and
wood plank gable; earth-toned adobe or stucco façade, sometimes frame or brick,
clapboard or stone; 2/2 or 1/1 sash windows, sometimes Greek Revival style
pedimented windows. Details include porches with deep portales, decorative
woodwork, and posts and corbels.
         (e)   Mission/Mediterranean. Red tiled roofs and white plaster walls.
         (f)   “Ranch.” Western Rustic, single story, bunkhouse style.
      (2)   Materials. Materials should be appropriate for the architectural
style. Materials such as aluminum siding, metal panels, mirrored glass, and
unstuccoed masonry units or concrete are not allowed.
      (3)   Roof-Mounted Equipment. Roof-mounted mechanical, electrical,
telephone or solar equipment shall be architecturally screened with opaque
materials, for example, by raising the parapet, and shall be of a low profile
to minimize the screening problems. Roof-mounted mechanical, electrical,
telephone or solar equipment shall not be visible from the street level.
      (4)   Mobile, Pre-Fabricated, Modular, or Manufactured Homes or
Structures. Mobile homes, prefabricated, modular and/or manufactured homes or
buildings are not permitted in the C-1 or VC Zones for commercial use. However,
except for mobile homes, buildings of any form of construction meeting the
Uniform Building Code are allowed, providing that facades are provided on all
sides giving the building the appearance of any permitted style.
      (5)   Dumpsters or other receptacles for solid waste or trash shall be at
the rear, outside of view from Fourth Street.
   (C)   VILLAGE CENTER ZONE. Commercial Buildings located in the Village
Center Zone shall be compatible with the foregoing general design guidelines
and also comply with more detailed design guidelines yet to be developed by an
architecture/urban planning consultant.
Figure 21-1. Examples of Spanish/Colonial/Pueblo Revival Style.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-961.png]
Spanish colonial. Flat roofed with ow rounded parapets. Material is block adobe
with stucco or mud plaster. Usually has only an outside door to each room and a
few very small windows. Wood details include projecting vegas, portales (often
on inside courtyards or a short portal with a "C" shaped building). The
portales are built of plain log posts and simple carved zapatas or corbles.
Figure 21-2. Example of Territorial Style.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-963.png]
Territorial. Flat roofed, sometimes with brick coping edging the parapet;
multi-paned windows, and sometimes shutters; main entries feature sidelights
and a top light. Details include pedimented lintels over windows and door, and
portales with squared, often chambered, posts without corbels.
Figure 21-3. Examples of Northern New Mexico Style.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-965.png]
Northern New Mexico Style. Steep pitched, generally tin roof with dormer
windows. Usually two stories. Wood or stucco walls. Also called Western
Victorian. Pitched or hipped (often of raised ridge metal roofs with a slope of
45 degrees) roof bungalows or cottages with wide unenclosed (rafters exposed)
eave overhang and wood plank gable; earth-toned adobe or stucco facade,
sometimes frame or brick, clapboard or stone; 2/2 or 1/1 sash with deep
portales, decorative woodwork, and posts and corbels.
Figure 21-4. Examples of Mission/Mediterranean Style.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-967.png]
Mission/Mediterranean. Tiled roofs with stucco/stone facade walls. Arched
porticos or walkways. Multi-paned and/or one large window surrounded by smaller
panes. One or more tower features.
Figure 21-5. Examples of “Ranch” Style.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-969.png]
Ranch. Western rustic, single story, bunkhouse style. Small, vertical windows,
usually multi-paned.
Figure 21-6. Examples of Combined Styles. (Reserved)
§ 9.2.22 SIGNS
   (A)   DEFINITIONS.
      (1)   SIGN means any device used for visual communication or display to
public view of letters, words, numerals, figures, statutes, devices, emblems,
pictures or any parts or combinations thereof designated to inform or advertise
or promote merchandise, services, activities, or politically related
information except for the following:
         (a)   Signs required by law or signs of a duly-constituted
governmental body.
         (b)   Signs placed by a public utility for the safety, welfare, or
convenience of the public.
         (c)   Temporary Holiday Decorations.
         (d)   Any item of merchandise normally displayed within a show window
of a business.
         (e)   Non-illuminated names of building, dates of erection, monument
citations, commemorative tablets and the like when carved into stone, concrete,
metal or any other permanent type construction and made an integral part of a
permitted structure or made flush to the ground.
         (f)   Indoor signs not intended to be read from outside.
      (2)   BILLBOARD is a board, panel, or tablet used for the display of
posters, painted or printed advertising matter, either illuminated or non-
illuminated, that directs attention to goods, merchandise, entertainment, or
services offered elsewhere other than the premises where the sign is located. A
sign that directs attention to a business, commodity, services or entertainment
conducted, sold or offered at a location other than the premises on which the
sign is located.
      (3)   BUILDING-MOUNTED SIGN is a sign entirely supported by or through a
building; this category shall include canopy, roof and wall signs.
      (4)   CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE is the area formed by a line measured from the
corner of the property back twenty-five feet (25’) along each right-of-way, and
connected by a line drawn between them to form a triangle.
      (5)   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER is the officer and other designated
authority charged with the administration and enforcement of this Section. A
code enforcement official shall be a Village employee authorized by the Mayor.
      (6)   DIRECTOR is the Director of the Planning and Zoning Department of
the Village of Los Ranchos.
      (7)   FREE-STANDING SIGN is a sign attached to or supported from the
ground and not attached to a building; signs on walls or fences which are not
an integral part of a building are FREE-STANDING SIGNS.
      (8)   GRAPHIC SHAPE SIGNS are signs which incorporate a logo.
      (9)   HOME OCCUPATION SIGNS are signs permitted to a business holding a
valid home occupation permit (non-deminimis) granted by the Village of Los
Ranchos.
      (10)   MULTI-TENANT SIGN is a single structure or composite sign
containing information regarding multiple businesses on a single premise.
      (11)   MURAL is an artistic expression painted or similarly created on
exterior wall surface which does not incorporate words or letters, and which
does not advertise a business, product or service provided on or off the
premises.
      (12)   NEON TUBING is electric discharge tubing manufactured in shapes
that form letters, parts of letters, skeleton tubing, outline lighting, other
decorative elements, or art forms, and filled with various inert gases.
      (13)   NONCOMMERCIAL MESSAGES are those messages not related to a
commercial advertising sign. Whenever commercial speech would be permitted,
noncommercial speech will be allowed.
      (14)   OFF-PREMISE SIGN is a sign whose content does not refer to a
business or merchant doing business on the premises where the sign is
displayed.
      (15)   ON-PREMISE SIGN is a sign whose contents relate to the premises on
which it is located, referring exclusively to the name, location, products,
persons, accommodations, services or activities of or on those premises, or the
sale, lease or construction of those premises.
      (16)   PAINTED WALL SIGN is any sign which is applied with paint or
similar substance on the surface of a wall, which incorporates graphic devices
including letters or words, and which advertises a business, product or
service. A painted wall sign is a building mounted sign and must meet all
regulatory requirements of a building mounted sign.
      (17)   PENNANT is any plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string, often
in a series, and designed to move in the wind.
      (18)   POLITICAL CAMPAIGN SIGN is a sign, which indicates an individual,
party or issue that will be placed on the federal, state or local election
ballot in the subject calendar year.
      (19)   PORTABLE SIGN is any sign designed to be moved easily and not
permanently affixed to the ground, or to a structure or building.
      (20)   SANDWICH BOARD SIGN is an A-frame sign which is not permanently
affixed to a structure or to the ground, and which does not exceed twelve (12)
square feet in area on each of the two sign faces.
      (21)   SIGN FACE is the area of a sign made available by the sign
structure for the purpose of displaying the advertising message.
      (22)   SIGNATURE SIGN is a sign built in the shape of an object or
graphic and used to convey a message.
      (23)   SNIPE SIGN is a temporary sign affixed to trees, fences, utility
poles, street furniture or any other device or structure in the public right-
of-way.
      (24)   TEMPORARY SIGN is any sign, banner, pennant, valance or
advertising display intended for display for a limited period of time only and
not permanently mounted.
   (B)   PROHIBITED SIGNS. The following signs are prohibited and shall be
removed or brought into conformance with §
9.2.22, Signs:
      (1)   Signs which contribute to confusion of traffic control or resemble
traffic control lighting; unauthorized signs, signals, markings or devices
which purport to be or are imitations of official traffic control devices or
railroad signs or signals; or signs which obstruct the visibility of or
interfere with the effectiveness of any official traffic control devices or any
railroad signs or signals.
      (2)   Rotating, flashing or oscillating or still beacons of light and any
lights that violate the Dark Skies provisions, §
9.2.20.
      (3)   Electronic message boards with moving messages.
      (4)   Portable metal frame signs, illuminated or non-illuminated, mounted
on wheels or not, whether or not affixed by chains or otherwise made to appear
to be permanent to a site.
         (a)   Portable signs existing at the time of May 19, 2008 are
Grandfathered only as long as the sign remains on the original premises and is
not relocated.
         (b)   Sandwich boards unless already permitted before May 19, 2008.
      (5)   Signs with Audible Devices.
      (6)   Signs on the public right-of-way; except for name and address signs
on mailboxes.
      (7)   Any signs on the public right-of-way that impede pedestrian access.
      (8)   Off-premises signs.
      (9)   Signs in clear sight triangle at a roadway or driveway
intersection.
      (10)   Abandoned signs, signs in disrepair and signs that advertise
businesses or services that are no longer in operation or available.
      (11)   Billboards not already existing.
      (12)   Banner-type signs:
         (a)   Banners advertising alcoholic beverages;
         (b)   Real Estate banners;
         (c)   “Deal” banners (lower interest rates, special sales events);
         (d)   Any banner not meeting the criteria of §
9.2.22(I).
      (13)   Pendants on wires or ropes.
      (14)   Snipe signs for more than three (3) days, except those signs
advertising lost pets.
      (15)   Advertisement signs for residential development other than one (1)
sign for general contractor with parcel permit.
   (C)   BILLBOARDS.
      (1)   All existing billboards and portable signs will be removed from the
Village by March 31, 2011.
      (2)   No new billboards will be permitted under this Section.
   (D)   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
      (1)   All permanent and temporary signs require a sign permit from the
Village.
      (2)   A sign shall not be erected, re-erected, constructed or altered
except as provided for in this Section and after a permit for same has been
issued by the Village.
      (3)   Application for sign permit shall be made in writing upon forms
furnished by the Village.
         (a)   Plans or other pertinent information necessary to construction
of the sign, including location by elevation drawing, dimensions, graphic
reproduction must be submitted with the sign application.
      (4)   A separate permit shall be required for a sign or signs for each
registered business entity.
      (5)   A permit shall be required by each tenant with signage on a single
freestanding multi-tenant sign for multi-tenant buildings or structures.
      (6)   A sign permit shall lapse if the business license for the premises
lapses or is revoked, or is not renewed.
         (a)   A sign permit shall lapse if the business activity on the
premises is discontinued for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days or more.
      (7)   New tenants in a premises with an existing free standing sign are
required to obtain sign permits per (1) through (5).
      (8)   All permanent free-standing signs require a building permit from
the Village and must meet all applicable State electrical, and mechanical codes
and the Village of Los Ranchos Municipal building codes.
         (a)   A new sign permit is not required for the maintenance or repair
of an existing conforming sign. Maintenance and repair includes re-facing and
repainting of existing signs provided neither the size nor structure of the
sign is changed.
         (b)   Modifications, excluding repairs, to nonconforming signs are
prohibited unless the signs are brought into conformance in accordance with
this Section.
      (9)   Sign permits for signs that meet the requirements of the general
regulations and do not require variance or other special approvals may be
approved by the designated Planning and Zoning Official.
      (10)   Signs containing noncommercial speech are permitted anywhere that
advertising or business signs are permitted, subject to the same regulations
applicable to such signs.
   (E)   COMMERCIAL SIGN SIZE AND SPECIFICATIONS.
      (1)   All individual commercial free-standing signs shall have a maximum
of forty (40) square feet on each of a maximum of two (2) sides.
         (a)   For individual businesses with free-standing signs, a maximum of
twenty (20) square feet is allowed for building mounted signage.
      (2)   Multi-tenant signs, identifying all businesses located on one (1)
premise or in one (1) building or cluster of buildings are allowed a maximum of
fifty (50) square feet of printed area. Maximum overall sign shall not exceed
sixty five (65) square feet.
         (a)   The perimeter of measurable area includes all embellishments
such as pole covers, framing, decorative roofing, support structures or
decorative bases including planters. There shall be no written advertising copy
on said area, except the name of the complex at the top.
         (b)   Each business, located within the complex, is allowed twenty
(20) square feet of building mounted sign.
      (3)   Larger signs may be approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission
for large buildings and large developments through a site development review
and application approval process, if in scale with the size of the building, or
distance from the roadway.
         (a)   For businesses facing directly on a major street and not in
shopping centers or complexes, for every linear foot of distance that a
buildingmounted sign is set back from the nearest street right-of-way line, an
increase of one (1) square foot of sign area may be permitted, provided, no
sign shall be increased to exceed five percent (5%) of the total area on the
side of the building where it is mounted.
      (4)   For Shopping Centers or complexes where §
9.2.22(E)(3)(a) does not apply due to pre-existing buildings and the nearest
street right-of-way is in excess of fifty (50) feet, the designated zoning
official may approve appropriately scaled signage after taking into
consideration the distance from the street and other, existing signage within
the complex.
      (5)   The maximum area allowed for signs shall include any signs painted
on windows or other surfaces of the property.
      (6)   Co-op businesses at a single premise, such as those selling
antiques, are considered as one (1) business regarding sign regulations.
      (7)   If a property is bordered by more than one (1) roadway, it may have
one (1) building-mounted sign on each side facing a roadway, but only one free-
standing sign.
      (8)   Measurement of signs:
         (a)   The area of each sign face on a sign shall be measured as a
rectilinear line of not more than eight (8) sides, drawn around and enclosing
the perimeter of each printed advertising or information area.
         (b)   The area shall then be summed and totaled to determine the total
area.
      (9)   Only those sandwich board signs with existing approved permits at
the time of May 19, 2008 shall be allowed and shall be displayed only during
the hours of operation of the business.
      (10)   Signs upon a vehicle are permitted, provided that any such vehicle
with a sign is not conspicuously parked by a roadway so that it constitutes
advertising in and of itself; such vehicles may be used for bona fide delivery
and other vehicular purposes.
   (F)   HEIGHT.
      (1)   Maximum height placement of an attached sign shall not exceed the
maximum building height for the zone area, nor shall it exceed a maximum of
five (5) feet above the parapet of the building.
      (2)   A free-standing sign shall not exceed twenty (20) feet in height
from the elevation of the edge of roadway closest to the base of the sign.
      (3)   Free-standing signs shall be placed a minimum of six (6) feet away
from any driveway or side street.
         (a)   Free standing sign posts shall not exceed 6x6 (or larger if
structurally required) wood square or metal round of equivalent size.
      (4)   The bottom of a free-standing sign located closer than fifteen (15)
feet to the road right-of-way shall be no less than eight (8) feet above ground
level to maintain the clear site triangle.
   (G)   DESIGN.
      (1)   Signs shall reflect and be compatible with the architecture and
scale of the building or structure of the business.
      (2)   Permanent signs which are designed for the use of changeable
letters or message boards as part of the overall design are allowed.
      (3)   Signs which use a shape design to indicate the type of merchandise
or service provided in commercial establishment are allowed and will be given
considerations regarding size. Examples include the Chase Hardware Store
hammer, Dan’s Boots and Saddles black horse, and the Green Valley Meats pig.
   (H)   LIGHTING.
      (1)   Signs may be illuminated by ground or structure mounted fixtures
that are shielded in such a manner that there is no illumination beyond the
sign face.
      (2)   All signs must meet the Dark Skies provisions, §
9.2.20.
      (3)   There shall be no light fixture mounted in such a manner as to have
the lens exposed to vehicular traffic or pedestrians.
      (4)   No portion of an illuminated sign shall exceed a luminance of two
hundred (200) foot lamberts at night if such sign is located within fifty (50)
feet of a residential zone.
      (5)   No sign nor part of a sign shall move, flash or rotate.
      (6)   No sign nor part of a sign shall change its illumination more than
once an hour.
      (7)   Time and temperature signs may be permitted by the Village through
the Site Plan Approval process.
      (8)   Such digital reader boards permitted by the Village may not contain
any moving graphics, may not vary in intensity and may not change displayed
information more than once every twenty (20) seconds.
   (I)   BANNERS.
      (1)   All banners must obtain a sign permit from the Village of Los
Ranchos.
      (2)   Permissible banners:
         (a)   Apartment buildings with rental units are permitted one 20
square foot banner per building advertising for rent.
         (b)   Multi-unit commercial complexes are permitted one 20 square foot
banner per building advertising for rent, to be removed immediately upon rental
of unit.
         (c)   Grand opening (coming soon, etc.) banners, with permit, are
permissible thirty (30) days prior to opening, but must then be replaced with
permanent signage with permit.
         (d)   Seasonal banners are permitted for thirty (3o) days duration
during the month of the holiday or event. (Christmas, Chili Season, Balloon
Fiesta, etc.) with permit.
         (e)   An application for specialty banners may be made to the Planning
and Zoning Commission, which will consider approval in view of lot size,
distance from street, height, number and dimensions of banners requested,
purpose, neighborhood congestion, and over all aesthetics.
   (J)   OTHER SIGNS.
      (1)   Signs, twelve (12) square feet or less in area, advertising
agricultural products on the premises where grown, or agricultural services on
the premises where provided, and limited to one (1) sign per premise are
permitted.
      (2)   A residential premise may have one temporary sign advertising a
garage, yard or estate sale of six (6) square feet, on each of two (2) sides,
for a maximum of three (3) days per sale, no more than once per month, with no
permit required.
      (3)   Subdivision signs shall be approved at the time of subdivision
approval and shall be part of the Site Development Plan for the subdivision.
   (K)   POLITICAL CAMPAIGN SIGNS.
The purpose of this Ordinance is to promote the free flow of ideas and
candidates related to political campaigns for the education and benefit of the
residents of the Village and the candidates. The Village finds a compelling
public interest of informed participation in the democratic political process
justifies diverse treatment of political campaign signs which may not be
available for other signage. Implementing this purpose justifies the allowing
of signs in the public rights-of-way of major streets that may not be allowed
under other provisions of the Codified Ordinances. The Village further finds
that it is not in the best interest of the residents of the Village for any
signage to be allowed which interferes with a clear sight triangle at all
intersections including intersections with private streets, or blocks any
pedestrian or bicycle path, or blocks any directional or traffic safety signs
or signals and that it is unsightly, detrimental to the aesthetics of the
community and a nuisance for political campaign signs to be left for an
extended period of time after the event for which they were posted has
occurred.
The following standards and provisions are hereby declared to be applicable to
political campaign signs.
      (1)   All political campaign signs require a sign permit from the
Village. Only one (1) permit will be required for each candidate, regardless of
the number of signs placed. Permits will be issued at no cost. The application
for the permit must include the contact information for the individual or
organization responsible for the signs.
      (2)   Political campaign signs will be allowed on private residentially
zoned property under the following conditions:
         (a)   All signage must observe the clear sight triangle for traffic
safety and shall not block any traffic lane, pedestrian or bicycle path or
lane, and shall not block or interfere with any directional or traffic safety
signs or signals.
         (b)   All signs meet the standards and requirements for signs other
than political campaign signs on residentially zoned property.
         (c)   The person or committee listed in the application for the sign
shall be responsible for removal of the sign after the election. If the sign(s)
is (are) not removed within fifteen (15) days after the election is held the
Village may remove the sign(s) and the party listed in the application or the
candidate will be responsible for the cost associated with removal.
      (3)   Political campaign signs will be allowed on the public rights-of-
way only on Rio Grande Boulevard, El Pueblo Road, Ranchitos Road, Chavez Road,
Osuna and Fourth Street. Signs permitted pursuant to this section shall at no
time impair line of sight for vehicular traffic or be placed so as to impair
travel on any traffic lane or block any pedestrian or bicycle lane and shall
not block or interfere with any directional or traffic safety signs or signals.
Signs in the public rights-of-way must be removed in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph (2) (c) above.
      (4)   Political campaign signs on commercially zoned property must comply
with the size standards and other requirements for nonpolitical campaign signs
in the location at which the sign will be placed.
      (5)   All political campaign signs must comply with all statutes and
regulations adopted by the state of New Mexico.
   (L)   REAL ESTATE SIGNS.
      (1)   All realtors listing property for sale in the Village must obtain a
Parcel Permit in accordance with §
9.3.3, Application for Permit to Sell, Construct and/or Remodel Real Estate in
the Village Limits.
      (2)   A commercial lot or building may have one temporary sign of twelve
(12) square feet on each of two sides indicating availability of such lot or
building for sale or lease.
      (3)   A family dwelling, non-commercial lot or building, or a residential
lot or building may have one (1) temporary sign of eight (8) square feet
indicating availability for sale or lease on the property.
         (a)   One off-premise real estate sale sign may be placed on property
not offered for sale, with the permission of the property owner, or in the
public right-of-way, for any sale properties which have frontage only on dead
end streets.
         (b)   Real estate “Open House” signs may be placed by real estate
agents or homeowners at the intersections of public rights-of-way one hour
before opening and may remain in place until one hour following the closing.
   (M)   CONSTRUCTION SIGNS.
      (1)   On premises under construction on commercially zoned property, one
(1) single faced sign shall be permitted for the prime licensed building
contractor. Parcel Permits are required per §
9.3.3, Application for Permit to Sell, Construct and/or Remodel Real Estate in
the Village Limits.
      (2)   On premises under construction on commercially zoned property, one
(1) single faced sign, in addition to prime contractor’s sign, may list sub-
contractors, lending institutions, etc.
         (a)   Each sign’s area not to exceed twelve (12) square feet.
         (b)   Such sign shall be confined to the site of the construction, and
shall be removed within fourteen (14) days after the beginning of the intended
use of the project or the issuance of the certificate of occupancy, whichever
is earlier.
         (c)   Such signs must be placed to abide by the building setback
limits of the lot on which construction is taking place.
      (3)   Construction projects on residentially zoned property may display
one (1) single faced sign with a maximum area of eight (8) square feet per
legally defined parcel for primary contractor.
   (N)   EXEMPTIONS.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any part of this Section, all free-standing
permitted signs as they existed on May 19, 2008 are exempt from restrictions
contained herein until such signs change.
         (a)   Legal signs include those otherwise nonconforming signs that
have been previously permitted by the Village.
   (O)   CONFORMANCE.
      (1)   Except as provided herein, the owner of any lot or premise on which
exists a sign that does not conform with the requirements of this Section and
for which there is no current and valid sign permit shall be obligated to
remove such sign or, in the case of a nonconforming sign, to bring it into
conformity with the requirements of this Section and obtain a valid sign
permit.
         (a)   For any sign on property annexed, applications for sign permits
shall be submitted within six (6) months of the effective date of the
annexation or within such period as may be established in an annexation
agreement between the Village and the landowners.
         (b)   Signs that are the subject of applications received after May
19, 2008 shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of §
9.2.22(D).
   (P)   GENERAL PROVISION FOR UPKEEP AND MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS.
      (1)   Any sign which has fallen into disrepair or is in a deteriorated
state must be repaired, repainted, re-surfaced or otherwise brought out of its
deteriorated and unsightly condition.
      (2)   The business and property owner will be notified in writing stating
that the sign is deteriorated or in disrepair and given thirty (30) days in
which to address the problem.
      (3)   Should the situation not be remedied within the thirty (30) day
period, the Village designated official shall proceed with a Code Enforcement
Case according to §
9.2.24 Implementation, Enforcement and Penalties.
   (Q)   VARIANCE. Variances from the terms of this Section may be considered
by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (R)   APPROVAL. Sign permits for signs that meet the requirements of the
general regulations and do not require variance or other special approvals may
be approved by the designated Planning and Zoning Official.
   (S)   FEES. Fees for applications and permitting of signs shall be as
established by resolution of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Los
Ranchos de Albuquerque.
   (T)   ENFORCEMENT.
      (1)   The provisions of this Section shall be enforced by such persons
who are appointed by the Mayor as zoning enforcement officers. Such persons
shall be employees of the Village and shall have the power to issue citations
for the violation of this Section. Such citations shall be heard by the Village
of Los Ranchos municipal court.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use or maintain any sign or sign structure in this jurisdiction, or
cause or permit the same to be done contrary to or in violation of the
provisions of this Section.
      (3)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
Section shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50), nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500) for each offense.
      (4)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during on
or which a violation occurs or continues after ten (10) days of notice of
violation from the Village.
      (5)   Erection or placement of a sign without a sign permit from the
Village will be charged double fee for the permit when applied for or one
hundred dollars ($100.00), whichever is less, if applied for within ten (10)
days of notification by the Village. If no sign permit has been obtained within
ten (10) days, then provisions 1-4 apply.
      (6)   The Planning and Zoning Director or his/her designee may revoke a
sign permit if:
         (a)   an error was made by staff in issuing the sign permit;
         (b)   the information provided by the applicant was misleading or
untrue; or
         (c)   the sign erected differs from or does not meet the
specifications authorized by the sign permit.
   (U)   AUTHORITY. The Planning Director or designee is hereby given the
authority to interpret and implement the zoning code for the Village.
   (V)   SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause,
phrase, or part hereof is for reason declared unconstitutional or invalid, the
validity of the remaining portions hereof shall not be affected since it is the
expressed intent of the Board to pass each section, subsection, paragraph,
clause, phrase and every part thereof separately and independently of every
other part.
   (W)   EFFECTIVE DATE, REPEAL, AND PUBLICATION. This Section shall take
effect and be in full force May 19, 2008.
§ 9.2.23 NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. The purpose of this Section is to provide
interpretation and relief to land use issues that were created and maintained
legally prior to October 27, 2003.
   (B)   LAND USE. The lawful use of land existing at the time the applicable
Zoning Code became effective, and such use did not conform, may be continued
provided no physical enlargement or addition to such use is made.
   (C)   BUILDINGS. The lawful use of buildings existing at the time the
applicable Zoning Code became effective, and such building did not conform with
respect to the development regulations, may be continued provided any
enlargements, additions or alterations to such building will not increase its
degree of nonconformity and will conform in every respect with the development
regulations of the zone in which the building is located, except as hereinafter
provided by zone variance.
   (D)   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
      (1)   A discontinuance of a non-conforming use for a continuous period of
one hundred eighty (180) days shall be deemed to constitute abandonment of any
nonconforming rights existing at the time of the enactment of the Ordinance.
Suspension of business operations on a non-conforming use for the purpose of
performing required repairs or maintenance shall not constitute abandonment
provided such operations resume within three hundred sixty (360) days.
      (2)   Any change from a non-conforming use of land or buildings to a more
restrictive or conforming use shall constitute abandonment of such non-
conforming rights.
      (3)   Repairs, maintenance, and alterations which do not increase the
degree of nonconformity of a non-conforming building, structure or improvement,
nor increase the size or degree of nonconformity of a use, shall be made.
      (4)   If any non-conforming building or use be destroyed to the extent of
fifty percent (50%) or more of the fair market value, according to the
assessment thereof by the County Assessor, for the fiscal year during which the
destruction occurs, then and without further action by the Village, the said
building and use of the land on which said building was located or maintained
shall from and after the date of such destruction shall cease the non-
conforming use and the property shall be subject to all the regulations
specified by the Zoning Code for the district in which the said building was
located.
      (5)   If a property, that has a non-conforming use which abuts Fourth
Street, adds landscaping, signs, lighting, or other types of accessory uses in
conformance with Village regulations and this Section, those improvements shall
not be deemed an expansion of the use.
      (6)   If an investigation by the Village reveals that a particular
property contains a legal, non-conforming use or structure, a “Notice of Non-
conforming Rights,” may be recorded with the County of Bernalillo. This notice
is designed to provide constructive notice to any successors in interest that
non-conforming rights as to the property or structure existed at the time of
the recordation of the notice. Nothing in this notice shall permit the
continuation of a non-conforming use or structure that was subsequently
expanded, enlarged, abandoned or destroyed which extinguishes the previous non-
conforming right.
      (7)   If a subsequent investigation reveals that a previous non-
conforming right as to the property’s use or structure has been vacated or
abandoned, a cancellation of the Notice of Non-conforming Rights shall be
recorded by the Village with the County of Bernalillo.
   (E)   NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES EXEMPTION.
      (1)   The following are prohibited:
         (a)   Changes of non-conforming uses to other non-conforming uses,
except where the Planning and Zoning Commission finds the new nonconforming use
will have no greater adverse impact on surrounding property or resources;
         (b)   Extension or enlargement of non-conforming uses or nonconforming
structures and the construction of new non-conforming accessory structures,
unless the Planning and Zoning Commission finds that such extension,
enlargement or new accessory structures will not adversely affect surrounding
properties and resources. New non-conforming accessory structures shall be
allowed provided there is no alternative which is 1) suitable for the
construction of such accessory structure and 2) reasonably available to the
applicant such that the accessory structure may be constructed so as to conform
to applicable regulations;
         (c)   Resumption of non-conforming uses if such use is discontinued or
abandoned for a period of a maximum of one hundred eighty (180) days;
         (d)   Changes of conforming uses to other similar, conforming uses
which involve the utilization of principal structures which have been in
existence for five (5) years or more, and which are or will be non-conforming,
except where the Planning and Zoning Commission finds the new conforming use
will not adversely impact surrounding uses and resources. The Planning and
Zoning Commission shall not approve such proposed changes in use where it finds
that the intent of such proposals is to avoid the objectives of the statutes or
regulations administered by the Village;
         (e)   Extension or enlargement of conforming uses which involve the
utilization of non-conforming structures and the construction of new
nonconforming accessory structures, unless the Planning and Zoning Commission
finds that such extension, enlargement or new accessory structures will not
adversely affect surrounding property and resources. New non-conforming
accessory structures shall only be allowed provided there is no alternative
site, which is 1) suitable for the construction of such accessory structure and
2) reasonably available to the applicant such that the accessory structure may
be constructed so as to conform to applicable regulations.
      (2)   Any use that was granted after the adoption of this Code shall not
be deemed a non-conforming use, but shall be deemed a conforming use in such a
district.
      (3)   Any legally existing non-conforming dwelling unit may be
reconstructed if damaged or destroyed, regardless of cause, if reconstructed
within a period of two (2) years from the date of such damage or destruction.
      (4)   Expansions of legally existing non-conforming dwelling units,
including but not limited to additional stories, rooms, porches and garages
unless the height, setback, lot coverage and parking regulations are met.
      (5)   Reconstruction and expansion of legally existing non-conforming
dwelling units shall comply with the provisions of the governing zone.
§ 9.2.24 IMPLEMENTATION, ENFORCEMENT, AND PENALTIES
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. The purpose of this Section is to provide the
Village the mechanisms to enforce the Zoning Code and penalize those violating
such provisions.
   (B)   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Planning Director and designees are the
enforcement officers and have the authority and duty to enforce this Article.
   (C)   VIOLATIONS AND VIOLATIONS OF CONDITIONS.
      (1)   If the Planning Director finds that any of the conditions of an
approved use are being violated, he shall notify in writing, the owner, tenant,
agent, occupant, or person in charge of the premises, indicating the nature of
the violation and ordering its correction by a date certain, to be determined
by the Enforcement Officer but not to exceed sixty (60) days duration from the
date notification is sent.
      (2)   Upon failure by responsible parties to abate the violation, the
Planning Director shall initiate the process to abate the violation from the
subject premise.
      (3)   Any costs incurred by the Village of Los Ranchos may be secured by
a lien on the property or through Court action in the sole discretion of the
Village.
      (4)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized to issue
citations for violations of this Article. Such citations shall order the
alleged violator to appear on a date certain in Village Municipal Court at the
next regularly scheduled Court session or any special setting the Judge may
designate. If the alleged violation is abated before the Court appearance, the
charge will be dismissed upon payment of court costs and no fine shall be
assessed. Failure to abate the violation will result in prosecution in
Municipal Court.
      (5)   The Board of Trustees may hold a public hearing and require the
owner to show cause why a Special Use Permit should not be revoked, when the
owner has demonstrated the inability or unwillingness to cure violations on the
property. Following such public hearing the Board may revoke such Special Use
Permit.
   (D)   INFORMATION AND RECORDS. The Planning Director shall make available to
the public the information contained in this Article, as well as maintain the
Zone Map. The Planning Director shall make available to the public the
appropriate forms necessary for compliance with the requirements of this
Article. The Planning Director shall report to the Board annually on the status
of compliance with Special Use conditions of approval.
   (E)   INSPECTIONS.
      (1)   The Planning Director may conduct inspections from the rights-of-
way and may determine if the zoning violation exists on the subject property.
Consent of the property owner is not required.
      (2)   The Planning Director may conduct an inspection within property
with voluntary consent of an occupant or custodian of the premises or vehicles
to be inspected to determine the existence or nonexistence of violations.
         (a)   Before inspection occurs, the Planning Director shall send a
request by first class mail to the property owner and schedule a time for the
inspection.
         (b)   Inspections shall be carried out with due regard for the
convenience and privacy of the occupants, and during the daytime unless,
because of the nature of the premises, the convenience of the occupants, the
nature of the possible violation, or other circumstances, there is a reasonable
basis for carrying out the inspection at night.
         (c)   Unless advance notice would be likely to cause the suspected
violation to be temporarily eliminated to frustrate enforcement, notice of the
purpose and approximate time of an inspection of an area not open to the
general public shall be sent to the occupants or custodians of premises or
vehicles to be inspected not less than ten (10) days before inspection is made.
      (3)   The Director may conduct an inspection within property without
voluntary consent.
         (a)   When consent to an inspection is refused or is otherwise
unobtainable within thirty (30) days, the Director shall make application for
an inspection order or search warrant to a court having jurisdiction over the
premises or vehicle to be searched. The application shall set forth or
describe:
            1. the location of the particular vehicle or premises to be
inspected and the name of the owner or occupant;
            2. that the owner or occupant of the premises or vehicle refused
consent to inspection;
            3. that inspection of the premises or vehicle is necessary to
determine whether they comply with the requirements of this Article;
            4. any other reason requiring the inspection, including knowledge
or belief that a particular condition exists in the premises or vehicle which
constitutes a violation of this Article; and
            5. that the Planning Director is authorized by the Board to make
the inspection.
         (b)   The application shall be granted and the inspection order or
search warrant issued upon a sufficient showing that inspection in the area in
which the premises or vehicles in question are located, or inspection of the
particular premises or vehicles, is in accordance with reasonable legislative
or administrative standards, and that the circumstances of the particular
inspection for which application is made are otherwise reasonable. The court
shall make and keep a record of the proceedings on the application, and enter
thereon its findings in accordance with requirements of this Article.
   (F)   PENALTIES. Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of
this Article shall, upon conviction, be punished by fines or imprisonment up to
the maximum allowed by New Mexico law for each offense and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day during or on which violation occurs or
continues. Any such penalties shall not affect the right of the Village to
pursue such other remedies as are authorized by law.
§ 9.2.25 APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. The purpose of this Section is to delineate the
processing procedures in order for a request to be considered by the Village.
   (B)   APPLICATION.
      (1)   Applications may be made by the Board/Commission or by any person
with record ownership interest in the affected property or by a tenant or agent
with the owner’s written authorization.
   (C)   PROCEDURE.
      (1)   The following steps shall be followed to process permit
applications:
   (D)   PLANNING DIRECTOR ISSUED PERMITS. The following permits may be issued
by the Planning Director. Any decision of the Planning Director may be appealed
to the Board/Commission.
      (1)   Amendments To Conditions Of Approval, or Amendments to Conditions
Of Approval associated with a permit or exemption, (Public Notice Required) may
be granted when the
         (a)   Condition is no longer necessary,
         (b)   Condition impedes the ability to effectively utilize the real
property,
         (c)   Circumstances necessitating the condition have changed since the
conditions were imposed.
      (2)   Conditional Uses. Conditional uses, which have been publicly
noticed with no adverse comments received by the deadline, may be approved by
the designated Planning and Zoning Director.
         (a)   A conditional use shall be approved only if, in the
circumstances of the particular case and under conditions imposed, the proposed
use will be in conformance with the Master Plan and will not be injurious to
adjacent property, the neighborhood or the community.
         (b)   Approval of a conditional use shall be made subject to specific
conditions that are deemed necessary to protect the public safety, health,
morals or general welfare of the Village.
         (c)   Any application for a conditional use for the same property
cannot be filed within six (6) months from the date of the final action on a
prior application.
         (d)   The public notice shall be in accordance with §
9.2.25(F) Public Notice Regulations.
      (3)   Declaratory Ruling. Upon request, the Planning Director shall issue
declaratory rulings as to the applicability of the Zoning Code to a proposed
development, use, or activity. In determining whether or not a use is permitted
by the Zoning Code, the similarity to, and compatibility with, other permissive
or conditional uses in that zone shall be the determining factors.
      (4)   Home Occupation Permit. A home occupation is any use or activity
clearly incidental and secondary to the use of a premise as a dwelling.
         (a)   Permit Required. It shall be unlawful for any person, either
directly or indirectly to conduct any home occupation without a permit approved
by the Planning Director or Commission.
         (b)   Procedure for issuance of permit.
            1. Every person required to procure a permit under the provisions
of this paragraph shall submit an original permit application to the Village.
The application shall be in such form and require such information as the
Planning Director shall determine.
            2. Public Notice shall follow §
9.2.25(F), except for permits issued in the C-1, VC or GD Zones, which do not
require notice.
            3. The permit application shall be accompanied by the first permit
and business license fee
            4. The Planning Director shall review all applications for permits.
            5. If the application is for use of 500 square feet or less of the
home and there is no adverse public comment, the Planning Director may approve
the application.
            6. If adverse public comment is received or the business utilizes
an accessory building, the home occupation permit application shall be heard at
a regularly scheduled public meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
            7. Whenever the Planning Director determines, in his or her
discretion, that an application for permit is contrary to Village law,
detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of the Village or its
inhabitants, or that the applicant is not acting in good faith, then the
Planning Director shall recommend denial of the home occupation permit
application to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
         (c)   Conditions of approval. If approved a permit for home occupation
shall be subject to the following conditions:
            1. It shall be conducted entirely within the residence or accessory
buildings, by persons living at the residence as the primary business operator.
Up to two additional employees may be employed by the business.
            2. No more than five hundred (500) square feet of a residence and/
or 1,000 square feet of an accessory building shall be used to conduct a home
occupation.
               a. §
9.2.25(D)(4)(c)(2) shall take effect on January 8, 2014 for all new
applications.
            3. It shall not generate significant vehicular traffic or parking
around the residence in addition to that normally associated with the use of
the residence as a dwelling. Up to ten (10) business related trips per day
shall be considered negligible.
            4. Any heavy equipment, trucks or vehicles not normally associated
with residential use which may be used directly or indirectly in the home
occupation shall not be stored or parked on public streets or residential
property.
               a. With specific approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission,
there shall be permitted no more than two (2) service vehicles, used in the
conduct of the business, upon the premises at any one time. A service vehicle
is a car, SUV, pick-up truck or panel van.
               b. There shall be no idling vehicles, nor diesel trucks greater
than one (1) ton permitted on the premises.
            5. There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the
residence or accessory building or other visible evidence of the conduct of the
home occupation except that a small non-illuminated sign of not more than four
(4) square feet that blends with the aesthetic quality of the neighborhood may
be approved by permit.
            6. Any sales shall be limited to products or services generated or
provided by the residents and must not disrupt the residential nature of the
neighborhood.
            7. There shall be no storage of materials or displays of
merchandise visible from outside the lot lines of the residence.
            8. There shall be no storage of materials or products which are
explosive, flammable, toxic or otherwise hazardous to persons living within the
residence or to the public.
            9. No activity shall be performed outside of the dwelling or
accessory building which is not normally associated with the use of the
residence as a dwelling.
            10. The conduct of the business must not produce offensive noise,
vibration, fumes, smoke, dust or other particulate matter, odorous matter,
heat, humidity, glare electrical interference or other objectionable effects
beyond the exterior walls of the dwelling or accessory building.
            11. The Planning and Zoning Commission may impose such other
conditions as it deems reasonable under the circumstances and those conditions
shall be recorded on the approved home occupation permit.
            12. Upon request by the Planning Director, the permittee shall
completely and fully cooperate with any investigation of any complaint or
suspected Code violation, including allowing a complete on premises inspection
by Village designated personnel.
         (d)   Duration and Renewal. A home occupation permit shall remain in
effect and an Annual Renewal License form must be submitted by December 31 of
each year.
            1. The Home Occupations permit fee may not be prorated for home
occupations conducted for a portion of the year.
            2. An Annual Renewal License form shall be filed on or before
December 31 of each year. The Form shall be in such format as the Planning
Director shall determine and shall be accompanied by the annual fees.
            3. Renewal of each existing license is subject to approval of the
Planning Director when no complaints or violations have been documented. Annual
license renewals do not require public notice.
            4. Permits which have received complaints or violations at any time
during the year shall follow §
9.2.25(E)(3) Home Occupation Revocation procedures.
         (e)   License Renewal Fee. The annual license renewal fee shall be
fifteen dollars ($15.00). The fee shall be in addition to the Business
Registration required by State Law.
            1. Any person who fails to make a timely renewal shall be subject
to a late fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per year. The late fee is in addition to
any penalties which may be imposed for violation of this Section
         (f)   Duties of Permittee. Every home occupation permittee shall
comply with all federal, state, county and municipal laws and regulations
applicable to such permitted occupation and the failure to do so shall
constitute grounds for revocation. Each permittee shall post a current license
on the premises where it is visible at all times.
      (5)   Home Occupation Permit – De Minimis
         (a)   The Planning Director may administratively approve such home
occupation permit applications that meet the requirements of a De Minimis Home
Occupation, a classification of home occupation activity that produces no
visible or invisible effect at the property such as providing an internet
service.
            1.   Public Notice is not required.
         (b)   A De Minimis home occupation permit may be approved to allow
business activities within a residential property that comply with the
following conditions.
            1.   It shall be conducted entirely within the residence or
accessory buildings on the residential property and only by persons living at
the residence.
            2.   No more than five hundred (500) square feet of a residence,
and no more than one thousand (1,000) square feet of an accessory building
shall be used to conduct a De Minimis home occupation.
               a.   §
9.2.25(D)(5)(b)(2) shall take effect on January 8, 2014 for all new
applications.
            3.   It shall not generate vehicular traffic or parking around the
residence in addition to that normally associated with the use of the residence
as a dwelling.
            4.   Any heavy equipment, trucks, or vehicles not normally
associated with residential use that shall be used directly or indirectly in
the home occupation shall not be stored or parked on public streets or
residential property.
            5.   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the
residence or accessory building or other visible evidence of the conduct of the
home occupation.
            6.   Any sales shall be limited to products or services generated
or provided by the residents of the property and must not disrupt the
residential nature of the neighborhood.
            7.   There shall be no storage of materials or displays of
merchandise visible from outside the lot lines of the residence.
            8.   There shall be no storage of materials or products that are
explosive, flammable, toxic, or otherwise hazardous to persons living within
the residence or to the public.
            9.   No activity shall be performed outside of the dwelling or
accessory buildings which is not normally associated with the use of the
residence as a dwelling.
            10.   The conduct of the business shall not produce offensive
noise, vibration, fumes, smoke, dust or other particulate matter, odorous
matter, heat, humidity, glare, electrical interference or other objectionable
effects beyond the exterior walls of the dwelling or accessory building.
            11.   Other conditions shall be imposed as deemed reasonable and
necessary.
            12.   Every home occupation permittee shall comply with all
federal, state, county, and municipal laws and regulations applicable to
permitted occupations and the failure to do so shall constitute grounds for
revocation. Each license shall be posted on the premises where it is visible at
all times.
            13.   De Minimis home occupations shall not employ individuals
other than the permittee and permittee family members who live and work on the
premises.
            14.   All home occupations must abide by the regulations of the
zone in which the home is located.
            15.   No signage shall be permitted.
            16.   Upon request by the Planning Director, the permittee shall
completely and fully cooperate with any investigation of any complaint or
suspected code violation, including allowing a complete on premises inspection
by Village designated personnel.
         (c)   Duration and Renewal:
            1.   The De Minimis Home Occupations permit shall remain in effect
and the fee may not be prorated for home occupations conducted for a portion of
the year.
            2.   An Annual Renewal License form shall be filed on or before
December 31 of each year. The Form shall be in such format as the Planning
Director shall determine and shall be accompanied by the annual fees.
            3.   Renewal of each existing license is subject to approval of the
Planning Director when no complaints or violations have been documented. Annual
license renewals do not require public notice.
            4.   Permits which have received complaints or violations at any
time during the year shall follow §
9.2.25(E)(3) Home Occupation Revocation procedures.
         (d)   License renewal fee. The annual license renewal fee shall be
fifteen dollars ($15.00). The fee shall be in addition to the Business
Registration required by State Law.
            1.   Any person who fails to make a timely renewal shall be subject
to a late fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per year. The late fee is in addition to
any penalties which may be imposed for violation of this Section.
      (6)   Minor Site Plan Amendments. Physical modifications to commercial
buildings or structures of less than twenty percent (20%) of the total floor
area may be approved by the Planning Director. If the Planning Director
determines the requested modification is significant, the request will be
referred to the Commission/Board. Minor Site Plan Amendments shall be
considered only one time in a calendar year.
      (7)   Reconstruction Permits. A Reconstruction Permit may be approved to
allow for the reconstruction of a nonconforming building to the building’s
original configuration in the event that such building has been damaged or
destroyed. The Planning Director may approve a reconstruction permit if the
following findings can be made:
         (a)   The building’s nonconformity was not the result of any
deliberate action taken by the building’s owner after the zoning regulation to
which the building does not conform has become effective.
         (b)   The building was conforming to all applicable Codified
Ordinances, regulations and statutes immediately prior to the enactment of the
zoning Ordinance that rendered the building nonconforming.
      (8)   Shared Parking Agreement. A shared parking agreement shall be
approved as to form and content by the Village Attorney, and approved by the
Director/Commission/Board to allow businesses to share parking stalls when such
uses individually, can not meet the off street parking regulations as set forth
in §
9.2.18, or when one or more businesses use the same building. The shared
parking agreement shall be placed on file with the Village and recorded on the
subject properties with the Bernalillo County Clerk.
      (9)   Sidewalk Café Permits. Public Notice Required. A Sidewalk Café
Permit may be approved in the C-1, GD and VC zones if the project conforms with
the following regulations, policies, guidelines, and design standards. The
Planning Director shall consider the following in the determination:
         (a)   The width of the sidewalk where the café will be located.
         (b)   The design and relationship of the café to other existing or
planned uses on a particular street.
         (c)   The amount of pedestrian use on the sidewalk and the impact of
the café’s location on potential pedestrian activity and the public health,
safety, and welfare.
         (d)   In order to approve the Sidewalk Café Permit, after considering
the criteria in §
9.2.25(D)(9) above, the Planning Director may make the following findings:
            1. The location of a sidewalk café in a particular area will not
adversely effect the neighborhood, and will implement the goals of the Master
Plan.
            2. The proposed use will not be detrimental to persons residing,
visiting, or working in the area.
            3. The proposed use will comply with all relevant regulations in
the Village 2013 Codified Ordinances and all applicable building laws including
state laws and regulations.
         (e)   A public liability insurance policy of at least one million
dollars ($1,000,000) shall be required before approval of a sidewalk café
permit. Such liability insurance shall be provided in a form and an amount
acceptable to the Village Attorney. The policy shall name the Village of Los
Ranchos de Albuquerque as an additional insured and shall be maintained.
         (f)   The sidewalk café shall be permitted only in conjunction with an
eating or drinking establishment that is operating on the contiguous adjacent
private property.
         (g)   A sidewalk café must be accessible to the physically
handicapped. The Building Official shall review sidewalk café permit
applications in order to ensure compliance with the UBC for making buildings
accessible to the physically handicapped and any other state or local
regulations which the Building Official enforces.
         (h)   All Sidewalk Café permits shall be for the duration of the
continuous use of the eating or drinking establishment but shall be subject to
revocation or modification by the Planning Director if it is determined that
one or more of the findings and/or conditions of the permit have been violated
or that a change of circumstances has occurred that warrants or requires such
revocation or modification.
      (10)   Temporary Construction Permits. A Temporary Construction Permit
may be approved in any zone for the construction of storage yards or temporary
construction project offices. The temporary use may be allowed for a period not
to exceed one (1) year.
         (a)   All debris, storage of materials or equipment must be confined
to an area that is fenced and locked after normal business hours.
         (b)   The Planning Director may impose such conditions as deemed
necessary to mitigate the effects of the temporary use.
      (11)   Tract Real Estate Office Permits. A Tract Real Estate Office
Permit may be approved for real estate offices, model homes and signs in
connection therewith. The permit shall be approved for a period not to exceed
one (1) year.
      (12)   Zoning Certification. Zoning Certification may be requested for a
Zone history of a specific piece of property. If the subdivision of land
impacts the property rights on a specific piece of property, the subdivision
shall be so noted in the verification.
      (13)   Zoning Clearance. All business permit applications must receive a
zoning clearance from the Planning Director prior to approval and commencement
of business activities in the Village.
   E.   COMMISSION/BOARD ISSUED PERMITS. The following permits and any appeal
of the Planning Director’s decision may be approved by the Commission according
to the Matrix, or considered by the Commission for approval and forwarded to
the Board with a recommendation for approval.
      (1)   Bed and Breakfast Establishments
         (a)   Bed and Breakfast establishments are allowable in all zones of
the Village with approved permit and annual business license, providing the
premise has access to city water and sewer or obtains a wastewater permit from
the NMED stating the maximum flow rate on the parcel. There is a cap on the
number of Bed and Breakfast permits issued in the Village at a given time,
determined by Board of Trustees resolution. Permits are non-transferable.
         (b)   Approval is by the Planning and Zoning Commission at a regularly
scheduled hearing with public notice as per §
9.2.25(F) subject to the following conditions:
            1.   Bed and Breakfast establishments must be operated by the
property owner or otherwise authorized resident, living on site. Operator must
provide proof of primary residency or lease Up to two additional employees may
be employed by the business.
               a.   Proof of primary residence includes two of the following:
                  i.   Driver’s license
                  ii.   Motor vehicle registration
                  iii.   Tax documents (i.e. income tax return, property tax
bill)
                  iv.   Two consecutive utility bills, no older than 6 months
                  v.   Voter registration
                  vi.   State issued identification card
                  vii.   Copy of rental lease (if applicable)
                  viii.   Other form or combinations of forms that demonstrate
verifiable identification and authority to reside and operate a Bed and
Breakfast establishment determined acceptable by the Village.
            2.   It shall be conducted entirely within the residence or
accessory buildings on the residential property. While conforming activities
may take place outdoors or in accessory buildings, lodging outside of a
dwelling unit is prohibited.
            3.   Not more than four guestrooms may be utilized to provide
lodging in the A-1, A-2, A-3, R-2, and R-3 zones.
            4.   Parking for guests must be off street and the number of spaces
must meet the Off-Street Parking provisions of §
9.2.18(B)(9).
            5.   Meals may or may not be served.
            6.    Unauthorized guests are prohibited.
            7.   Noise must be mitigated according to §
7.4.2. Nuisances, Misconduct and Common Offenses.
            8.   One lighted sign not to exceed four (4) square feet is
permitted on premises and must meet the Dark Skies provisions of §
9.2.20.
            9.   Bed and Breakfast establishments must have published rules of
operation, approved by the Planning Director, posted in the rental that include
at least the following:
               a.   Fire evacuation route map and all other information the
Fire Department requests to be posted;
               b.   Instructions on trash disposal and location of waste
containers;
               c.   Emergency services and operator’s 24/7 emergency contact
phone numbers;
               d.   Hours between 10:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. designated as quiet
hours per the Village’s noise regulations, §
7.4.2;
               e.   Occupancy is limited to two (2) adults per guestroom, not
including children twelve (12) or under;
               f.   Unauthorized guests are prohibited;
               g.   Events are prohibited.
            10.   A site plan must be submitted showing the entire property,
on-site parking, and outdoor areas subject to short-term rental.
            11.   Floor plan(s) must be submitted that show all rooms in
dwelling unit(s), including those not included in rental. Rooms for rental must
be identified and note occupancy limit.
            12.   If operator advertises or lists bed and breakfast
establishment, advertisement must include license number.
            13.   Short-term rental insurance coverage for the short-term
rental unit(s) is recommended.
            14.   Every permittee shall comply with all federal, state, county,
and municipal laws and regulations applicable and the failure to do so shall
constitute grounds for revocation. Each license shall be posted on the premises
where it is visible at all times.
            15.   Upon request by the Planning Director, the permittee shall
completely and fully cooperate with any investigation of any complaint or
suspected code violation, including allowing a complete on premises inspection
by Village designated personnel.
            16.   Bed and Breakfast permits shall be subject to such different
and additional conditions as the Planning and Zoning Commission deems
reasonable.
            17.   Bed and Breakfast establishments shall be inspected annually
by the Fire Department for fire safety.
            18.   An application for a Bed and Breakfast for the same property
has not been filed within six (6) months from the date of the final action on a
prior application.
         (c)   Revocation:
            1.   Complaints of suspected violations may be made in writing by
any Village resident. Complaints must fully and completely state the nature of
the violation.
            2.   The Zoning Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized to
initiate investigations and issue notices of violations of §
9.2.25(E)(1).
               a.   If the Zoning Enforcement Officer determines that a
violation of §
9.2.25(E)(1) has occurred, the Zoning Enforcement officer shall issue a notice
of violation to the owner, tenant, agent, occupant, or person in charge of the
premises, indicating the nature of the violation. The operator shall be
responsible for violations caused by renters.
               b.   Upon three notices of violation in a three hundred sixty-
five (365) day period, a bed and breakfast permit is deemed revoked. The
Operator may file a Notice of Appeal of Revocation with the Village Clerk with
the appropriate filing fee, within fifteen (15) calendar days after that date
of mailing of the third notice of violation.
               c.   Appeals of a Planning and Zoning Commission shall be
governed by §
9.2.25(G).
            3.   Upon revocation of a bed and breakfast permit, all activity
associated with the establishment must cease and desist within seventy-two (72)
hours.
            4.   If revoked, a permit shall not be reissued for either an
operator or a property for one (1) calendar year from date of revocation.
         (d)   Bed and Breakfast establishments currently licensed under home
occupation licenses shall receive a Bed and Breakfast license upon annual
renewal.
         (e)   Short-term rentals operating prior to June 9, 2021 shall be
required to obtain a Bed and Breakfast permit but will be considered legally
non-conforming for the following requirements: Maximum number of rooms and on-
premises operator. Legally non-conforming status may be revoked if the
operation violates any other requirement or has complaints leading to
revocation. Operators will have until October 6, 2021 to apply for a Bed and
Breakfast permit with their legally non-conforming status. No applications for
existing operations received after that date will be considered legally non-
conforming.
         (f)   Duration and Renewal:
            1.   The Bed and Breakfast permit remains in effect and may not be
prorated for business conducted for a portion of the year.
            2.   An Annual Renewal Permit form shall be filed on or before
December 31 of each year. The Form shall be in such format as the Planning
Director shall determine and shall be accompanied by the annual fees.
            3.    Renewal of each existing permit is subject to approval of the
Planning Director when no complaints or violations have been documented. Annual
permit renewals do not require public notice.
            4.   Permit renewal fee. The annual permit renewal fee shall be
sixty-five dollars ($65.00). The fee shall be in addition to the Business
Registration required by State Law.
            5.   Any person who fails to make a timely renewal shall be subject
to a late fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per year. The late fee is in addition to
any penalties, which may be imposed for violation of this ordinance.
            6.   If a permit holder has not renewed their annual permit within
forty-five (45) days after January 1 of that year, their permit is expired.
         (g)   This section is not intended to provide any owner of residential
property with the right or privilege to violate any private conditions,
covenants, or restrictions applicable to the owner’s property that may prohibit
the use of such owner’s residential property for short term rental purposes as
defined in this section.
      (2)   Conditional Use. When referred for action by recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Director, a conditional use shall be approved to allow
conditional uses delineated in a zone if the following findings are made:
         (a)   A conditional use shall be approved only if, in the
circumstances of the particular case and under conditions imposed, the proposed
use will be in conformance with the Master Plan and will not be injurious to
adjacent property, the neighborhood, or the community.
         (b)   Approval of a conditional use shall be made subject to specific
conditions that are deemed necessary to protect the public safety, health,
morals, or general welfare of the Village.
         (c)   An application for a conditional use for the same property
cannot be filed within six (6) months from the date of the final action on a
prior application.
      (3)   Home Occupation Revocation.
         (a)   Complaints of suspected violations may be made in writing at any
time. Complaints must fully and completely state the nature of the violation.
         (b)   Upon receipt of written complain concerning a home occupation
license, or any code violation, the Planning Director shall initiate a full
investigation.
         (c)   If the investigation substantiates the complaint, the Planning
Director shall schedule a hearing before the Planning and Zoning Commission at
the next regularly scheduled meeting following Public Notice §
9.2.25(F).
         (d)   The Planning and Zoning Commission will consider all presented
testimony and evidence and make the decision to revoke the home occupation
license or not according to adopted Rules for the Transaction of Business.
         (e)   Upon revocation of a home occupation permit, all activity
associated with the occupation will cease and desist within seventy-two (72)
hours of such decision.
         (f)   Appeals may be filed according to §
9.2.25(H).
      (4)   Site Development Plan
         (a)   Approval. Approval of a Site Development Plan by the Commission
and the Board of Trustees is required for major subdivisions; commercial
subdivisions where all lots will be developed by one developer, new commercial
construction and for commercial projects that modify an existing structure by
twenty percent (20%) or more, except Tenant Improvement internal remodels, or
add square footage to the total floor area; schools; museums; arenas;
convention centers; and/or when required as a condition of approval for
Conditional or Special Use Permits.
            1.   Public Notice and Hearing requirements as set forth in §
9.2.25(F) Public Notice Regulations, below shall be followed.
         (b)   Applications. An applicant requesting use of a building,
structure, or land requiring Site Development Plan approval must obtain and
return a completed application for a Site Development Plan and all required
components. The application shall be returned to the Planning Director,
accompanied by the appropriate application fee.
            1.   The application for Site Development Plan shall include a
document package with the following:
               a.   The application form as designed by the Planning and Zoning
Department, which includes but is not limited to a Zone Classification and
Permissive Uses, Character Area and proposed land use.
               b.   Grant/Warranty Deed or Letter of Agent. Verification of
proof of ownership – Legal description.
               c.   Current property tax record from Bernalillo County
Assessor.
               d.   Required Site Development elements of §
9.2.25(E)(3) below.
         (c)   Review Process.
            1.   The applicant shall request and have scheduled a Sketch Plat
review at which time the Commission will discuss the proposal and provide
direction in the form of comments without formal action.
               a.   Amendments to previously approved Site Development Plans do
not need a Sketch Plat Review.
            2.   After the Sketch Plat Review, the Planning Director shall
schedule a hearing for preliminary approval before the Commission.
            3.   The Commission may set conditions and forward a recommendation
to the Board of Trustees for final approval; or
            4.   Applications which do not receive a recommendation of approval
from the Commission may submit a revised plan to the Commission for review; or
            5.   Applicants may appeal the Commission denial to the Board of
Trustees according to §
9.2.25(H)(2).
            6.   The final approval application for Site Development Plan shall
be heard by the Board of Trustees when all requirements have been met.
         (d)   Grading and Drainage Plan – NPDES Stormwater Management Plan
approval.
            1.   Initial submittal for Commission preliminary approval of Site
Development Plan.
            2.   After Commission approval, a review of the Grading and
Drainage Plan by the Village Designated Engineer is required.
               a.   If the Village Designated Engineer requires substantial
changes (changes which would require reconfiguration of buildings or parking
lot) the Site Development Plan shall be brought back before the Planning and
Zoning Commission for preliminary approval of revised plan.
               b.   Comments from the Village Designated Engineer are addressed
and the plan is corrected and resubmitted for final review.
               c.   Final review and approval by the Village Designated
Engineer required for final Site Plan approval by the Board of Trustees.
         (e)   Requirements. The Commission and Board shall not approve any
Site Development Plan unless all the requirements of this Section are met and
satisfactory provisions have been made concerning all components.
            1.   Site Development Plan submittals shall be prepared and signed
by a New Mexico professional engineer, architect or a land surveyor licensed in
New Mexico.
            2.   Two (2) copies submitted for initial review by Planning
Director.
               a.   Planning and Zoning Director shall inform applicant as to
size and number of plans required for hearings after staff review and approval
for content.
         (f)   Site Development Plans shall include the following: (data sheets
may be combined)
            1.   Existing Conditions Plan requirements
               a.   Address of Property (Los Ranchos de Albuquerque);
               b.   Site Map;
               c.   Existing buildings and disposition;
               d.   Existing contour elevations and spot elevations at access
points;
               e.   Existing trees, landscaping, outcroppings, etc.;
               f.   Existing utilities, power poles, transformers, right-of-
ways and easements;
               g.   Adjacent street names;
               h.   Other appurtenances that exist which impact the development
(wells, walls, ditches etc.); and
               i.   Archeological or historical data and clearance if required
from State Historic Preservation Office;
            2.   Site Plan
               a.   Vicinity map with north arrow;
               b.   Lot dimensions, setbacks, and easements;
               c.   Data for total site area, disturbed area, and total
impervious area;
               d.   Ingress/egress to the property and access to proposed
structures thereon, with particular reference to automobile and pedestrian
safety;
               e.   Pedestrian walkways.
            3.   Sign Requirements;
               a.   Placement of all signs.
               b.   Size and type of signs (must be permitted separately and
follow §
9.2.22 for Signs)
            4.   Exterior lighting locations, type of lighting
            5.   Mailbox locations;
            6.   Bike rack locations;
            7.   Building plans/elevations;
               a.   Total proposed square footage for all structures;
                  i.   Individual square footage per structure marked on plans.
(Heated and unheated, covered patios and walkways).
               b.   Proposed use of space;
                  i.   Restaurants must meet State Environmental Health
requirements.
               c.   Four direction exterior elevation plans;
               d.   Height from final grade – marked on plans;
               e.   Exterior materials and colors; and
               f.   Exterior equipment (including roof mounted).
         (g)   Grading and Drainage Plan – NPDES Stormwater Management Plan
            1.   Vicinity map and north arrow;
            2.   FEMA Floodplain data, benchmark data and legend;
            3.   A complete Grading and Drainage Plan (EPA NPDES Stormwater
Management Plan) which will be forwarded to the building permitting process as
follows:
               a.   A topographic survey and grading plan with final elevation
contours to be achieved by grading.
                  i.   All grade and spot elevations at access points.
               b.   Stormwater management measures;
                  i.   Selected to best accommodate the specific geologic,
hydrologic, and topographic features of the land to be developed.
               c.   Stormwater runoff peak flow rate;
                  i.   Determined by the one hundred (100) year, six (6) hour
storm event.
                  ii.   Calculation of the runoff peak flow rate may
approximate the event from available data.
               d.   On-site control measures;
                  i.   These may include, but are not limited to, the use of
detention or retention basins and active and passive water harvesting
techniques including swales, berms, cisterns, check dams, vegetative ground
cover, and other techniques appropriate for retaining and infiltrating water
on-site.
               e.   All water containment in structures that have water open to
the air;
                  i.   Shall empty within twenty four (24) hours through
approved outlet structures designed to ensure a controlled release of water
that will not cause flooding or erosion or shall empty within ninety-six (96)
hours through percolation or natural infiltration.
                  ii.   Percolation tests or other means of demonstrating that
containment structures will empty within ninety-six (96) hours may be required.
               f.   Infiltration, detention, and retention basins;
                  i.   Shall provide a means of controlling and removing
sediment.
                  ii.   Methods may include sedimentation settling ponds,
sediment traps, filters on drop inlets, or other methods.
                  iii.   All basins shall be designed to empty within no more
than 24 hours with approved outlet, or within 96 hours as per §
9.2.25(E)(3)(g)(3)(e)(1). Vector control for mosquitoes, other insects and
rodents shall be maintained.
               g.   Wherever possible, retention water shall be used for the
irrigation of vegetation for landscaping;
               h.   No stormwater runoff shall be routed into public irrigation
ditches, canals, acequias or private ditches;
                  i.   No stormwater runoff shall be permitted to enter
streets, public or private or public or private adjacent property.
               i.   A roof run-off drainage plan;
               j.   In-flow of runoff from adjacent properties; and
               k.   A post construction maintenance plan.
         (h)   Roadway Standards
            1.   Traffic control mechanisms;
               a.   Traffic Impact Study may be required.
            2.   The Village retains the right to limit access to major
arterials from private drive ways and proposed developments when:
               a.   The house does not front on a major arterial (Rio Grand
Blvd., Fourth Street, Montano, Osuna, Guadalupe Trail, etc.) as designated by
the Village.
               b.   The house is part of a subdivision with internal streets
used for ingress and egress by the subdivision.
               c.   Right of way can be obtained via a subsidiary street.
               d.   Granting right-of-way constitutes a safety hazard, would
contribute to congestion and is contrary to the public welfare.
            3.   Roadway Specifications
               a.   Standard curbs and gutters are not allowed, in order to
maintain the rural, agricultural nature of the Village, except when:
                  i.   The Grading and Drainage Stormwater Management plan
requires curb and gutter as a necessary part of the plan; or
                  ii.   The streets are part of a state, federal or local
infrastructure improvement.
               b.   Public roadways shall meet Urban Residential Street
specifications per Attachment §
9.2.25(E)(4)(h)(3)(b).
               c.   Private paved roadways shall meet Paved Private Way
specifications per Attachment §
9.2.25(E)(4)(h)(3)(b); or approved alternative.
               d.   Private graveled roadways shall meet Graveled Private Way
specification per Attachment §
9.2.25(E)(4)(h)(3)(d).
               e.   Rolled curb and gutter may be approved on a case by case
basis.
         (i)   Parking Requirements and parking lot design
            1.   Required number of parking spaces and dimensions;
            2.   Required number of handicapped parking spaces and dimensions;
         (j)   Loading and docking areas;
         (k)   Paved parking lots meeting the Paved Private Way specifications
of Attachment 1; and
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-996.png]
         (l)   Unpaved parking lots meeting the Graveled Private Way
specification of Attachment 2.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-994.png]
 
         (m)   Trash receptacles
            1.   Dumpsters must be placed on a concrete pad and be enclosed and
gated, away from abutting neighborhoods or special considerations for the
neighborhood, such as screening, must be employed.
         (n)   Landscaping Plan
            1.   Must meet Section 19Landscaping.
         (o)   Utilities Plan.
            1.   Sewer and water availability statement from ABCWUA; and
            2.   Location of existing and proposed fire hydrants approved by
the Fire Department.
         (p)   Lighting Plan
            1.   Must meet current provisions in Section 20 for Dark Skies.
         (q)   Signage Plan (separate permit required)
            1.   Must meet current provisions in Section 22 for Signs.
         (r)   Site Development Plan must meet all Fire Department
requirements.
         (s)   Additional Requirements. Any change in use which would require
additional parking and/or any alteration or addition to the site of any
structure upon the site, shall require the re-submittal of an application and
approval as required by this Section.
            1.   The Planning Director/Commission/Board may require additional
information on the economic, noise, glare or odor effects of the proposed use
on adjoining properties and the overall health and safety of the community.
         (t)   Variance from Site Development Plan Requirements
            1.   Where the Board of Trustees finds that extraordinary hardships
or practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with this Site
Development and/or the purposes of this Section may be served to a greater
extent by an alternative proposal, it may approve variances of conditions to
this Section so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
secured, provided that the variance shall not have the effect of nullifying the
intent and purpose of this Section; and further, the Board of Trustees shall
not approve variances unless it shall make findings based upon the evidence
presented to it in each specific case.
            2.   Conditions. In approving variances to Site Development Plans,
the Board of Trustees may require such conditions as it will, in its judgment,
secure substantially the purposes described herein.
            3.   Procedures. The applicant shall submit an application for a
variance from Site Development Plan requirements in writing at the time the
Site Development Plan is filed for the consideration of the Planning and Zoning
Commission. The applicant shall state fully the grounds for the application and
all of the facts relied upon by the applicant.
            4.   Findings. Such findings of the Planning and Zoning Commission,
together with the specific facts upon which such findings are based, shall be
forwarded to the Board of Trustees with a recommendation. Variances may be
granted only when in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this
Article so that the public health, safety or welfare may be secured and
substantial justice done. Pecuniary hardship to the applicant, standing alone,
shall not be deemed to constitute undue hardship.
      (5)   Special Use Permits. Review and approval by the Board of Trustees
is required for all Special Use Permits.
      (6)   Text Amendments to the Zoning Code. Text Amendments to the Zoning
Code may be considered by the Commission/Board upon receipt of a completed
application, or upon request of the Planning Director, Planning and Zoning
Commission or a member of the Board of Trustees.
      (7)   Variance. This provision applies to applications for variances from
the terms of this Chapter 9.
         (a)   A variance may be granted if:
            1.   The variance is in conformance with the goals and policies of
the Village Master Plan; and
            2.   It is not contrary to the public interest in protecting and
fostering the character of the vicinity and the Village, and will not cause
material adverse impacts on adjacent property, the neighborhood, or the
community; and
            3.   Owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of this
Chapter 9 will result in unnecessary hardship.
         (b)   Unnecessary Hardship Criteria. Enforcement of this Chapter 9 may
be deemed to cause unnecessary hardship if:
            1.   When compared with other land in the vicinity and located in
the Village, subject to the same provisions, the parcel is exceptional by
reason of physical characteristics of the land that existed when the provisions
were adopted or which were created by natural forces or by government action
for which no compensation was paid; or
            2.   When compared to other land in the vicinity and located in the
Village, subject to the same provisions, the parcel is exceptional by reason of
the condition or use of the parcel or of other land in the vicinity which
condition or use existed when the provisions were adopted; or
            3.   The parcel is irregular or unusually narrow in shape, and the
condition existed when provisions were adopted or was created by natural force
or government action for which no compensation was paid; or
            4.   Circumstances have created a condition under which no
reasonable use can be made of the land without the requested variance, provided
however, that the fact that the affected parcel might have a greater value with
the variance is not sufficient or justification in itself to authorize a
variance; or
            5.   Other relevant factors exist that when taken into account
indicate that granting of the variance is substantially justifiable giving
proper weight to the interests of the property owner, the public interest in
protecting and fostering the character of the vicinity and the Village, and the
intent and purpose of the Master Plan and Zone Code.
         (c)   General principles applicable to all variances:
            1.   The requested variance shall not effectuate or be deemed to
have authorized a zone change or in any manner affect the zoning of any
property; and
            2.   Financial gain or loss shall never be the deciding factor in
granting a variance unless the property owner would be deprived of all
economically feasible use of the property; and
            3.   The requested variance differs from that allowed in this
Chapter 9 only enough to relieve the alleged hardship; and
            4.   The alleged hardship was not self-imposed by the property
owner; and
            5.   An application for a variance for the same property will not
be considered if another application has been filed within six (6) months from
the date of the final action on a prior application; and
            6.   Each and every variance is unique to the circumstances of the
property for which it was granted; the granting of one variance does not set
precedence for later variances.
      (8)   Zone Map Amendments. Amendments to the official Zoning Map may be
considered by the Board upon recommendation of the Commission, if an
application to amend zoning for the same property has not been filed within
twelve (12) months from the date of final action by the Board on a prior
application.
   F.   PUBLIC NOTICE REGULATIONS. Upon receipt of a completed application the
Planning Director shall process the application and grant administrative
approval as a routine matter and follow the public notice requirements for the
appropriate permit. Any incomplete application or plat may be refused hearing
by the Village until said document complies with all requirements of this
Section or the Subdivision Code. Refusal to accept a zoning application may be
appealed to the Planning and Zoning Commission/Board.
      (1)   Planning Director Approval
         (a)   The Village shall mail individual notice of the application
request by first class mail, to the applicant and property owners, as shown by
the records of the County Assessor, within a three hundred (300) foot radius of
the subject site for lots less than two acres, and a four hundred (400) foot
radius for sites over two acres, and,
         (b)   For Home Occupation Permits and Bed and Breakfast permits, the
Village shall mail individual notice of the application request by first class
mail to adjoining neighbors stating the nature of the proposed home occupation
or that it is a Bed and Breakfast.
         (c)   The applicant shall post and maintain one or more signs
describing the proposed request on the subject property at a location
designated by the Planning Director. The applicant shall remove the sign(s)
within five (5) days after the decision
         (d)   The public notice period shall be fifteen (15) calendar days
from the date of mailing, after which the Director shall make a decision.
         (e)   The public may comment on the application and the Director shall
consider the issues raised by the public.
      (2)   Commission Approvals
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application that requires Commission approval
or review, the Planning Director shall designate a meeting of the Commission to
consider the application. Consideration of the application shall be at a public
hearing at the time and place designated by the Planning Director and contained
in a public notice in a daily newspaper of general circulation within the
Village at least fifteen (15) days before the date of the hearing. The notice
shall state the address and/or legal description of the property and describe
the request.
         (b)   Upon receipt of an appeal from a Planning Director decision, the
Village Clerk and Planning Director shall jointly designate a meeting of the
Commission to consider the appeal. Consideration of the appeal shall be at a
public hearing at the time and place designated by the Village and contained in
a public notice in a daily newspaper of general circulation within the Village
at least fifteen (15) days before the date of the hearing. The notice shall
state the address and/or legal description of the property and describe the
decision being appealed.
         (c)   The Village shall mail individual notice of the application
request or appeal by first class mail, to the applicant and property owners, as
shown by the records of the County Assessor, within a three hundred (300) foot
radius of the subject site for lots less than two acres, and a four hundred
(400) foot radius for sites over two acres, and,
         (d)   The applicant shall post and maintain one or more signs
describing the proposed request on the subject property at a location
designated by the Director. The applicant shall remove the sign(s) within five
(5) days after the decision.
         (e)   The public notice period shall be fifteen (15) calendar days
prior to the date of the hearing in which the Commission shall make a decision.
         (f)   The public may comment on the application and the Commission
shall consider the issues raised by the public.
      (3)   Board Approvals
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application that requires Board of Trustee
review or an appeal from a Planning Director or Commission decision, the
Village Clerk shall designate a meeting of the Board to consider the
application. Consideration of the application shall be at a public hearing at
the time and place designated by the Clerk and contained in a public notice in
a daily newspaper of general circulation within the Village at least fifteen
(15) days before the date of the hearing. The notice shall state the address
and/or legal description of the property and describe the request.
         (b)   The Village shall mail an individual notice of the public
hearing at least fifteen (15) days before the hearing by first class mail to
the applicant and property owners, as shown by the records of the County
Assessor, within a three hundred (300) foot radius of the subject site for lots
less than two (2) acres, and a four hundred (400) foot radius for sites over
two (2) acres.
         (c)   The applicant shall post and maintain one or more signs
describing the proposed request on the subject property at a location
designated by the Planning Director. The applicant shall remove the sign(s)
within five (5) days after the Board issues its decision.
         (d)   For an application to amend the text of the ordinance, the
public notice shall summarize the proposed amendment. The notice shall be
published as provided by law and in all cases shall advise that interested
parties may examine the application at the Village Hall during normal business
hours.
   G.   HEARINGS AND DECISIONS
      (1)   Applications, pursuant to this code, may be heard by the Board/
Commission at a meeting designated by the Village Clerk or Planning Director,
as applicable.
      (2)   The advertised hearing may be continued to a subsequent regularly
scheduled meeting or to a special meeting. The time and place of the continued
hearing shall be announced at the originally designated meeting without
advertising, re-posting of signs or providing additional notice pursuant to §
9.2.25 et seq.
      (3)   All persons wishing to testify at a hearing shall identify
themselves and be sworn in by the Village Attorney, Village Clerk or a Notary
Public prior to giving testimony. Testimony shall be limited to the matter that
is relevant to the hearing. The Mayor or Commission Chairperson may impose
reasonable limitations on the number of witnesses heard, and on the length and
nature of their testimony. Parties to a hearing shall include all persons sworn
in by the Village Attorney, Village Clerk or Notary Public plus the Board and
any Village Staff or paid consultants who are present at the hearing, but shall
not include the Village Attorney.
         (a)   The Applicant must provide all required and relevant material at
least one month prior to the scheduled hearing.
      (4)   Village Clerk shall make and maintain for sixty (60) days a full
record of the Planning and Zoning Commission hearing by sound recording. Any
party may listen to or obtain a copy of the recording at any reasonable time
and cost at Village offices. Summary minutes of the Planning and Zoning
Commission hearings shall be kept in the Planning and Zoning Department and be
available for public inspection.
      (5)   The Village Clerk shall make and maintain for sixty (60) days a
full record of the Board of Trustees hearing by sound recording. Any party may
listen to or obtain a copy of the recording at any reasonable time and cost at
the office of the Village Clerk. Summary minutes of the Board of Trustees
hearing(s) shall be kept by the Village Clerk and be available for public
inspection.
      (6)   The Village shall act on any application at the conclusion of the
hearing. The Village shall state the grounds for the decision pursuant to this
Section and State law.
      (7)   The Village may impose conditions in granting a request.
      (8)   Written notice of any approval, approval with conditions, or denial
of any application for variance, conditional use, or any other permit, zone map
amendment, or text amendment shall be mailed or delivered to the applicant
within fifteen (15) working days of the date of decision.
   H.   APPEALS.
      (1)   Director Decision Appeals. Appeals of Director decisions under §
9.2.25(D) must be made in writing to the Village Clerk and filed within fifteen
(15) calendar days to the Planning and Zoning Commission. The Village Clerk and
Planning Director will jointly schedule the project for review and
consideration by the Commission at a public hearing.
         (a)   The appeal must include specific and relevant reasons for the
appeal, citing the appropriate Village Master Plan sections and the applicable
Sections of the Code.
         (b)   The Planning and Zoning Commission will consider all presented
testimony and evidence and make the decision to deny the appeal or not
according to adopted Rules for the Transaction of Business.
         (c)   Appeals shall follow the Village of Los Ranchos Resolution for
Rules for Appeals. All persons giving verbal testimony shall be placed under
oath. The appellant must present the entire case at the meeting. All written
material shall be submitted thirty (30) days prior to the hearing date in a
number of copies determined by the Village Clerk.
         (d)   Public Notice required per §
9.2.25(F) The Appellant shall be responsible for all Public Notice fees of the
Appeal.
      (2)   Commission Decision Appeals. Appeals of Commission decisions must
be made in writing to the Village Clerk and filed within fifteen (15) calendar
days to the Board of Trustees. The Village Clerk will schedule the project for
review and consideration by the Board at a public hearing.
         (a)   The appeal must include specific and relevant reasons for the
appeal, citing the appropriate Village Master Plan sections and the applicable
Sections of the Code.
         (b)   Public Notice required per §
9.2.25(F) The Appellant is responsible for all Public Notice fees of the
Appeal.
      (3)   Board of Trustee Appeals will follow the current Village of Los
Ranchos Resolution for Rules for Appeals. All persons giving verbal testimony
shall be placed under oath. The appellant must present the entire case at the
meeting. All written material shall be submitted thirty (30) days prior to the
hearing date in a number of copies determined by the Village Clerk.
      (4)   Board Decision Appeals. Appeals of the Board decisions may be made
to the appropriate district court, pursuant to New Mexico State Statutes.
   I.   VOID PERMITS.
      (1)   If a permit is granted and the subject activity of the permit has
not commenced at the property within one (1) year of the approval date, the
permit is void. The Planning Director or Commission may extend the permit upon
submission of reasonable cause, such as, but not limited to, a lawsuit
preventing development, severe financial hardship caused by injury or accident,
etc.
      (2)   If a zone review is issued for a construction project and
construction on the building is stopped for a consecutive period of six months
(180 days), the zone review is void and a new permit must be obtained which
meets current ordinances at the time of commencement of building.
§ 9.2.26 FEES
Fees shall be as set by Resolution of the Board of Trustees from time to time.
§ 9.2.27 CONSERVATION DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS PERMIT (CDP)
   (A)   PURPOSE AND INTENT. The purpose of this section is to encourage
residential development that provides an alternative means to preserve village
character with particular emphasis on agricultural land and open space, while
maintaining Village style, scale, and character in conformance with the Master
Plan. It is the intent of this section to allow a modest density bonus in
addition to the designation of a Conservation Area that provides for
agriculture, recreation preservation of habit, and/or other features important
to the Village. Conservation development standards may be applied to any
property or properties in the A-1, A-2, A-3, R-2, or R-3 zones that meet the
minimum lot size. Where the provisions of these development standards conflict
with the provisions of another section of this Zoning Code, the provisions of
these development standards shall prevail.
   (B)   PERMISSIVE USES. A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Any permissive use as allowed and regulated in §
9.2.7 A-1 Zone.
   (C)   CONDITIONAL USES. The following uses may be allowed when approval has
been obtained as set forth in §
9.2.25(D)(2), §
9.2.25(E)(2):
      (1)   Any conditional use as allowed and regulated in §
9.2.7 A-1 Zone.
   (D)   ACCESSORY USES. Uses customary and incidental to the primary use of
the lot that is in conformance with the zone.
   (E)   AREA REGULATIONS. These regulations apply to all conservation
development properties in the Village.
      (1)   The minimum conservation development size shall be the minimum lot
size for the property’s zone.
      (2)   Structures shall not cross property lines unless an easement for
maintenance and ownership is identified on the plat.
      (3)   Setback requirements shall apply to the conservation development as
a whole, but not to dwellings or lots within the site. Setback limits apply to
all buildings and structures, including swimming pools.
         (a)   The minimum setbacks from the property line to the nearest
structure shall be the setbacks of the property’s zone.
      (4)   Permeable surfaces shall be a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of the
conservation development exclusive of access easements.
   (F)   DEVELOPABLE AREA. The Developable Area is the property intended for
residential development and does not include the Conservation Area. To
determine the number of total dwelling units and lots allowed in a Conservation
Development, use the following steps.
       (1)   Base Density. Establish the base density by applying the density
allowed by the property's zone to the original parcel.
      (2)   Developable Area Density. Divide the Developable Area's square
footage by the square footage of the minimum lot size required by the
property's zone.
      (3)   Density Bonus. The density bonus is derived by multiplying the
developable area density by 0.5. Round this number down to the nearest whole
number for numbers less than 0.5 and up for numbers 0.5 or more.
      (4)   Total Density. The Total Density is determined by adding the number
of dwelling units of the Density Bonus and the Base Density. The Total Density
provides the number of total dwelling units and lots for the Conservation
Development.
      (5)   Floor Area Ratio (FAR). The floor area ratio of structures shall be
determined by the allowable floor area listed in the adopted 20% All Village
FAR TABLE for net lot area, as applied to the Developable Area. The FAR is a
running total to be divided among the lots as proposed by the developer.
Variation in home and/or lot size is encouraged.
         (a)   Barns and agricultural related buildings in the Conservation
Area are excluded from FAR calculations.
   (G)   HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
      (1)   Buildings and structures. As regulated in the A-1 Zone.
      (2)   Fences and walls. As regulated in the A-1 Zone, with the following
modifications: Conservation Area may not be divided by fences or walls, unless
fences or walls are related to the implementation of the use of the
Conservation Area and are approved by the Village. Fences and walls between the
Conservation Area and the Developable Area may be up to six feet (6') solid.
Fences and walls between the Conservation Area and abutting properties not
within the Conservation Development are limited to four feet (4') solid and an
additional two feet (2') open as defined in §
9.2.3.
   (H)   EXISTING BUILDING.
      (1)   If an existing structure(s) is to be demolished, upon completion of
a new dwelling on the same lot, the demolition must take place within one (1)
year.
   (I)   ACEQUIA IRRIGATION.
      (1)   Continuation of any existing ditch or acequia irrigation is a
requirement of the conservation development standards. Subject to Middle Rio
Grande Conservancy District approval as may be necessary, existing ditch or
acequia irrigation may be relocated within any Conservation Development
provided that the water allocated to the Conservation Area shall not be
reduced.
      (2)   Abandonment of irrigation rights by the landowner(s) is prohibited
as a condition of approval.
   (J)   CONSERVATION AREA.
      (1)   Amount. Thirty-five percent (35%) of the gross Conservation
Development area shall be designated as Conservation Area for the purposes of
agriculture, recreation, habitat, and other conservation uses as defined in
this section.
      (2)   Configuration. The Conservation Area may consist of one or more
areas within the Conservation Development provided that at least one area is
not interior to the conservation development.
         (a)   For properties abutting Rio Grande Boulevard, the setback areas
as defined in §
9.2.7(E)(3) may be used as Conservation Area.
         (b)   The Conservation Area may be publicly accessible or limited to
private access subject to the approval of the Village.
      (3)   Uses, Allowed. Conservation Area shall be used for the following or
some combination thereof:
         (a)   Agriculture. Agricultural uses shall be those identified in A-
1 Permissive Uses §
9.2.7(B)(2), (3), (4), and (9). Outdoor storage of materials must be screened,
and landscaping may provide screening. Storage of materials or equipment not
specifically related to the Conservation Area uses shall not be allowed in the
Conservation Area.
         (b)   Habitat. Including habitat for migratory wildlife and wildlife
from the river area.
         (c)   Pedestrian and equestrian trails.
         (d)   Existing or new structures for the purpose of maintaining the
Conservation Area or for support of the uses in the Conservation Area.
Permissible structures the Conservation Area do not count towards the FAR.
         (e)   Unenclosed structures for shade or picnic areas. Trees are
encouraged in general and as an alternative to shade structures.
         (f)   Preservation of existing natural landscapes and features, such
as cottonwood trees, native vegetation, acequias, and existing grades and
slopes is encouraged.
         (g)   Parks with customary playground equipment are an allowable use
in the R- 2 and R-3 Zones only.
      (4)   Uses, Prohibited.
         (a)   Golf driving ranges.
         (b)   Paved sports courts.
         (c)   Impervious surfaces, excluding (3)(d) or (e) above.
         (d)   Bleachers or similar structures to provide seating for guests or
invitees.
         (e)   Other recreational uses that do not further the goals of
agriculture, habitat, or natural features or preserving the natural landscapes.
   (K)   CONSERVATION AREA MANAGEMENT PLAN. A Conservation Area Management Plan
is mandatory and shall include the following:
      (1)   Current ownership information and a plan to be updated as needed
and to be kept on file at the Village Planning and Zoning Department.
      (2)   Identify the type of ownership of the Conservation Area, including,
but not limited to, a homeowners' association, conservation association,
individual(s) or entity. In compliance with the regulations of this section and
any applicable requirement of NMSA 1978 §§ 47-12-1 to 47-12-6 all of which must
agree to comply with regulations of the Village.
      (3)   Identify the parties responsible for maintenance of the
Conservation Area, and their contact information along with a detailed
maintenance plan, including a performance bond or letter of credit in the
amount of the estimated annual cost of maintaining the Conservation Area.
Maintenance costs must be updated annually.
      (4)   Homeowners' association or other recorded documents shall require
that the sale of individual dwelling units must also include any associated
interest in dedicated land, shared or common lands, structures, or facilities
and shall require the buyer's continued responsibility for its share of those
responsibilities.
      (5)   Plan shall include a detailed explanation of the proposed uses of
the Conservation Area, including existing structures and an explanation of how
it complies with the Village Master Plan and uses allowed in this section.
      (6)   Provide proof of water availability.
   (L)   SEWER SYSTEMS.
      (1)   All conservation development under this §
9.2.27 shall connect to the public sanitary sewer, regardless of distance from
the nearest public sanitary sewer connection point.
   (M)   OTHER REGULATIONS. The regulations below apply to:
      (1)   Off-street parking regulations. As set forth in §
9.2.18 Off-Street Parking.
      (2)   Dark skies regulations. As set forth in §
9.2.20 Dark Skies.
      (3)   Sign regulations. As set forth in §
9.2.22 Signs.
   (N)   APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS. All applications for Conservation
Developments must apply for and follow the approval process of major
subdivisions and site development plans, as set forth in §
9.1 and §
9.2.25(E)(4) regardless of number of lots created or acreage involved.
      (1)   In addition to the requirements of §
9.1, the following are required:
         (a)   The Conservation Area Management Plan shall be reviewed by the
Planning Director, reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission, and approved
by the Board of Trustees as part of the Site Development Plan.
         (b)   Perpetual covenants (i) for purposes of preserving the
Conservation Area for agricultural, recreational, or conservation open space;
(ii) requiring future use and development of the Conservation Development to
comply with the Site Plan as approved by the Village; (iii) stating that the
covenants were required as a condition of approval of the Conservation
Development; and (iv) giving the Village the right (but not the obligation) to
enforce the covenants must be recorded in the Bernalillo County Clerk's Office.
         (c)   In addition to §
9.1.8(B)(3) Contents of the Final Plat, the following are required on the final
plat:
            1.   Note that vacation or alteration of the easement or
restrictive covenant as identified in §
9.2.27(J) is prohibited unless through approval by the Board of Trustees.
            2.   Note that further subdivision of lots which create additional
lots, not to include lot line adjustments, shall require approval by the Board
of Trustees.
            3.   Note indicating the location of the Conservation Area(s) shall
be required on the final plat.
            4.   Conservation Area must be identified on a plat as a separate
lot(s) or easement(s).
      (2)   The requirements of §
9.2.25(E)(4) shall be met except as otherwise specified in this section:
         (a)   §
9.2.25(E)(4)(n)(l): Compliance with Section 19 Landscaping shall be voluntary.
      (3)   Requests for deviations from area regulations, FAR, Conservation
Area, or other requested authorization or approval, shall obtain approval from
the Board of Trustees, prior to site development plan and subdivision review.
The applicant shall submit a preliminary site plan and identify each deviation
with written justification for each requested deviation. The Variance fee shall
apply.
      (4)   The Village shall provide calculations and examples of sample
developments with the applications.
      (5)   Approval by the Board of Trustees shall be required for any
significant change to the Conservation Area.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees shall establish reasonable and appropriate
financial assurances for the performance of this Ordinance.
   (O)   IMPLEMENTATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES. This section may be
enforced in accordance with §
9.2.24. In addition, if any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building,
structure or land is used in violation of this section, the Village may
institute any appropriate action or proceedings to:
      (1)   Prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, or use;
      (2)   Restrain, correct, or abate the violation;
      (3)   Prevent the occupancy of such building, structure, or land; or
      (4)   Prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about such
premises.
      (5)   Conditions of Approval. Conservation Development conditions of
approval shall include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   Construction must commence within one (1) calendar year from
date of filing of the subdivision plat.
         (b)   Abandonment or vacation of designated/dedicated Conservation
Area 1s pr
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 9, Article 2 (f/k/a Chpt
31):
Ordinance #2, May 27, 1959. Repealed 8/6/72 by Ordinance No. 25;
Ordinance #16, January 22, 1964. Repealed 1/5/71 by Ordinance No. 20;
Ordinance #20, January 5, 1972. Repeals Ordinance No. 16
Ordinance #25, August 6, 1972. Repeals Ordinance No. 2; Amended by Ordinances
26, 38 and 48;
Ordinance #26, November 1, 1972. Amends Ordinance No. 25;
Ordinance #38, July 11, 1979. Amends Ordinance No. 25;
Ordinance #45, December 9, 1981. This Ordinance did not have proper advance
notice published and is NULL & VOID;
Ordinance #48, July 14, 1982. Amends Ordinance No. 25;
Ordinance #58, December 12, 1984. Repeals Ordinances 25, 26, 28 & 48; Amended
by Ordinances 82, 100; Repealed 6/9/94 by Ordinance No. 120;
Ordinance #71, May 11, 1988 changed the definition of height (Section 5) &
Section 7(D)(1) (maximum allowed height). Repealed 6/9/94 by Ordinance #120;
Ordinance #82, February 8, 1989 added to the definition of height (Section 5)
that a chimney is not part of a structure for height restriction & added the
definition of chimney to Section 5.
Amends Ordinance No. 58 (which was Repealed);
Ordinance #83, March 22, 1989 created the AR-2 Zone (Section 8). Amends
Ordinance No. 58 (which was Repealed);
Ordinance #92, March 14, 1990. Amends Ordinance No. 83;
Ordinance #120, June 9, 1994. Repeals Ordinances 36, 58, 71, 82, 83 & 92,
Repealed 12/14/94 by Ordinance #125;
Ordinance #125, December 14, 1994. Repeals Ordinance No. 120, Amended by
Ordinances 127, 128, 129, 130 & 140;
Ordinance #127, March 8, 1995. Amends Ordinance No. 125, Amended by Ordinance
No. 130;
Ordinance #128, March 8, 1995. Amends Ordinance No. 125;
Ordinance #129, May 31, 1995. Amends Ordinance No. 125;
Ordinance #130, July 12, 1995. Amends Ordinance No. 125 & 127;
Ordinance #131, August 31, 1995. Annexation of Territory;
Ordinance #134, enacted Feb 14, 1996, codified Ordinance #125, as amended, with
modifications;
Ordinance #140, June 27, 1996. Amends Ordinance No. 125;
Ordinance #147, May 14, 1997. Amends Chapter 31 of the Codified Ordinance of 2/
14/1996 Section 6(B)(8) – Guest House or additional dwellings;
Ordinance #152, October 28, 1998. Amends Chapter 31 of the Codified Ordinance
of 2/14/1996, Section 11(A) and Section 12(B);
Ordinance #160, November 8, 2000. Amends Chapter 31 of the Codified Ordinance
of 2/14/1996, Section 11, C-1 Retail Commercial Zone, Paragraph A, Permissive
Uses on Adult Entertainment, Adult Bookstores;
Ordinance #161, November 15, 2000. Amended 12/10/03 by Ordinance No. 186;
Ordinance #163, December 13, 2000. Amends Chapter 31 of the Codified Ordinance
of 2/14/1996, Section 15, Paragraph E adding a Section to Regulate Fees for
Zoning Applications;
Ordinance #164, January 10, 2001. Amends Chapter 31 of the Codified Ordinance
of 2/14/1996, Section 11(A) and (B) Permissive and Conditional Uses;
Ordinance #172, December 11, 2002. Amends Chapter 31 of the Codified Ordinance
of 2/14/1996, Sections 3 & 5, Adding a new Section 12 and amending the Zone Map
to Delineate the Village Center District;
Ordinance dated May 28, 2003 (no ORD #) replaces current Zoning Ordinance,
Chapter 31 of the Codified Ordinance dated 2/14/1996 and Repealed 10/22/03 by
Ordinance No. 183;
Ordinance #181, September 10, 2003. Amends Ordinance No. 162;
Ordinance #183, October 22, 2003. REPLACES Chapter 31 of Codified Ordinance No.
134 (2/14/1996), Amended 2/10/10 by Ordinance No. 226 and Repeals Ordinance
dated 5/28/2003 with No Ordinance No.;
Ordinance #186, December 10, 2003. Amends Ordinance No 161, Repealed 2/11/09 by
Ordinance No. 222;
Ordinance #191, August 25, 2004. Amends Chapter 31, Zoning and Zone Map of the
Codified Ordinance;
Ordinance #192, August 25, 2004. Amending Chapter 31, Zoning and Zone Map,
adding definitions;
Ordinance #193, December 8, 2004. Amends Chapter 31, Zoning and Zone Map of the
Codified Ordinance, Amended by Ordinance No. 195, Amends ORD #192 of the
Guadalupe Character Area;
Ordinance #195, June 8, 2005. Amends Ordinance No. 193;
Ordinance #201, July 12, 2006. Amends Chapter 31, Section 15 (Special Use Zone)
of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance;
Ordinance #202, July 12, 2006. Amending the Official Zone Map;
Ordinance #203, July 12, 2006. Amends Chapter 31, Section 2(B) Definition of
Grade of the Codified Ordinances of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance;
Ordinance #208, April 11, 2007. Amends Chapter 31, Section 2, 4 & 11 of the
Codified Ordinance, Zoning Ordinance and Zone Map;
Ordinance #209, May 9, 2007. Amending the Text to the Zoning Ordinance and Zone
Map;
Ordinance #213, September 12, 2007. Amends the Comprehensive Zoning Code,
Chapter 31, Zoning and Zone Map, Section 24, Application and Approval Process,
subsection D, Planning Director Issued Permits, adding paragraph 13, Floor Area
Variances;
Ordinance #216, May 14, 2008. Amends Ordinance No’s 209, 191, 183 & 201 and
Chapter 31 of Codified Ordinance;
Ordinance #217, May 14, 2008. Amends Ordinance No. 191 and Chapter 31 of
Codified Ordinance;
Ordinance #218, May 14, 2008. Amends Chapter 31 of the Codified Ordinance, The
Zoning Ordinance and Zone Map, Section 24, Application and Approval Process;
Ordinance #221, November 12, 2008. Amends Chapter 31, Section 2 Definitions and
Section 24, Application and Approval Process, E(1) Site Development Plan,
Amended 5/13/09 by Ordinance No. 223;
Ordinance #222, February 11, 2009. Repeals Ordinance No. 186;
Ordinance #223, May 13, 2009. Amends Ordinance No. 221 and Chapter 31 of the
Codified Ordinance;
Ordinance #226, February 10, 2010. Amends Ordinance No. 183 and the text to
Chapter 31, Section 12 concerning the Agricultural Commercial Zone.
Ordinance #243, January 8, 2014. Amends Ordinance No.183 and the text to
Chapter 31, Section 25 concerning Application and Approval.
Ordinance #246, February 12, 2014. Amends Ordinance No. 186 and the text to
Chapter 31 concerning the Planning and Zoning Commission.
Ordinance #248, March 12, 2014. Amends Ordinance No. 186 Section 2 concerning
Definitions, Section 3 concerning General Regulations, Section 4 concerning the
Establishment and Interpretation of Zones, Section 6 A-1 Agricultural/
Residential Zone, A-2 Agricultural/Residential Zone, Section 7 A-
3 Agricultural/Residential, R-2 Residential Zone, Section 9 R-3 Agricultural/
Residential Zone, Section 10 Retail/Commercial Zone, Section Gateway District
Zone, Section 14 Village Center Zone;
Ordinance #249, January 14, 2015. Amends Ordinance No.201 and the text to
Chapter 9, Article 2 Section 16 Special Use Zones of the 2013 Codified
Ordinances.
Ordinance #258, August 9, 2017. Amends Chapter 9, Article 2, Section 25
Application and Approval Process, (H) Appeals;
Ordinance #260, September 13, 2017. Amends Chapter 9, Article 2, Zoning and
Zone Map, Section 12, C-1 Commercial Zone;
Ordinance #263, October 11, 2017. Amends Chapter 9, Article 2, Zoning and Zone
Map, Section 3, Definitions, and Section 4 General Regulations, Clarification
of the two hundred and eighty (280) foot setback in Chapter 9, Article 2,
Section 7, A-1 Agricultural/ Residential Zone, Section 8, A-2 Agricultural/
Residential Zone, and Section 9, A-3, Agricultural/ Residential Zone;
Ordinance #264, November 8, 2017. Amends Chapter 9, Article 2, Zoning and Zone
Map, Section 22 Signs, (K) Political Campaign Signs;
Ordinance #265, January 10, 2018. Amends Chapter 9, Article 2, Zoning and Zone
Map, Section 14, Village Center Zone (VC Zone);
Ordinance #279, July 14, 2021. Amends Chapter 9, Article 2, Zoning and Zone
Map, Section 25, Application and Approval Process.
Ordinance #280, September 8, 2021. Amends Chapter 9, Article 2, Zoning and Zone
Map, Section 15, AC - Agricultural-Commercial Zone;
Ordinance #282, November 10, 2021. Amends Chapter 9, Article 2, Zoning and Zone
Map, Section 3, Definitions, Section 7, A-1 Agricultural/Residential Zone,
Section 12, C-1 Retail Commercial Zone, Section 14, VC - Village Center Zone
and Section 15, AC - Agricultural-Commercial Zone;
Ordinance #284, March 9, 2022. Amends Chapter 9, Article 2, Zoning and Zone
Map, Section 2, Planning and Zoning Commission, Section 3, Definitions and
establishes Section 27, Conservation Development Standards Permit (CDP).
Ordinance #289, August 10, 2022. Amends Chapter 9, Article 2, Zone and Zoning
Map, Section 13, GD–Gateway District Zone; Section 14, VC–Village Center Zone;
and Section 18, Off Street Parking.
Ordinance #294, April 12, 2023. Amends Chapter 9, Article 2, Zone and Zoning
Map, Section 12, C-1 Commercial Zone; Repealing Ordinance #260.
Ordinance #299, August 20, 2024. Amends Chapter 9, Article 2, Zoning and Zone
Map, Sections 2, 3, and 27
ARTICLE 3.
PERMITS FOR THE SALE, CONSTRUCTION AND REMODELING OF PROPERTY
SECTION 1. Purpose and Intent
SECTION 2. Definitions
SECTION 3. Requirements for Permits to Sell, Construct and/or Remodel Real
Estate in the Village Limits
§ 9.3.1 PURPOSE AND INTENT
The Village desires to permit the sale, construction and remodeling of all
property in the Village limits in an effort to ensure receipt of full gross
receipts tax owed to the Village.
§ 9.3.2 DEFINITIONS
   (A)   CONSTRUCTION means the building, altering, repairing or demolishing in
the ordinary course of business any building, structure or fencing within the
Village limits.
   (B)   GROSS RECEIPTS means the total amount of money or the value of other
consideration received from selling, constructing or remodeling property within
the Village.
§ 9.3.3 REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITS TO SELL, CONSTRUCT AND/OR REMODEL REAL ESTATE
IN THE VILLAGE LIMITS
   (A)   The following requirements apply to those intending to sell, construct
and/or remodel property within the Village:
      (1)   A realtor must apply for a permit for each parcel of land to be
sold. The fee for the permit is thirty-five dollars ($35.00) per parcel. The
Village issued permit shall be attached to the bottom right hand corner of the
realtor's sign located on the property. The Village issued permit shall contain
a permit number for each parcel of land and shall be visible at all times. If
the realtor has no sign posted, they must display the Village issued permit on
the property in a prominent spot visible from the street.
      (2)   A contractor or developer must apply for an annual business license
per §
3.1. The Village issued zone review permit shall be posted on the property in a
prominent spot visible from the street.
      (3)   The Village may request to inspect a permittee’s CRS-1 filings at
any time to ensure compliance.
      (4)   Any Realtor, developer or contractor in violation of this Article
shall not be permitted to sell, construct or remodel any property in the
Village of Los Ranchos until they are in compliance with this Article.
      (5)   Violators shall also be subject to any other penalties permitted
under New Mexico law.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 9, Article 3:
Ordinance #196, October 12, 2005;
Ordinance #285, February 9, 2022, Amending §
9.3.3.
ARTICLE 4.
MIDDLE RIO GRANDE CONSERVATION DISTRICT TRACTS
SECTION 1. Purpose
SECTION 2. Definitions
SECTION 3. Zone Review and Building Permits for MRGCD Tracts
SECTION 4. No Presumption
SECTION 5. Limited Application
SECTION 6. Severability
§ 9.4.1 PURPOSE
The purpose of this Article is to establish a procedure to administer zoning
review, building permits and other administrative procedures relating to
qualifying Middle Rio Grande Conservation District Tracts. Middle Rio Grande
Conservation District Tracts were created for the purpose of administering
water rights and delivering water to certain tracts of land within the Middle
Rio Grande Conservation District (“MRGCD”). In most cases, the MRGCD Tracts
were not created by subdivision plat after governmental approval; however, the
MRGCD Tract descriptions have, in many cases, been used for property
conveyances. As a matter of public policy, the Village has determined that
MRGCD Tracts should be recognized legal parcels for certain purposes, as set
out herein.
§ 9.4.2 DEFINITIONS
   (A)   MIDDLE RIO GRANDE CONSERVATION DISTRICT means the district formed in
the State of New Mexico for administration of rivers and waters and
conservation and will be abbreviated in this Article by the phrase “MRGCD.”
   (B)   MRGCD. Tract(s) as used herein shall mean those tracts shown on the
MRGCD maps which Tracts were not either created by or subsequently platted in a
Subdivision Plat and which were designated by MRGCD prior to 1967.
   (C)   SUBDIVISION PLAT shall mean a Plat prepared by a licensed surveyor or
engineer creating or incorporating lots or parcels, which Plat has been
approved through the administrative subdivision and platting process under the
platting jurisdiction of the Village, Bernalillo County, or the City of
Albuquerque, and further, has been recorded in the real property records of
Bernalillo County, or the City of Albuquerque, and further, has been recorded
in the real property records of Bernalillo County after receipt of all
necessary approvals.
   (D)   LOT OR LOT OF RECORD as used herein shall mean a lot or parcel created
by a Subdivision Plat.
   (E)   SUBDIVISION CODE as used herein shall mean the currently adopted
Subdivision provisions as set out in Chapter 9, Article 1 of the 2013 Codified
Ordinances of the Village of Los Ranchos.
   (F)   ZONING CODE shall mean the Zoning provisions as set out in Chapter 9,
Article 2 of the 2013 Codified Ordinances of the Village of Los Ranchos or
subsequent Codification of the Ordinances.
   (G)   PLAT means a map created by a licensed engineer or surveyor, prepared
in accordance with the survey requirements of the State of New Mexico, showing
thereon one or more separate parcels of land, identified by metes and bounds
descriptions and any identifiable monuments and other requirements of the
governmental authority having jurisdiction over platting and subdividing real
property.
   (H)   CLASS 1 MRGCD TRACT means an MRGCD Tract designated as a separate
parcel on an official MRGCD map and which is 0.25 acres or more in net area.
   (I)   CLASS 2 MRGCD TRACT means an MRGCD Tract designated as a separate
parcel on an official MRGCD map and which is less than 0.25 net acres.
   (J)   EXISTING SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE shall mean a house or structure
occupied or historically used as a single-family residence which house was
constructed on an MRGCD Tract in accordance with ordinances and regulations in
effect at the time the structure was completed.
   (K)   APPLICABLE ZONE shall mean the zoning designation for an MRGCD Tract
under the Zoning Code.
   (L)   BUILDING PERMIT shall mean a permit issued by the Village or its
designee for construction on an MRGCD Tract pursuant to the applicable
ordinances in effect at the time a zone review and a Building Permit are
applied for. Bernalillo County is currently the designee for the Village for
the purpose of issuing Building Permits.
   (M)   NET ACRES as used herein shall mean the acreage of the MRGCD Tract
determined in the same manner minimum lot sizes are calculated under the
Subdivision Code.
   (N)   MRGCD TRACTS NOT LOTS. For purposes of the Ordinances of the Village,
an MRGCD Tract shall not be deemed to be a Lot or Lot of Record.
   (O)   COMMERCIAL BUILDING means any building or group of buildings used for
office, wholesale or retail purposes in which the owner or lessee and/or
employees are engaged in work for which it is intended that compensation be
received for goods or services which building(s) was constructed in accordance
with applicable building and zoning codes at the time of construction. Hotels,
motels and apartment buildings as well as residential rental property are
considered Commercial Buildings.
§ 9.4.3 ZONE REVIEW AND BUILDING PERMITS FOR MRGCD TRACTS
   (A)   If an MRGCD Tract is not improved with an Existing Single-Family
Residence but meets the size requirements of the Applicable Zone, prior to
issuance of a Building Permit for any construction, the MRGCD Tract shall be
platted pursuant to a Subdivision Plat. Regardless of the size of the MRGCD
Tract, if the proposed plat does not combine two or more MRGCD Tracts, the
platting shall be deemed a “Minor Subdivision.”
   (B)   If an MRGCD Tract is not improved with an Existing Single-Family
Residence and does not meet the size requirements of the Applicable Zone, prior
to issuance of a Building Permit for any construction, the MRGCD Tract shall be
platted pursuant to a Subdivision Plat, in which case the landowner(s) shall
also be required to obtain a variance pursuant to the procedures set out in the
Zoning Code in addition to compliance with the Subdivision Code. A
determination as to whether or not the platting must be processed as a Major
Subdivision or a Minor Subdivision shall be determined in accordance with the
Subdivision Code.
   (C)   For all Class 1 MRGCD Tracts and Class 2 MRGCD Tracts which are
improved with an existing Single-Family Residence, such Existing Single-Family
Residence shall be deemed an existing permitted use which use may continue but
which use cannot be expanded as to size or intensity, except in accordance with
the provisions of this Article.
   (D)   The Village or its designee may issue Building Permits for
construction on a single Class 1 MRGCD Tract which is improved with an Existing
Single-Family Residence even though such Tract does not meet the minimum size
requirements under the Applicable Zone without requirement that the Class 1
MRGCD Tract be platted in accordance with the Subdivision Code and without a
Variance being issued pursuant to the Zoning Code. The Village shall have the
authority (but not the obligation) to allow the building footprint for the
Existing Single-Family Residence or ancillary buildings to be expanded,
provided such expanded size is otherwise in compliance with all required
setbacks, floor area ratio, and other regulations of the Village Ordinances.
Multiple MRGCD Tracts under one ownership and improved with a Single-Family
Residence must go through the Subdivision process, but do not require a
Variance for minimum lot area.
   (E)   The Village or its designee may issue Building Permits for
construction on a class 2 MRGCD Tract which is improved with an Existing
Single-Family Residence without the requirement of a Subdivision Plat, provided
the Existing Single-Family Residence is not expanded as to its footprint size.
If the Tract does not meet the minimum size requirements under the applicable
zone and the size of the residence’s footprint is going to be expanded, a
Subdivision Plat will not be required, but a variance under the Zoning Code
will be required and all other requirements including setbacks and floor area
ratio must be complied with.
   (F)   If a commercially zoned MRGCD Tract is not improved with a Commercial
Building and is at least 1/3 acre in size, prior to issuance of a Building
Permit for any construction, the MRGCD Tract shall be platted pursuant to the
Subdivision Code. A determination as to whether the application for plat must
be processed as a Major Subdivision or Minor Subdivision shall be made by the
Planning Director in accordance with the applicable provisions of the
Subdivision Code.
   (G)   If a commercially zoned MRGCD Tract is not improved with a Commercial
Building and is less than the minimum size determined by the Village pursuant
to a Site Development Plan to be acceptable in the Gateway District or 1/3 acre
in all other zones, prior to issuance of a Building Permit for any
construction, the MRGCD Tract shall be platted pursuant to the Subdivision Code
and the landowner(s) shall be required to obtain a lot size variance in
accordance with the procedures set out in the Zoning Code.
   (H)   The Village or its designee may issue Building Permits for
construction on an MRGCD Tract which is at least the minimum size determined by
the Village pursuant to a Site Development Plan to be acceptable in the Gateway
District Zone or 1/3 acre in size in all other zones, and is improved with a
Commercial Building without the requirement of a Subdivision Plat, provided the
existing Commercial Building is not expanded by more than 20%. If the MRGCD
Tract is either (a) not at least 1/3 acre in size or (b) the building footprint
is going to be expanded by more than 20%, a Subdivision Plat will be required.
For MRGCD Tracts of less than 1/3 acre a variance under the Zoning Code Is
required. All other requirements including setbacks must be complied with.
Multiple MRGCD Tracts under one ownership and improved with a Commercial
Building which is built on more than one tract or which utilizes parking or
other ancillary uses on more than one tract, must go through the Subdivision
process prior to issuance of a Building Permit.
   (I)   The Village or the Planning Director shall have the authority to issue
a Zone Review Approval for construction on a single MRGCD Tract which is less
than 1/3 acre in size and which is improved with a Commercial Building without
requiring the MRGCD Tract be platted if, in the opinion of the Planning
Director, the property and the Commercial Building comply with all other
requirements excepting the size of the MRGCD Tract. The Village shall also have
the authority (but not the obligation) to allow the building footprint for the
existing Commercial Building or ancillary buildings to be increased by up to
20%, provided such expanded size is otherwise in compliance with all required
setbacks and other regulations of the Village Codes. Multiple MRGCD Tracts
under one ownership and improved with a Commercial Building must go through the
Subdivision process, but will not require a Variance for minimum lot size.
§ 9.4.4 NO PRESUMPTION
There is no presumption that an owner is entitled to construct a Single-Family
Residence on any property based solely upon the fact that it is a separate
MRGCD Tract.
§ 9.4.5 LIMITED APPLICATION
Except as specifically set out herein, MRGCD Tracts shall be subject to all
ordinances and regulations which would otherwise be applicable to lands or
parcels of lands for which there is no Subdivision Plat. MRGCD Tracts shall not
be deemed Lots or Lots of Record for any purpose.
§ 9.4.6 SEVERABILITY
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase, or part hereof
is for any reason declared unconstitutional or invalid, the validity of the
remaining portions hereof shall not be affected since it is the expressed
intent of the Board of Trustees to pass each section, subsection, paragraph,
clause, phrase and every part thereof separately and independently of every
other part.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 9, Article 4:
Ordinance #232, April 11, 2012
Ordinance #252, February 10, 2016
ARTICLE 5.
BUILDING CODE
SECTION 1. Code Adopted By Reference
SECTION 2. Ordinance Available Upon Request For Inspection
SECTION 3. Enforcement
§ 9.5.1 CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
Pursuant to § 3-17-6 NMSA 1978 (2007), and for the purpose of prescribing
minimum standards regulating construction and maintenance of buildings and
structures, the following codes are hereby adopted for regulating the erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition,
conversion, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and maintenance of all
buildings or structure in the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque; providing
for penalties for the violation thereof, now existing or as amended from time
to time by the legislature of the State of New Mexico, is adopted by reference
as the building codes for the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque:
   (A)   Building Codes in General.
      (1)   2015 New Mexico Commercial Building Code (14.7.2 NMAC);
      (2)   2015 New Mexico Residential Building Code 14.7.3 NMAC);
      (3)   2015 New Mexico Earthen Building Materials Construction Code (Phase
III) (14.7.4 NMAC);
      (4)   2009 New Mexico Non-Load Bearing Baled Straw Construction Building
Code (Phase III) (14.7.5 NMAC);
      (5)   2009 New Mexico Energy Conservation Code (14.7.6 NMAC);
      (6)   2015 New Mexico Existing Building Code (14.7.7 NMAC); and
      (7)   2015 New Mexico Historic Earthen Buildings (14.7.8 NMAC).
   (B)   Plumbing Codes.
      (1)   2015 New Mexico Plumbing Code (14.8.2 NMAC); and
      (2)   2012 New Mexico Swimming Pool, Spa and Hot Tub Code (14.8.3 NMAC).
   (C)   Mechanical Codes.
      (1)   2015 New Mexico Mechanical Code (14.9.2 NMAC);
      (2)   Boilers (14.9.4 NMAC);
      (3)   Medical Gas Installation and Certification (14.9.5 NMAC); and
      (4)   2012 New Mexico Solar Energy Code 14.9.6 NMAC).
   (D)   Electrical Codes.
      (1)   2017 New Mexico Electrical Code 14.10.4 NMAC); and
      (2)   2012 New Mexico Electrical Safety Code 14.10.5 NMAC).
   (E)   Miscellaneous Provisions.
      (1)   Errata sheets to the adopted portions of the uniform and
international codes, as promulgated by the International Conference of Building
Officials or the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical
Officials; and
      (2)   The Bernalillo County amendments to the International and New
Mexico Codes known as the Uniform Construction Codes of Bernalillo County,
referred to in Bernalillo County Ordinance §
§ 9.5.2 CODES AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST FOR INSPECTION
A copy of the codes and standards shall be available for inspection during
regular business hours at the Village Administrative Offices.
§ 9.5.3 ENFORCEMENT
The Village of Los Ranchos or its agents may enforce the provisions of the
codes within the boundaries of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque to the
fullest extent provided by law.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 9, Article 5 (f/k/a Chpt
4):
Ordinance #90, January 10, 1990;
Ordinance #154, February 10, 1999 (Repeals Ordinance #90);
Ordinance #281, September 8, 2021 (Repeals Ordinance #154)
§ 3-17-5A NMSA 1978 Proof of Ordinance; authentication; publication; effective
date; codification;
§ 3-17-6 NMSA 1978 Codes adopted and enforced by reference; availability;
§§ 3-18-6, 3-18-7 NMSA 1978 Power to regulate buildings;
§ 60-13-1 NMSA 1978 Statewide construction codes:
14.7.2 NMAC;
14.7.3 NMAC;
14.7.4 NMAC;
14.7.5 NMAC;
l4.7.6 NMAC;
14.7.7 NMAC;
14.7.8 NMAC;
14.8.2 NMAC;
14.8.3 NMAC;
14.9.2 NMAC;
14.9.4 NMAC;
14.5.5 NMAC;
l4.9.6 NMAC;
14.10.4 NMAC;
14.10.5 NMAC;
Bemalillo County Ordinance § 10-34.
ARTICLE 6.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
SECTION 1. Title
SECTION 2. Authority
SECTION 3. Purpose
SECTION 4. Applicability
SECTION 5. Review and Approval Authority
SECTION 6. Approval Process
SECTION 7. Standards of Review
SECTION 8. Amendment to an Approved Application
SECTION 9. Appeals
SECTION 10. Administration and Enforcement
SECTION 11. Penalties
SECTION 12. Conflicts and Severability
SECTION 13. Definitions
SECTION 14. Effective Date
§ 9.6.1 TITLE
This Article shall be known and cited as the “Wireless Telecommunications
Facilities Siting Ordinance” of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, New
Mexico, (hereinafter referred to as "this Article").
§ 9.6.2 AUTHORITY
This Article is adopted pursuant to the enabling provisions of the Constitution
of the state of New Mexico and N.M.S.A. (1978).
§ 9.6.3 PURPOSE
The purpose of this Article is to provide a process and a set of standards for
the construction of wireless telecommunications facilities in order to:
   (A)   Implement a municipal policy concerning the provision of wireless
telecommunications services, and the siting of their facilities;
   (B)   Establish clear guidelines, standards and time frames for the exercise
of municipal authority to regulate wireless telecommunications facilities;
   (C)   Allow competition in telecommunication service;
   (D)   Encourage the provision of advanced telecommunications services to the
largest number of businesses, institutions and residents of the Village of Los
Ranchos;
   (E)   Permit and manage reasonable access to the public rights of way of the
Village of Los Ranchos for telecommunications purposes on a competitively
neutral basis;
   (F)   Ensure that all telecommunications carriers providing facilities or
services within the Village of Los Ranchos comply with the ordinances of the
Village of Los Ranchos;
   (G)   Ensure the Village of Los Ranchos can continue to fairly and
responsibly protect the public health, safety and welfare;
   (H)   Encourage the collocation of wireless telecommunications facilities,
thus helping to minimize adverse visual impacts on the community;
   (I)   Enable the Village of Los Ranchos to discharge its public trust
consistent with rapidly evolving federal and state regulatory policies,
industry competition and technological development;
   (J)   Further the goals and policies of the Master Plan, while promoting
orderly development of the town with minimal impacts on existing uses; and
   (K)   Protect the scenic and visual character of the community.
§ 9.6.4 APPLICABILITY
This local land use regulation applies to all construction and expansion of
wireless telecommunications facilities.
   (A)   EXEMPTIONS. The following are exempt from the provisions of this
Article:
      (1)   Emergency Wireless Telecommunications Facility. Temporary wireless
communication facilities for emergency communications by public officials.
      (2)   Amateur (ham) radio stations. Amateur (ham) radio stations licensed
by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC).
      (3)   Parabolic antenna. Parabolic Antennas less than seven (7) feet in
diameter, that are an accessory use of the property.
      (4)   Maintenance or repair. Maintenance, repair or reconstruction of a
wireless telecommunications facility and related equipment, provided that there
is no change in the height or any other dimension of the facility.
      (5)   Temporary wireless telecommunications facility. Telecommunications
facility, in operation for a maximum period of one hundred eighty (180) days.
      (6)   Antennas as Accessory Uses. An antenna that is an accessory use to
a residential dwelling.
§ 9.6.5 REVIEW AND APPROVAL AUTHORITY
   (A)   APPROVAL REQUIRED. No person shall construct or expand a wireless
telecommunications facility without approval of the Planning Director or the
Board of Trustees as follows:
      (1)   Expansion of an Existing Facility and Collocation. Approval by the
Village is required for any expansion of an existing wireless
telecommunications facility that increases the height of the facility; the size
of any structure; accessory use of an existing wireless telecommunications
facility; or collocation on an existing wireless telecommunications facility.
      (2)   New Construction. Approval of the Board of Trustees is required for
construction of a new wireless telecommunications facility; and any expansion
of an existing wireless telecommunications facility that increase the height of
the facility.
   (B)   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. In accordance with §
9.6.5(A) above, the Board of Trustees shall review applications for wireless
telecommunications facilities, and make written findings on whether the
proposed facility complies with this Article.
§ 9.6.6 APPROVAL PROCESS
   (A)   PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE. All persons seeking approval of the
Village under this Article shall meet with the Planning Director before an
application is submitted.
   (B)   APPLICATION. All persons seeking approval of the Village under this
Article shall submit an application as provided below. The Village shall be
responsible for ensuring that notice of the application has been published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the community.
   (C)   APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL. Applications for permit approval by the
Village must include the following materials and information:
      (1)   Documentation of the applicant’s right, title, or interest in the
property where the facility is to be sited, including name and address of the
property owner and the applicant.
      (2)   A copy of the FCC license for the facility.
      (3)   Identification of districts, sites, buildings, structures or
objects, significant in history, architecture, archaeology, engineering or
culture, as well as places, that are listed, or eligible for listing, in the
National Register of Historic Places (see 16 U.S.C. 470w(5); CFR 60 and 800).
      (4)   Location map and elevation drawings of the proposed facility and
any other proposed structures, showing color, and identifying structural
materials.
      (5)   A detailed camouflage for both the site and the structure.
      (6)   For proposed expansion of a facility, a signed statement that
commits the owner of the facility, and his or her successors in interest, to:
         (a)   Respond in a timely, comprehensive manner to a request for
information from a potential collocation applicant, in exchange for a
reasonable fee not in excess of the actual cost of preparing a response;
         (b)   Negotiate in good faith for shared use by third parties;
         (c)   Allow shared use if an applicant agrees in writing to pay
reasonable charges for collocation;
         (d)   Require no more than a reasonable charge for shared use, based
on community rates and generally accepted accounting principles. This charge
may include but is not limited to a pro rata share of the cost of site
selection, planning project administration, land costs, site design,
construction and maintenance, financing, return on equity, depreciation, and
all of the costs of adopting the tower or equipment to accommodate a shared
user without causing electromagnetic interference.
      (7)   A site plan prepared and certified by a professional engineer
registered in New Mexico indicating location, type, and height of the proposed
facility, antenna capacity, on-site and abutting off-site land uses, means of
access, setbacks from property lines, and including all applicable technical
and structural codes.
      (8)   A scenic assessment, consisting of the following:
         (a)   Elevation drawings of the proposed facility, and any other
proposed structures, showing height above ground level;
         (b)   A landscaping plan indicating the proposed placement of the
facility on the site; location of existing structures, trees, and other
significant site features; the type and location of plants proposed to screen
the facility; the method of fencing, the color of the structure, and any
proposed lighting method;
         (c)   Photo simulations of the proposed facility taken from
perspectives determined by the Planning Director, or his/her designee, during
the pre-application conference. Each photo must be labeled with the line of
sight, elevation, and the date the photograph was taken. The photos must show
the color of the facility and method of screening;
         (d)   Any other information deemed necessary by the Planning Director
at his/her discretion.
      (9)   A written description of how the proposed facility fits into the
applicant’s telecommunications network. This submission requirement does not
require disclosure of confidential business information.
      (10)   Evidence demonstrating that no existing building, site, or
structure can accommodate the applicant’s proposed facility, the evidence for
which may consist of any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Evidence that no existing facilities are located within the
targeted market coverage area as required to meet the applicant engineering
requirements,
         (b)   Evidence that existing facilities do not have sufficient height
or cannot be increased in height at a reasonable cost to meet the applicant’s
engineering requirements,
         (c)   Evidence that existing facilities do not have sufficient
structural strength to support applicant’s proposed antenna and related
equipment. Specifically:
            1.   Planned, necessary equipment would exceed the structural
capacity of the existing facility, considering the existing and planned use of
those facilities, and these existing facilities cannot be reinforced to
accommodate the new equipment.
            2.   The applicant proposed antenna or equipment would cause
electromagnetic interference with the antenna on the existing towers or
structures, or the antenna or equipment on the existing towers on the existing
facility would cause interference with the applicant’s proposed antenna.
            3.   Existing or approved facilities do not have space on which
necessary equipment can be placed so as to function effectively.
         (d)   Evidence that the applicant has made diligent and good faith
efforts to negotiate collocation on an existing facility, building, or
structure, and has been denied access;
      (11)   Identification of districts, sites, buildings, structures or
objects, significant in history, architecture, archaeology, engineering or
culture, including those listed, or eligible for listing, in the National
Register of Historic Places (see 16 U.S.C. 470w(5); 36 CFR 60 and 800).
      (12)   A signed statement stating that the owner of the wireless
telecommunications facility and his or her successors and assigns agree to:
         (a)   Respond in a timely, comprehensive manner to a request for
information from a potential collocation applicant, in exchange for a
reasonable fee not in excess of the actual cost of preparing a response;
         (b)   Negotiate in good faith for shared use of the wireless
telecommunications facility by third parties;
         (c)   Allow shared use of the wireless telecommunications facility if
an applicant agrees in writing to pay reasonable charges for collocation;
         (d)   Require no more than a reasonable charge for shared use, based
on community rates and generally accepted accounting principles. This charge
may include but is not limited to a pro rata share of the cost of site
selection, planning project administration, land costs, site design,
construction, financing, return on equity, depreciation, and all of the costs
of adapting the tower or equipment to accommodate a shared user without causing
electromagnetic interference. The amortization of the above costs by the
facility owner shall be accomplished at a reasonable rate, over the useful life
span of the facility.
      (13)   A form of surety or bond approved by the Village in an amount
sufficient to pay for the costs of removing the facility if it is abandoned.
      (14)   Evidence that a notice of the application has been published in a
local newspaper of general circulation in the community.
   (D)   SUBMISSION WAIVER. The Board of Trustees, as appropriate, may waive
any of the submission requirements based upon a written request of the
applicant submitted at the time of application. A waiver of any submission
requirement may be granted only if the Board of Trustees finds in writing that
due to special circumstances of the application, the information is not
required to determine compliance with the standards of this Article.
   (E)   FEES.
      (1)   Application Fee. An application for approval shall include payment
of an application fee in an amount to be established by resolution and reviewed
annually. The application shall not be considered complete until this fee is
paid. The applicant is entitled to a refund of the application fee if the
application is withdrawn within fifteen (15) days of the date of filing, less
all expenses incurred by Village of Los Ranchos to review the application.
   (F)   NOTICE OF COMPLETE APPLICATION. Upon receipt of an application, the
Planning Director shall provide the applicant with a dated receipt. Within five
(5) working days of receipt of an application the Planning Director shall
review the application and determine if the application meets the submission
requirements. The Planning Director shall review any requests for a waiver from
the submission requirements and shall act on these requests prior to
determining the completeness of the application.
   If the application is complete, the Planning Director shall notify the
applicant in writing of this determination and require the applicant to provide
a sufficient number of copies of the application to the Planning office.
   If the application is incomplete, the Planning Director shall notify the
applicant in writing, specifying the additional materials required to complete
the application.
   (G)   PUBLIC HEARING. For applications for Planning Commission approval, a
public hearing shall be scheduled within 30 days after notice of the complete
application.
   (H)   APPROVAL. Within ninety (90) days of receiving a complete application
for approval under §
9.6.5(A)(2) (“New Construction”), the Planning Commission shall approve,
approve with conditions, or deny the application in writing, together with the
findings on which that decision is based.
§ 9.6.7 STANDARDS OF REVIEW
To obtain approval from the Board of Trustees, an application must comply with
the requirements in this Section.
   (A)   Board Approval Standards. An application for approval by the Board of
Trustees must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Priority of Locations. New wireless telecommunications facilities
must be located according to the priorities below. The applicant shall
demonstrate that no other facility can reasonably accommodate the applicant’s
proposed facility. Collocation of the facility shall be the goal of the siting
plan whenever reasonably feasible. No wireless telecommunications facility may
be located within 2000 feet of an existing wireless facility unless co-located.
      (2)   Location. New wireless telecommunications facilities may be
permitted only in the V-C, GD or C-1 zones, or on Municipal property.
      (3)   Siting on Municipal Property. If an applicant proposes to locate a
new wireless telecommunications facility, or expand an existing facility on
municipal property, the applicant must show the following:
         (a)   The proposed location complies with applicable municipal
policies and ordinances.
         (b)   The proposed facility will not interfere with the intended
purpose of the property.
         (c)   The applicant has adequate liability insurance and a lease
agreement with the municipality that includes reasonable compensation for the
use of the property and other provisions to safeguard the public rights and
interest in the property.
      (4)   Design for Collocation. A new wireless telecommunications facility
and related equipment must be designed and constructed to accommodate expansion
for future collocation of at least three additional wireless telecommunications
facilities or providers. However, the Board of Trustees may waive or modify
this standard in the event collocation is not feasible. The applicant must show
to the Board's satisfaction why collocation on an existing facility is not
feasible.
      (5)   Height. A new wireless telecommunications facility must be no more
than sixty (60) feet in height.
      (6)   Setbacks. A new or expanded wireless telecommunications facility
must comply with the setback requirements for the zoning district in which it
is located, or be setback one hundred five per cent (105%) of its height from
all property lines, whichever is greater. No new wireless communications
facility may be erected within one hundred (100) feet of a residential property
line. The setbacks may be satisfied by including the areas outside the property
boundaries if secured by an easement. The following exemptions apply:
         (a)   This setback may be reduced by the Board upon a showing by the
applicant that the facility is designed to collapse in a manner that will not
harm other property.
         (b)   An antenna is exempt from the setback requirement if it extends
no more than five (5) feet horizontally from the edge of the structure to which
it is attached, and it does not encroach upon an abutting property.
      (7)   Landscaping. A new wireless telecommunications facility and related
equipment must be screened with plants from view by abutting properties. All
telecommunications facilities shall have one or more rows of evergreen trees,
shrubs, earth-tone stuccoed walls, or berms capable of screening the base of
the tower and all accessory equipment from view from adjacent properties. A
break of not more than 15 feet in the visual barrier may be allowed for
maintenance access. Existing plants and natural land forms on the site shall be
preserved to the maximum extent practicable.
      (8)   Fencing. A new wireless telecommunications facility must be fenced
to discourage trespass on the facility and to discourage climbing on any
structures by trespassers.
      (9)   Lighting. Lighting of the facility is not permitted except to the
extent deemed necessary by the Board for safety purposes.
      (10)   Color and materials. A new wireless telecommunications facility
must be constructed with materials and colors that match or blend with the
surrounding natural or built environment, to the extent practicable. Unless
otherwise required, muted colors, earth tones, and subdued hues shall be used.
      (11)   Structural Standards. A new wireless telecommunications facility
must comply with the current Electronic Industries Association/
Telecommunications Industries Association (EIA/TIA) 222 Revision Standard
entitled “Structural Standards for Steel Antenna Towers and Antenna Supporting
Structures.”
      (12)   Visual Impact. The proposed wireless telecommunications facility
will have no unreasonable adverse impact upon designated scenic resources
within the Village, as identified either in the municipally adopted Master
Plan, or by a State or federal agency.
         (a)   In determining the potential unreasonable adverse impact of the
proposed facility upon the designated scenic resources, the Board shall
consider the following factors:
            1.   The extent to which the proposed wireless telecommunications
facility is visible above tree line from the viewpoint(s) of the designated
scenic resource;
            2.   The type, number, height, and proximity of existing structures
and features, and background features within the same line of sight as the
proposed facility;
            3.   The extent to which the proposed wireless telecommunications
facility would be visible from the viewpoint(s);
            4.   The amount of vegetative screening;
            5.   The distance of the proposed facility from the viewpoint and
the facility’s location within the designated scenic resource; and
            6.   The presence of reasonable alternatives that allow the
facility to function consistently with its purpose.
      (13)   Historical & Archaeological Properties. The proposed facility, to
the greatest degree practicable, will have no unreasonable adverse impact upon
a historic district, site, or structure, which is currently listed on, or
eligible for listing on the State Register of Historic Places and/or National
Register of Historic Places.
      (14)   Camouflage. All telecommunications facilities must be camouflaged
to the greatest extent reasonably possible and in a manner approved by the
Board.
      (15)   No wireless communication facility shall display any sign or
advertising.
   (B)   STANDARD CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL. The following standard conditions of
approval shall be a part of any approval or conditional approval issued by the
Board. Where necessary to ensure that an approved project meets the criteria of
this Article, the Board can impose additional conditions of approval. Reference
to the conditions of approval shall be clearly noted on the final approved site
plan, and shall include:
      (1)   The owner of the wireless communication facility and his or her
successors and assigns agree to:
         (a)   Respond in a timely, comprehensive manner to a request for
information from a potential collocation applicant, in exchange for a
reasonable fee not in excess of the actual cost of preparing a response;
         (b)   Negotiate in good faith for shared use of the wireless
telecommunications facility by third parties;
         (c)   Allow shared use of the wireless telecommunications facility if
an applicant agrees in writing to pay reasonable charges for collocation.
         (d)   Require no more than a reasonable charge for shared use of the
wireless telecommunications facility, based on community rates and generally
accepted accounting principles. This charge may include, but is not limited to,
a pro rata share of the cost of site selection, planning project
administration, land costs, site design, construction and maintenance,
financing, return on equity, depreciation, and all of the costs of adapting the
tower or equipment to accommodate a shared user without causing electromagnetic
interference. The amortization of the above costs by the facility owner shall
be accomplished at a reasonable rate, over the life span of the useful life of
the wireless telecommunications facility.
      (2)   Upon request by the municipality, the applicant shall certify
compliance with all applicable FCC radio frequency emissions regulations.
      (3)   Any wireless communication facility not in use for 180 days shall
be considered to be abandoned. Abandoned facilities must be removed at the
expense of the applicant or his successor within 90 days following abandonment.
The site shall be returned to its previous state and where appropriate re-
vegetated to blend in with the surrounding area.
§ 9.6.8 AMENDMENT TO AN APPROVED APPLICATION
Any changes to an approved application must be approved by the Board.
§ 9.6.9 APPEALS
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Board of Trustees under this Article
may appeal the decision according to §
9.2.25(H)(3).
§ 9.6.10 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
The Planning Director shall enforce this Article. If the Planning Director
finds that any provision of this Article has been violated, the Planning
Director shall notify in writing the person responsible for such violation,
indicating the nature of the violation, and ordering the action necessary to
correct it. The Planning Director shall order correction of the violation and
may take any other legal action to ensure compliance with this Article.
§ 9.6.11 PENALTIES
Any person who owns or controls any building or property that violates this
Article shall be fined in accordance with Village 2013 Codified Ordinances.
Each day such violation continues after notification by the Planning Director
shall constitute a separate offense.
§ 9.6.12 CONFLICTS AND SEVERABILITY
   (A)   CONFLICTS WITH OTHER ORDINANCES. Whenever a provision of this Article
conflicts with or is inconsistent with another provision of this Article or of
any other ordinance, regulation, or statute, the more restrictive provision
shall apply.
   (B)   SEVERABILITY. This invalidity of any part of this Article shall not
invalidate any other part of this Article.
§ 9.6.13 DEFINITIONS
The terms used in this Article shall have the following meanings:
ANTENNA means any system of poles, panels, rods, reflecting discs or similar
devices used for the transmission or reception of radio or electromagnetic
frequency signals.
ANTENNA HEIGHT means the vertical distance measured from the base of the
antenna support structure at grade to the highest point of the structure,
Measurement of tower height shall include antenna, base pad, and other
appurtenances and shall be measured from the finished grade of the facility
site. If the support structure is on a sloped grade, then the average between
the highest and lowest grades shall be used in calculating the antenna height.
CAMOUFLAGE means to disguise the function of a wireless communication site.
Examples include building facilities to resemble clock towers, trees, steeples,
flagpoles, etc.
COLLOCATION means the use of a wireless telecommunications facility by more
than one wireless telecommunications provider.
EXPANSION means the addition of antennas, towers or other devices to an
existing structure.
HEIGHT means the vertical measurement from a point on the ground at the mean
finish grade adjoining the foundation as calculated by averaging the highest
and lowest finished point of the building or structure. The highest point shall
include farm building components, flagpoles, chimneys, ventilators, skylights,
domes, water towers, bell towers, church spires, processing towers, tanks,
bulkheads, or other building accessory features usually erected at a height
greater than the main roofs of buildings.
HISTORIC OR ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES means resources that are:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
or eligible for listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs approved by the Secretary of the
Interior;
         (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs, or;
         (d)   Areas identified by the Village of Los Ranchos as having
significant value as a historic or archaeological resource and any areas
identified in the municipality’s comprehensive plan.
HISTORIC DISTRICT means a geographically definable area possessing a
significant concentration, linkage or continuity of sites, buildings,
structures or objects united by past events or aesthetically by plan or
physical development or identified in the municipality’s comprehensive plan.
Such historic districts may also comprise individual elements separated
geographically, but linked by association or history.
HISTORIC LANDMARK means any improvement, building or structure of particular
historic or architectural significance to the Village relating to its heritage,
cultural, social, economic or political history, or which exemplifies historic
personages or important events in local, state or national history.
LINE OF SIGHT means the direct view of the object from the designated scenic
resource.
PARABOLIC ANTENNA (also known as satellite dish antenna) means an antenna which
is bowl-shaped, designed for the reception and or transmission of radio
frequency communication signals in a specific directional pattern.
PRINCIPAL USE means the use other than one which is wholly incidental or
accessory to another use on the same premises.
PUBLIC RECREATIONAL FACILITY means a regionally or locally significant
facility, as defined and identified either by State statute or in the
municipality’s adopted comprehensive plan designed to serve the recreational
needs of municipal property owners.
DESIGNATED SCENIC RESOURCE means that specific location, view, or corridor, as
identified as a scenic resource in the municipality, that consists of:
         (a)   A three dimensional area extending out from a particular
viewpoint on a public way or within a public recreational area, focusing on a
single object, such as a mountain, resulting in a narrow corridor, or a group
of objects, such as a downtown skyline or mountain range, resulting in a
panoramic view corridor; or
         (b)   Lateral terrain features such as valley sides or woodland as
observed to either side of the observer, constraining the view into a narrow or
particular field, as seen from a viewpoint on a public way or within a public
recreational area.
TARGETED MARKET COVERAGE AREA means the area which is targeted to be served by
this proposed telecommunications facility.
UNREASONABLE ADVERSE IMPACT means that the proposed project would produce an
end result which is:
         (a)   Excessively out-of-character with the designated scenic
resources affected, including existing buildings, structures and features with
the designated scenic resource; and
         (b)   Would significantly diminish the scenic value of the designated
scenic resource.
VIEWPOINT means that location which is identified whether in the municipally
adopted comprehensive plan or by a Federal or State agency, or which serves as
the basis for the location and determination of a particular designated scenic
resource.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY OR FACILITY means any structure, antenna,
tower, or other device which provides radio/television transmission, commercial
mobile wireless services, unlicensed wireless services, cellular phone
services, specialized mobile radio communications (SMR), common carrier
wireless exchange phone services, common carrier wireless exchange access
services, and personal communications service (PCS) or pager services.
§ 9.6.14 EFFECTIVE DATE
This Article becomes effective five days after publication of final adoption.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 9, Article 6:
Ordinance #162, December 13, 2000
Ordinance #181, September 10, 2003 amending ORD #162;
Ordinance #247, February 12, 2014.
ARTICLE 7.
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION 1. Annexations
SECTION 2. Sale of Real Property Owned by the Village
SECTION 3. Approval Required before Construction of the Montaño Bridge
SECTION 4. Prohibition of Access to or Modification of Rio Grande Boulevard at
Montaño Road
SECTION 5. Premise Identification (Addresses)
The following ordinances are hereby incorporated into this Code by reference:
§ 9.7.1 ANNEXATIONS
   (A)   Ordinance #9, July 6, 1960;
   (B)   Ordinance #18, June 16, 1967;
   (C)   Annexation Ordinance, July 5, 1967;
   (D)   Ordinance #28, September 5, 1973;
   (E)   Ordinance #31, April 3, 1974;
   (F)   Ordinance #34, October 5, 1977;
   (G)   Ordinance #37, July 11, 1979;
   (H)   Ordinance #40, October 2, 1980;
   (I)   Ordinance #49, November 29, 1982;
   (J)   Ordinance #68, August 13, 1987;
   (K)   Ordinance #70, November 18, 1987;
   (L)   Ordinance #78, September 21, 1988;
   (M)   Ordinance #86, September 13, 1989;
   (N)   Ordinance #89, October 11, 1989;
   (O)   Ordinance #98, January 9, 1991;
   (P)   Ordinance #99, January 23, 1991;
   (Q)   Ordinance #101, June 12, 1991;
   (R)   Ordinance #118, March 9, 1994;
   (S)   Ordinance #131, August 31, 1995;
   (T)   Ordinance #135, May 8, 1996;
   (U)   Ordinance #142, May 8, 1996;
   (V)   Ordinance #179, June 28, 2003;
   (W)   Ordinance #189, April 14, 2004;
   (X)   Ordinance #200, June 14, 2006;
   (Y)   Ordinance #214, February 13, 2008;
   (Z)   Ordinance #220, July 9, 2008, repealing Ordinance No. 214
§ 9.7.2 SALE OF REAL PROPERTY OWNED BY THE VILLAGE
   (A)   Ordinance #59, December 12, 1984
   (B)   Ordinance #61, April 10, 1985;
   (C)   Ordinance #64, October 9, 1985, amending Ordinance No. 61
   (D)   Ordinance #121, July 13, 1994
§ 9.7.3 APPROVAL REQUIRED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION OF THE MONTAÑO BRIDGE
Ordinance #126, January 30, 1995.
§ 9.7.4 PROHIBITION OF ACCESS TO OR MODIFICATION OF RIO GRANDE BOULEVARD AT
MONTAÑO ROAD
Ordinance #132, August 31, 1995.
§ 9.7.5 PREMISE IDENTIFICATION (ADDRESSES)
   (A)   DESIGNATION OF NUMBERS. The number of all buildings shall be in
conformity with the following system in place within the jurisdictional
boundaries of Bernalillo County. All numbering of buildings and houses shall
begin from a base thoroughfare; north and west sides of the street having odd
number and the south and east sides of the street having even numbers.
   (B)   PLACEMENT OF NUMBERS. To ensure the uniformity and regularity in the
numbering of buildings and houses, all numbers shall be placed in the front of
buildings or houses and in so conspicuous a manner that the numbers may be
easily discernible and read from the street.
   (C)   SIZE AND TYPE OF NUMBERS. At least one set of address numbers shall be
placed on the front of each principal building or on a separate structure in
front of the building, each figure of which shall be:
      (1)   Of any durable material which will reasonably withstand the natural
elements; or
      (2)   Of any material when placed in an area where they will not be
affected by the natural elements; and
      (3)   The numbers on a residential structure shall be at least three
inches in height and of corresponding width; and
      (4)   The numbers on a building which is used for commercial purposes
shall be at least five inches in height and corresponding width.
   (D)   NON-EXEMPT CLAUSE. This Section becomes effective five days after
publication. All residential and commercial structures in the Village of Los
Ranchos de Albuquerque shall conform to these requirements.
   (E)   NOTICE OF NUMBERS; DUTY TO AFFIX. All owners, occupants, lessees,
tenants of a building(s) shall within five days after receipt of notice from
the Mayor, shall affix the designated number in a place which complies with all
the requirements of this Article. All numbers other than those designated for
said building(s) shall be removed within five days from the service of notice
designating the appropriate numbers to be placed thereon.
   (F)   DUTY TO MAINTAIN. All owners, occupants, lessees, tenants, of a
building(s) shall maintain numbers of his building(s) as herein provided in
good condition. No person should purposely take down, remove, deface, or in any
manner, mar or mutilate any sign or number put up under the provisions of this
Section.
   (G)   PENALTY. Any person who violates any provision of the Section is
subject to the general penalty provisions of the Municipal Code.
   (H)   COMPILING CLAUSE. This Section shall be incorporated and compiled as
part of the Municipal Code of the Village of Los Ranchos.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 9, Article 7 (f/k/
a Chapter 16):
Definitions § 3-1-2 NMSA 1978;
Annexation of Territory § 3-7-1 et seq., NMSA 1978;
Ordinances, Purposes § 3-17-1 NMSA 1978;
Industrial Nuisances and Nauseous Locations; Regulation and Prohibition § 3-18-
13 (Repl. Pamp. 1985) NMSA 1978;
Streets; sidewalks; curbs and gutters; public grounds § 3-49-1 NMSA 1978;
Authority to sell or lease municipal utility facilities or real property;
notice; referendum § 3-54-1 NMSA 1978;
Methods of annexation §3-57-4 NMSA 1978;
Annexation by petition to municipality § 3-57-5, NMSA 1978.
CHAPTER 10
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
ARTICLE 1. Street Excavation
ARTICLE 2. Limiting Encroachment in Public Right-of-Ways
ARTICLE 1.
STREET EXCAVATION
SECTION 1. Short Title
SECTION 2. Definitions
SECTION 3. Application Permit Requirements
SECTION 4. Permits and Approvals
SECTION 5. Liability Insurance Or Self Insured Public Utility Companies
SECTION 6. Excavation, Administration and Inspection Fee
SECTION 7. Excavation Permit Warranty and Restrictions
SECTION 8. Moratorium Streets
SECTION 9. Maintaining and Routing of Traffic and Pedestrian Flow
SECTION 10. Clearance of Vital Structures
SECTION 11. Protection and Relocation of Utilities
SECTION 12. Noise, Dust, Debris and Working Hours
SECTION 13. Protection of Adjoining Property
SECTION 14. Care of Excavated Material
SECTION 15. Cleanup
SECTION 16. Protection of Water Course
SECTION 17. Breaking Through Pavement
SECTION 18. Depth of Structures
SECTION 19. Backfilling
SECTION 20. Restoration of Surface
SECTION 21. Approval of Work Performed Pursuant to Sections 16, 17 & 18
SECTION 22. Trenches in Pipe Laying
SECTION 23. Prompt Completion of Work
SECTION 24. Urgent Work
SECTION 25. Preservation of Survey Monuments
SECTION 26. Inspection
SECTION 27. Enforcement and Abatement
§ 10.1.1 SHORT TITLE
This Article may be cited as the “Street Excavation Ordinance.”
§ 10.1.2 DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this Article, the following words and phrases mean:
   (A)   BARRICADING ONLY PERMIT means a permit issued by the Mayor allowing
the temporary obstruction of the surface of the public right-of-way. Such
permits shall not include or allow excavation activities.
   (B)   EMERGENCY REPAIR means repair, restoration, or replacement of an
existing structure made necessary because of a sudden unexpected event which
has created an immediate and continuing threat to the safety of property or
persons.
   (C)   EXCAVATION means any hole, trench, ditch or depression which
penetrates through or under paved or unpaved surface in a public place
resulting from the removal by a person of pavement, dirt, or other material,
except a substructure opening.
   (D)   MORATORIUM STREET means any street and all parts of the public right-
of-way comprising that street, including without limitations, the street, curb,
gutter, shoulder area, gravel-filled infiltration trench, underground Low
Impact Development (LID) reservoir and conveyance system, sidewalk, and
promenade that has been newly constructed, been repaved or resurface, received
major reconstruction, received overlay heater-remix, or any other type of major
maintenance, by any person in the preceding five-year period.
   (E)   PUBLIC PLACE means all property owned, maintained, or controlled by
the Village including, but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, bicycle
paths, pedestrian or equestrian paths, ways, places, sidewalks, plazas, parks,
easements, and rights-of-way.
   (F)   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY means, without limitation, the total area of land
deeded, reserved by plat, or otherwise acquired by the City, the County, or the
State of New Mexico, primarily for the use of the public for the movement of
people, goods, and vehicles.
   (G)   SUBSTRUCTURE means any facility located below the surface of any
public place.
   (H)   SURFACE RIGHT-OF-WAY USE means the use of any surface area within the
public right-of-way allowed by an excavation or barricade permit issued by the
Mayor which permits the temporary obstruction of a public right-of-way.
§ 10.1.3 APPLICATION PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
   (A)   Every person required to obtain a permit by this Article must make
written application to the Mayor on forms provided by the Mayor prior to the
performance of any work. The written application must state the name, telephone
number, address, and principal place of business of the applicant, an estimate
of the location and dimension of the installation or removal for which the
excavation is to be made, the purpose of the facility, a proposed restoration
plan and the estimated length of time (calendar days) which will be required to
complete the work, including backfilling the excavation, restoration and
removing all obstructions, material, and debris. This approved permit shall
give the applicant authority to occupy the public place for which the permit
was sought. Normally this permit will be issued within seventy-two (72) hours.
The application, when approved and signed by the Mayor, constitutes a permit.
   (B)   In the event of an emergency repair, excavations may be made without
first obtaining a permit, provided that each person so making an excavation
file an application for permit during the first work day immediately following
the date of the commencement of excavation.
   (C)   No person may be issued an excavation permit until the following
actions are completed:
      (1)   The applicant must complete and sign a permit application.
      (2)   The applicant must present evidence that insurance requirements
have been met in accordance with §
10.1.5.
      (3)   The Applicant must post bond in the amount of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) except for Village franchise utilities. This bond will ensure
completion of all phases of the work, including corrective work under the one
(1) year warranty provision of this Article.
      (4)   The applicant must certify in writing that he has read and
understands the contents of this Article.
      (5)   The applicant must agree to the following:
         (a)   Complete all work required by this Article, covered by the
permit;
         (b)   Complete any specific item within five (5) days after written
notice is given by the Village to do so;
         (c)   Should the work not be completed within this period, the Village
will complete it and bill the applicant at established charges for such work;
         (d)   Repair or correct incomplete work or defective materials and
workmanship which occur within a period of three (3) years from the acceptance
date by the Village of such work; and
         (e)   Restoration in accordance with §§
10.1.8 and
10.1.20 of this Article.
      (6)   Persons responsible for work, including the applicant’s employees,
must be licensed by the State of New Mexico for the excavation work, except for
Village franchised utilities.
   (D)   All requirements outlined above must be kept current, including
insurance policies. These policies will be reviewed periodically and no permits
will be issued when insurance policies are not in effect. The permit remains
valid for as long as bonds and insurance remain current and so long as permit
requirements are met. Fees for this permit shall be established by Rule,
pursuant to the procedures set forth in §
10.1.6 of this Article.
§ 10.1.4 PERMITS AND APPROVALS
   (A)   No person may excavate in a public right-of-way without first
obtaining a permit from the Mayor to do so, except as otherwise provided in
this Article. An excavation permit shall be required for the underground
installation in a public right-of-way of any facility by trenching, boring,
jacking, or tunneling.
   (B)   Construction methods for installations in which trenching, boring,
jacking, or tunneling under a public right-of-way are involved require specific
prior approval of the Mayor. Construction methods may be reviewed and approved
for the purpose of protecting public improvements and right-of-way.
   (C)   The Mayor may issue such rules, standard details, and regulations as
are required to enforce this Article. Copies shall be mailed to each licensee.
   (D)   No person shall barricade a public right-of-way without first
obtaining a Barricade Only Permit issued by the Mayor. A separate Barricade
Only Permit shall not be required for barricade activities included within an
excavation permit.
   (E)   Every person who barricades a public right-of-way surface use shall
obtain from the Mayor a Barricade Only Permit. A written application in a form
acceptable to the Mayor shall be submitted as an application to obtain a
Barricade Only Permit. The fee for the Barricade Only Permit shall be
established pursuant to §
10.1.6 of this Article. Such permit shall not be valid until signed by the
Mayor and all fees have been paid and shall not be valid after the expiration
date on the permit.
   (F)   Any person obtaining a permit under this Article shall have knowledge
of and comply with all applicable OSHA and state safety rules and regulations.
§ 10.1.5 LIABILITY INSURANCE OR SELF INSURED PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANIES
Whether or not required to apply for a permit under this Article, no person
shall make an excavation or perform work under such a permit, or perform
earthwork in a public place, until a certificate of insurance satisfactory to
the Mayor is provided indicating that he is insured against claims for damages
for personal injury and for property damage which may arise from or out of the
performance of the work, whether such performance be by himself, his
subcontractor, or anyone directly or indirectly employed by him or his
subcontractor. Such insurance must cover collapse, explosive hazard damage to
nearby utilities and underground work by equipment on the street, and must
include protection for a period of one (1) year from the date of completion of
an excavation against liability arising from completed operations. The
liability insurance for bodily injury must be in an amount not less than five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) for each person and one million dollars
($1,000,000) for each occurrence, for property damage in an amount not less
than two-hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) with an aggregate of five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) for each occurrence. Each such certificate
must provide that the Mayor be given ten (10) days notice of cancellation in
writing from the insurance company.
Any public utility company having a net worth in excess of ten million dollars
($10,000,000) is not required to comply with the insurance requirements of this
Section, if it furnishes to the Mayor its written election to be self-insured
and satisfactory proof annually of such net worth. The self-insured company
shall agree to be responsible for and shall hold the Village harmless against
all claims and liabilities arising from the excavation or for entering into a
substructure opening by the company, or its subcontractor, or anyone directly
or indirectly employed by the company or its subcontractor for the same periods
of time and types of acts or failure to act for which insurance coverage would
otherwise be required by this Section.
§ 10.1.6 EXCAVATION, ADMINISTRATION AND INSPECTION FEE
The Mayor shall periodically adopt rules which amend the fee for excavation
administration and inspection so that fees are set at Village cost. In setting
fees, the Mayor shall publish notice of his proposed action and give interested
persons an opportunity to comment prior to action.
§ 10.1.7 EXCAVATION PERMIT WARRANTY AND RESTRICTIONS
   (A)   The Village will not accept for maintenance any street the
construction of which is funded by private sources and which has been cut by
excavation of any bituminous or concrete layer of pavement unless permits and
restoration fees required by this Article for each such excavation were
obtained by: (1) the developer contracting for such pavement; (2) any builder
or subcontractor for such builder to whom the developer has sold a lot
contiguous to such pavement; or (3) paving contractor for the developer.
   (B)   The applicant is required to correct incomplete or defective materials
and workmanship performed under each permit for a period of one (1) year from
the date the work was completed and accepted by the Village.
   (C)   The warranty and restrictions described herein do not apply when the
work performed does not cut any part of the public right-of-way or street
surface.
§ 10.1.8 MORATORIUM STREETS
   (A)   No permits shall be issued to excavate in any moratorium street during
the five (5) year period following acceptance by the Village of the public
right-of-way, street or portion of street that has been newly constructed, been
repaved or resurfaced, received major reconstruction, received overlay heater-
remix, or any other type of major maintenance other than for demonstrable good
cause or for emergency repair work and only in accordance with the provisions
of this section.
   (B)   Except as provided for in this section, any requests for an excavation
permit within a moratorium street shall be denied and requesters will be
directed to route any proposed improvements through private property easements,
or, the nearest adjacent public right-of-way not implicated by the moratorium
street improvements.
   (C)   The Mayor may, in his or her discretion, with demonstrable good cause
and after appropriate investigation, grant a waiver of the five (5) year
excavation prohibition for moratorium streets. Excavations made in accordance
with any waiver or in the event of an emergency repair in such moratorium
street, may only be made, to the greatest extent possible:
      (1)   within the asphalt travel lanes or any moratorium street or portion
of street; and
      (2)   absolutely not within any curb, gutter, shoulder area, gravel-
filled infiltration trench, underground Low Impact Development (LID) reservoir
and conveyance system, sidewalk, promenade or any other part of the public
right-of-way of such moratorium street deployment of concrete, LIDs, bricks, or
pavers.
Notwithstanding §
10.1.3, in the event of an emergency repair within a moratorium street, any
person making such repair shall apply for an emergency permit within four hours
after the Village offices are first opened.
   (D)   Notwithstanding §
10.1.3, excavations made in any part of a moratorium street in accordance with
any waiver or in the event of an emergency repair are required to post bond in
the amount of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00). Bond shall not be required
for Village franchised electric, natural gas or water and wastewater utilities.
   (E)   Excavations made in any part of a moratorium street in accordance with
any waiver or in the event of an emergency repair shall be restored as follows:
      (1)   To at least the same condition as it was in immediately prior to
any such excavation work;
      (2)   Any excavation within asphalt travel lanes shall require full lane
re-pavement and in no event patch work; and
      (3)   In strict compliance with existing roadway, drainage, grading,
irrigation and landscape designs and all relevant Village codes, regulations
and procedures including Chapter 10 and §
10.1.20, except as may otherwise be provided in this section.
   (F)   Excavations made in any part of a moratorium street in accordance with
any waiver or in the event of an emergency repair will additionally be subject
to a moratorium street restoration fee to recover the long-term increased
repaving and reconstruction costs incurred by the Village. The amount of the
fee shall be calculated as follows:
 
Years since new construction: Fee Amount:
0-2 Years                     $3.50 per square foot of excavation
2-5 Years                     $3.00 per square foot of excavation
 
§ 10.1.9 MAINTAINING AND ROUTING OF TRAFFIC AND PEDESTRIAN FLOW
   (A)   During the entrance into a substructure opening or performance of
excavation work, the applicant must take appropriate measures to maintain
traffic conditions as near normal as practicable at all times so as to cause as
little inconvenience as possible to the occupants of the abutting property and
to the public.
   (B)   The Mayor may at his sole discretion require in writing that any
applicant notify various public agencies and the public of proposed work prior
to issuance of a permit or as a condition of issuance, prior to proposed work.
   (C)   Warning signs must be placed near each excavation or substructure
opening being entered so as to give adequate warning to vehicular and
pedestrian traffic both night and day. Cones or other approved devices must be
placed to channel traffic, all in accordance with the Uniform Manual on Traffic
Control Devices Section V, the New Mexico Manual and Specifications For a
Uniform System of Traffic Control devices (latest edition), and such
regulations as may be adopted by the Mayor from time to time.
   (D)   The Mayor may at his sole discretion require that the applicant
provide traffic control of the type and duration required by the Mayor, at the
cost of the applicant. The Mayor may require payment in advance.
   (E)   The applicant must maintain safe and adequate passage of vehicle and
pedestrian traffic on all streets and at all street intersections. When a
street has been closed or detoured because of an excavation, the Village must
be notified prior to removal of barricades and other traffic control devices.
   (F)   Traffic markings removed as a part of the excavation shall be replaced
by the applicant with materials similar to those originally in place and in a
manner satisfactory to the Mayor, or the Village may elect to replace them at
the applicant’s expense.
§ 10.1.10 CLEARANCE OF VITAL STRUCTURES
Work under the provisions of this Article must be performed and conducted so as
not to interfere with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire escapes, and
all other vital structures or equipment designated by the Mayor.
§ 10.1.11 PROTECTION AND RELOCATION OF UTILITIES
The applicant must, at his own expense, support and protect all utilities which
may be in any way affected by the excavation work and do everything necessary
to support, sustain, and protect them under, over, along or across the
excavation. In the event utilities are damaged (and for this purpose, pipe
coating or other encasement or devices are to be considered as part of the
utility), the owner of the utilities must be notified immediately and the
damage repaired by the owner. Billing for such repair shall be made by the
utility owner and paid for by the applicant. The applicant shall inform
himself, before excavating, of the location of all utilities in or near the
area of the excavation. The applicant is encouraged to use the services of the
New Mexico One Call, Inc. (“NMOC”) for location of existing utilities. The
applicant must also protect the excavation from surface water flows by
appropriate diversion or ponding devices. However, the applicant must prevent
damage to property or structures of others as a result of the installation of
such protection.
§ 10.1.12 NOISE, DUST, DEBRIS AND WORKING HOURS
Each applicant must conduct and carry out excavation work in such a manner as
to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the public and occupants of
neighboring property with respect to noise, dust, debris and working hours.
§ 10.1.13 PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY
The applicant must at all times and at his own expense preserve and protect
from injury any adjoining property. The applicant must at his own expense shore
up and protect all buildings, walls, fences, or other property including when
damage results from the applicant’s failure to take adequate protective
measures. Where it is necessary to enter upon private property for the purpose
of taking appropriate protection measures, the applicant must obtain permission
from the owner of such private property. The applicant may not remove, cut or
trim any trees or shrubs in any public place.
§ 10.1.14 CARE OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL
All material excavated and piled adjacent to the excavation or in any public
place, must be piled and maintained so as not to endanger the public and the
persons working in the excavation and so as to cause as little inconvenience as
possible to those persons using the public place and adjoining property. All
material excavated must be laid completely along the side of the excavation and
kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience as is reasonably possible
to vehicle and pedestrian traffic, unless otherwise directed by the Mayor.
Excavated material may not be used as a barricade.
In order to expedite flow of traffic or to keep dirt and dust from spreading or
flying, the applicant shall use guards or other methods or shall water the
excavated material. Special care shall be taken to prevent excavated material
from being placed in irrigation ditches, trench drains, catch basins, etc.
§ 10.1.15 CLEANUP
Each applicant, at his own expense, must thoroughly clean up all rubbish,
excess earth, rock and other debris resulting from excavation work. Immediately
after completion of such work, the Mayor may order, in writing, the applicant
to clean up and remove all refuse, dirt and unused materials of any kind
resulting from the work. If the applicant fails to perform the work ordered by
the Mayor within twenty-four (24) hours, the Mayor may have the work done and
require payment by the applicant.
§ 10.1.16 PROTECTION OF WATER COURSE
The applicant must maintain all gutters, easement crossings and related
drainage water free and unobstructed for the full depth and width or provide
adequate substitutes for any water courses which are blocked by the excavation.
§ 10.1.17 BREAKING THROUGH PAVEMENT
   (A)   The use of pavement breakers which endanger existing structures or
other property are prohibited.
   (B)   The Mayor may require saw-cutting of concrete when the nature of the
job or condition of the street warrants. When required, the depth of the cut
must be at least 1/3 the total thickness of the pavement.
   (C)   Sections of sidewalks or curb and gutter are to be removed to the
nearest expansion joint, score line or saw-cut edge. Sidewalk cuts parallel to
the street shall normally require removal of the entire sidewalk, unless other
methods are approved in writing, in advance, by the Mayor.
   (D)   Unstable pavement must be removed over cave-ins and the subgrade is to
be treated in the same manner as the main excavation.
   (E)   Pavement edges must be trimmed to a vertical face and neatly aligned
with the center line of any trench. All cuts shall be parallel or perpendicular
to the street except for drop inlet connection lines.
   (F)   The applicant is not required to repair damage existing prior to
excavation, unless his cuts leave small floating sections that may be unstable;
in which case, the applicant must remove such sections and backfill such areas
as well as the area of the excavation.
   (G)   All such excavations shall be accomplished in accordance with standard
details approved by the Mayor.
   (H)   Applicant shall take reasonable steps to minimize noise levels.
§ 10.1.18 DEPTH OF STRUCTURES
The minimum cover of any new substructure excepting lawful entrances thereto,
shall be in accordance with the currently approved primary utility location
drawings for such streets, unless otherwise permitted in writing by the Mayor.
Nothing in this Section imposes a duty upon any person owning a utility to
maintain the depth required herein upon subsequent changes in grade in the
surface unless, in the opinion of the agency or political subdivision of the
State (including the Village), the grade of said substructure interferes with
the public safety or maintenance of or travel on a public place in which case
the substructure must be lowered by the owner.
§ 10.1.19 BACKFILLING
Unless specifically exempted in writing by the Mayor, any person who trenches
or excavates on or within a public place for any purpose whatsoever is required
to backfill the trench or excavation as follows:
   (A)   In all trenches or excavations, the material used in backfilling must
consist of the original excavated material or other material as required by the
Mayor in finely-divided form free from large lumps, large stones, rocks, pieces
of old concrete or asphalt pavement, or large wet or gummy masses and must be
placed compacted in layers or lifts as hereinafter provided from the bottom of
the trench or excavation to the top of the trench or excavation.
   (B)   Each layer or lift is to be placed evenly, level, and of such a depth
that the degree of compaction as required herein may be obtained throughout the
entire backfill, without exceeding the depth of layer or lift as recommended by
the manufacturer of the compaction equipment being used, for various soil types
encountered, or as determined by actual compaction tests of the lift or layer
in place, or as directed by the Mayor. In no case is the method of compaction
being used to cause damage to the pipe line or other subsurface structures in
the trench, excavation or adjacent thereto.
   (C)   The backfill material when placed in the trench must be thoroughly
compacted to a minimum of ninety percent (90%) of maximum density throughout
the entire depth of the excavation or trench, with the exception that the top
six inches (6”) in residential streets and the top twelve inches (12”) in
arterial streets must be compacted to a minimum of ninety-five percent (95%) of
maximum density. Tests for compliance with this Article shall be performed by a
laboratory approved by the Village. The ninety-five percent (95%) of maximum
density requirement may be waived if the backfill or subgrade material contains
thirty-five percent (35%) or more of material passing the No. 200 sieve, in
which case the compaction must not be less than ninety percent (90%) of maximum
density. The moisture content of the backfill material in place must not exceed
the optimum by more than two percent (2%) nor be less than the optimum by more
than five percent (5%) unless otherwise directed by the Mayor. The obtaining of
the correct moisture content is the responsibility of the person doing the
trench or excavation backfill. Optimum moisture and maximum density shall be
determined in accordance with American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM)
D-1577 including all revisions thereof. Costs for such testing shall be paid by
the applicant.
   (D)   When a trench or excavation has been cut through existing pavement,
the compaction for the top six inches (6”) and twelve inches (12”) (as referred
to in paragraph D above) means the six inches (6”) or twelve (12”) of material
placed immediately below the bottom or base of the existing pavement slab. The
remainder of the backfill up to the top of the existing pavement surface is to
be compacted sufficiently to provide a level and safe riding surface and
maintained in that condition by the applicant, until the permanent pavement
patch can be placed. The permanent pavement patch shall be placed within twenty
(20) days.
   (E)   In the event the completed backfill fails to meet the density
requirements of this Section when tested, or otherwise fails as evidenced by
settlement of the trench or excavation, the Mayor may order the faulty backfill
material removed, replaced, and recompacted to the required density specified
herein and re-tested at the applicant’s expense. He may also order the
replacement of all pavement destroyed or damaged as the result of the backfill
failure settlement.
   (F)   In the event an applicant fails to comply with the requirements of
this Section, the Mayor may, with proper notice and a hearing, refuse to permit
the applicant to thereafter engage in trenching or excavation work in any
public place. The Mayor is authorized and empowered after a hearing to suspend,
cancel or withdraw the license or permit issued by him for the performance of
any work which is not being done in accordance with this Article or to the
reasonable satisfaction of the Mayor. The decision of the Mayor may be appealed
to the Board within ten (10) days of the decision.
§ 10.1.20 RESTORATION OF SURFACE
   (A)   Excavations in any public place shall be restored to at least the same
condition as that public place was in immediately prior to any such work and in
strict compliance with existing roadway, drainage, grading, irrigation and
landscape designs and all relevant Village codes, regulations, and procedures.
   (B)   Upon completion of the backfilling of any excavation, the permittee
must notify the Mayor. Permanent resurfacing may be done by the applicant, if
qualified, or by a contractor approved by the Mayor, at the applicant’s
expense. Any resurfacing, occasioned by an excavation, surface cut or
otherwise, should be accomplished in accordance with the then current technical
standards set forth in the City of Albuquerque Standard Specifications For
Public Works Construction as the same may be updated from time to time. The
applicant or other contractor must resurface the excavation within a period of
ten (10) days after acceptance of density tests. The applicant remains
responsible for keeping the excavation safe for pedestrian and vehicular
traffic until the pavement surface has been accepted.
   (C)   Acceptance or approval of excavation work or backfilling by the Mayor
does not prevent the Village from asserting a claim against the applicant for
incomplete or defective workmanship or materials if discovered within three (3)
years from the completion and Village acceptance of the excavation work or
backfilling. The presence of the Mayor during the performance of the work does
not relieve the applicant of his responsibilities hereunder.
§ 10.1.21 APPROVAL OF WORK PERFORMED PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 16, 17, AND 18
Compliance with Sections 16, 17 and 18 requires the Mayor’s written approval of
the qualifications of the applicant, or of any person, firm or corporation
performing the work.
§ 10.1.22 TRENCHES IN PIPE LAYING
The maximum length of open trench permissible at any time must not exceed one
thousand (1,000) feet. No pavement may be scored or otherwise marked for
removal in excess of the one thousand (1,000) foot limit.
§ 10.1.23 PROMPT COMPLETION OF WORK
The applicant must begin work at the site indicated upon the permit within ten
(10) days from the date an excavation permit is issued. Should no work be
started at the work site within that period, the permit shall be null and void,
with no reimbursement of fees. The applicant shall obtain a new permit,
including payment of required fees before any work is started. After an
excavation is commenced, the applicant must pursue with diligence and
expedition all excavation work covered by the excavation permit and must
promptly complete work and restore the public place to its original condition,
or as near as can be, so as not to obstruct the public place or travel thereon
more than reasonably necessary. The excavation shall be backfilled and tested
three (3) days after completion of work within the excavation and the site
restored to original condition within ten (10) days after density tests are
accepted. Should weather conditions prevent work completion, these deadlines
may be extended by the additional time required by such conditions.
§ 10.1.24 URGENT WORK
If, in the judgment of the Mayor, traffic conditions, safety or convenience of
the traveling public, or the public interest require that excavation work be
performed speedily, the Mayor may, at the time the permit is granted, order
that sufficient workers and adequate facilities be employed by the applicant
twenty-four (24) hours a day for the purpose of completing such excavation work
in the shortest time possible.
§ 10.1.25 PRESERVATION OF SURVEY MONUMENTS
Any survey monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of
any street, property subdivision, precise survey reference point, or a
permanent survey bench mark within the Village may not be removed or disturbed
without first obtaining permission in writing from the Mayor. Permission to
remove or disturb such monuments, reference points, or bench marks will be
granted only upon condition that the person applying for such permission pay
all expenses incident to the proper replacement of the monument.
§ 10.1.26 INSPECTION
The Mayor may make such inspections as are reasonably necessary in the
enforcement of this Article.
§ 10.1.27 ENFORCEMENT AND ABATEMENT
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor determines or has reasonable cause to believe that
anyone has violated the terms and requirements of a permit or the provisions of
this Article or other applicable law or regulation or rule, he shall notify
that person, who shall cease all violations no later than the same day the
notice is given.
   (B)   In the event a violation or violations present an imminent and
substantial endangerment to the health, safety or welfare of persons or
property, the Mayor shall give notice to the Permittee or to anyone involved
with the violation that imminent danger exists, and that person shall cease at
the time the notice is given all acts, errors or omissions resulting in the
violation.
   (C)   Upon a determination that a situation poses an immediate threat to
public health, safety or welfare, the Mayor may take all reasonable action
necessary to protect the public. The Village shall not be liable to the
Permittee for any damages or loss resulting from such actions. Permittee shall
be responsible for all costs incurred by the Village.
   (D)   Failure of the Mayor to provide notice shall not in any way relieve
the offender from any consequences resulting from the failure to comply with
this Article, the permit and all applicable regulations, rules and laws.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 10, Article 1(f/k/
a Chapter 25):
Ordinance #107, October 14, 1992;
Ordinance #134, enacted Feb. 14, 1996, codified ORD #107 as Chapter 25, with
modifications; American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) D-1577.
ARTICLE 2.
LIMITING ENCROACHMENTS IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAYS
SECTION 1. Limiting Encroachments in Public Right-of-Ways
§ 10.2.1 LIMITING ENCROACHMENTS IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAYS
   (A)   The Village of Los Ranchos has determined that encroachments in the
public right-of-way of Village streets are not permitted.
   (B)   The Village also ordains that some encroachments, such as simple
landscaping, may pose no danger to the public and may serve to beautify the
streetscape.
   (C)   If, in the sole discretion of the Village, the encroachment is found
to be a danger, the citizen shall immediately remove the encroachment. If the
encroachment is found to pose no danger to the public, the Village will allow
the encroachment to remain upon the condition that the citizen enter into an
Encroachment Agreement with the Village of Los Ranchos in a form to be
prescribed by the Village.
   (D)   If the resident refuses to remove an encroachment that, in the
Village’s discretion, poses a danger to the public, he/she shall be found to be
in violation of this Article.
   (E)   Violation of this Article or refusal to enter into an Encroachment
Agreement shall be grounds for a complaint to be filed against this citizen in
Municipal Court. The Municipal Court is empowered to order the removal of the
encroachment, or assess a fine or other penalties to the maximum extent
permitted by the rules of Municipal Court.
   (F)   Violation of this Article shall be deemed a petty misdemeanor.
   (G)   Mailboxes in the public right-of-way and in existence on the date of
the adoption of this Section are exempt from all provisions of this Section
unless the Village, in its sole discretion, determines a mailbox presents a
danger to the public. If the Village makes such a determination, the mailbox
shall be removed.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 10, Article 2:
Ordinance #190, May 12, 2004
CHAPTER 11
MUNICIPAL COURT
ARTICLE 1. Municipal Court
ARTICLE 1.
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION 1. Municipal Court
SECTION 2. Jurisdiction
SECTION 3. Qualifications of Judge
SECTION 4. Election of Judge
SECTION 5. Vacancies
SECTION 6. Oath of Office
SECTION 7. Compensation
SECTION 8. Temporary Municipal Judge
SECTION 9. Compensation for Temporary Municipal Judge
SECTION 10. Duties Generally
SECTION 11. Reports and Remittances
SECTION 12. Initiation of Proceedings
SECTION 13. Failure to Appear, Failure to Pay
SECTION 14. Personnel and Finances
§ 11.1.1 MUNICIPAL COURT
The Village hereby recognizes the Municipal Court as established in NMSA 1978,
§ 35-14-1 and hereby creates a Municipal Court in the Village of Los Ranchos de
Albuquerque. A Municipal Judge shall preside. This ordinance is adopted to
implement the operation of the Municipal Court as authorized by state statute.
§ 11.1.2 JURISDICTION
The Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction over all offenses and complaints
under the Ordinances of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, and may
issue subpoenas and warrants and punish for contempt.
§ 11.1.3 QUALIFICATIONS OF JUDGE
The Municipal Judge must be a registered voter, over 21 years of age, and a
resident of the Village and shall continually retain residence within the
Village throughout the term of office. A candidate for Municipal Judge shall
not have been convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor of moral turpitude in any
jurisdiction. The Municipal Judge shall hold no other elective public office
during the term for which he or she is elected or appointed. Maintaining
"residence" as used herein, shall mean maintaining the primary residence of
such individual within the Village and residing in such residence for not less
than 200 days during each calendar year.
§ 11.1.4 ELECTION OF JUDGE
   (A)   Election of Municipal Judge. Pursuant to Subsection B of § 1-22-3.1
NMSA 1978, the Municipal Judge shall be elected in the regular local election,
a consolidated election day for non-partisan local government bodies on the
first Tuesday after the first Monday in November of each odd-numbered year, for
a term of four (4) years.
   (B)   Adjustment of Terms. The terms of office for the current Municipal
Judge holders shall be adjusted, so that the Municipal Judge elected or
appointed to a term ending in 2022 shall serve until December 31, 2021 at which
time the term of office will end. The candidate(s) to fill the office of
Municipal Judge after December 31, 2021 shall be elected in the regular local
election in November 2021, and shall take office on January 1, 2022.
§ 11.1.5 VACANCIES
In the event that the Municipal Judge resigns, is removed, dies or ceases
residence within the municipality, the Mayor shall declare the office of the
Municipal Judge vacant. Vacancies in the office of Municipal Judge shall be
filled by appointment by the Board, at either a regular or special meeting, and
Municipal Judges so appointed shall serve until the next regular local
election.
§ 11.1.6 OATH OF OFFICE
The Municipal Judge shall, prior to taking office, take a written oath to
uphold the constitution and the laws of the United States of America and the
State of New Mexico, and the ordinances of the Village of Los Ranchos, and to
faithfully and impartially discharge and perform all of the duties of the
office. A signed original of the oath shall be filed in the office of the
Village Clerk.
§ 11.1.7 COMPENSATION
The compensation of the Municipal Judge shall be determined by ordinance duly
adopted by the Board prior to the date of the beginning of the term for which
the Municipal Judge is elected or appointed to serve. In the event that the
Board fails to adopt an ordinance prescribing the compensation for the
Municipal Judge, then the compensation prescribed for the preceding term of
office shall continue until such compensation has been changed by ordinance.
Compensation for Municipal Judge shall not be changed during the term to which
such judge has been elected or appointed.
§ 11.1.8 TEMPORARY MUNICIPAL JUDGE
During the temporary incapacity or absence of the Municipal Judge, under
circumstances not tantamount to or constituting a vacancy or an abandonment of
office, or in the event of a disqualification or recusal of the Municipal
Judge, the following procedure is hereby adopted for the purpose of identifying
one or more temporary judges to serve as an alternate Municipal Judge in the
event of an incapacity or absence as stated above.
   (A)   CREATION OF PANEL. The Board of Trustees shall endeavor to designate
up to three (3) individuals ("Panel") who are qualified to serve as a Municipal
Judge under Municipal Code §
11.1.3 and who are willing to serve as a temporary municipal judge.
   (B)   CANDIDATES FOR PANEL. The Municipal Judge, the Mayor, or any member of
the Board of Trustees may submit names of individuals who are qualified to
serve as a temporary judge for consideration of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   SELECTION OF PANEL. The Board of Trustees may conduct such inquiry it
believes necessary to obtain information about any potential candidate for a
temporary judge to assure that such individual is qualified to serve in such
capacity by reason of residence and background. Upon satisfaction with an
individual's qualifications, such individual may be named to the Panel by a
majority vote of the Board of Trustees at a regular or special public meeting.
   (D)   APPOINTMENT OF TEMPORARY JUDGE. In the event of an absence, incapacity
or other necessity for a temporary judge, the Municipal Judge shall have the
authority to appoint a member of the Panel to serve as a temporary judge in
specific cases. In the event the Municipal Judge is unwilling or unable to
appoint a temporary judge, the Mayor shall have the authority to designate a
member of the Panel as temporary judge for specific cases.
   (E)   TENURE OF PANEL. Any member of the Panel may resign at any time and
the Board of Trustees shall have the authority to remove any member of the
Panel at any time, at its discretion.
   (F)   FAILURE TO DESIGNATE MEMBERS OF THE PANEL. In the event the Board of
Trustees is unwilling or is unable to designate individuals to serve on the
Panel, the temporary judge shall be appointed by the Presiding Judge of the
District Court of the Second Judicial District of New Mexico. The Municipal
Judge is hereby authorized to submit a request, in writing, to the Presiding
Judge for appointment of a temporary judge. If the Municipal Judge is unwilling
or unable to do so, the Mayor shall be authorized to submit such a request. The
temporary judge appointed by the Presiding Judge shall serve as a temporary
judge only for the specific case(s) for which the appointment is made.
§ 11.1.9 COMPENSATION FOR TEMPORARY MUNICIPAL JUDGE
During the temporary incapacity or absence of the Municipal Judge, the
temporary Municipal Judge shall be paid the same compensation as is paid the
Municipal Judge on a prorata basis. Compensation paid the temporary Municipal
Judge shall not be deducted from the authorized salary of the Municipal Judge.
§ 11.1.10 DUTIES GENERALLY
The Municipal Judge shall preside over all hearings at every stage of any
proceeding concerning a violation of any provision of the Ordinances of the
Village. The Municipal Judge shall maintain the records and issue the documents
as are required by state statutes and regulations of the Administrative Office
of the Courts.
§ 11.1.11 REPORTS AND REMITTANCES
The Municipal Judge shall furnish written reports to the Board of all moneys
collected by him or her not later than the tenth (10th) day of each month
following collection and all moneys collected shall be paid to the Village
Treasurer on the date of the filing of the report. All reports shall include an
itemized statement showing the different amounts collected, the purpose of
collection, the name of the person paying, and the date of payment.
§ 11.1.12 INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS
   (A)   A defendant may be brought into Municipal Court for trial by any of
the following methods:
      (1)   Arrest for violation of a municipal ordinance committed in the
presence of the arresting officer;
      (2)   Arrest, or citation or summons, pursuant to a warrant based on the
sworn complaint of any person having reasonable grounds to believe the
defendant is guilty of violating a specified ordinance;
      (3)   Citation or summons; or
      (4)   Arrest pursuant to a warrant issued by the Municipal Judge for
failure to appear to answer a citation or summons.
   (B)   Any citation or summons issued for violation of an ordinance shall
require the party charged to appear before the Municipal Court at a specified
time.
      (1)   If a citation is issued, the party charged shall sign the citation
promising to appear before the Municipal Court at the time specified in the
citation.
      (2)   If a summons is issued, it shall be served as provided by the Rules
of Procedure for the Municipal Courts.
§ 11.1.13 FAILURE TO APPEAR, FAILURE TO PAY
   (A)   It is a petty misdemeanor for any person to fail to appear in court,
required as a result of the issuance of a traffic citation or a citation for
violation of the ordinances of the Village of Los Ranchos. Failure to appear
constitutes a separate offense which may be prosecuted separately, regardless
of the disposition of the charge for which the citation was issued.
   (B)   If a penalty assessment (as defined in the Village Codified Ordinances
or the Traffic Code) is not paid within 30 days after the date of the citation,
or if the alleged violator does not appear in court on the date stated in the
citation or complaint, or at such other date as may be ordered by the court,
the violator will be prosecuted for the violation charged in the citation or
complaint. Upon conviction, the court shall impose penalties applicable to
offense for which a person has been convicted, which may be greater than the
schedule of penalty assessments for such offense.
   (C)   It is a petty misdemeanor for any person who has elected to pay a
penalty assessment to fail to pay such assessment within 30 days from the date
of the citation. Failure to pay a penalty assessment constitutes a separate
offense under the Village Codified Ordinances.
§ 11.1.14 PERSONNEL AND FINANCES
All personnel of the Municipal Court shall be employed or provided by the
Village, and appropriations for the Court shall be controlled and budgeted for
in the same manner as any other Village department.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 11, Article 1 (f/k/
a Chapter 18):
Ordinance #11, adopted August 2, 1961;
Ordinance #23, approved November 1, 1972, amending Ordinance No. 11;
Ordinance #62, effective date July 1, 1985 (replacing ORD #11);
Ordinance #63 effective September 27, 1985;
Ordinance #134, enacted Feb. 14, 1996, codifying Ordinances 62 and 63 as
Chapter 18, with modifications.
Ordinance #254, adopted August 8, 2016
Ordinance #262, adopted September 13, 2017 adding Section 13, Failure to
Appear, Failure to Pay;
Ordinance #267, adopted January 23, 2019 amending Section 4, Election of Judge;
and Section 5, Vacancies.
Rules of Procedure for the Municipal Courts SCRA 1986, Rules 8-101, et seq.;
Service of Summons SCRA 1986, Rule 8-204;
Rules Governing Judicial Education, SCRA 1986, Rule 25-101, et seq.;
Citation in Lieu of Arrest Without a Warrant: § 31-1-6 NMSA 1978;
Municipal Courts § 35-14-1, et seq., NMSA 1978;
Violations of Municipal Ordinances § 35-15-1, et seq., NMSA 1978.
Failure to Obey Notice to Appear § 66-8-126, et seq., NMSA 1978;
CHAPTER 12
PERSONNEL
ARTICLE 1. Personnel Rules and Regulations
ARTICLE 1.
PERSONNEL RULES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION 1. Title and Scope
SECTION 2. Personnel Practices
SECTION 3. Authority for Administration
SECTION 4. Severability
SECTION 5. Effective Date and Publication
SECTION 6. Compiling Clause
SECTION 7. Repealer
§ 12.1.1 TITLE AND SCOPE
This Article may be known and cited as the “Personnel Ordinance” for the
employees of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque.
This article requires the Mayor to establish and maintain a personnel policy
(“Personnel Policy”), which is subject to the review and approval of the Board
of Trustees. The Board of Trustees must approve the Personnel Policy on a bi-
annual basis, which bi-annual review shall include proposed amendments or
changes submitted by the Mayor or his designee as the Mayor may deem necessary.
The Personnel Policy, approved by the Board of Trustees, shall apply to all
Village employees and shall describe the classifications of Village employees
and the criteria for each classification. Elected Officials, the Treasurer, and
those on professional service contracts shall not be covered by this personnel
policy.
§ 12.1.2 PERSONNEL PRACTICES
   (A)   Purpose. The Village of Los Ranchos shall endeavor to assure its
employees that it complies with all applicable federal and state employment
laws. The Personnel Policy is intended to provide a personnel system, which
promotes efficiency in the conduct of public business and endeavor to assure
fair and impartial treatment of all applicants for employment and all employees
of the Village.
The Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque is an Equal Employment Opportunity
employer and it is Village policy to provide equal employment opportunity to
all qualified persons, regardless of race, age, religion, color, national
origin, ancestry, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability or
serious medical condition, or any other status protected by law. The Personnel
Policy, shall endeavor to assure nondiscriminatory employment opportunity in
all aspects of employment, including but not limited to, recruitment,
selections, promotions, upgrades, transfers, lay-offs, terminations, and in all
terms and conditions of employment, including but not limited to, compensation,
benefits, social and recreational programs, and training opportunities.
§ 12.1.3 AUTHORITY FOR ADMINISTRATION
   (A)   The Mayor or his/her designee shall:
      (1)   Develop, maintain, and enforce procedures for the recruitment,
selection, compensation, promotion, training, discipline and other aspects of
personnel management for all personnel to which the Personnel Policy is
applicable;
      (2)   Implement and enforce the appropriate classification and pay plans
for the Village;
      (3)   Recommend to the Board of Trustees amendments to the Personnel
Policy as are deemed necessary and desirable;
      (4)   Delegate to the Personnel Director the responsibilities and
authorities as are deemed appropriate for the administration of the Personnel
Policy.
   (B)   The Personnel Director for the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque
shall be the Village Administrator until such time as the Board of Trustees
designates another person to act in that capacity.
§ 12.1.4 SEVERABILITY
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, word or phrase of this Article or
the resulting Personnel Policy, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional or
otherwise unenforceable by any Court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Article.
§ 12.1.5 EFFECTIVE DATE AND PUBLICATION
This Article shall become effective and be in full force and effect, from and
after its passage, publication and posting, according to Law.
§ 12.1.6 COMPILING CLAUSE
This Article shall be incorporated and compiled as part of the Codified
Ordinances of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque.
§ 12.1.7 REPEALER
Chapter 21 of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque Codified Ordinances,
Adopted by Ordinance No. 176 is herein repealed.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 12, Article 1 (f/k/
a Chapter 21):
Ordinance #112, January 12, 1994, establishing personnel policies and
procedures for the employees of the Village;
Ordinance #134, enacted Feb. 14, 1996, codified Ordinance #112 as Chapter 21;
Ordinance #151, July 8, 1998, providing for and promulgating the personnel
rules and regulations for the employees;
Ordinance #153, January 13, 1999, amending ORD #151;
Ordinance #176, June 25, 2003, replacing Chapter 21 of the codified Ordinance;
Ordinance #194, May 11, 2005, amending ORD #176;
Ordinance #251, June 8, 2015, amending Ch.12 Article 1 Sections 1 through 20 of
the 2013 Codified Ordinances;
§ 3-11-6, NMSA 1978;
§ 3-12-4, NMSA 1978;
§ 3-13-4, NMSA 1978;
§§ 3-14-14, 3-14-15, NMSA 1978;
§§ 10-1-10, 10-1-11, NMSA 1978;
§ 14-2-1, NMSA 1978;
§ 28-2-1, NMSA 1978 et seq., Criminal Offender Employment Act
Fair Labor Standards Act (29 CFR, Part 553);
American with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101-17, 12201-13 (Supp.
V1994);
Title VII of the Capital Civil Rights Act (29 CFR 553-230);
CHAPTER 13
UTILITIES
ARTICLE 1. Sewer Systems
ARTICLE 2. Solid Waste
ARTICLE 3. Utility Facilities, Hazardous
ARTICLE 1.
SEWER SYSTEMS
SECTION 1. Purpose
SECTION 2. Definitions
SECTION 3. Private Liquid Waste Systems Prohibited
SECTION 4. Mandatory Connection to Public Sanitary Sewer
SECTION 5. Mandatory Connection Determination and Appeal Process
SECTION 6. Violations – Additional Remedies
SECTION 7. Effective Date, Repeal and Publication
§ 13.1.1 PURPOSE
The Board of Trustees of the Village find that use of private liquid waste
systems is a contributing factor to the contamination of ground water and
surface water in the Village and surrounding areas.
The purpose of this Article is to protect the health and welfare of present and
future citizens of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque by providing for
the prevention and abatement of public health hazards and surface and ground
water contamination from private liquid waste systems and disposal practices.
§ 13.1.2 DEFINITIONS
   (A)   “Private liquid waste system” includes any septic tank, holding tank,
cesspool, seepage pit, leach field or other such facility or area which
receives liquid waste.
   (B)   “Liquid waste” shall mean the discharge of wastewater from any waste
generator and includes, without limitation, human excreta and water carried
from plumbing fixtures, wastes from toilets, sinks, showers, baths, clothes and
dishwashing machines and floor drains. Liquid waste also includes non-water
liquid discharges. Liquid waste, for purposes of this Article, does not include
water discharged in normal and customary agricultural operations.
   (C)   “Ordinance” as used herein shall mean this Article.
   (D)   “Waste generator” shall mean any building or other facility or use
that creates and/or discharges liquid wastes.
§ 13.1.3 PRIVATE LIQUID WASTE SYSTEMS PROHIBITED
Except as provided in §
13.1.4(B)(4), no person shall install or modify a private liquid waste system
or use a private liquid waste system that was installed or modified after
public sanitary sewer service has become available. Public sanitary sewer shall
be deemed available when a connection point is within two hundred (200) feet,
as determined by §
13.1.4(B) for residential properties. Public sanitary sewer is deemed available
to all commercial properties.
§ 13.1.4 MANDATORY CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER
   (A)   Every development or redevelopment in the Village Center or Commercial
Zones of the Village shall be required to connect to the public sanitary sewer.
All existing waste generators in the Village Center or Commercial Zones of the
Village at the date of adoption of this Article shall be required to connect to
the public sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Every waste generator not included in paragraph 4.a above shall
connect to the public sanitary sewer within ninety (90) days following the date
public sewer service is available. The two hundred (200) foot distance shall be
measured as follows:
      (1)   In cases in which the connection point to the public sanitary sewer
is located on a lot or parcel on which the waste generator is located (“Lot”)
or is in a public or private right-of-way which abuts the Lot or property owned
or controlled by the owner of the Lot, the two hundred (200) feet shall be
measured in a straight line from the closest point of connection on the public
sanitary sewer to the point at which the liquid waste disposal line of the
waste generator connects to the existing private liquid waste system (clean out
point). The straight line measurement may and in most cases will extend through
the location of existing buildings on the Lot, including any residential
structure located thereon and is not intended to be a measurement of the actual
length of the sewer line that must be constructed in order to effect the
connection.
      (2)   In cases in which the connection point to the public sanitary sewer
is not located on the Lot or in a public or private right-of-way as described
in §
13.1.4(B)(1) and would require construction of the connecting line to the
public sanitary sewer across property not owned or controlled by the owner of
the Lot, the two hundred (200) foot distance shall be calculated by a
measurement beginning at the connection point to the public sanitary sewer
along the public or private right-of-way or easement which can be used for the
purpose of extending a sewer line, to the closest point at which such public or
private right-of-way or easement has a common boundary with the Lot. From the
point at which the right-of-way or easement has a common boundary with the Lot,
the measurement shall then proceed in a straight line to the clean out point of
the private liquid waste system in accordance with the procedure set out in §
13.1.4(B)(1) above.
      (3)   If a Lot has more than one private liquid waste system and one
private liquid waste system is required to connect to the public sanitary sewer
system pursuant to the foregoing requirements, use of all private liquid waste
systems on the Lot shall be discontinued and all waste generators must connect
to the public sanitary sewer.
      (4)   A private liquid waste system for a residence which was legally
installed and is less than five (5) years old and which is operating in
accordance with state and local regulations shall be exempt from mandatory
connection until the fifth (5th) anniversary date of its installation at which
time it shall be required to connect to the public sanitary sewer if connection
is otherwise required hereunder. The repair, modification or reworking of an
existing private liquid waste system shall not modify the original installation
date for purposes of this subsection.
   (C)   When use of a private liquid waste system is discontinued by reason of
connection to the public sanitary sewer or otherwise, every private liquid
waste system shall be properly abandoned and certified by NMED or Bernalillo
County.
   (D)   Every waste generator not required to connect to the public sanitary
sewer under §
13.1.4(B) above shall have all private liquid waste systems permitted through
the New Mexico Environment Department (“NMED”) and shall register such septic
system(s) with the Village. A copy of the permit from NMED shall be submitted
together with a registration form prescribed by the Village. There shall be a
one-time fee of twenty-five dollars ($25) for the registration. The owner shall
have each registered system inspected not less often than biennially (every two
years) by an engineer or technician approved by NMED to evaluate the condition
of the private liquid waste system. The owner thereof shall immediately bring
every private liquid waste system into compliance with NMED regulations as
determined by the inspection. A copy of the inspection and confirmation of all
required curative work shall be filed with the Village within thirty (30) days
after the date of the inspection report. The Village is authorized to take
legal action, including litigation seeking injunctive relief, to enforce
compliance with this section and abate the nuisance caused by operation of a
non-complying private liquid waste system.
      (1)   Failure to comply with the registration or biennial renewal shall
be a violation of this Article punishable by a fine of not less than three
hundred dollars ($300) for each month until the violation is cured.
§ 13.1.5 MANDATORY CONNECTION DETERMINATION AND APPEAL PROCESS
The procedure for determining the requirements for connection to a public
sanitary sewer line will be as follows:
   (A)   The Village Administer will cause a review of all properties which may
contain waste generators that are not currently connected to the public
sanitary sewer which have not previously been found exempt from the requirement
to connect to the public sanitary sewer, and will make a determination as to
whether or not the waste generators are required to connect to the public
sanitary sewer or are exempt. The decision of the Village Administrator will be
made after consultation with the Director of Planning and Zoning for the
Village and a representative of the New Mexico Environment Department.
   (B)   If a decision has been made by the Village Administrator that a
connection is required, the Village Administrator shall cause the owner of the
Premises to be notified by United States mail of the decision, together with a
demand that the connection be made within thirty (30) days from the date of the
notice. The notification letter from the Village shall include a copy of this
Article.
   (C)   If the owner of the Lot disagrees with the decision of the Village
Administrator, such owner may file a written notice of appeal to the Board of
Trustees. The appeal letter shall state the reasons the owner believes the
decision of the Village Administrator to be incorrect. The appeal letter shall
be delivered to the Village Clerk within fifteen (15) days after the date of
the notice of the Village Administrator’s decision. If no appeal is filed
within such fifteen (15) day period, the right to appeal shall be deemed to
have been waived and the decision of the Village Administrator shall be final.
An appeal shall be heard by the Board of Trustees in accordance with a schedule
established by the Board of Trustees. The decision of the Board of Trustees
after a hearing on the appeal shall be final. The party(ies) appealing the
decision shall pay the cost of providing public notice of the appeal hearing.
   (D)   If the owner has not completed the connection (a) within thirty (30)
days after the notification required in §
13.1.5(B) above and such decision has not been appealed, or (b) if the decision
has been appealed and there has been a determination by the Board of Trustees
that a connection must be made, and which connection has not been completed
within the period of time specified in the Board of Trustee’s decision, the
Village Administrator is authorized to proceed with legal enforcement of this
Article including, but not limited to, causing an action to be filed in the
District Court for the Second Judicial District as specified in §
13.1.6.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an owner, after proceeding with
reasonable diligence, cannot complete the connection within the time period
required either by the Village Administrator’s decision or the Board of
Trustees, the Village Administrator may extend the time for completion of the
connection for a period which will reasonably allow completion of connection
while at the same time assuring expeditious compliance with this Article.
§ 13.1.6 VIOLATIONS – ADDITIONAL REMEDIES
INJUNCTIONS. In addition to the penalties provided in §
7.4.1 for violation of any Village Ordinance, the use of a private liquid waste
system in violation of this Article is declared to be a public nuisance and may
be subject to abatement summarily by a restraining order or injunction relief
issued by the District Court of the Second Judicial District, or if NMED is a
party, by a court in the First Judicial District.
SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase,
or part hereof is for any reason declared unconstitutional or invalid, the
validity of the remaining portions hereof shall not be affected since it is the
expressed intent of the Board of Trustees to pass each section, subsection,
paragraph, clause, phrase and every part thereof separately and independently
of every other part.
§ 13.1.7 EFFECTIVE DATE, REPEAL AND PUBLICATION
This Article shall take effect and be in full force five (5) days after
publication of adoption of this Ordinance.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 13, Article 1 (f/k/
a Chapter 22):
Ordinance #81, February 8, 1989;
Ordinance #102 changed the definition of when public sewer is deemed available,
(Section 3), July 24, 1991;
Ordinance #116 changed the definition of when public sewer is deemed available,
(Section 3), March 9, 1994;
Ordinance #134, enacted Feb. 14, 1996, codified the preceding ordinances as
Chapter 22, with modifications;
Ordinance #184, November 12, 2003;
Ordinance #228, November 10, 2010; amending Chapter 22 of the Codified
Ordinances and ORD #184;
Ordinance #231, March 14, 2012 repealing Chapter 22 of the Codified Ordinance
134 and Ordinance 184 in their entirety and replaced with this Ordinance.
Sewage facilities § 3-26-1, et seq., NMSA 1978.
ARTICLE 2.
SOLID WASTE
SECTION 1. Definitions
SECTION 2. Depositing Solid Waste for Collection
SECTION 3. Collection of Solid Waste
SECTION 4. Collection Authorization
SECTION 5. Accumulation of Solid Waste
SECTION 6. Disposal of Solid Waste
SECTION 7. Frequency of Collection
SECTION 8. Fees for Public Collection and Disposal
SECTION 9. Recycling
SECTION 10. Exemptions
SECTION 11. Violations
SECTION 12. Penalties and Enforcement
SECTION 13. Delinquent Charge Collections
§ 13.2.1 DEFINITIONS
   (A)   CONTRACTOR is a private firm authorized to do business in the state
for the collection and disposal of solid waste and authorized by a contract
with the Village to provide solid waste collection and disposal.
   (B)   DISPOSAL SITE means the location of land area where the final
disposition of solid waste occurs.
   (C)   PREMISES means any property within the municipal corporate limits
adaptable for human occupancy, and shall also mean, but not be limited to,
residences, apartments, apartment complexes, mobile homes, mobile home parks,
business places, offices, theaters, hotels, eating and drinking establishments,
tourist facilities, hospitals, schools, vacant lots, and any other places or
location within the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque which is occupied or
has previously been occupied.
   (D)   RECYCLABLE MATERIAL means solid waste identified by the governing body
of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque as reusable and subject to special
separation, collection, storage and disposition from other solid waste.
   (E)   SOLID WASTE means any garbage, refuse, sludge from a waste treatment
plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility and
other discarded material including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained
gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, and
agricultural operations and from community activities, but does not include
solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage, or solid or dissolved materials
in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges which are point sources
subject to permits under Section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act, as amended (86 U.S.C. 880), or source, special nuclear, or by-product
material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (68 U.S.C.
923).
§ 13.2.2 DEPOSITING SOLID WASTE FOR COLLECTION
   (A)   Any person owning, controlling or occupying any premises within the
Village shall be responsible for the sanitary conditions of the premises, and
it shall be unlawful for any person to keep in or about such premises any solid
waste as herein defined unless it is kept in authorized containers.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to bury, dump or deposit, or to allow or
permit or cause to be buried, dumped or deposited upon any street, alley or
private or public property any solid waste of any kind whatsoever. However,
composting and mulching of yard wastes, manure and other biodegradable
materials is not unlawful and is encouraged if done in a safe and sanitary
manner.
   (C)   The removal of clothing, bedding or other waste from homes or other
places where highly infectious or contagious diseases have prevailed shall be
performed under the supervision and direction of a health sanitation officer,
and such waste shall not be placed in containers for regular collection.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this Article to place or to cause to be
placed in any container, box or bundle or otherwise for collection, any
hazardous waste of any kind except upon specific prior arrangement with the
Village.
   (E)   All bulky and large solid waste, including but not limited to
furniture and appliances, shall be collected and disposed of by special
arrangements between the owner or occupier of the premises and the Village
contractor. A reasonable additional charge may be assessed for such collection
based on the average hourly cost of equipment and labor for the additional time
required.
   (F)   Ownership of solid waste material set out for collection shall be
vested in the Village.
§ 13.2.3 COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
   (A)   The Village shall cause to be provided and maintained suitable
equipment and personnel sufficient to collect and dispose of solid waste from
the Village and shall provide adequate areas for the disposal of solid waste.
To achieve such purposes, the Governing Body of the Village may:
      (1)   Provide for the collection and disposal of solid waste by the
Village; or
      (2)   Enter into a contract with any contractor for the collection of
solid waste, and/or the disposal thereof; or
      (3)   Provide for the collection and disposal of solid waste in any other
manner deemed suitable by the Village.
   (B)   Should the Village contract for the collection and/or disposal of
solid waste, the contract term shall be for not less than one (1) year, nor
more than five (5) years, with an option to renew exercisable by the Village,
and the contractor or licensee shall:
      (1)   Provide minimum insurance coverage of five hundred thousand
dollars/one million dollars ($500,000/$1,000,000) commercial liability
insurance and property damage insurance of twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000). Said insurance coverage shall be with carriers acceptable to the
Village, and the Village shall be named on the policy as an additional insured.
      (2)   Agree to indemnify and completely hold harmless the Village for any
liability the Village may incur as a result of the actions or omissions of the
Contractor in the exercise of the agreement.
      (3)   Either:
         (a)   Pay to the Village as a franchise fee an amount to be determined
by the Board not to exceed 25 percent (25%) of the gross revenues it receives
for its services in consideration for the Village:
            1. Granting the contract to the Contractor, and
            2. Allowing the Contractor to use the Village rights-of-way; or
         (b)   Collect and pay to the Village an administrative fee as
determined by the Board. Such fee shall be used to defray costs of solid waste
and recycling programs.
      (4)   Collect and dispose of solid waste in vehicles that are at least of
the minimum quality and design acceptable in the industry, which do not leak,
are designed and maintained to prevent solid waste from blowing, spilling or
otherwise leaking out of the vehicles, and which are cleaned at such times and
in such manner to prevent offensive odors and unsightliness.
      (5)   Collect and dispose of, in an amount to be determined by the Board,
all residential and commercial solid waste no less than once per week, but as
often as necessary to comply with the requirements of federal, state, and
Village law.
      (6)   Provide a performance bond in an amount to be determined by the
Board of at least fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).
§ 13.2.4 COLLECTION AUTHORIZATION
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this Article, solid waste accumulated
in the Village shall be collected, conveyed and disposed of by the Village or
its Contractors. No other person shall collect, convey over any of the streets,
alleys or ways of the Village, or dispose of any solid waste accumulated in the
Village, except that the actual producer of solid waste, or the owner or
occupant of a premises where solid waste has accumulated, may collect, convey
and dispose of such refuse providing it is done in a sanitary manner which will
prevent any waste from slipping, blowing or in any other manner being deposited
on any public street, alley or way.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the terms of this Section, all persons must arrange
for regular refuse collection and disposal per the terms of this Article, and
must pay for such service, per the terms of this Article, whether or not the
service is utilized.
§ 13.2.5 ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTE
   (A)   No person shall allow any solid waste to accumulate upon premises or
real property owned, leased or occupied by such person during intervals between
collection except in the manner provided by this Article.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to deposit any solid waste in or upon the
streets, alleys, sidewalks, gutters or vacant land within the Village except in
the receptacles or containers as specified herein.
§ 13.2.6 DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE
Disposal of solid waste collected in the Village shall be at disposal sites
operated in accordance with federal and state laws and rules and regulations of
the New Mexico Environmental Improvement Division. The Village Board may
designate specific disposal sites where solid waste shall be deposited.
§ 13.2.7 FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION
Solid waste shall be collected from residential premises and commercial
establishments at least once per week.
§ 13.2.8 FEES FOR PUBLIC COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
   (A)   There is hereby assessed against every person owning, controlling,
occupying or operating any premises, or owning or controlling real property
within the Village, a solid waste collection fee in amounts to be established
by the Board, whether or not that person uses the solid waste collection.
However, said fees shall only be charged against premises or real property
which is occupied or has been previously occupied. The fee shall be reasonably
related to the actual cost of collection, disposal and administration of the
solid waste program, or determined through procurement bids or proposals should
the Village contract for such services.
   (B)   The Governing Body of the Village shall review fees every year upon
written request of the Contractor or a vote of the Board.
   (C)   The Village may remove or cause to be removed solid waste from
premises or real property and make a charge against the real property specially
benefited by the removal of the solid waste, if:
      (1)   Any person owning or controlling real property allows solid waste
to be deposited upon that property other than in the proper receptacle and
solid waste still remains forty-eight hours after the solid waste is deposited
on the real property; or
      (2)   The owner owning or controlling the premises or real property fails
or refuses to use the solid waste collection services provided by the Village.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this Article for any person owning,
controlling, or operating any premises or real property to fail or refuse to
pay the fees imposed for the collection of solid waste and recyclables.
   (E)   Service charges in accordance with §
13.2.8(A) are assessed against both the owner and the occupant of premises or
real property served, jointly and severally, but collecting from one shall
relieve the other from liability to the Village.
   (F)   The governing body of the Village shall determine the method for
collecting fees.
§ 13.2.9 RECYCLING
The Village may implement a recycling program as part of its service for the
collection and disposal of solid waste under the terms of this Article. The
Village may collect recyclable materials in any manner it deems appropriate,
including in the same fashion as provided for the collection of solid waste
under the terms of this Article, and may require separation of materials into
specific receptacles.
Recyclable materials shall become the property of the Village to be sold or to
be disposed of at a facility specifically dedicated to recycling such
materials. Proceeds derived from the sale of recyclable materials shall be
apportioned between the Village and the Recycling Contractor in a ratio to be
approved by the Board. The Board shall determine how such proceeds should be
allocated.
§ 13.2.10 EXEMPTIONS
This ordinance shall not apply to:
   (A)   A property holder who, on his/her own property for fill purposes,
disposes of construction/demolition waste or yard waste generated on his/her
property, if he/she disposes of it in a manner that does not violate any
Village, state, or federal law, or create a nuisance or a hazard to health.
   (B)   Agricultural wastes, including manures and crop residues, returned to
the soils as fertilizers or soil conditioners.
   (C)   Sludge, domestic sewage, treated domestic sewage, or septage.
   (D)   Hazardous wastes which are subject to regulation under Subtitle C of
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901 et. seq.
   (E)   Disposal of solid waste by underground well injection subject to
regulations for the Underground Injection Control Program (UICP) under the Safe
Drinking Water Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 3007 et. seq.
   (F)   Waste or activities regulated by the Oil Conservation Division under
the New Mexico Oil and Gas Act, §§ 70-2-1 through 70-2-36, NMSA 1978; the New
Mexico Water Quality Act, §§ 74-6-1 through 74-16-17, NMSA 1978; or the New
Mexico Geothermal Resources Conservation Act, §§ 71-5-1 through 71-5-24, NMSA
1978.
   (G)   Bulk liquids.
§ 13.2.11 VIOLATIONS
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this Article to remove solid waste or
recyclable material deposited for collection from public or private property
except as provided herein.
   (B)   Any containers provided by the Village or Village contractor shall
only be utilized for the purposes intended as provided in this Article. Any
theft, destruction or unauthorized use of such containers shall be a violation
of this Article.
§ 13.2.12 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
Article shall, upon conviction, be punished by fines or imprisonment up to the
maximum allowed by New Mexico law for each offense except that the failure or
refusal to pay collection fees will not be punishable by imprisonment. Each
day’s violation will be considered a separate offense. The failure or refusal
to pay collection fees for each billing cycle will be considered a separate
offense. These penalties shall not limit the right of the Village to pursue
injunctive relief or other remedies authorized by law.
   (B)   The Board may adopt as penalties specific fines for specific
violations of this Article.
   (C)   If any person owning, controlling, occupying or operating any premises
or real property fails or refuses to pay the charge imposed for the collection
of solid waste and recyclables, or the charge made against the real property
specially benefitted by the removal of solid waste, the Village may take any of
the following actions:
      (1)   The Village may make an assessment against the real property, and
if it is not paid, the Village may file a notice of lien and institute lien
proceedings against the real property as provided by § 3-36-1, et seq., NMSA
1978.
      (2)   The Village may institute criminal proceedings in Municipal Court
for violation of the provisions of this Article. The Village is empowered to
commission the Contractor to file criminal complaints and to present evidence
concerning any delinquency. The Municipal Court has authority to order payment
of the delinquent fees directly to the Contractor.
      (3)   The Village may take any other actions that are not prohibited by
state law including filing civil actions for recovery of delinquent fees in a
court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 13.2.13 DELINQUENT CHARGE COLLECTIONS
The provisions of this Article shall not be construed in any way to limit the
right of the Contractor to collect delinquent charges for its services,
provided that collection by the Village or the Contractor shall relieve the
obligation to the other to the extent of the recovery.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 13, Article 2 (f/k/
a chapter 24):
Ordinance #104, August 14, 1991;
Ordinance #117, March 9, 1994, amending Ordinance 104;
Ordinance #134, enacted Feb. 14, 1996, codified ORD #104 as amended into
Chapter 23, with modifications;
Ordinance #156, February 24, 1999;
Ordinance #157, March 10, 1999;
Refuse collection & disposal § 3-48-1, et seq., NMSA 1978;
Municipal Liens § 3-36-1 et seq., NMSA 1978;
Section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (86 U.S.C.
880);
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (68 U.S.C. 923);
Subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901 et.
seq.;
Underground Injection Control Program (UICP) under the Safe Drinking Water Act,
as amended, 42 U.S.C. 3007 et seq.;
NM Oil and Gas Act §§ 70-2-1 through 70-2-36 NMSA 1978;
NM Water Quality Act §§ 74-6-1 through 74-6-17 NMSA 1978;
NM Geothermal Resources Conservation Act §§ 71-5-1 through 71-5-24 NMSA 1978.
ARTICLE 3.
UTILITY FACILITIES, HAZARDOUS
SECTION 1. Removal of Hazard
§ 13.3.1 REMOVAL OF HAZARD
Whenever the Village Building Inspector determines that any utility facility
located on public or private land and maintained by a public utility company
operating under franchise from the Village, and serving three or more
customers, constitutes a hazard to the public, the Inspector shall notify the
utility company that it is required to modify, remove, or relocate the facility
within sixty (60) days. The utility company may appeal the Inspector’s decision
to the Board within fifteen (15) days of notification.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 13, Article 3 (f/k/
a Chapter 30):
Ordinance #12, November 1, 1961;
Ordinance #134, enacted Feb. 14, 1996, codified ORD #12 as Chapter 30, with
modifications.
Public Utilities § 3-23-1 et. seq., NMSA 1978;
Electric Utility § 3-24-1 et. seq., NMSA 1978;
Gas Utility § 3-25-1 et. seq., NMSA 1978.
CHAPTER 14
MOTOR VEHICLES
ARTICLE 1. Motor Vehicle Code
ARTICLE 2. Trucks and Commercial Vehicles
ARTICLE 1.
MOTOR VEHICLE CODE
SECTION 1. State Code Adopted By Reference
SECTION 2. Code Available For Inspection
SECTION 3. Animals in Open Vehicle Beds
SECTION 4. Establishment of Speed Zones
SECTION 5. Vehicles Abandoned or Displayed for Sale Illegally
§ 14.1.1 NEW MEXICO UNIFORM TRAFFIC ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance by Reference Adopting the New Mexico
Uniform Traffic Ordinance 2010 Compilation with all revisions through 2018 and
amending Section 12-6-1.2 A (2) No person shall drive a vehicle on a street or
detour at a speed greater than twenty-five (25) miles per hour in any business
or residence district.
§ 14.1.2 CODE AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION
A copy of the New Mexico Motor Vehicle Code shall be available for inspection
during regular business hours at the Village Hall.
§ 14.1.3 ANIMALS IN OPEN VEHICLE BEDS
No person shall transport any animal in the open bed of a moving motor vehicle
without a physical restraint that prevents the animal from jumping or falling
from the vehicle and from strangulation.
§ 14.1.4 ESTABLISHMENT OF SPEED LIMITS (RESERVED)
§ 14.1.5 VEHICLES ABANDONED OR DISPLAYED FOR SALE ILLEGALLY
   (A)   TITLE. This Section shall be known and cited as the “Vehicles
Abandoned or Displayed for Sale Illegally” of the Village of Los Ranchos de
Albuquerque, New Mexico, (hereinafter referred to as the “Section.)”
   (B)   AUTHORITY. This Article is enacted pursuant to NMSA 1978, § 3-17-1
(1993) which provides that municipalities are granted those powers necessary
for the safety, preserving the health, promoting the prosperity and improving
the morals, order, comfort and convenience of the municipality and its
inhabitants and that the Governing Body may adopt ordinances for this purpose.
   (C)   FINDINGS. The Governing Body of the Village of Los Ranchos de
Albuquerque finds that sales of motor vehicles between private individuals
within the Village frequently occur under circumstances of the buyer not being
able to determine the validity of the title held by the seller; that frequently
such titles are void, encumbered by liens, or otherwise invalid, particularly
of out-of-state registered vehicles brought into the Village for sale; that
such sales often lead to avoidance of full payment of the state excise tax. The
Board of Trustees further finds that undeveloped and vacant land along major
thoroughfares is frequently used by individuals as de facto used car lots
displaying vehicles for sale; that such places frequently used by those sellers
of vehicles with defective titles to unwary buyers; that such places are also
frequently used for abandonment of vehicles; that such use of undeveloped and
vacant property is often in violation of the Village Zoning Code, is unsightly,
creates dust problems, constitutes a traffic hazard, and is a nuisance to
neighboring developed properties.
   (D)   DISPLAY AND SALE OF MOTOR VEHICLES. Any vehicle may be displayed for
sale and actually sold by a private individual, not a dealer as described in
NMSA 1978, § 66-1-4.4(B)(3) (2016), only at the current home or work address of
the buyer or seller, except that a vehicle may be displayed for sale at another
location which satisfies the provisions of the zoning code, if permission is
obtained from the owner or lessee of such property. The owner of any vehicle
cited in violation of this Section or who has a criminal complaint filed
against him or her and who claims to fit within this exception shall bear the
burden of so proving. This Section is not intended to prohibit the routine use
of a vehicle to which a “for sale” sign is affixed. Any person who takes motor
vehicles on consignment for sale must have ownership of the vehicle assigned to
such person upon taking possession of any vehicle for such purpose. Any such
person must also be licensed as a dealer and bonded with the Motor Vehicle
Division of the New Mexico Transportation Department. Motor vehicle shall mean
motor vehicle as defined in NMSA 1978, § 66-1-4.11(H) (2015). No person shall
display a vehicle for sale in violation of this Section with the license plate
removed or concealed and/or the vehicle identification number concealed.
   (E)   ABANDONMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES. For purposes of this Section, a vehicle
is abandoned if parked on or along any street, alley or public way and displays
no license plates or other signs of registration. A vehicle may also be deemed
to be abandoned if unattended on or along any street, alley or public way with
expired registration and is clearly inoperable.
   (F)   TOWING.
      (1)   A vehicle abandoned or displayed for sale in a location in
violation of this Article may be towed no sooner than twenty-four (24) hours
after a warning sticker is placed on the vehicle. Members of the sheriff’s
department are authorized to remove a vehicle from a vacant lot to the nearest
garage or other place of safety or to a garage designated or maintained by the
sheriff’s department or otherwise maintained by the county.
      (2)   The warning sticker shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The date and time the warning sticker was affixed to the
vehicle;
         (b)   A statement that is pursuant to this Article, if the vehicle is
not removed within twenty-four (24) hours of the time the sticker is affixed,
it may be taken into custody and stored at the owner’s expense;
         (c)   A statement that, if the vehicle is towed pursuant to this
Article, the owner will have the opportunity to challenge said action at a
hearing, and a written notice of the procedure for said hearing will be mailed
to the owner’s address as provided by the State Motor Vehicle Division files or
the files of the appropriate motor vehicle regulatory agency of another state;
         (d)   The location and telephone number where additional information
may be obtained; and
         (e)   The identity of the affixing person.
      (3)   After a vehicle is taken into custody and stored pursuant to this
Section, the affixing department shall initiate notification and hearing
procedures as set forth herein, except that the decision of the hearing officer
from the zoning department as set forth herein shall be limited to whether the
vehicle was lawfully impounded for violation of this Article. If it is
determined at the hearing that the location and status of the vehicle was not
in violation of this Article, the owner of such vehicle shall not be liable for
any expenses incurred as a result of the taking and storage of such vehicle,
and the department which authorized the taking and storage of such vehicle
shall be liable for the expenses, or the department which authorized the taking
and storage of such vehicle shall be liable to the owner for the amount paid by
the owner to remove said vehicle from impound.
   (G)   PENALTIES.
      (1)   General Penalty. Unless another penalty is expressly provided in
this Article or as otherwise provided by law, every person convicted of, or
pleading guilty or no contest to, a violation of any section of this Article
shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not
more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment for not more than
ninety (90) days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   Penalties for Violation of §
14.1.5(D) Display and Sale of Motor Vehicles. Any person who violates the
provisions of §
14.1.5(D) shall pay a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00). If the owner of the
vehicle has violated the prohibition against concealment or removal of the
license plate and/or concealment of the vehicle identification number, or,
within a three month period, a vehicle has been cited by criminal complaint or
citation three or more times for this offense, the vehicle may be towed, taken
into custody and stored. The department conducting the tow shall initiate
notification and hearing procedures as set forth in §
14.1.5(E) et seq., except that the decision of a hearing officer from the
zoning department as set forth therein shall be limited to whether the vehicle
was lawfully impounded for violation of this Article. If it is determined at
the hearing that the location and status of the vehicle was not in violation of
this Article, the owner of such vehicle shall not be liable for any expenses
incurred as a result of the taking and storage of such vehicle, and the
department which authorized the taking and storage of such vehicle shall be
liable for the expenses, or the department which authorized the taking and
storage of such vehicle shall be liable to the owner for the amount paid by the
owner to remove said vehicle from impound.
      (3)   Penalties for Late Payment of Fines. Fines for any parking
violation, including §
14.1.5(D) (Display and Sale of MotorVehicles), if not paid within five (5) days
of the citation shall be two (2) times the amount of the fine, and if not paid
within fifteen (15) days of the citation shall be three times the amount of the
fine, unless a person issued a citation has initiated court proceedings to
answer the charges within five (5) days of the issuance of the citation. The
above fines do not include the administrative cost assessment authorized by
law.
   (H)   ENFORCEMENT. The Bernalillo County Sheriff’s Department and the
Village zoning enforcement officials are responsible for enforcement of this
Article. The Planning and Zoning Director shall provide a procedure and hearing
officer to hear towing appeals. The Planning and Zoning Director may delegate
authority to place warning signs on abandoned vehicles to Public Works
employees of the Village.
   (I)   SEVERABILITY CLAUSE. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, word
or phrase of this Article is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable
by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining provisions of this Article. The Board of Trustees of
the Village of Los Ranchos hereby declares that it would have passed this
Article and each section, paragraph, sentence, clause, word or phrase thereof
irrespective of any provision being declared unconstitutional or otherwise
invalid.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding Chapter 14, Article 1 (f/k/
a Chapter 17):
Ordinance #13, adopted May 2, 1962;
Ordinance #52, adopted November 9, 1983, repeals Ordinance No. 13;
Ordinance #53, adopted December 14, 1983, amends Ordinance No. 52;
Ordinance #87, adopted September 13, 1989, repealing Ordinance #52;
Ordinance #134, enacted Feb. 14, 1996, codified ORD #87 as Chapter 17, with
modifications;
Ordinance #145, adopted March 12, 1997;
Ordinance #146, adopted May 14, 1997;
Ordinance #149, adopted February 11, 1998;
Ordinance #175, adopted May 14, 2003 (codified herein as Section 5, Par. A to
H).
Ordinance #259, adopted August 9, 2017 amends Section 1, State Code Adopted by
Reference, and Section 5 Vehicles Abandoned or Displayed for Sale Illegally;
Ordinance #259 adopted August 14, 2019 amends deleting Sections 14.1.4 (A), (B)
and (C).
Authority for municipalities to adopt codes by reference,
§ 35-14-2 NMSA 1978;
§ 35-3-4 NMSA 1978;
§ 3-17-1; NMSA 1978;
§ 3-17-5A NMSA 1978;
§ 3-17-6A NMSA 1978;
Motor Vehicle Code § 66-1-1, et seq., NMSA 1978;
Definitions (Dealer) § 66-1-4.4(B)(3) NMSA 1978;
Definitions (Motor Vehicle) § 66-1-4.11(H) NMSA 1978;
Powers and Duties of Department § 66-2-3 NMSA 1978;
Establishment of Speed Zones § 66-7-303 NMSA 1978;
Penalty Assessment § 66-8-116 NMSA 1978;
Penalty Assessment § 66-8-117 NMSA 1978;
All Traffic Citations to Conform § 66-8-130 NMSA 1978.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-982.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-980.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-978.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-976.png]
 
ARTICLE 2.
TRUCKS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
SECTION 1. Purpose
SECTION 2. Prohibited Vehicles
§ 14.2.1 PURPOSE
Village roads and streets are not designed, suitable or constructed for heavy
truck traffic. In order to maintain the safety, health, prosperity, order,
comfort, and convenience of the Village, it is necessary to regulate the
operation of trucks and commercial vehicles within the Village limits.
§ 14.2.2 PROHIBITED VEHICLES
   (A)   VEHICLES OVER FIVE TONS. No person or entity shall operate or cause to
be operated any truck or commercial vehicle having a load capacity in excess of
five (5) tons on any street or road within the Village limit, excepting Rio
Grande Boulevard and El Pueblo Road, and except for local deliveries and
services, unless a permit is obtained from the Mayor.
   (B)   VEHICLES OVER TWO TONS. No person or entity shall operate or cause to
be operated any truck or commercial vehicle having a load capacity in excess of
two (2) tons on any street or road within the Village limits, excepting Rio
Grande Boulevard and El Pueblo Road, between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m., and except for local deliveries and services, unless a permit is obtained
from the Mayor.
Ordinance and State Law References regarding 14, Article 2 (f/k/a Chapter 29):
Ordinance #6, August 12, 1959;
Ordinance #56, adopted November 14, 1984, Repeals Ordinance No. 6;
Ordinance #134, enacted Feb. 14, 1996, codified Ordinance #56 as Chapter 29,
with modifications.
Permits for excessive weight § 66-7-413-4 NMSA 1978.
CHAPTER 15
BOND ORDINANCES
ARTICLE 1. Revenue Bonds (Bosque Preparatory School Project), Series 1999
ARTICLE 2. Revenue Bonds (Sandia Preparatory School District), Series 2002
ARTICLE 3. Revenue Bonds (Sandia Preparatory School Project), Series 2007
ARTICLE 4. General Obligation Bonds, Series 2007
ARTICLE 5. Improvement Revenue Bonds (Albuquerque Academy Project ), Series
2010
ARTICLE 6. Refunding Revenue Bonds (Albuquerque Academy Project), Series 2020
ARTICLE 7. General Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2021
ARTICLE 1. REVENUE BONDS
(BOSQUE PREPARATORY SCHOOL PROJECT)
SECTION 1. Ratification
SECTION 2. The Project
SECTION 3. Findings
SECTION 4. Authorization and Approval of Project
SECTION 5. Bonds – Approval, Authorization and Detail
SECTION 6. Authorization of Officers; Approval of Documents
SECTION 7. Delivery of Bonds
SECTION 8. Funds and Accounts
SECTION 9. Findings Regarding Payment of Interest and Principal and Other
Matters
SECTION 10. Limited Obligations
SECTION 11. Qualified Tax-Exempt Obligations
SECTION 12. Approval of Indemnification
SECTION 13. Bond Ordinance Irrepealable
SECTION 14. Repealer
SECTION 15. Severability
SECTION 16. Recording; Authentication; Publication; Effective Date
§ 15.1.1 RATIFICATION
All actions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article previously
taken by the Board and the officials of the Village directed toward approval of
the issuance and sale of the Bonds to the Purchaser be and the same hereby are
ratified, approved and confirmed.
§ 15.1.2 THE PROJECT
The Project to be financed with the Bonds includes the acquisition,
construction and equipping of a new campus for the School and payment of
certain costs of issuance.
§ 15.1.3 FINDINGS
   (A)   General. The Board hereby declares that it has considered all relevant
information presented to it relating to the Bonds and the Project and hereby
finds and determines that the issuance of the Bonds pursuant to the Bond
Ordinance to provide funds for the Project is necessary and advisable and in
the interest of and will promote the public health, safety, morals,
convenience, education, economy and welfare of the Village and the residents of
the Village.
   (B)   The Board finds that:
      (1)   the Bonds will be issued for the purpose of financing the Project;
      (2)   the aggregate face amount of obligations to be issued with respect
to financing the Project is four million dollars ($4,000,000);
      (3)   the developer of the Project is the School;
      (4)   the Project is located near the intersection of Montaño Road and
Coors Boulevard, Albuquerque, New Mexico, within fifteen (15) miles of the
boundary of the Village.
§ 15.1.4 AUTHORIZATION AND APPROVAL OF PROJECT
The proceeds of the Bonds will be used to finance the cost of the Project and
to pay certain costs related thereto. The Project is authorized and approved.
The costs referred to in this paragraph include costs and expenses relating to
the issuance of the Bonds; the School may use other available money to
accomplish the purpose set forth in this paragraph.
§ 15.1.5 BONDS - APPROVAL, AUTHORIZATION AND DETAIL
   (A)   Approval and Sale. The issuance of the Bonds in an aggregate principal
amount of four million dollars ($4,000,000), and the use of the proceeds of the
Bonds to finance the cost of the Project and to pay expenses relating thereto
is hereby approved and confirmed.
   (B)   Form and Terms. Subject to the limitations set forth in this Article,
the Bonds shall be (i) issued as fully registered bonds, without interest
coupons; (ii) payable as to principal and interest and subject to optional and
mandatory redemption and defeasance in the amounts, upon the conditions and at
the times and prices set forth in the Indenture; and (iii) issued in a
principal amount of four million dollars ($4,000,000), bearing interest at the
rates and maturing on the dates set forth in the Indenture but in any event
maturing not more than thirty (30) years from their date of issuance.
   (C)   Execution. The Bonds shall be signed by the Mayor of the Village of
Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, New Mexico or his designee.
§ 15.1.6 AUTHORIZATION OF OFFICERS; APPROVAL OF DOCUMENTS
The form, terms and provisions of the Bond Documents in the form on deposit in
the office of the Village Clerk are in all respects approved, authorized and
confirmed.
The Mayor of the Village is authorized to execute and deliver in the name and
on behalf of the Village, and the Village Clerk is hereby authorized to attest,
as necessary, the Bond Documents, with such changes therein as are not
inconsistent with this Article, and the Bonds.
The Mayor and Village Clerk are further authorized to execute, authenticate and
deliver such certifications, instruments, documents, letters and other
agreements and to do such other acts and things, either prior to or after the
date of delivery of the Bonds, as are necessary or appropriate to consummate
the transactions contemplated by the Bond Documents.
§ 15.1.7 DELIVERY OF BONDS
Upon the execution of the Bond Documents, the satisfaction of the conditions
set forth in the Bond Documents and upon receipt of the purchase price for the
Bonds, the Bonds shall be executed, authenticated and delivered to the
Purchaser. No bond shall be valid for any purpose until such bond has been
properly authenticated as set forth in the Indenture.
§ 15.1.8 FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
There are established in the Indenture, and on and after the date on which the
Bonds are issued, there shall be maintained, the funds and accounts as set
forth in the Indenture. Other funds and accounts may be established as are
necessary under the Indenture.
§ 15.1.9 FINDINGS REGARDING PAYMENT OF INTEREST AND PRINCIPAL AND OTHER MATTERS
The following determinations are made:
   (A)   The maximum amount necessary in each year to pay the principal of and
interest on the Bonds, assuming issuance of the Bonds as of April 1, 1999, in
the maximum principal amount of four million dollars ($4,000,000) and bearing
interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%), is as follows:
Year Ending   Principal Payment       Maximum Interest for Total Debt Service
              Required in Such Period Such Period
April 1, 2000 $ -0-                   $480,000.00          $480,000.00
April 1, 2001 -0-                     480,000.00           480,000.00
April 1, 2002 -0-                     480,000.00           480,000.00
April 1, 2003 29,999.88               480,000.00           509,999.88
April 1, 2004 33,599.87               476,400.01           509,999.88
April 1, 2005 37,631.85               472,368.03           509,999.88
April 1, 2006 42,147.67               467,852.21           509,999.88
April 1, 2007 47,205.39               462,794.49           509,999.88
April 1, 2008 52,870.04               457,129.84           509,999.88
April 1, 2009 59,214.44               450,785.44           509,999.88
April 1, 2010 66,320.18               443,679.70           509,999.88
April 1, 2011 74,278.60               435,721.28           509,999.88
April 1, 2012 83,192.03               426,807.85           509,999.88
April 1, 2013 93,175.07               416,824.81           509,999.88
April 1, 2014 104,356.08              405,643.80           509,999.88
April 1, 2015 116,878.81              393,121.07           509,999.88
April 1, 2016 130,904.27              379,095.61           509,999.88
April 1, 2017 146,612.78              363,387.10           509,999.88
April 1, 2018 164,206.32              345,793.56           509,999.88
April 1, 2019 183,911.07              326,088.81           509,999.88
April 1, 2020 205,980.40              304,019.48           509,999.88
April 1, 2021 230,698.05              279,301.83           509,999.88
April 1, 2022 258,381.82              251,618.06           509,999.88
April 1, 2023 289,387.63              220,612.25           509,999.88
April 1, 2024 324,114.15              185,885.73           509,999.88
April 1, 2025 363,007.85              146,992.03           509,999.88
April 1, 2026 406,568.79              103,431.09           509,999.88
April 1, 2027 455,356.96              54,642.84            509,999.88
 
   (B)   It shall not be necessary to deposit any amount in a debt service
reserve fund or a repair and replacement reserve fund for the maintenance of
the Project.
   (C)   The Installment Purchase Agreement requires that the School maintain
the Project in good repair and condition (excepting reasonable wear and tear)
and carry proper insurance with respect to the Project.
   (D)   The Installment Purchase Agreement requires the School to make
payments sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on
the Bonds as principal and interest become due and to make all payments of or
relating to the Project as they become due.
§ 15.1.10 LIMITED OBLIGATIONS
The Bonds shall be special limited obligations of the Village, payable solely
from the revenues derived from the Installment Purchase Agreement and payable
by the School as described in the Indenture, and shall never constitute a debt
or indebtedness of the Village or the State or any political subdivision
thereof within the meaning of any provision or limitation of the State
Constitution or laws of the State, and shall not constitute or give rise to a
pecuniary liability of the Village or a charge against its general credit or
taxing power. Nothing contained in the Bond Ordinance or in the Bond Documents
or any other instrument shall be construed as obligating the Village (except
with respect to the Project and the application of the revenues therefrom and
the proceeds of the Bonds, all as provided in the Bond Documents), nor as
incurring a pecuniary liability or a charge upon the general credit of the
Village or against its taxing power, nor shall the breach of any agreement
contained in the Bond Ordinance, the Bond Documents, the Bonds or any other
instrument be construed as obligating the Village (except with respect to the
Project and the application of the revenues therefrom and the proceeds of the
Bonds, all as provided in the Bond Documents), nor as incurring a pecuniary
liability or a charge upon the general credit of the Village or against its
taxing power, the Village having no power to pay out of its general funds, or
otherwise contribute any part of the costs of constructing or equipping the
Project, nor power to operate the Project as a business or in any manner except
as seller of the Project.
§ 15.1.11 QUALIFIED TAX-EXEMPT OBLIGATIONS
The Bonds are hereby designated as “qualified tax-exempt obligations” for
purposes of Section 265(b)(3) of the Code. In that connection, the Village
hereby covenants that the Village, it having no “subordinate entities” with
authority to issue obligations within the meaning of that Section of the Code,
in or during calendar year 1999, (i) will not designate as "qualified taxexempt
obligations" for purposes of Section 265(b)(3) of the Code, tax-exempt
obligations, including the Bonds, in an aggregate principal amount in excess of
ten million dollars ($10,000,000), and (ii) will not issue tax-exempt
obligations within the meaning of Section 265(b)(4) of the Code, including the
Bonds and any other qualified 501(c)(3) bonds as defined in Section 145 of the
Code (but excluding obligations, other than qualified 501(c)(3) bonds, that are
private activity bonds as defined in section 141 of the Code), in an aggregate
principal amount exceeding ten million dollars ($10,000,000), unless the
Village receives an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel that such
designation or issuance, as applicable, will not cause the Bonds to cease to be
"qualified tax-exempt obligations."
§ 15.1.12 APPROVAL OF INDEMNIFICATION
The Board specifically approves the provisions of the Installment Purchase
Agreement relating to indemnification which provide that the School shall
indemnify and hold harmless the Village and its Village Trustees, officials,
members, officers, employees and agents against liability to the School, or to
any third parties that may be asserted against the Village or its Village
Trustees, officials, members, officers, employees or agents with respect to the
Village's ownership of the Project or the issuance of the Bonds and arising
from the condition of the Project or the acquisition, construction and
operation of the Project by the School except to the extent Section 56-7-1, New
Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978 Compilation, applies, and except claims for any
loss or damage arising out of or resulting from the gross negligence or willful
misconduct of the Village or any member, officer, employee or agent of the
Village.
§ 15.1.13 BOND ORDINANCE IRREPEALABLE
After any of the Bonds are issued, the Bond Ordinance shall be and remain
irrepealable until the Bonds, including interest, are fully paid, canceled and
discharged or there has been defeasance of the Bonds in accordance with the
Indenture.
§ 15.1.14 REPEALER
All bylaws, orders, resolutions and ordinances, or parts thereof, inconsistent
with this Article are repealed by this Article but only to the extent of that
inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed to revive any bylaw, order,
resolution or ordinance, or part thereof, previously repealed.
§ 15.1.15 SEVERABILITY
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of the Bond Ordinance shall for
any reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or
unenforceability of that section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not
affect any of the remaining provisions of this Article.
§ 15.1.16 RECORDING; AUTHENTICATION; PUBLICATION; EFFECTIVE DATE
This Article, immediately upon its final passage and approval, shall be
recorded in the ordinance book of the Village, kept for that purpose, and shall
be there authenticated by the signature of the Mayor and by the signature of
the Village Clerk, and notice of adoption thereof shall be published once in
The Albuquerque Journal and shall be in full force and effect five days
following such publication.
Ordinances and State Law Reference Regarding Chapter 15, Article 1:
Ordinance #155, February 24, 1999
ARTICLE 2. REVENUE BONDS
(SANDIA PREPARATORY SCHOOL DISTRICT)
SECTION 1. Ratification
SECTION 2. The Project
SECTION 3. Findings
SECTION 4. Authorization and Approval of Project
SECTION 5. Bonds – Approval, Authorization and Detail
SECTION 6. Authorization of Officers; Approval of Documents
SECTION 7. Delivery of Bonds
SECTION 8. Funds and Accounts
SECTION 9. Findings Regarding Payment of Interest and Principal and Other
Matters
SECTION 10. Limited Obligations
SECTION 11. Qualified Tax-Exempt Obligations
SECTION 12. Approval of Indemnification
SECTION 13. Bond Ordinance Irrepealable
SECTION 14. Repealer
SECTION 15. Severability
SECTION 16. Recording, Authentication, Publication; Effective Date
§ 15.2.1 RATIFICATION
All actions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article previously
taken by the Board and the officials of the Village directed toward approval of
the issuance and sale of the Bonds to the Purchaser be and the same hereby are
ratified, approved and confirmed.
§ 15.2.2 THE PROJECT
The Project to be financed with the Bonds includes the construction and
equipping of a new building on the School's campus and payment of certain costs
of issuance.
§ 15.2.3 FINDINGS
   (A)   General. The Board hereby declares that it has considered all relevant
information presented to it relating to the Bonds and the Project and hereby
finds and determines that the issuance of the Bonds pursuant to the Bond
Ordinance to provide funds for the Project is necessary and advisable and in
the interest of and will promote the public health, safety, morals,
convenience, education, economy and welfare of the Village and the residents of
the Village.
   (B)   The Board finds that:
      (1)   The Bonds will be issued for the purpose of financing the Project.
      (2)   The aggregate face amount of obligations to be issued with respect
to financing the Project is up to four million five hundred thousand dollars
($4,500,000).
      (3)   The developer of the Project is the School.
      (4)   The Project is located at 532 Osuna N.E., Albuquerque, New Mexico,
within fifteen (15) miles of the boundary of the Village.
§ 15.2.4 AUTHORIZATION AND APPROVAL OF PROJECT
The proceeds of the Bonds will be used to finance the cost of the Project and
to pay certain costs related thereto. The Project is authorized and approved.
The costs referred to in this paragraph include costs and expenses relating to
the issuance of the Bonds; the School may use other available money to
accomplish the purpose set forth in this paragraph.
§ 15.2.5 BONDS - APPROVAL, AUTHORIZATION AND DETAIL
   (A)   Approval and Sale. The issuance of the Bonds in an aggregate principal
amount of up to four million five hundred thousand dollars ($4,500,000), and
the use of the proceeds of the Bonds to finance the cost of the Project and to
pay expenses relating thereto is hereby approved and confirmed.
   (B)   Form and Terms. Subject to the limitations set forth in this Article,
the Bonds shall be (i) issued as fully registered Bonds, without interest
coupons; (ii) payable as to principal and interest and subject to optional and
mandatory redemption and defeasance in the amounts, upon the conditions and at
the times and prices set forth in the Indenture; and (iii) issued in a
principal amount of up to four million five hundred thousand dollars
($4,500,000), bearing interest at the rates and maturing on the dates set forth
in the Indenture but in any event maturing not more than thirty (30) years from
their date of issuance.
   (C)   Execution. The Bonds shall be signed by the Mayor of the Village of
Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, New Mexico or his designee.
§ 15.2.6 AUTHORIZATION OF OFFICERS; APPROVAL OF DOCUMENTS
The form, terms and provisions of the Bond Documents in the form on deposit in
the office of the Village Clerk are in all respects approved, authorized and
confirmed.
The Mayor of the Village is authorized to execute and deliver in the name and
on behalf of the Village, and the Village Clerk is hereby authorized to attest,
as necessary, the Bond Documents, with such changes therein as are not
inconsistent with this Article, and the Bonds.
The Mayor and Village Clerk are further authorized to execute, authenticate and
deliver such certifications, instruments, documents, letters and other
agreements and to do such other acts and things, either prior to or after the
date of delivery of the Bonds, as are necessary or appropriate to consummate
the transactions contemplated by the Bond Documents.
§ 15.2.7 DELIVERY OF BONDS
Upon the execution of the Bond Documents, the satisfaction of the conditions
set forth in the Bond Documents and upon receipt of the purchase price for the
Bonds, the Bonds shall be executed, authenticated and delivered to the
Purchaser. No bond shall be valid for any purpose until such bond has been
properly authenticated as set forth in the Indenture.
§ 15.2.8 FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
There are established in the Indenture, and on and after the date on which the
Bonds are issued, there shall be maintained, the funds and accounts as set
forth in the Indenture. Other funds and accounts may be established as are
necessary under the Indenture.
§ 15.2.9 FINDINGS REGARDING PAYMENT OF INTEREST AND PRINCIPAL AND OTHER MATTERS
The following determinations are made:
   (A)   The maximum amount necessary in each year to pay the principal of and
interest on the Bonds, assuming issuance of the Bonds as of January 1, 2002, in
the maximum principal amount of four million five hundred thousand dollars
($4,500,000) and bearing interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%), is as
follows:
Year Ending     Principal and Interest for Such Period
January 1, 2003 $594,588.60
January 1, 2004 $594,588.60
January 1, 2005 $594,588.60
January 1, 2006 $594,588.60
January 1, 2007 $594,588.60
January 1, 2008 $594,588.60
January 1, 2009 $594,588.60
January 1, 2010 $594,588.60
January 1, 2011 $594,588.60
January 1, 2012 $594,588.60
January 1, 2013 $594,588.60
January 1, 2014 $594,588.60
January 1, 2015 $594,588.60
January 1, 2016 $594,588.60
January 1, 2017 $594,588.60
January 1, 2018 $594,588.60
January 1, 2019 $594,588.60
January 1, 2020 $594,588.60
January 1, 2021 $594,588.60
January 1, 2022 $594,588.60
 
   (B)   It shall not be necessary to deposit any amount in a debt service
reserve fund or a repair and replacement reserve fund for the maintenance of
the Project.
   (C)   The installment Purchase Agreement requires that the School maintain
the Project in good repair and condition (excepting reasonable wear and tear)
and carry proper insurance with respect to the Project.
   (D)   The Installment Purchase Agreement requires the School to make
payments sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on
the Bonds as principal and interest become due and to make all payments of or
relating to the Project as they become due.
§ 15.2.10 LIMITED OBLIGATIONS
The Bonds shall be special limited obligations of the Village, payable solely
from the revenues derived from the Installment Purchase Agreement and payable
by the School as described in the Indenture, and shall never constitute a debt
or indebtedness of the Village of the State or any political subdivision
thereof within the meaning of any provision or limitation of the State or any
political subdivision thereof within the meaning of any provision or limitation
of the State Constitution or laws of the State, and shall not constitute or
give rise to a pecuniary liability of the Village or a charge against its
general credit or taxing power. Nothing contained in the Bond Ordinance or in
the Bond Documents or any other instrument shall be construed as obligating the
Village (except with respect to the Project and the application of the revenues
therefrom and the proceeds of the Bonds, all as provided in the Bond
Documents), nor as incurring a pecuniary liability or a charge upon the general
credit of the Village or against its taxing power, nor shall the breach of any
agreement contained in the Bond Ordinance, the Bond Documents, the Bonds or any
other instrument be construed as obligating the Village (except with respect to
the Project and the application of the revenues therefrom and the proceeds of
the Bonds, all as provided in the Bond Documents), nor as incurring a pecuniary
liability or a charge upon the general credit of the Village or against its
taxing power, the Village having no power to pay out of its general funds, or
otherwise contribute any part of the costs of constructing or equipping the
Project, nor power to operate the Project as a business or in any manner except
as seller of the Project.
§ 15.2.11 QUALIFIED TAX-EXEMPT OBLIGATIONS
The Bonds are hereby designated as “qualified tax-exempt obligations” for
purposes of Section 265(b)(3) of the Code. In that connection, the Village
hereby covenants that the Village, it having no “subordinate entities” with
authority to issue obligations within the meaning of that Section of the Code,
in or during calendar year 2002, (i) will not designate as “qualified taxexempt
obligations” for purposes of Section 265(b)(3) of the Code, tax-exempt
obligations, including the Bonds, in an aggregate principal an amount in excess
of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) and (ii) will not issue tax-exempt
obligations within the meaning of Section 265(b)(4) of the Code, including the
Bonds and any other qualified 501(c)(3) bonds as defined in Section 145 of the
Code (but excluding obligations, other than qualified 501(c)(3) bonds, that are
private activity bonds as defined in section 141 of the Code), in an aggregate
principal amount exceeding ten million dollars ($10,000,000), unless the
Village receives an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel that such
designation or issuance, as applicable, will not cause the Bonds to cease to be
“qualified tax-exempt obligations.”
§ 15.2.12 APPROVAL OF INDEMNIFICATION
The Board specifically approves the provisions of the Installment Purchase
Agreement relating to indemnification which provide that the School shall
indemnify and hold harmless the Village and its Village Trustees, officials,
members, officers, employees and agents against liability to the School, or to
any third parties that may be asserted against the Village or its Village
Trustees, officials, members, officers, employees or agents with respect to the
Village's ownership of the Project or the issuance of the Bonds and arising
from the condition of the Project or the acquisition, construction and
operation of the Project by the School except to the extent Section 56-7-1, New
Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978 Compilation, applies, and except claims for any
loss or damage arising out of or resulting from the gross negligence or willful
misconduct of the Village or any member, officer, employee or agent of the
Village.
§ 15.2.13 BOND ORDINANCE IRREPEALABLE
After any of the Bonds are issued, the Bond Ordinance shall be and remain
irrepealable until the Bonds, including interest, are fully paid, canceled and
discharged or there has been defeasance of the Bonds in accordance with the
Indenture.
§ 15.2.14 REPEALER
All bylaws, orders, resolutions and ordinances, or parts thereof, inconsistent
with this Article are repealed by this Article but only to the extent of that
inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed to revive any bylaw, order,
resolution or ordinance, or part thereof, previously repealed.
§ 15.2.15 SEVERABILITY
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of the Bond Ordinance shall for
any reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or
unenforceability of that section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not
affect any of the remaining provisions of this Article.
§ 15.2.16 RECORDING; AUTHENTICATION; PUBLICATION; EFFECTIVE DATE
This Article, immediately upon its final passage and approval, shall be
recorded in the ordinance book of the Village, kept for that purpose, and shall
be there authenticated by the signature of the Mayor and by the signature of
the Village Clerk, and notice of adoption thereof shall be published once in
The Albuquerque Journal and the Ordinance shall be in full force and effect
five days following such publication.
Ordinances and State Law Reference Regarding Chapter 15, Article 2:
Ordinance #167, December 12, 2001
ARTICLE 3. REVENUE BONDS
(SANDIA PREPARATORY SCHOOL PROJECT)
SECTION 1. Ratification
SECTION 2. The Project
SECTION 3. Findings
SECTION 4. Authorization and Approval of Project
SECTION 5. Bonds – Approval, Authorization and Detail
SECTION 6. Authorization of Officers; Approval of Documents
SECTION 7. Delivery of Bonds
SECTION 8. Funds and Accounts
SECTION 9. Findings Regarding Payment of Interest and Principal and Other
Matters
SECTION 10. Limited Obligations
SECTION 11. Approval of Indemnification
SECTION 12. Bond Ordinance Irrepealable
SECTION 13. Repealer
SECTION 14. Severability
SECTON 15. Recording, Authentication, Publication; Effective Date
§ 15.3.1 RATIFICATION
All actions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article previously
taken by the Board and the officials of the Village directed toward approval of
the issuance and sale of the Bonds to the Purchaser be and the same hereby are
ratified, approved and confirmed.
§ 15.3.2 THE PROJECT
The Project to be financed with the Bonds includes the (i) refunding of
outstanding bonds issued by the Village for the School in 2002; and (ii)
acquisition, construction and equipping of buildings and furnishings on the
School's campus and payment of certain costs of issuance.
§ 15.3.3 FINDINGS
   (A)   General. The Board hereby declares that it has considered all relevant
information presented to it relating to the Bonds and the Project and hereby
finds and determines that the issuance of the Bonds pursuant to the Bond
Ordinance to provide funds for the Project is necessary and advisable and in
the interest of and will promote the public health, safety, morals,
convenience, education, economy and welfare of the Village and the residents of
the Village.
   (B)   The Board finds that:
      (1)   The Bonds will be issued for the purpose of financing the Project.
      (2)   The aggregate face amount of obligations to be issued with respect
to financing the Project is up to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
      (3)   The developer of the Project is the School.
      (4)   The Project is located at 532 Osuna N.E., Albuquerque, New Mexico,
within fifteen (15) miles of the boundary of the Village.
§ 15.3.4 AUTHORIZATION AND APPROVAL OF PROJECT
The proceeds of the Bonds will be used to finance the cost of the Project and
to pay certain costs related thereto. The Project is authorized and approved.
The costs referred to in this paragraph include costs and expenses relating to
the issuance of the Bonds; the School may use other available money to
accomplish the purposes set forth in this paragraph.
§ 15.3.5 BONDS APPROVAL, AUTHORIZATION AND DETAIL
   (A)   Approval and Sale. The issuance of the Bonds in an aggregate principal
amount of up to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), and the use of the proceeds
of the Bonds to finance the cost of the Project and to pay expenses relating
thereto is hereby approved and confirmed.
   (B)   Form and Terms. Subject to the limitations set forth in this Article,
the Bonds shall be (i) issued as fully registered bonds, without interest
coupons; (ii) payable as to principal and interest and subject to optional and
mandatory redemption and defeasance in the amounts, upon the conditions and at
the times and prices set forth in the Indenture; and (iii) issued in a
principal amount of up to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), bearing interest
at the rates and maturing on the dates set forth in the Indenture but in any
event maturing not more than thirty (30) years from their date of issuance.
§ 15.3.6 AUTHORIZATION OF OFFICERS; APPROVAL OF DOCUMENTS
The form, terms and provisions of the Bond Documents in the form on deposit in
the office of the Village Clerk are in all respects approved, authorized and
confirmed.
The Mayor of the Village is authorized to execute and deliver in the name and
on behalf of the Village, and the Village Clerk is hereby authorized to attest,
as necessary, the Bond Documents, with such changes therein as are not
inconsistent with this Article, and the Bonds.
The Mayor and Village Clerk are further authorized to execute, authenticate and
deliver such certifications, instruments, documents, letters and other
agreements and to do such other acts and things, either prior to or after the
date of delivery of the Bonds, as are necessary or appropriate to consummate
the transactions contemplated by the Bond Documents.
§ 15.3.7 DELIVERY OF BONDS
Upon the execution of the Bond Documents, the satisfaction of the conditions
set forth in the Bond Documents and upon receipt of the purchase price for the
Bonds, the Bonds shall be executed, authenticated and delivered to the
Purchaser. No bond shall be valid for any purpose until such bond has been
properly authenticated as set forth in the Indenture.
§ 15.3.8 FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
There are established in the Indenture, and on and after the date on which the
Bonds are issued, there shall be maintained, the funds and accounts as set
forth in the Indenture. Other funds and accounts may be established as are
necessary under the Indenture.
§ 15.3.9. FINDINGS REGARDING PAYMENT OF INTEREST AND PRINCIPAL AND OTHER
MATTERS
The following determinations are made:
   (A)   The maximum amount necessary in each year to pay the principal of and
interest on the Bonds, assuming issuance of the Bonds as of August 1, 2007, in
the maximum principal amount of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) and bearing
interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%), is as follows:
Year Ending    Principal and Interest For Such Period
August 1, 2008 $ 1,200,000
August 1, 2009 1,200,000
August 1, 2010 1,200,000
August 1, 2011 1,200,000
August 1, 2012 1,200,000
August 1, 2013 1,200,000
August 1, 2014 1,200,000
August 1, 2015 1,200,000
August 1, 2016 1,200,000
August 1, 2017 1,200,000
August 1, 2018 1,200,000
August 1, 2019 1,200,000
August 1, 2020 1,200,000
August 1, 2021 1,200,000
August 1, 2022 1,200,000
August 1, 2023 1,200,000
August 1, 2024 1,200,000
August 1, 2025 1,200,000
August 1, 2026 1,200,000
August 1, 2027 1,200,000
August 1, 2028 1,200,000
August 1, 2029 1,200,000
August 1, 2030 1,200,000
August 1, 2031 1,200,000
August 1, 2032 1,200,000
August 1, 2033 $11,200,000
 
   (B)   It shall not be necessary to deposit any amount in a debt service
reserve fund or a repair and replacement reserve fund for the maintenance of
the Project.
   (C)   The Installment Purchase Agreement requires that the School maintain
the Project in good repair and condition (excepting reasonable wear and tear)
and carry proper insurance with respect to the Project.
   (D)   The Installment Purchase Agreement requires the School to make
payments sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on
the Bonds as principal and interest become due and to make all payments of or
relating to the Project as they become due.
§ 15.3.10 LIMITED OBLIGATIONS
The Bonds shall be special limited obligations of the Village, payable solely
from the revenues derived from the Installment Purchase Agreement and payable
by the School as described in the Indenture, and shall never constitute a debt
or indebtedness of the Village or the State or any political subdivision
thereof within the meaning of any provision or limitation of the State
Constitution or laws of the State, and shall not constitute or give rise to a
pecuniary liability of the Village or a charge against its general credit or
taxing power. Nothing contained in the Bond Ordinance or in the Bond Documents
or any other instrument shall be construed as obligating the Village (except
with respect to the Project and the application of the revenues therefrom and
the proceeds of the Bonds, all as provided in the Bond Documents), nor as
incurring a pecuniary liability or a charge upon the general credit of the
Village or against its taxing power, nor shall the breach of any agreement
contained in the Bond Ordinance, the Bond Documents, the Bonds or any other
instrument be construed as obligating the Village (except with respect to the
Project and the application of the revenues therefrom and the proceeds of the
Bonds, all as provided in the Bond Documents), nor as incurring a pecuniary
liability or a charge upon the general credit of the Village or against its
taxing power, the Village having no power to pay out of its general funds, or
otherwise contribute any part of the costs of constructing or equipping the
Project, nor power to operate the Project as a business or in any manner except
as seller of the Project.
§ 15.3.11 APPROVAL OF INDEMNIFICATION
The Board specifically approves the provisions of the Installment Purchase
Agreement relating to indemnification which provide that the School shall
indemnify and hold harmless the Village and its Village Trustees, officials,
members, officers, employees and agents against liability to the School, or to
any third parties that may be asserted against the Village or its Village
Trustees, officials, members, officers, employees or agents with respect to the
Village's issuance of the Bonds and arising from the condition of the Project
or the acquisition, construction and operation of the Project by the School
except to the extent Section 56-7-1, New Mexico Statutes Annotated, 1978
Compilation, applies, and except claims for any loss or damage arising out of
or resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Village or
any member, officer, employee or agent of the Village.
§ 15.3.12 BOND ORDINANCE IRREPEALABLE
After any of the Bonds are issued, the Bond Ordinance shall be and remain
irrepealable until the Bonds, including interest, are fully paid, canceled and
discharged or there has been defeasance of the Bonds in accordance with the
Indenture.
§ 15.3.13 REPEALER
All bylaws, orders, resolutions and ordinances, or parts thereof, inconsistent
with this Article are repealed by this Article but only to the extent of that
inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed to revive any bylaw, order,
resolution or ordinance, or part thereof, previously repealed.
§ 15.3.14 SEVERABILITY
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of the Bond Ordinance shall for
any reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or
unenforceability of that section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not
affect any of the remaining provisions of this Article.
§ 15.3.15 RECORDING; AUTHENTICATION; PUBLICATION; EFFECTIVE DATE
This Article, immediately upon its final passage and approval, shall be
recorded in the ordinance book of the Village, kept for that purpose, and shall
be there authenticated by the signature of the Mayor and by the signature of
the Village Clerk, and notice of adoption thereof shall be published once in
The Albuquerque Journal and the Ordinance shall be in full force and effect
five days following such publication.
Ordinances and State Law Reference Regarding Chapter 15, Article 3:
Ordinance #210, July 10, 2007
ARTICLE 4.
GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS
SECTION 1. Ratification of Prior Actions and Awarding Bonds
SECTION 2. Bond Details
SECTION 3. Redemption
SECTION 4. Execution of the Bonds
SECTION 5. Pledge of Full Faith and Credit
SECTION 6. Registration and Transfer
SECTION 7. Registrar/Paying Agent
SECTION 8. Negotiability
SECTION 9. Form of Bonds
SECTION 10. Delivery of the Bonds
SECTION 11. Tax Levy, Interest and Sinking Fund
SECTION 12. Rights of the Bondholders
SECTION 13. Rebate and No Arbitrage Covenant
SECTION 14. Continuing Disclosure Undertaking
SECTION 15. Ordinance Irrepealable
SECTION 16. Savings Clause
SECTION 17. Form of Notice
§ 15.4.1 RATIFICATION OF PRIOR ACTIONS AND AWARDING BONDS
All actions heretofore taken by the Board and the officers of the Village
directed toward the issuance and sale of the Bonds be, and the same hereby are,
ratified, approved and confirmed, and the Bonds are awarded to the Purchaser at
an effective interest rate of 4.5848%, at a purchase price of three million
five hundred eighty-one thousand five hundred sixty-six and 65/100 dollars
($3,581,566.65) which is the par amount less discount of eighteen thousand four
hundred thirty-three and 35/100 dollars ($18,433.35). The Purchaser has
obtained a municipal bond insurance policy from Ambac. The Bonds shall be
subject to the standard municipal bond insurance contract.
§ 15.4.2 BOND DETAILS
The Board, on behalf of the Village and upon the full faith and credit thereof,
shall issue the Bonds in one series in the aggregate principal amount of three
million six hundred thousand dollars ($3,600,000), maturing on the dates at the
interest rates per annum, set forth below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-973.png]
The Bonds shall be dated the date of issuance (herein the "Series Date"), and
shall be issued in fully registered from only, without coupons, and when issued
will be registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository
Trust Company (“DTC"), New York, New York as registered owner of the Bonds. DTC
will act as the securities depository of the Bonds. A single certificate will
be issued and delivered to DTC for the total principal amount of each maturity
of the Bonds. Individual purchases of the Bonds will be made in book-entry form
only in the principal amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000) each or integral
multiples thereof. Purchasers of the Bonds will not receive certificates
representing their interest in the Bonds purchased. The Bonds shall bear
interest from the Series Date to maturity at the rates per annum set forth
above, payable to the registered owner thereof, or registered assigns, on
February 1, 2008, and semi-annually thereafter on February 1 and August 1 in
each year in which the Bonds are outstanding; and shall mature on August 1 of
each year set forth above, provided, however, bonds which are reissued upon
transfer, exchange or other replacement shall bear interest from the most
recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been fully paid or provided
for in full or, if no interest has been paid, from the Series Date.
The principal of each bond and interest due at maturity shall be payable to the
registered owner thereof as shown on the registration books kept by the
Treasurer as "registrar/paying agent" (or any successor thereto, the
"Registrar/Paying Agent") for the Bonds, upon maturity and upon presentation
and surrender thereof at the principal office of the Registrar/Paying Agent.
The Village may appoint a successor or successors to the Registrar/Paying Agent
to perform some or all of the duties of registrar, paying agent and transfer
agent, which shall be a financial institution having an unimpaired capital and
surplus of not less than ten million dollars ($10,000,000). Payments to DTC
made hereunder shall be made in accord with the DTC Representations Letter. If
any bond shall not be paid upon such presentation and surrender at or after
maturity, it shall continue to draw interest at the rate borne by said bond
until the principal thereof is paid in full. Payment of interest on the Bonds
(other than at maturity) shall be made by check or draft mailed to the
registered owner thereof as of the close of business on the Record Date
(defined below) at its address as it appears on the registration books kept by
the Registrar/Paying Agent (or by such other arrangement as may be mutually
agreed to by the Registrar/Paying Agent and such registered owner). All such
payments shall be made in lawful money of the United States of America. The
term "Record Date" as used herein with respect to any Interest Payment Date
shall mean the 15th day of the month next preceding the Interest Payment Date.
The person in whose name any bond is registered at the close of business on any
Record Date with respect to any Interest Payment Date shall be entitled to
receive the interest payable thereon on such Interest Payment Date
notwithstanding any transfer or exchange thereof subsequent to such Record Date
and prior to such Interest Payment Date; but interest on any bo nd which is not
timely paid or duly provided for shall cease to be payable as provided above
and shall be payable to the person in whose name such bond is registered at the
close of business on a special record date (the "Special Record Date") fixed by
the Registrar/Paying Agent for the payment of any such overdue interest. The
Special Record Date shall be fixed by the Registrar/Paying Agent whenever
moneys become available for payment of overdue interest, and notice of any such
Special Record Date shall be given not less than ten days prior thereto, by
first-class mail, to the registered owners of the Bonds as of the fifth day
preceding the mailing of such notice by the Registrar/Paying Agent, stating the
Special Record Date and the date fixed for the payment of overdue interest.
§ 15.4.3 REDEMPTION
   (A)   Optional Redemption. Bonds maturing on and after August 1, 2017 are
subject to redemption, in whole or in part, at the option of the Village at any
time on or after August 1, 2016, at par, plus accrued interest to the date of
redemption.
   (B)   Notice of redemption shall be given by the Registrar by sending a copy
of such notice by registered or certified first-class mail, postage prepaid, at
least thirty (30) days prior to the redemption date, to the registered owners
of the Bonds to be redeemed at the address shown on the registration books kept
by the Registrar as of the close of business of the Registrar on the fifth day
prior to the mailing of notice. The Village shall give the Registrar written
instructions to give notice of redemption to the registered owners of the Bonds
to be redeemed at least forty five (45) days prior to such redemption date.
Neither the Village's failure to give such notice nor the Registrar’s failure
to give such notice to the registered owners of the Bonds, or any defect
therein, shall affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
bonds for which proper notice was given. Notice of redemption shall specify the
amount being redeemed, the date fixed for redemption, and that on such
redemption date there will become and be due and payable upon the Bonds to be
redeemed at the office of the Paying Agent the principal amount to be redeemed
plus accrued interest to the redemption date and that from and after such date
interest will cease to accrue on such amount. Notice having been given in the
manner hereinbefore provided, the Bonds so called for redemption shall become
due and payable on the redemption date so designated and if an amount of money
sufficient to redeem the Bonds called for redemption shall on the redemption
date be on deposit with the Paying Agent, the Bonds to be redeemed shall be
deemed not Outstanding and shall cease to bear interest from and after such
redemption date. Upon presentation of the Bonds to be redeemed at the office of
the Paying Agent, the Paying Agent will pay the Bonds so called for redemption
with funds deposited with the Paying Agent by the Village.
§ 15.4.4 EXECUTION OF THE BONDS
One bond for each stated maturity shall bear the manual or facsimile signatures
of the Mayor or the Mayor Pro-Tem of the Board and the Village Clerk or a
deputy Village Clerk and shall be attested by the seal or facsimile seal of the
Board and shall be authenticated by the manual signature of the Treasurer as
Registrar/Paying Agent. The Bonds bearing the signatures or the signing thereof
shall be the valid and binding obligations of the Village, notwithstanding that
before the delivery of the Bonds and payment therefor, or before the issuance
thereof upon transfer or exchange, any or all of the persons whose signatures
appear on the Bonds shall have ceased to fill their respective offices. The
Mayor and Village Clerk shall, by the execution of a signature certificate
pertaining to the Bonds, adopt as and for their respective signatures, the
facsimiles thereof appearing on the Bonds; and, at the time of the execution of
the signature certificate, the Mayor and Village Clerk may each adopt as and
for his or her facsimile signature, the facsimile signature of his or her
predecessor in office in the event that such facsimile signature appears upon
any of the Bonds. The Mayor and the Vi1lage Clerk, pursuant to Section 6-9-
1 through 6-9-6, inclusive, NMSA 1978, shall each file his manual signature,
certified by him under oath, with the Secretary of State of New Mexico,
provided that such filing shall not be necessary for any officer where any
previous filing shall have application to the Bonds.
§ 15.4.5 PLEDGE OF FULL FAITH AND CREDIT
The Bonds represent all of the Bonds approved at the special bond election held
coincident with the general election duly called and held in the Village of Los
Ranchos de Albuquerque, State of Mexico (the "Village"), on the 13th day of
March, 2007. The Bonds shall constitute the general obligation of the Village,
payable from general (ad valorem) taxes which shall be levied without
limitation as to the rate or amount. The full faith and credit of the Village
shall be, and hereby is, irrevocably pledged to the payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds.
No bond shall be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless the certificate of
authentication, substantially in the form hereinafter provided, has been duly
executed by the Registrar/Paying Agent. The Registrar/Paying Agent's
certificate or authentication shall be deemed to have been duly executed by it
if manually signed by an authorized officer of the Registrar/Paying Agent, but
it shall not be necessary that the same officer sign the certificate of
authentication on all of the Bonds issued hereunder.
§ 15.4.6 REGISTRATION AND TRANSFER
   (A)   Books for the registration and transfer of the Bonds shall be kept by
the Treasurer as registrar and as paying agent for the Bonds. Upon the
surrender for transfer of any bond at the principal office of the Registrar/
Paying Agent or any successor, duly endorsed for transfer or accompanied by an
assignment duly executed by the registered owner of his attorney duly
authorized in writing, the Registrar/Paying Agent shall authenticate and
deliver, not more than three business days after receipt of the Bond to be
transferred in the name of the transferee or transferees, a new Bond or Bonds
in fully registered form of the same aggregate principal amount of authorized
denominations, and of the same maturity, interest rate and series, bearing a
number or numbers not contemporaneously outstanding. Bonds may be exchanged at
the principal office of the Registrar/Paying Agent for an equal aggregate
principal amount of bonds of other authorized denominations, and of the same
maturity, series and interest rate. The Registrar/Paying Agent shall
authenticate and deliver, not more than three business days after receipt of
the Bond to be exchanged, a Bond or Bonds which the registered owner making the
exchange is entitled to receive, bearing a number or numbers not
contemporaneously outstanding. Exchanges and transfers of bonds as herein
provided shall be without charge to the owner or any transferee, but the
Registrar/Paying Agent may require the payment by the owner of any bond
requesting exchange or transfer of any tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to such exchange or transfer.
   (B)   The person in whose name any bond shall be registered, on the
registration books kept by the Registrar/Paying Agent, shall be deemed and
regarded as the absolute owner thereof for the purpose of making payment
thereof and for all other purposes except as may otherwise be provided with
respect to payment of interest as is provided in §
15.4.2 hereof; and payment of or on account of either principal or interest on
any bond shall be made only to or upon the written order of the registered
owner thereof or his legal representative, but such registration may be changed
upon transfer of such bond in the manner and subject to the conditions and
limitations provided herein. All such payments shall be valid and effectual to
discharge the liability upon such bond to the extent of the sum or sums so
paid.
   (C)   If any bond shall be lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated, the
Registrar/Paying Agent shall, upon receipt of the mutilated bond and such
evidence, information or indemnity relating thereto as it may reasonably
require and as may be required by law, authenticate and deliver a replacement
Bond or Bonds of a like aggregate principal amount of authorized denominations,
and of the same maturity, interest rate and series, bearing a number or numbers
not contemporaneously outstanding. If such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated
bond shall have matured, the Registrar/Paying Agent may pay such bond in lieu
of replacement.
   (D)   The officers of the Village are authorized to deliver to the
Registrar/Paying Agent fully executed but unauthenticated bonds in such
quantities as may be convenient to be held in custody by the Registrar/Paying
Agent pending use as herein provided.
   (E)   Whenever any bond shall be surrendered to the Registrar/Paying Agent
upon payment thereof, or to the Registrar/Paying Agent for transfer, exchange
or replacement as provided herein, such bond shall be promptly canceled by the
Registrar/Paying Agent, and counterparts of a certificate of such cancellation
shall be furnished by the Registrar/Paying Agent.
§ 15.4.7 REGISTRAR/PAYING AGENT
The Village may, upon notice mailed to each registered owner of bonds at the
address last shown on the registration books, appoint a Successor Registrar/
Paying Agent. Every such Successor Registrar/Paying Agent shall be a bank or
trust company located in and in good standing in the United States and having a
shareholders equity (e.g., capital stock, surplus and undivided profits),
however denominated, of not less than ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
§ 15.4.8 NEGOTIABILITY
Subject to the registration provisions hereof, the Bonds hereby authorized
shall be fully negotiable and shall have all the qualities of negotiable paper,
and the registered owner or owners thereof shall possess all rights enjoyed by
the holders of negotiable instruments under the provisions of the Uniform
Commercial Code.
§ 15.4.9 FORM OF BONDS
The Bonds shall be in substantially the following form:
[Form of Bond]
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STATE OF NEW MEXICO
AS PROVIDED IN THE BOND ORDINANCE REFERRED TO HEREIN, UNTIL THE TERMINATION OF
REGISTERED OWNERSHIP OF ALL OF THE BONDS THROUGH THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY
(TOGETHER WITH ANY SUCCESSOR SECURITIES DEPOSITORY APPOINTED PURSUANT TO THE
BOND ORDINANCE, "DTC"), AND NOTWITHSTANDING ANY OTHER PROVISION OF THE BOND
ORDINANCE TO THE CONTRARY, THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OUTSTANDING UNDER THIS BOND MAY
BE PAID OR REDEEMED WITHOUT SURRENDER HEREOF TO THE REGISTRAR. DTC OR A
TRANSFEREE OR ASSIGNEE OF DTC OF THIS BOND MAY NOT RELY UPON THE PRINCIPAL
AMOUNT INDICATED HEREON AS THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT HEREOF OUTSTANDING AND TO BE
PAID. THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OUTSTANDING AND TO BE PAID ON THIS BOND SHALL FOR
ALL PURPOSES BE THE AMOUNT INDICATED ON THE BOOKS OF THE REGISTRAR.
UNLESS THIS BOND IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC TO THE
REGISTRAR FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY BOND
ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED
BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO.,
ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY
PERSONS IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN
INTEREST HEREIN.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-984.png]
The Board of Trustees of the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, New Mexico
(the "Board"), on the faith, credit and behalf of the Village of Los Ranchos de
Albuquerque, New Mexico (the "Village"), for value received, hereby promises to
pay to the registered owner named above, or registered assignees, the principal
amount stated above on the Maturity Date stated above and to pay interest on
the principal amount at the Interest Rate on February 1, 2008 and thereafter on
February 1 and August 1 of each year (the “Interest Payment Date”) from the
Series Date stated above to its maturity. The principal of the Bonds of the
series of which this is one (the "Bonds") and interest due at maturity shall be
payable to the registered owner thereof as shown on the registration books kept
by the Village Treasurer as "Registrar/Paying Agent" (and any successor
thereto, the "Registrar/Paying Agent") for the Bonds, upon maturity and upon
presentation and surrender thereof at the principal office of the Registrar/
Paying Agent. If any bond shall not be paid upon such presentation and
surrender at or after maturity, it shall continue to draw interest at the rate
borne by said bond until the principal thereof is paid in full. Payment of
interest on the Bonds (other than at maturity) shall be made by check or draft
mailed by the Registrar/Paying Agent, on or before each Interest Payment Date
to the registered owner thereof as of the close of business on the Record Date
(defined below) at its address as it appears on the registration books kept by
the Registrar/Paying Agent. All such payments shall be made in lawful money of
the United States of America. The term "Record Date" as used herein with
respect to any Interest Payment Date shall mean the 15th day of the month next
preceding the Interest Payment Date. The person in whose name any bond is
registered at the close of business on any Record Date with respect to any
Interest Payment Date shall be entitled to receive the interest payable thereon
on such Interest Payment Date notwithstanding any transfer or exchange thereof
subsequent to such Record Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date; but
interest on any bond which is not timely paid or duly provided for shall cease
to be payable as provided above and shall be payable to the person in whose
name such bond is registered at the close of business on a special record date
(the "Special Record Date") fixed by the Registrar/Paying Agent for the payment
of any such overdue interest. The Special Record Date shall be fixed by the
Registrar/Paying Agent whenever moneys become available for payment of overdue
interest, and notice of any such Special Record Date shall be given not less
than ten days prior thereto, by first-class mail, to the registered owners of
the Bonds as of the fifth day preceding the mailing of such notice by the
Registrar/Paying Agent, stating the Special Record Date and the date fixed for
the payment of overdue interest.
Optional Redemption. Bonds maturing on and after August 1, 2017 are subject to
redemption, in whole or in part, at the option of the Village at any time on or
after August 1, 2016 at par, plus accrued interest to the date of redemption.
Notice of redemption shall be given by the Registrar by sending a copy of such
notice by registered or certified first-class mail, postage prepaid, at least
thirty (30) days prior to the redemption date, to the registered owners of the
Bonds to be redeemed at the address shown on the registration books kept by the
Registrar as of the close of business of the Registrar on the fifth day prior
to the mailing of notice. The Village shall give the Registrar written
instructions to give notice of redemption to the registered owners of the Bonds
to be redeemed at least forty five (45) days prior to such redemption date.
Neither the Village's failure to give such notice nor the Registrar's failure
to give such notice to the registered owners of the Bonds, or any defect
therein, shall affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
bonds for which proper notice was given. Notice of redemption shall specify the
amount being redeemed, the date fixed for redemption, and that on such
redemption date there will become and be due and payable upon the Bonds to be
redeemed at the office of the Paying Agent the principal amount to be redeemed
plus accrued interest to the redemption date and that from and after such date
interest will cease to accrue on such amount. Notice having been given in the
manner hereinbefore provided, the Bonds so called for redemption shall become
due and payable on the redemption date so designated and if an amount of money
sufficient to redeem the Bonds called for redemption shall on the redemption
date be on deposit with the Paying Agent, the Bonds to be redeemed shall be
deemed not Outstanding and shall cease to bear interest from and after such
redemption date. Upon presentation of the Bonds to be redeemed at the office of
the Paying Agent, the Paying Agent will pay the Bonds so called for redemption
with funds deposited with the Paying Agent by the Village.
The Bonds are fully registered and are issuable in denominations of five
thousand dollars ($5,000) and any integral multiple thereof (provided that no
individual bond may be issued for more than one maturity). The Bonds, of which
this bond is one, are limited to the total principal amount of three million
six hundred thousand dollars ($3,600,000) are of like tenor, except as to
number, denomination, maturity date, and interest rate, and are issued by the
Vil1age, to provide funds for acquisition of open space, and to reimburse the
Village for expenditures made by the Village for the foregoing purpose. The
Bonds are issued under the authority of and in full conformity with the
Constitution and laws of the State of New Mexico (particularly, the Public
Securities Act, Section 6-14-1 through 6-14-12 NMSA 1978 and Sections 6-15-
1 through 6-15-28, NMSA 1978, and acts amendatory and supplemental thereto),
and pursuant to an ordinance of the Board duly adopted and made a law of the
Village prior to the issuance of this Bond (the "Bond Ordinance").
The Registrar/Paying Agent will maintain the books of the Village for the
registration of ownership of the Bonds. Upon the surrender for transfer of any
bond at the principal office of the Registrar/Paying Agent, duly endorsed for
transfer or accompanied by an assignment duly executed by the registered owner
or his attorney duly authorized in writing, the Registrar/Paying Agent shall
authenticate and deliver not more than three business days after receipt of the
Bond to be transferred in the name of the transferee or transferees a new Bond
or Bonds in fully registered form of the same aggregate principal amount of
authorized denominations, and of the same maturity, interest rate and series,
bearing a number or numbers not contemporaneously outstanding. Bonds may be
exchanged at the principal office of the Registrar/Paying Agent for an equal
aggregate principal amount of bonds of other authorized denominations, and of
the same maturity, series and interest rate. The Registrar/Paying Agent shall
authenticate and deliver, not more than three business days after receipt of
the Bond to be exchanged, a Bond or Bonds which the registered owner making the
exchange is entitled to receive, bearing a number or numbers not
contemporaneously outstanding. Exchanges and transfers of bonds as herein
provided shall be without charge to the owner or any transferee, but the
Registrar/Paying Agent may require the payment by the owner of any bond
requesting exchange or transfer of any tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to such exchange or transfer.
The person in whose name any bond shall be registered on the registration books
kept by the Registrar/Paying Agent, shall be deemed and regarded as the
absolute owner thereof for the purpose of making payment thereof and for all
other purposes; and payment of or on account of either principal or interest on
any bond shall be made only to or upon the written order of the registered
owner thereof, or his legal representative, in the manner and subject to the
conditions and limitations provided herein. All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to discharge the liability upon such bond to the extent of the
sum or sums so paid. If any bond shall be lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated,
the Registrar/Paying Agent shall, upon receipt of the mutilated bond and such
evidence, information or indemnity relating thereto as it may reasonably
require and as may be required by law, authenticate and deliver a replacement
Bond or Bonds of a like aggregate principal amount of authorized denominations,
and of the same maturity, interest rate and series, bearing a number or numbers
not contemporaneously outstanding. If such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated
bond shall have matured, the Registrar/Paying Agent may pay such bond in lieu
of replacement. For the punctual payment of the principal of and interest on
this Bond as aforesaid and for the levy and collection of taxes in accordance
with the statutes authorizing the issuance of this Bond, the full faith and
credit of the Village is hereby irrevocably pledged. The Board has, by the Bond
Ordinance, ordered the creation of an Interest and Sinking Fund for the payment
of the Bonds. Such fund is to be held in trust for the benefit of the owner or
owners of the Bonds.
It is hereby certified, recited and warranted that all the requirements of law
have been complied with by the proper officials of the Village in the issuance
of this Bond; that the total indebtedness of the Village, including that of
this Bond, does not exceed any limit of indebtedness prescribed by the
Constitution or laws of the State of New Mexico; that issuance of this Bond
represents the Bonds authorized at a special bond election duly called and held
in the Village, on the 13th day of March, 2007; that provision has been made
for the levy and collection of annual taxes sufficient to pay the principal of
and the interest on this Bond when the same become due.
This Bond shall not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until the Registrar/
Paying Agent shall have manually signed the certificate of authentication
hereon.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the Board of Trustees of the Village of Los Ranchos de
Albuquerque, New Mexico, constituting the governing board of the Village, has
caused the manual or facsimile of the seal of the Village to be hereto affixed
and this Bond to be signed and executed with the manual or facsimile signature
of the Mayor or Mayor Pro-Tem and subscribed and attested with the manual or
facsimile signature of the Clerk or Deputy Clerk of the Village all as of the
Series Date.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-986.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-988.png]
§ 15.4.10 DELIVERY OF THE BONDS
When the Bonds have been duly executed and authenticated, such bonds shall be
delivered to the lawful purchaser thereof named in §
15.4.1. The funds realized from the sale of the Bonds shall be applied solely
to the specified purposes (provided that any accrued interest shall be used to
pay interest on the Bonds if any accrued interest was received), but the
purchaser of any bonds shall in no manner be responsible for the application of
or disposal by the Village, or any of its officers, of any of the funds derived
from the sale thereof. The Village may establish construction trust accounts in
financial institutions for administration of bond proceeds.
§ 15.4.11 TAX LEVY, INTEREST AND SINKING FUND
There shall be levied on all taxable property in the Village at the time and in
the manner provided by law, in addition to all other taxes, direct annual ad
valorem taxes sufficient to pay the principal of and interest accruing on the
Bonds promptly as the same shall become due. This Article is hereby declared to
be the certificate of the Board as to the amount of taxes necessary to be
levied for the purposes herein stated and said taxes shall be certified, levied
and extended upon the tax rolls and collected in the same manner, at the same
time and subject to the same penalties as general state and Village taxes are
certified, levied and collected. Said taxes, when collected, shall be kept by
the Village Treasurer in a separate special fund for the Bonds to be known as
the "Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, New Mexico General Bonds, Series
2007 Interest and Sinking Fund" which fund shall be used solely for the purpose
of paying the principal of and interest on the Bonds as the same become due or
mature and, if so required, to satisfy the covenants of the Village set forth
in §
15.4.14 hereof; provided that nothing herein contained shall be so construed as
to prevent the application of any other funds belonging to the Village and
available for that purpose, to the payment of the Bonds or the interest
thereon, as the same become due and upon such payment the levy or levies of tax
provided for in this §
15.4.11 may thereupon to that extent be diminished. If the taxes herein
provided for shall not be levied or collected in time to pay the interest on or
principal of the Bonds as the same become due or mature, then such interest or
principal shall be paid from any funds belonging to the Village, which funds
may be reimbursed from the taxes herein provided for when the same are
collected.
§ 15.4.12 RIGHTS OF THE BONDHOLDERS
The officers of the Village be, and they hereby are, authorized and directed to
take all action necessary or appropriate to effectuate the provisions of this
Article, including without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
entering into of a Registrar/Paying Agent agreement, the entering of necessary
agreements with DTC, the printing of the Bonds, if necessary, and the execution
of such certificates as may be required by the Bond purchasers relating to the
signing of the Bonds, the tenure and identity of Village officials, the receipt
of the purchase price of the Bonds from the purchasers and the absence of
litigation, pending or threatened, if in accordance with the facts, affecting
the validity thereof and the absence and existence of factors affecting the
exclusion of interest on the Bonds from gross income for federal income tax
purposes.
§ 15.4.13 REBATE AND NO ARBITRAGE COVENANT
The Village covenants that it will restrict the use of the proceeds of the
Bonds in such manner and to such extent, if any, as may be necessary so that
the Bonds will not constitute arbitrage bonds under Section 148 of the Code.
The Mayor, Village Clerk, Village Treasurer or any other officer of the Village
having responsibility for the issuance of the Bonds shall give an appropriate
certificate of the Village, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for
the Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the Village regarding
the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Bonds, the facts, circumstances
and estimates on which they are based, and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of interest on the Bonds.
The Village covenants that it (a) will take or cause to be taken such actions
which may be required of it for the interest on the Bonds to be and remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and (b) will not
take or permit to be taken any actions which would adversely affect that
exclusion, and that it, or persons acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the Bonds to the governmental purpose of
the borrowing, (ii) restrict the yield on investment property acquired with
those proceeds, (iii) make timely rebate payments to the federal government,
(iv) maintain books and records and make calculations and reports, and (v)
refrain from certain uses of proceeds, all in such manner and to the extent
necessary to assure such exclusion of that interest under the Code. The Mayor,
Village Clerk and Village Treasurer and other appropriate officers are hereby
authorized and directed to take any and all actions, make calculations and
rebate payments, and make or give reports and certifications, as may be
appropriate to assure such exclusion of that interest.
For purposes of complying with the covenants of the Village set forth in the
preceding paragraph, there is hereby created a fund of the Village designated
as the Rebate Fund for the deposit of any amounts that may be due to the U.S.
Treasury under the Code. Any provision hereof to the contrary notwithstanding,
amounts credited to the Rebate Fund shall be free and clear of any lien
hereunder or in any other Ordinance authorizing the issuance of bonds of the
Village.
§ 15.4.14 CONTINUING DISCLOSURE UNDERTAKING
The Village will make a written undertaking by the Board on behalf of the
Village for the benefit of the holders of the Bonds required by Section (b)(5)
(i) of Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (17 C.F.R. Part 240, § 240, 15c2-12) (the
"Rule") in the form submitted to the Board.
§ 15.4.15 ORDINANCE IRREPEALABLE
After any of the Bonds have been issued, this Article shall constitute a
contract between the Village and the holder or holders of the Bonds and shall
be and remain irrepealable and unalterable until the Bonds and the interest
thereon shall have been fully paid, satisfied and discharged or until such
payment has been duly provided for.
§ 15.4.16 SAVINGS CLAUSE
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Article shall for any
reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or
unenforceability of such section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not
affect any of the remaining provisions of this Article.
§ 15.4.17 FORM OF NOTICE
The following notice shall be published one time in a newspaper having general
circulation in the Village, as soon as is practicable following the adoption
hereof:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-992.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71f15c0559b4e306cec8342e3c6ff0cf28a0bd33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-990.png]
Ordinances and State Law Reference Regarding Chapter 15, Article 4:
Ordinance #212, August 8, 2007
ARTICLE 5. IMPROVEMENT REVENUE BONDS
(ALBUQUERQUE ACADEMY PROJECT)
SECTION 1. Ratification
SECTION 2. Findings
SECTION 3. Authorization and Approval of the Refunding and the Series 2010
Project
SECTION 4. Series 2010 Bonds – Authorization of Bonds; Form and Terms
SECTION 5. Authorization of Officers; Approval of Documents
SECTION 6. Delivery of Series 2010 Bonds
SECTION 7. Deposit and Investment of Money
SECTION 8. Findings Regarding Payment of Interest and Principal and Other
Matters
SECTION 9. Limited Obligations
SECTION 10. Approval of Indemnification
SECTION 11. Amendment of the Bond Ordinance
SECTION 12. Bond Ordinance Irrepealable
SECTION 13. Repealer
SECTION 14. Severability
SECTION 15. Effective Date
SECTION 16. Publication of Ordinance
§ 15.5.1 RATIFICATION
All action heretofore taken (not inconsistent with the express provisions of
the Bond Ordinance) by the Board and the officers of the Village directed
toward the Refunding, the Series 2010 Project, and the authorization and
approval of the sale and issuance of the Series 2010 Bonds to the Purchaser be
and the same hereby is, ratified, approved and confirmed.
§ 15.5.2 FINDINGS
   (A)   General. The Board hereby declares that it has considered all relevant
information presented to it regarding the Series 2010 Bonds, the Refunding and
the Series 2010 Project and hereby finds and determines that the issuance of
the Series 2010 Bonds to provide funds for the Refunding and the Series 2010
Project is necessary and advisable and in the interest of, and will promote the
public health, safety, morals, convenience, education, economy and welfare of
the Village and the residents of the Village. The Board hereby further declares
that independent educational institutions provide a valuable service for
Village residents by allowing educational choice and that broadening
educational choice and making maximum possible use of existing educational
resources and facilities, such as the Academy, will benefit the residents of
the Village.
   (B)   Public Hearing. The Board, after having conducted a public hearing,
after reasonable notice in accordance with Section 147(f) of the Code, finds
that:
      (1)   The Series 2010 Bonds will be issued in the maximum Principal
amount of thirty-six million dollars ($36,000,000) for the purpose of financing
the Refunding and the Series 2010 Project.
      (2)   The maximum aggregate face amount of obligations to be issued for
the purpose of the Refunding and related costs is currently anticipated to be
thirty-two million dollars ($32,000,000); the maximum aggregate face amount of
obligations currently expected to be issued to finance the Series 2010 Project
and related costs is four million dollars ($4,000,000). The allocation of such
amounts between the Refunding and the Series 2010 Project may change, but the
maximum aggregate face amount of the Series 2010 Bonds will not exceed thirty-
six million dollars ($36,000,000).
      (3)   The initial developer and operator of the Series 2010 Project is
the Academy.
      (4)   The location of the Academy is 6400 Wyoming Boulevard, N.E.,
Albuquerque, New Mexico.
   (C)   Sale Price. The sale price of the Series 2010 Bonds to the Purchaser
will be set forth in the Sale Resolution.
   (D)   Issuance. The Series 2010 Bonds are being issued pursuant to the Act.
§ 15.5.3 AUTHORIZATION AND APPROVAL OF THE REFUNDING AND THE SERIES 2010
PROJECT
   (A)   It is currently anticipated that up to thirty-two million dollars
($32,000,000) of the proceeds of the Series 2010 Bonds will be used to provide
for the current refunding of the Series 1999 Bonds and the Series 2002 Bonds by
redeeming the outstanding Series 1999 Bonds and Series 2002 Bonds and to pay
certain costs related thereto, including the cost associated with termination
of a related swap agreement. The Refunding is hereby authorized and approved,
and the final details of the Refunding will be set forth in the Sale Resolution
to be adopted by the Board of Trustees. The costs contemplated by this
paragraph include costs and expenses relating to the issuance of the Series
2010 Bonds. The Academy may use other available money to accomplish the
purposes set forth in this paragraph. The Village shall, on behalf of the
Academy, refund the Series 1999 Bonds and the Series 2002 Bonds by making the
deposits required by the 1995 Indenture.
   (B)   It is currently anticipated that up to four million dollars
($4,000,000) of the proceeds of the Series 2010 Bonds will be used to pay, or
to reimburse the Academy for the payment of, the costs of the Series 2010
Project and to pay certain costs related thereto. The Series 2010 Project is
hereby authorized and approved. The Academy may use other available money to
accomplish the purpose set forth in this paragraph.
§ 15.5.4 SERIES 2010 BONDS - AUTHORIZATION OF BONDS; FORM AND TERMS
   (A)   Approval and Sale. The issuance, sale and delivery of the Series 2010
Bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed thirty-six million dollars
($36,000,000), and the use of the proceeds of the Series 2010 Bonds for the
Refunding, to finance the Series 2010 Project and to pay expenses relating
thereto are hereby authorized. The Series 2010 Bonds shall be sold to the
Purchaser pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement on the terms set forth in the
Sale Resolution.
   (B)   Form and Terms. Subject to the limitations set forth in the Bond
Ordinance and the Sale Resolution, the Series 2010 Bonds shall be (i) in the
form and denominations and shall be numbered and dated as set forth in the
Indenture; (ii) payable as to principal and interest and subject to optional
and extraordinary optional redemption and defeasance in the amounts, upon the
conditions and at the times and prices set forth in the Indenture; and (iii)
issued in the principal amount, at the rate and with the maturities as set
forth in the Sale Resolution.
   (C)   Execution. The Series 2010 Bonds shall be signed, attested and
authenticated as set forth in the Indenture and shall bear the seal or a
facsimile of the seal of the Village.
§ 15.5.5 AUTHORIZATION OF OFFICERS; APPROVAL OF DOCUMENTS
The forms, terms and provisions of the Bond Documents, in the form on deposit
in the office of the Village Clerk, are in all respects approved, authorized
and confirmed, subject to any modifications to the Bond Documents approved in
the Sale Resolution. Changes which are not inconsistent with the terms of the
Bond Ordinance and Sale Resolution may be made in the Bond Documents with the
approval of the Mayor of the Village.
The Mayor of the Village is authorized to execute and deliver in the name and
on behalf of the Village, and the Village Clerk is hereby authorized to attest,
as necessary, the Bond Documents and the Series 2010 Bonds, with such changes
therein as are not inconsistent with the Bond Ordinance or the Sale Resolution.
Changes inconsistent with the terms of the Bond Ordinance or Sale Resolution
may be approved by other resolution or ordinance of the Village.
The Mayor, Treasurer, Village Clerk and other authorized officers of the
Village are authorized to execute, authenticate and deliver such
certifications, instruments, documents, letters and other agreements and to do
such other acts and things, either prior to or after the date of delivery of
the Series 2010 Bonds, as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the
transactions contemplated by the Bond Documents and the Bond Ordinance.
The use and distribution of the Preliminary Official Statement and the Official
Statement relating to the Series 2010 Bonds by the Academy and the Purchaser in
such form as they deem appropriate and adequate for the sale of the Series 2010
Bonds are hereby authorized and approved, and the Mayor is authorized to deem
the Preliminary Official Statement to be final pursuant to Securities Exchange
Commission Rule 15c2-12, and to execute a certificate to that effect, at the
appropriate time.
§ 15.5.6 DELIVERY OF SERIES 2010 BONDS
Upon the execution of the Bond Documents, the satisfaction of the conditions
set forth in the Bond Documents and upon receipt of the purchase price for the
Series 2010 Bonds, the Series 2010 Bonds shall be executed, authenticated and
delivered to or for the benefit of the Purchaser. No Series 2010 Bond shall be
valid for any purpose until such Series 2010 Bond has been properly
authenticated, as set forth in the Indenture.
§ 15.5.7 DEPOSIT AND INVESTMENT OF MONEY
The Trustee is authorized and directed to deposit, invest and otherwise
administer the proceeds of the Series 2010 Bonds, as set forth in the Indenture
and the escrow agreement, if any. The proceeds of the Series 2010 Bonds shall
not be invested in a manner which would cause interest on the Series 2010 Bonds
to be included in gross income for federal income tax purposes.
There are established in the Indenture, and on and after the date on which the
Series 2010 Bonds are issued, there shall be maintained, the funds and accounts
in trust as set forth in the Indenture and any escrow agreement. Other funds
and accounts may be established as are necessary to administer the trusts
created by the Indenture.
§ 15.5.8 FINDINGS REGARDING PAYMENT OF INTEREST AND PRINCIPAL AND OTHER MATTERS
The following determinations are made:
   (A)   The maximum amount necessary in each year to pay the principal of and
interest on the Series 2010 Bonds shall be set forth in the Sale Resolution to
be adopted by the Board of Trustees prior to issuance of the Bonds.
   (B)   It shall not be necessary to deposit any amount in a debt service
reserve fund or a repair and replacement reserve fund.
   (C)   The Installment Sale Agreement requires that the Academy maintain the
Series 2010 Project in good repair and condition (excepting reasonable wear and
tear) and carry proper insurance with respect to the Series 2010 Project and
indemnifies the Village against any claims related to the Refunding and the
Series 2010 Project.
   (D)   The Installment Sale Agreement requires the Academy to make payments
sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Series
2010 Bonds as principal and interest become due and to make all payments of or
relating to the Refunding as they become due.
§ 15.5.9 LIMITED OBLIGATIONS
The Series 2010 Bonds shall be special limited obligations of the Village,
payable solely from the revenues derived from the trust estate and the other
revenues payable by the Academy as described in the Installment Sale Agreement
and the Indenture and shall never constitute a debt or indebtedness of the
Village or the State or any political subdivision thereof within the meaning of
any provision or limitation of the State Constitution or statutes, and shall
not constitute or give rise to a pecuniary liability of the Village or a charge
against its general credit or taxing power. Nothing contained in the Bond
Ordinance, the Bond Documents, or any other instrument shall be construed as
obligating the Village (except with respect to the Refunding and the Series
2010 Project and the application of the proceeds of the Series 2010 Bonds and
the proceeds received under the Installment Sale Agreement, all as provided in
the Bond Documents), nor as incurring a pecuniary liability or a charge upon
the general credit of the Village or against its taxing power; nor shall the
breach of any agreement contained in the Bond Ordinance, the Bond Documents,
the Series 2010 Bonds or any other instrument be construed as obligating the
Village (except with respect to the Refunding and the Series 2010 Project and
the application of the proceeds of the Series 2010 Bonds and the proceeds
received under the Installment Sale Agreement, all as provided in the Bond
Documents), nor as incurring a pecuniary liability or a charge upon the general
credit of the Village or against its taxing power, the Village having no power
to pay out of its general funds, or otherwise contribute any part of the costs
of the Refunding, nor power to operate the Series 2010 Project as a business or
in any manner except as seller of the Series 2010 Project.
§ 15.5.10 APPROVAL OF INDEMNIFICATION
The Board specifically approves the provisions of the Installment Sale
Agreement relating to indemnification which provide that the Academy shall
indemnify and hold harmless the Village and its Trustees, officials, employees
and agents against liability to the Academy or to any third parties that may be
asserted against the Village or its Trustees, officials, employees or agents
with respect to the Village's ownership of the Series 2010 Project or the
issuance of the Series 2010 Bonds or arising from the condition of the Series
2010 Project or the Refunding.
§ 15.5.11 AMENDMENT OF BOND ORDINANCE
   (A)   Limitations upon Amendments. The Bond Ordinance may be amended or
supplemented by ordinance or resolution of the Board without the consent of the
owners of the Series 2010 Bonds:
      (1)   To cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any defect
or inconsistent provision contained in the Bond Ordinance;
      (2)   To grant to the owners of the Series 2010 Bonds any additional
rights, remedies, powers or authority that may lawfully be granted to them;
      (3)   To obtain or maintain a rating on the Series 2010 Bonds from any
rating agency which amendment, in the judgment of nationally recognized bond
counsel, does not materially adversely affect the owners of the Series 2010
Bonds;
      (4)   To achieve compliance with federal securities or tax laws;
      (5)   To make any other change in the Bond Ordinance which, in the
opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel, is not materially adverse to the
owners.
   (B)   Additional Amendments. Except as provided above, the Bond Ordinance
may be amended or supplemented only by ordinance adopted by the Board in
accordance with the laws of the State, without receipt by the Village of any
additional consideration, but with the written consent of the owners of a
majority of the principal amount of the outstanding Series 2010 Bonds which are
affected by the amendment or supplement (not including Series 2010 Bonds which
are then owned by or for the account of the Village); provided, however, that
no such ordinance shall have the effect of permitting:
      (1)   An extension of the maturity date of any Series 2010 Bond;
      (2)   A reduction in the principal amount of, premium, if any, or
interest rate on any Series 2010 Bond;
      (3)   The creation of a lien on or a pledge of revenues ranking prior to
the lien or pledge of the Series 2010 Bonds on the revenues pledged under the
Installment Sale Agreement and the Indenture; or
      (4)   A reduction in the principal amount of Series 2010 Bonds required
for consent to such amendment or supplement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the issuance of the Series 2010 Bonds,
the Bond Ordinance may be amended or supplemented by resolution of the Board.
   (C)   Proof of Instruments. The fact and date of the execution of any
instrument under the provisions of this Section may be proven by the
certificate of any officer in any jurisdiction who by the laws of that
jurisdiction is authorized to take acknowledgments of deeds within that
jurisdiction that the person signing the instrument acknowledged before him the
execution of that instrument, or may be proved by an affidavit of a witness to
the execution sworn to before such officer.
   (D)   Proof of Series 2010 Bonds. The principal amount and numbers of Series
2010 Bonds owned by any person executing such instrument and the date of
holding that instrument may be proven by a certificate executed by a bank or
trust company showing that on the date mentioned that person had on deposit
with the bank or trust company the Series 2010 Bonds described in the
certificate.
§ 15.5.12 BOND ORDINANCE IRREPEALABLE
After any of the Series 2010 Bonds are issued, the Bond Ordinance and the Sale
Resolution shall be and remain irrepealable until the Series 2010 Bonds,
including interest, are fully paid, cancelled and discharged or there has been
defeasance of the Series 2010 Bonds in accordance with the Indenture.
§ 15.5.13 REPEALER
All bylaws, orders, resolutions and ordinances, or parts thereof, inconsistent
with the Bond Ordinance and the Sale Resolution are repealed to the extent only
of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed as reviving any
bylaw, order, resolution or ordinance, or part thereof, previously repealed.
§ 15.5.14 SEVERABILITY
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of the Bond Ordinance or the
Sale Resolution shall for any reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable,
the invalidity or unenforceability of that section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of the Bond
Ordinance or Sale Resolution.
§ 15.5.14 EFFECTIVE DATE
Upon adoption of this Article, it shall be recorded and preserved by the
Village Clerk, authenticated by the signature of the Mayor and Village Clerk,
and the seal of the Village impressed hereon, and the title and general summary
of the subject matter contained in the Bond Ordinance shall be published once
in full in a newspaper which is of general circulation in the Village, and the
Bond Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon such publication.
§ 15.5.16 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCE
The following notice shall be published one time in the Albuquerque Journal, a
legal newspaper of general circulation in the Village, as soon as is
practicable following the adoption hereof:
[Form of Notice of Adoption]
VILLAGE OF LOS RANCHOS DE ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO
NOTICE OF ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE NO. 227
Notice is given of the adoption by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Los
Ranchos de Albuquerque, New Mexico of its Ordinance No. 227 on July 14, 2010,
relating to the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, New Mexico Educational
Facilities Refunding and Improvement Revenue Bonds (Albuquerque Academy
Project), Series 2010. The title of the Ordinance is:
ORDINANCE
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF THE VILLAGE OF LOS RANCHOS DE ALBUQUERQUE, NEW
MEXICO EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES REFUNDING AND IMPROVEMENT REVENUE BONDS
(ALBUQUERQUE ACADEMY PROJECT), SERIES 2010, IN THE MAXIMUM PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF
$36,000,000 TO PROVIDE FUNDS (1) FOR THE CURRENT REFUNDING OF THE CITY OF
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES REFUNDING REVENUE BONDS
(ALBUQUERQUE ACADEMY PROJECT), SERIES 1999 AND THE CITY OF ALBUQUERQUE, NEW
MEXICO EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES REVENUE BONDS (ALBUQUERQUE ACADEMY PROJECT),
SERIES 2002 AND RELATED COSTS AND (2) TO FINANCE INTERNAL INFRASTRUCTURE
IMPROVEMENTS AND RENOVATIONS IN CERTAIN BUILDINGS AND OTHER FACILITIES OF
ALBUQUERQUE ACADEMY AND RELATED COSTS; AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY
OF AN INSTALLMENT SALE AGREEMENT, A TRUST INDENTURE, A BOND PURCHASE AGREEMENT,
AND OTHER DOCUMENTS RELATED TO THE ISSUANCE OF THE SERIES 2010 BONDS; PROVIDING
THAT CERTAIN TERMS OF THE BONDS, WILL BE PROVIDED IN A SUBSEQUENT RESOLUTION;
PROVIDING FOR THE PAYMENT OF, AND THE SECURITY FOR, THE SERIES 2010 BONDS
SOLELY FROM CERTAIN REVENUES OF ALBUQUERQUE ACADEMY AND PRESCRIBING OTHER
DETAILS CONCERNING THE BONDS; RATIFYING CERTAIN ACTIONS HERETOFORE TAKEN; AND
REPEALING ALL ACTION INCONSISTENT WITH THIS ORDINANCE.
The title sets forth a general summary of the subject matter contained in the
Ordinance.
Complete copies of the Ordinance are on file with the office of the Village
Clerk at the Village Hall, 6718 Rio Grande Blvd. NW, Los Ranchos de
Albuquerque, New Mexico and are available for inspection and/or purchase during
regular office hours. This notice constitutes compliance with Sections 6-14-
4 through 6-14-7 NMSA 1978.
[End of form of Notice of Adoption]
Ordinances and State Law Reference Regarding Chapter 15, Article 5:
Ordinance #227, July 14, 2010
ARTICLE 6. REFUNDING REVENUE BONDS
(ALBUQUERQUE ACADEMY PROJECT)
SECTION 1.   Ratification
SECTION 2.   Findings
SECTION 3.   Authorization and Approval of the Refunding
SECTION 4.   Parameters
SECTION 5.   Authorization of Bonds; Form and Terms
SECTION 6.   Authorization of Officers; Approval of Documents
SECTION 7.   Delivery of Bonds
SECTION 8.   Deposit and Investment of Money
SECTION 9.   Findings Regarding Payment of Interest and Principal and Other
Matters
SECTION 10.   Limited Obligations
SECTION 11.   Approval of Indemnification
SECTION 12.   Delegation
SECTION 13.   Amendment of Bond Ordinance
SECTION 14.   Bond Ordinance Irrepealable
SECTION 15.   Repealer
SECTION 16.   Severability
SECTION 17.   Effective Date
SECTION 18.   Publication of Ordinance
§ 15.6.1 RATIFICATION
   All action heretofore taken (not inconsistent with the express provisions of
this Bond Ordinance) by the Board and the officers of the Village directed
toward the refunding and the authorization and approval of the sale and
issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds to the purchaser be and the same hereby is,
ratified, approved and confirmed.
§ 15.6.2 FINDINGS
   (A)   General. The Board hereby declares that it has considered all relevant
information presented to it regarding the Series 2020 Bonds and the refunding
and hereby finds and determines that the issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds to
provide funds for the refunding is necessary and advisable and in the interest
of, and will promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, education,
economy and welfare of the Village and the residents of the Village. The Board
hereby further declares that independent educational institutions provide a
valuable service for Village residents by allowing educational choice and that
broadening educational choice and making maximum possible use of existing
educational resources and facilities, such as the Academy, will benefit the
residents of the Village.
   (B)   Sale Price. The sale price of the Series 2020 Bonds to the purchaser
will be set forth in the Sale Certificate and Bond Purchase Agreement.
   (C)   Issuance. The Series 2020 Bonds are being issued pursuant to the Act.
§ 15.6.3 AUTHORIZATION AND APPROVAL OF THE REFUNDING
   It is currently anticipated that up to $40,000,000 of the proceeds of the
Series 2020 Bonds will be used to provide for the current refunding of the
Series 2010 Bonds by redeeming the outstanding Series 2010 Bonds on or after
September 1, 2020 and to pay certain costs related thereto. The refunding is
hereby authorized and approved, and the final terms of the refunding will be
set forth in the sale certificate to be executed by a designated officer. The
costs contemplated by this section include costs and expenses relating to the
issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds. The Academy may use other available money to
accomplish the purposes set forth in this section. The Village shall, on behalf
of the Academy, refund the Series 2010 Bonds by making the deposits required by
the 2010 Indenture.
§ 15.6.4 PARAMETERS
   (A)   In accordance with the Supplemental Public Securities Act and § 6-21-
12 NMSA 1978, the designated officers shall establish the principal amounts,
dates, denominations, maturities, interest rates, sale prices, underwriter's
discount, and payment terms of the Series 2020 Bonds, as evidenced by execution
and delivery of the sale certificate.
   (B)   The following parameters with respect to the Series 2020 Bonds are
hereby established:
      (1)   The maximum aggregate principal amount of the Series 2020 Bonds
shall not exceed $40,000,000.
      (2)   The Series 2020 Bonds may mature in serial or term maturities with
the last such maturity no later than September 1, 2040.
      (3)   The true interest cost on the Series 2020 Bonds shall not exceed
6.00% per annum and the maximum coupon shall not exceed a maximum interest rate
of 6.00% per annum.
      (4)   The Series 2020 Bonds will be secured by the installment sale
agreement revenues pledged hereunder.
      (5)   The form of the Series 2020 Bonds shall be in substantially the
form set forth in the indenture.
      (6)   Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as agent for the Village for the payment of
the Series 2020 Bonds, is appointed paying agent, and registrar for the Series
2020 Bonds, in accordance with and as further described in the indenture.
      (7)   The Series 2020 Bonds shall be dated as determined by the
designated officers as evidenced by the sale certificate.
      (8)   The Series 2020 Bonds shall be issued only as fully registered
bonds.
      (9)   The Series 2020 Bonds shall be numbered consecutively from one
upwards or as otherwise requested by the Village.
      (10)   The amount deposited in any debt service reserve fund or a repair
and replacement reserve fund shall not exceed a permitted reasonably required
reserve fund under the Internal Revenue Code.
§ 15.6.5 AUTHORIZATION OF BONDS; FORM AND TERMS
   (A)   Approval and Sale. The issuance, sale and delivery of the Series 2020
Bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $40,000,000, and the use
of the proceeds of the Series 2020 Bonds for the refunding and to pay expenses
relating thereto are hereby authorized. The Series 2020 Bonds shall be sold to
the purchaser pursuant to the bond purchase agreement on the terms set forth in
the sale certificate.
   (B)   Form and Terms. Subject to the limitations set forth in this Article
and the sale certificate, the Series 2020 Bonds shall be (i) in the form and
denominations and shall be numbered and dated as set forth in the indenture;
(ii) payable as to principal and interest and subject to optional, mandatory
and extraordinary optional redemption and defeasance in the amounts, upon the
conditions and at the times and prices set forth in the indenture; and (iii)
issued in the principal amount, at the rate and with the maturities as set
forth in the sale certificate.
   (C)   Execution. The Series 2020 Bonds shall be signed, attested and
authenticated as set forth in the indenture and shall bear the seal or a
facsimile of the seal of the Village.
§ 15.6.6 AUTHORIZATION OF OFFICERS; APPROVAL OF DOCUMENTS
   (A)   The forms, terms and provisions of the bond documents, in the form on
deposit in the office of the Village Clerk, are in all respects approved,
authorized and confirmed, subject to any modifications to the Bond Documents
approved in the sale certificate. Changes which are not inconsistent with the
terms of this Article and sale certificate may be made in the bond documents
with the approval of the Mayor of the Village.
   (B)   The Mayor of the Village is authorized to execute and deliver in the
name and on behalf of the Village, and the Village Clerk is hereby authorized
to attest, as necessary, the bond documents and the Series 2020 Bonds, with
such changes therein as are not inconsistent with this Article or the sale
certificate. Changes inconsistent with the terms of the bond ordinance or sale
certificate may be approved by other resolution or ordinance of the Village.
   (C)   The Mayor, Treasurer, Village Clerk and other authorized officers of
the Village are authorized to execute, authenticate and deliver such
certifications, instruments, documents, letters and other agreements and to do
such other acts and things, either prior to or after the date of delivery of
the Series 2020 Bonds, as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the
transactions contemplated by the bond documents and this Article.
   (D)   The use and distribution of the preliminary official statement and the
official statement relating to the Series 2020 Bonds by the Academy and the
purchaser in such form as they deem appropriate and adequate for the sale of
the Series 2020 Bonds are hereby authorized and approved, and the Mayor is
authorized to deem the preliminary official statement to be final pursuant to
Securities Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12, and to execute a certificate to
that effect, at the appropriate time.
§ 15.6.7 DELIVERY OF BONDS
   Upon the execution of the bond documents, the satisfaction of the conditions
set forth in the bond documents and upon receipt of the purchase price for the
Series 2020 Bonds, the Series 2020 Bonds shall be executed, authenticated and
delivered to or for the benefit of the purchaser. No Series 2020 Bond shall be
valid for any purpose until such Series 2020 Bond has been properly
authenticated, as set forth in the indenture.
§ 15.6.8 DEPOSIT AND INVESTMENT OF MONEY
   (A)   The trustee is authorized and directed to deposit, invest and
otherwise administer the proceeds of the Series 2020 Bonds, as set forth in the
indenture and the escrow agreement, if any. The proceeds of the Series 2020
Bonds shall not be invested in a manner which would cause interest on the
Series 2020 Bonds to be included in gross income for federal income tax
purposes.
   (B)   There are established in the indenture, and on and after the date on
which the Series 2020 Bonds are issued, there shall be maintained, the funds
and accounts in trust as set forth in the indenture and any escrow agreement.
Other funds and accounts may be established as are necessary to administer the
trusts created by the indenture.
§ 15.6.9 FINDINGS REGARDING PAYMENT OF INTEREST AND PRINCIPAL AND OTHER MATTERS
   The following determinations are made:
   (A)   The maximum amount necessary in each year to pay the principal of and
interest on the Series 2020 Bonds shall be set forth in the sale certificate to
be executed by a designated officer prior to issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds.
   (B)   It may be necessary to deposit Series 2020 Bond proceeds in a debt
service reserve fund or a repair and replacement reserve fund, as provided in
the sale certificate.
   (C)   The installment sale agreement requires that the Academy maintain the
school in good repair and condition (excepting reasonable wear and tear) and
carry proper insurance with respect to the school and indemnifies the Village
against any claims related to the refunding.
   (D)   The installment sale agreement requires the Academy to make payments
sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Series
2020 Bonds as principal and interest become due and to make all payments of or
relating to the refunding as they become due.
§ 15.6.10 LIMITED OBLIGATIONS
   The Series 2020 Bonds shall be special limited obligations of the Village,
payable solely from the revenues derived from the trust estate, as such term is
defined in the indenture, and the other revenues payable by the Academy as
described in the installment sale agreement and the indenture and shall never
constitute a debt or indebtedness of the Village or the State or any political
subdivision thereof within the meaning of any provision or limitation of the
State Constitution or statutes, and shall not constitute or give rise to a
pecuniary liability of the Village or a charge against its general credit or
taxing power. Nothing contained in this Article, the bond documents, or any
other instrument shall be construed as obligating the Village (except with
respect to the refunding and the application of the proceeds of the Series 2020
Bonds and the proceeds received under the installment sale agreement, all as
provided in the bond documents), nor as incurring a pecuniary liability or a
charge upon the general credit of the Village or against its taxing power; nor
shall the breach of any agreement contained in this Article, the bond
documents, the Series 2020 Bonds or any other instrument be construed as
obligating the Village (except with respect to the refunding and the
application of the proceeds of the Series 2020 Bonds, all as provided in the
bond documents), nor as incurring a pecuniary liability or a charge upon the
general credit of the Village or against its taxing power, the Village having
no power to payout of its general funds, or otherwise contribute any part of
the costs of the refunding.
§ 15.6.11 APPROVAL OF INDEMNIFICATION
   The Board specifically approves the provisions of the installment sale
agreement relating to indemnification which provide that the Academy shall
indemnify and hold harmless the Village and its Trustees, officials, employees
and agents against liability to the Academy or to any third parties that may be
asserted against the Village or its Trustees, officials, employees or agents
with respect to the Village's issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds or the
refunding.
§ 15.6.12 DELEGATION
   The Academy, on behalf of the officers of the Village are authorized and
directed to take all action necessary or appropriate to effectuate the
provisions of this Article, including, without limitation, the publication of
notice of adoption of this Article, the distribution of the preliminary
official statement and other material relating to the Series 2020 Bonds, the
printing of the Series 2020 Bonds, certificates pertaining to the Series 2020
Bonds and the delivery of and security for the Series 2020 Bonds as may be
reasonably required by the purchaser. Pursuant to the Supplemental Public
Securities Act, §§6-14-8 et seq., NMSA 1978, the Mayor, Treasurer and Village
Clerk are each hereby delegated authority to execute the indenture, the
installment sale agreement, the bond purchase agreement, and any related
documents and the designated officers are hereby delegated authority to execute
the sale certificate and to determine any or all of the final terms of the
Series 2020 Bonds, subject to the parameters and conditions contained in this
Article. The Mayor or the Treasurer shall present the sale certificate to the
Board in a timely manner, before or after delivery of the Series 2020 Bonds, at
a regularly scheduled public meeting of the Board.
§ 15.6.13 AMENDMENT OF BOND ORDINANCE
   (A)   Limitations upon Amendments. This Article may be amended or
supplemented by ordinance or resolution of the Board without the consent of the
owners of the Series 2020 Bonds:
      (1)   To cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any defect
or inconsistent provision contained in this Article;
      (2)   To grant to the owners of the Series 2020 Bonds any additional
rights, remedies, powers or authority that may lawfully be granted to them;
      (3)   To obtain or maintain a rating on the Series 2020 Bonds from any
rating agency which amendment, in the judgment of nationally recognized bond
counsel, does not materially adversely affect the owners of the Series 2020
Bonds;
      (4)   To achieve compliance with federal securities or tax laws;
      (5)   To make any other change in this Article which, in the opinion of
nationally recognized bond counsel, is not materially adverse to the owners of
the Series 2020 Bonds.
   (B)   Additional Amendments. Except as provided above, this Article may be
amended or supplemented only by ordinance adopted by the Board in accordance
with the laws of the State, without receipt by the Village of any additional
consideration, but with the written consent of the owners of a majority of the
principal amount of the outstanding Series 2020 Bonds which are affected by the
amendment or supplement (not including Series 2020 Bonds which are then owned
by, or for the account of the Village); provided, however, that no such
ordinance shall have the effect of permitting:
      (1)   An extension of the maturity date of any Series 2020 Bond;
      (2)   A reduction in the principal amount of, premium, if any, or
interest rate on any Series 2020 Bond;
      (3)   The creation of a lien on or a pledge of revenues ranking prior to
the lien or pledge of the Series 2020 Bonds on the revenues pledged under the
installment sale agreement and the indenture; or
      (4)   A reduction in the principal amount of Series 2020 Bonds required
for consent to such amendment or supplement.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the issuance of the Series
2020 Bonds, this Article may be amended or supplemented by resolution of the
Board.
   (D)   Proof of Instruments. The fact and date of the execution of any
instrument under the provisions of this Section may be proven by the
certificate of any officer in any jurisdiction who by the laws of that
jurisdiction is authorized to take acknowledgments of deeds within that
jurisdiction that the person signing the instrument acknowledged before him the
execution of that instrument, or may be proved by an affidavit of a witness to
the execution sworn to before such officer.
   (E)   Proof of Series 2020 Bonds. The principal amount and numbers of Series
2020 Bonds owned by any person executing such instrument and the date of
holding that instrument may be proven by a certificate executed by a bank or
trust company showing that on the date mentioned that person had on deposit
with the bank or trust company the Series 2020 Bonds described in the
certificate.
§ 15.6.14 BOND ORDINANCE IRREPEALABLE
   After any of the Series 2020 Bonds are issued, this Article, as supplemented
by the sale certificate, shall be and remain irrepealable until the Series 2020
Bonds, including interest, are fully paid, cancelled and discharged or there
has been defeasance of the Series 2020 Bonds in accordance with the indenture.
§ 15.6.15 REPEALER
   All bylaws, orders, resolutions and ordinances, or parts of thereof:
inconsistent with this Article, as supplemented by the sale certificate, are
repealed to the extent only of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be
construed as reviving any bylaw, order, resolution or ordinance, or part
thereof, previously repealed.
§ 15.6.16 SEVERABILITY
   If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Article, as
supplemented by the sale certificate, shall for any reason be held to be
invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of that section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions
of this Article or sale certificate.
§ 15.6.17 EFFECTIVE DATE
   Upon adoption of this Article, it shall be recorded and preserved by the
Village Clerk, authenticated by the signature of the Mayor and Village Clerk,
and the seal of the Village impressed hereon, and the title and general summary
of the subject matter contained in this Article shall be published once in full
in a newspaper which is of general circulation in the Village, and this Article
shall be in full force and effect upon such publication.
§ 15.6.18 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCE
   The following notice shall be published one time in the Albuquerque Journal,
a legal newspaper of general circulation in the Village, as soon as is
practicable following the adoption hereof:
   Bond Ordinances
   [Form of Notice of Adoption]
   VILLAGE OF LOS RANCHOS DE ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO
   NOTICE OF ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE NO. 270
      Notice is given of the adoption by the Board of Trustees of the Village
of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, New Mexico of its Ordinance No. 270 on June 10,
2020, relating to the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, New Mexico
Educational Facilities Refunding Revenue Bonds (Albuquerque Academy Project),
Series 2020. The title of the Ordinance is:
   ORDINANCE
   AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF THE VILLAGE OF LOS RANCHOS DE ALBUQUERQUE, NEW
MEXICO EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES REFUNDING REVENUE BONDS (ALBUQUERQUE ACADEMY
PROJECT), SERIES 2020, IN A MAXIMUM PRINCIPAL AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED $40,000,000
TO PROVIDE FUNDS FOR THE CURRENT REFUNDING OF THE VILLAGE OF LOS RANCHOS DE
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES REFUNDING AND IMPROVEMENT
REVENUE BONDS (ALBUQUERQUE ACADEMY PROJECT), SERIES 2010 AND RELATED COSTS;
AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF AN INSTALLMENT SALE AGREEMENT, A
TRUST INDENTURE, A BOND PURCHASE AGREEMENT, AND OTHER DOCUMENTS RELATED TO THE
ISSUANCE OF THE SERIES 2020 BONDS; APPROVING THE DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO
MAKE CERTAIN DETERMINATIONS REGARDING THE SALE OF THE SERIES 2020 BONDS SUBJECT
TO THE PARAMETERS ESTABLISHED HEREIN PURSUANT TO THE SUPPLEMENTAL PUBLIC
SECURITIES ACT AND SALE CERTIFICATE; PROVIDING FOR THE PAYMENT OF, AND THE
SECURITY FOR, THE SERIES 2020 BONDS SOLELY FROM CERTAIN REVENUES OF ALBUQUERQUE
ACADEMY AND PRESCRIBING OTHER DETAILS CONCERNING THE BONDS; RATIFYING CERTAIN
ACTIONS HERETOFORE TAKEN; AND REPEALING ALL ACTION INCONSISTENT WITH THIS
ORDINANCE.
   The title sets forth a general summary of the subject matter contained in
the Ordinance. Complete copies of the Ordinance are on file with the office of
the Village Clerk at the Village Hall, 6718 Rio Grande Blvd. NW, Los Ranchos de
Albuquerque, New Mexico and are available for inspection and/or purchase during
regular office hours. This notice constitutes compliance with Sections 6-14-
4 through 6-14-7 NMSA 1978.
   [End of form of Notice of Adoption]
Ordinances and State Law Reference Regarding Chapter 15, Article 6:
Ordinance #270, June 10, 2020.
ARTICLE 7. GENERAL OBLIGATION REFUNDING BONDS
SECTION 1.   Definitions
SECTION 2.   Ratification
SECTION 3.   Authorization of Refunding Project
SECTION 4.   Findings
SECTION 5.   Authorization of Bonds
SECTION 6.   Bond Details
SECTION 7.   Prior Redemption
SECTION 8.   Negotiability
SECTION 9.   Execution
SECTION 10.   Registration, Transfer, Exchange, Replacement and Cancellation
SECTION 11.   General Obligation Bonds
SECTION 12.   Forms of Bonds, Certificate of Authentication and Assignment
SECTION 13.   Delivery of Bonds and Initial Registration
SECTION 14.   Disposition of Proceeds
SECTION 15.   Levy of Taxes; Payment of Bond
SECTION 16.   Delegated Powers
SECTION 17.   Events of Default
SECTION 18.   Remedies Upon Default
SECTION 19.   Duties Upon Default
SECTION 20.   Federal Tax Matters
SECTION 21.   Defeasance
SECTION 22.   Investment of Moneys
SECTION 23.   Ordinance Irrepealable
SECTION 24.   Severability
SECTION 25.   Repealer Clause
SECTION 26.   Amendment
SECTION 27.   Payment Due on Other than Business Days
SECTION 28.   Financial Information
SECTION 29.   Publication of Ordinance
§ 15.7.1 DEFINITIONS
   As used in this Article and any ordinance or resolution amendatory hereof or
supplemental hereto, or relating hereto:
   AUTHORIZED OFFICER means the Mayor, Treasurer, Village Clerk or other
officer or employee of the Village when designated by a Certificate signed by
the Mayor of the Village from time to time.
   BOARD means the Board of Trustees of the Village.
   BOND COUNSEL means an attorney or firm of attorneys nationally recognized as
bond counsel.
   BOND PURCHASE AGREEMENT means the agreement between the Village and the
finance authority providing for the sale by the Village and the purchase by the
finance authority of the bonds.
   BONDS and SERIES 2021 BONDS means the "Village of Los Ranchos de
Albuquerque, New Mexico General Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2021"
authorized by this Article.
   CODE means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the applicable
regulations thereunder.
   FINANCE AUTHORITY means the New Mexico Finance Authority.
   FISCAL YEAR means the 12 months beginning on the first day of July of each
calendar year and ending on the last day of June of the next calendar year, but
it may mean any other 12-month period which any appropriate authority may
hereafter establish for its fiscal year.
   HEREIN, HEREBY, HEREUNDER, HEREOF, HEREINABOVE and HEREAFTER refer to the
entire Article and not solely to the particular section or paragraph of the
Article in which such word is used.
   INTEREST PAYMENT DATE means February 1 and August 1 in each year beginning
on February 1, 2022.
   OUTSTANDING when used with reference to the bonds and as of any particular
date, means all bonds theretofore executed by the Village and authenticated by
the registrar except: (i) any bonds cancelled or fully paid on or before such
date; (ii) any bond in lieu of on in substitution for which another bond has
been delivered pursuant to this Article; (iii) any bond for the payment or
redemption of which funds or securities in the necessary amount have
theretofore been deposited with the paying agent (whether upon or prior to the
maturity or redemption date of such bond); and (iv) for the sole purpose of
determining the percentage of owners consenting to any amendment to this
Article or authorizing the exercise of any remedy hereunder, any bonds owned by
the Village. For all other purposes, bonds owned by the Village which are not
described in clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) shall be treated as outstanding.
   OWNER means the registered owner of any bond.
   PAYING AGENT means the Treasurer (or successor in function) of the Village,
as agent for the Village for the payment of the principal of and interest and
premium, if any, on the bonds.
   PAYMENT DATE means any date upon which any payment of principal of or
interest on any bond is scheduled to be made.
   REFUNDED SERIES 2007 BONDS means the Village's outstanding General
Obligation Bonds, Series 2007 maturing on and after August 1, 2022.
   REFUNDING PROJECT means refunding, paying and discharging the Village's
outstanding Refunded Series 2007 Bonds issued on August 15, 2007 in the
aggregate principal amount of $3,600,000, of which there is presently
outstanding a principal amount of $1,805,000.
   REGISTRAR means the Treasurer (or successor in function) of the Village, as
registrar and transfer agent for the bonds.
   REGULAR RECORD DATE means the fifteenth day of the calendar month (whether
or not a business day) preceding each regularly scheduled interest payment date
on the bonds.
   SERIES DATE means the date of original issuance of each series of bonds.
   SPECIAL RECORD DATE means a special date fixed to determine the names and
addresses of registered owners of the bonds for purposes of paying interest on
a special interest payment date for the payment of defaulted interest thereon,
all as further provided in §
15.7.6(B).
   STATE means the State of New Mexico.
   VILLAGE means the municipal body corporate and politic known as the Village
of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, New Mexico.
§ 15.7.2 RATIFICATION
   All action heretofore taken (not inconsistent with the express provisions of
this Article) by the Board and officers of the Village directed toward the
refunding project, and toward the authorization, issuance and sale of the bonds
is ratified, approved and confirmed.
§ 15.7.3 AUTHORIZATION OF REFUNDING PROJECT
   The refunding project and the method of financing the refunding project are
hereby authorized and ordered at a total cost estimated not to exceed the
amount of the bond proceeds and any investment earnings thereon, excluding any
such cost defrayed or to be defrayed by any source other than bond proceeds.
The refunding project is found and declared to be necessary.
§ 15.7.4 FINDINGS
   The Board hereby declares that it has considered all relevant information
and data and hereby makes the following findings:
   (A)   Moneys available for the refunding project from all sources other than
the issuance of general obligation bonds are not sufficient to defray the cost
of the refunding project.
   (B)   The full faith and credit of the Village may lawfully be pledged to
secure the payment and redemption of the bonds.
   (C)   The issuance of the bonds pursuant to the Act, to provide funds for
the financing of the refunding project, is necessary and in the interest of the
public health, safety, morals and welfare of the residents of the Village.
   (D)   The net effective interest rate on the bonds is 0.518674%, which is
less than 10% per annum, the maximum rate permitted by State law.
   (E)   The refunding project is needed to meet the needs of the Village and
its residents and will result in debt service savings for the Village.
§ 15.7.5 AUTHORIZATION OF BONDS
   This Article has been adopted by the affirmative vote of at least a majority
of all of the members of the Board. For the purpose of protecting the public
health, conserving the property, protecting the general welfare and prosperity
of the residents of the Village, it is hereby declared necessary that the
Village, pursuant to the Act, issue its negotiable, fully registered, general
obligation bonds to be designated "Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, New
Mexico General Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2021," in the aggregate
principal amount of $1,900,000. The issuance, sale and delivery of the bonds to
the finance authority, as purchaser, are hereby authorized.
§ 15.7.6 BOND DETAILS
   (A)   Basic Details. The Series 2021 Bonds shall be issuable in the
denomination of $5,000 or any denomination which is an integral multiple of
$5,000 and shall bear interest on the basis of a 360-day year and 12 30-day
months from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or provided
for or, if no interest has been paid or provided for, from their date until
maturity, payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 of each year,
commencing on February 1, 2022. If, at maturity, payment of the principal
amount of any Series 2021 Bonds is not made as required by the bond ordinance,
interest on the unpaid principal amount on that Series 2021 Bonds shall
continue to accrue at the interest rate stated or described in that Series 2021
Bonds, until the principal amount of that Series 2021 Bonds is paid in full.
The principal maturities and interest rates on the Series 2021 Bonds shall be
the rates provided as follows:
                  SERIES 2021 MATURITY SCHEDULE
               MATURITY      PRINCIPAL      INTEREST
               (August 1)
               2022         $315,000         0.160%
               2023         315,000         0.200%
               2024         315,000         0.290%
               2025         320,000         0.430%
               2026         315,000         0.580%
               2027         320,000         0.770%
   (B)   Payment. The principal of any bond shall be payable to the owner
thereof as shown on the registration books kept by the registrar (which is
appointed as registrar and paying agent for the bonds), upon maturity thereof.
If any bond shall not be paid at or after maturity, it shall continue to draw
interest at the rate borne by the bond until the principal thereof is paid in
full. Payment of interest on any bond shall be made to the registered owner
thereof as of the regular record date by check or draft mailed by the paying
agent, on or before each interest payment date (or, if such interest payment
date is not a business day, on or before the next succeeding business day
without accruing any additional interest), to the owner thereof on the regular
record date at such owner's address as it last appears on the registration
books kept by the registrar on the regular record date (or by such other
arrangement as may be mutually agreed to by the paying agent and any registered
owner on such regular record date). All such payments shall be made in lawful
money of the United States of America. The person in whose name any bond is
registered at the close of business on any regular record date with respect to
any interest payment date shall be entitled to receive the interest payable
thereon on such interest payment date notwithstanding any transfer or exchange
thereof subsequent to such regular record date and prior to such interest
payment date; but any such interest not so timely paid or duly provided for
shall cease to be payable as provided above and shall be payable to the person
in whose name any bond is registered at the close of business on a special
record date fixed by the paying agent for the payment of any such defaulted
interest. Such special record date shall be fixed by the paying agent whenever
moneys become available for defaulted interest, and notice of any such special
record date shall be given not less than ten days prior thereto, by first-class
mail, to the owners of the bonds as of a date selected by the paying agent,
stating the special record date and the date fixed for the payment of such
defaulted interest.
§ 15.7.7 PRIOR REDEMPTION
   The Series 2021 Bonds are not subject to optional redemption prior to
maturity.
§ 15.7.8 NEGOTIABILITY
   Subject to the provisions specifically made or implied herein, the bonds
shall be fully negotiable, and shall have all the qualities of negotiable
paper, and the owners thereof shall possess all rights enjoyed by the holders
of negotiable instruments under the provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code.
§ 15.7.9 EXECUTION
   (A)   Method of Execution. Each bond shall be executed by the manual or
facsimile signature of the Mayor under the seal of the Village; each bond shall
be executed and attested with the manual or facsimile signature of the Village
Clerk; and each bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the registrar as hereafter provided. The bonds bearing
the manual or facsimile signatures of the officers in office at the time of the
authorization thereof shall be the valid and binding obligations of the Village
(subject to the requirement of authentication by the registrar) notwithstanding
that before the delivery thereof and payment therefor, or before the issuance
thereof upon transfer or exchange, any or all of the persons whose manual or
facsimile signatures appear thereon shall have ceased to fill their respective
offices.
   (B)   Certificate of Authentication. No bond shall be valid or obligatory
for any purpose unless the certificate of authentication, substantially in the
form hereinafter provided, has been duly executed by the registrar. The
registrar's certificate of authentication shall be deemed to have been duly
executed by it if manually signed by an authorized officer of the registrar,
but it shall not be necessary that the same officer sign the certificate of
authentication on all of the bonds issued hereunder.
§ 15.7.10 REGISTRATION, TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, REPLACEMENT AND CANCELLATION
   (A)   Registration Books: Transfer and Exchange. Books for the registration
and transfer of the bonds shall be kept by the registrar. Upon the surrender
for transfer of any bonds at the office of the registrar, duly endorsed for
transfer or accompanied by an assignment duly executed by the owner or his
attorney duly authorized in writing, the registrar shall authenticate and
deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees a new bond or bonds of a
like aggregate principal amount and of the same maturity, bearing a number or
numbers not contemporaneously outstanding. Bonds may be exchanged at the office
of the registrar for an equal aggregate principal amount of bonds of the same
maturity of other authorized denominations. The registrar shall authenticate
and deliver a bond or bonds that the owner making the exchange is entitled to
receive, bearing a number or numbers not contemporaneously outstanding.
Exchanges and transfers of bonds as herein provided shall be without charge to
the owner or any transferee, but the registrar may require the payment by the
owner of any bond requesting exchange or transfer of any tax or other
governmental charge required to be paid with respect to such exchange or
transfer.
   (B)   Payment to Registered Owners. The person in whose name any bond shall
be registered on the registration books kept by the registrar shall be deemed
and regarded as the absolute owner thereof for the purpose of making payment
thereof and for all other purposes except as may otherwise be provided with
respect to payment of interest as is provided in §
15.7.6(B), and payment of or on account of either principal or interest on any
bond shall be made only to or upon the written order of the owner thereof or
the owner's legal representative, but such registration may be changed upon
transfer of such bond in the manner and subject to the conditions and
limitations provided herein. All such payments shall be valid and effectual to
discharge the liability upon such bond to the extent of the sum or sums so
paid.
   (C)   Replacement Bonds. If any bond is lost, stolen, destroyed or
mutilated, the registrar shall, upon receipt of such evidence, information or
indemnity relating thereto as it may reasonably require, authenticate and
deliver a replacement bond or bonds of a like aggregate principal amount and of
the same maturity, bearing a number or numbers not contemporaneously
outstanding. If such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated bond has matured, the
paying agent may pay such bond in lieu of replacement.
   (D)   Delivery of Bond Certificates to Registrar. The officers of the
Village are authorized to deliver to the registrar fully executed but
unauthenticated bonds in such quantities as may be convenient to be held in
custody by the registrar pending use as herein provided.
   (E)   Cancellation of Bonds. Whenever any bond is surrendered to the paying
agent or registrar upon payment thereof, or for transfer, exchange or
replacement as provided herein, such bond shall be promptly cancelled by the
paying agent or the registrar, as the case may be, and counterparts of a
certificate of such cancellation shall be furnished by the paying agent or the
registrar, as the case may be, to the Village.
   (F)   Finance Authority. On the delivery date, the bonds will be delivered
to the finance authority for deposit with BOKF, NA, acting as trustee for the
finance authority.
§ 15.7.11 GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS
   The bonds shall constitute the general obligation debt of the Village,
payable from general ad valorem taxes which shall be levied without limitation
as to the rate or amount. The full faith and credit of the Village shall be,
and hereby is, irrevocably pledged to the payment of the principal of and
interest on the bonds.
§ 15.7.12 FORMS OF BONDS, CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION AND ASSIGNMENT
   The bonds and the related certificate of authentication and form of
assignment shall be in substantially the following forms:
   (Form of Bond)
   UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
   STATE OF NEW MEXICO
   VILLAGE OF LOS RANCHOS DE ALBUQUERQUE
   GENERAL OBLIGATION REFUNDING BONDS, SERIES 2021
      No. R-__                                     $_______________
         Interest Rate         Maturity Date            Series Date
         ____% per annum      August 1, 20__          _________, 2021
REGISTERED OWNER: NEW MEXICO FINANCE AUTHORITY
PRINCIPAL AMOUNT:
   The Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, New Mexico (the "Village"), for
value received, promises to pay to the registered owner named above, or
registered assigns, on the Maturity Date specified above, the Principal Amount
stated above, in lawful money of the United States of America, and to pay to
the registered owner hereof as of the Regular Record Date, being the 15th day
of the calendar month preceding each regularly scheduled interest payment date,
as defined in Ordinance No. 283, adopted on October 13, 2021 (which authorizes
this bond and which is referred to herein as the "Bond Ordinance"), by check or
draft mailed to such registered owner, on or before each interest payment date
as hereinafter provided (or, if such interest payment date is not a business
day, on or before the next succeeding business day without accruing any
additional interest), at his address as it last appears on the regular record
date on the registration books kept for that purpose by the treasurer (or
successor in function) of the Village as registrar for the bonds (the
"registrar" and "paying agent") or by such other arrangement as may be agreed
to by the paying agent and the registered owner hereof, interest on said sum in
lawful money of the United States of America from the series date specified
above or the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been fully
paid or duly provided for in full (as more fully provided in the bond
ordinance) until maturity at the per annum interest rate specified above
(subject to adjustment as provided herein), calculated on a 30/360 basis,
payable on February 1, 2022 and semiannually thereafter on February 1 and
August 1 in each year. Any such interest not so timely paid or duly provided
for shall cease to be payable to the registered owner as of the regular record
date and shall be payable to the registered owner as of a special record date
(as defined in the bond ordinance), as further provided in the bond ordinance.
If at or after maturity, payment of this bond is not made as herein provided,
interest hereon shall continue at the rate herein designated until the
principal hereof is paid in full.
   This bond is subject to payment on August 1 in each of the years and
principal amounts stated below at a redemption price equal to 100% of the
principal amount thereof plus accrued interest to the redemption date. As and
for the redemption of this bond, the Village shall cause to be deposited in the
interest and sinking fund a sum which is sufficient to redeem (after credit as
provided below) the following principal amounts of this bond plus accrued
interest to the redemption date:
            (AUGUST 1)      PRINCIPAL         INTEREST
            2022         $315,000          0.160%
            2023         315,000          0.200%
            2024         315,000          0.290%
            2025         320,000          0.430%
            2026         315,000          0.580%
            2027         320,000          0.770%
   The bonds are not subject to optional redemption prior to maturity.
   The bonds are fully registered (i.e., registered as to payment of both
principal and interest), and are issuable in the denomination of $5,000 or any
denomination which is an integral multiple of $5,000 (provided that no bond may
be in a denomination which exceeds the principal coming due on any maturity
date and no individual bond shall be issued for more than one maturity).
   This bond is fully transferable by the registered owner hereof in person or
by his duly authorized attorney on the registration books kept by the Registrar
upon surrender of this bond together with a duly executed written instrument of
transfer satisfactory to the registrar. Upon such transfer a new fully
registered bond of authorized denomination or denominations of the same
aggregate principal amount and maturity shall be issued to the transferee in
exchange for this bond, subject to such terms and conditions as set forth in
the bond ordinance. The Village, the paying agent and the registrar may deem
and treat the person in whose name this bond is registered as the absolute
owner hereof for the purpose of making payment and for all other purposes.
   This bond is one of a series of bonds designated "Village of Los Ranchos de
Albuquerque, New Mexico General Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2021" of
like tenor and date, except as to interest rate, number and maturity,
authorized for the purpose to (1) refund, pay and discharge the Village's
outstanding General Obligation Bonds, Series 2007, and (2) pay costs of
issuance of the bonds. This bond is issued pursuant to and in strict compliance
with the Constitution and laws of the State of New Mexico.
   For the punctual payment of the principal of and interest on this bond as
aforesaid and for the levy and collection of taxes in accordance with the
statutes authorizing the issuance of this bond, the full faith and credit of
the Village is hereby irrevocably pledged. The Village Board has, by the bond
ordinance, ordered the creation of an interest and sinking fund for the payment
of the bonds. Such fund is to be held in trust for the benefit of the owner or
owners of the bonds. The Village covenants and agrees with the registered owner
of this bond and with each and every person who may become the registered owner
hereof that it shall keep and perform all of the covenants of the bond
ordinance.
   This bond is subject to the conditions, and every registered owner hereof by
accepting the same agrees with the obligor and every subsequent registered
owner hereof that the principal of and the interest on this bond shall be paid,
and this bond is transferable, free from, and without regard to any equities
between the obligor and the original or any intermediate registered owner
hereof for any set-offs or cross-claims.
   It is further certified, recited and warranted that all the requirements of
law have been fully complied with by the Board and officers of the Village in
the issue of this bond; and that it is issued pursuant to and in strict
conformity with the Constitution and laws of the State of New Mexico,
particularly §§ 3-30-1 through 3-30-9 NMSA 1978, the provisions of §§ 6-15-
1 through 6-15-22 NMSA 1978, and acts amendatory and supplemental thereto.
   This bond shall not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until the
registrar shall have manually signed the certificate of authentication herein.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, New Mexico
has caused this bond to be signed, subscribed, and executed, and attested with
the manual or facsimile signatures of the Mayor and the Village Clerk,
respectively; has caused its corporate seal to be affixed hereon, all as of the
Series Date.
   [SEAL]
                                          VILLAGE OF LOS RANCHOS DE
                                          ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO
                                          By    Donald T. Lopez /s/
                                             Donald T. Lopez, Mayor
   ATTEST
   By   Danielle Sedillo-Molina /s/
      Danielle Sedillo-Molina, Clerk
   (Form of Certificate of Authentication)
   CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
      Date of Authentication:                      
      This is one of the bonds described in the within-mentioned Bond
Ordinance, and this bond has been duly registered on the registration books
kept by the undersigned as Registrar for such Bonds.
                                 TREASURER (OR SUCCESSOR IN FUNCTION) OF THE
VILLAGE OF LOS RANCHOS DE ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO, as Registrar
                                 By
                                            
                                    Authorized Officer
   (End of Form of Certificate of Authentication)
   (Form of Assignment)
   ASSIGNMENT
      For value received,
                                                                 hereby sells,
assigns and transfer unto
                                                                 the within
bond and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints
                                   , attorney, to transfer the same on the
books of the Registrar, with full power of substitution in the premises.
   Signature Guaranteed:                     Name and Address of Transferee:
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                  Social Security Number or
   Dated:                           Other Tax Identification Number:
                             
   (End of Form of Assignment)
   (End of Form of Bond)
§ 15.7.13 DELIVERY OF BONDS AND INITIAL REGISTRATION
   When the bonds have been duly executed, authenticated, registered and sold,
the Village shall deliver them to the finance authority on receipt of the
agreed purchase price. The registrar shall initially register the bonds in the
name of the finance authority.
§ 15.7.14 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS
   The funds realized from the sale of the bonds shall be applied solely to the
specified purposes for the bonds, but the finance authority shall in no manner
be responsible for the application of or disposal by the Village, or any of its
officers, of any of the funds derived from the sale thereof.
§ 15.7.15 LEVY OF TAXES; PAYMENT OF BONDS
   In order to pay the principal of and interest on the bonds as they become
due and, at the option of the Village, to reimburse the general fund or other
funds for the payment of principal of or interest on the bonds for which
property taxes were not available, there shall be an annual assessment and levy
upon all of the taxable property of the Village subject to taxation which
provides an amount sufficient to pay the principal of and the interest on the
bonds as they become due and payable. However, the Village may, at its option,
apply any other funds lawfully available for the purpose to the payment of
principal or interest on the bonds as they become due, and the levies required
by this section may be reduced to the extent other revenues are or will be
available and used for payment of the bonds. To the extent property taxes are
not available for the purpose, the principal of and interest accruing on the
bonds shall be paid from the Village's general fund or from any other fund
lawfully available for that purpose. The taxes shall be assessed, levied and
collected annually at the time and in the manner as other Village taxes are
assessed, levied and collected. Annually, the Village Board shall take all
reasonable action to insure the levy and collection of taxes by the
governmental authority charged with legal responsibility to levy and collect
taxes in amounts sufficient at the time to pay the principal of and interest on
the bonds. The money produced by the levy of taxes provided in this section to
pay the principal of and interest on the bonds is appropriated for that purpose
and that amount shall be included in the annual budget adopted and passed by
the Village Board each year. The taxes collected shall be maintained in an
interest and sinking fund, which is hereby created, and kept for and applied
only to the payment of the principal of and interest on the bonds when due and
as otherwise required or permitted by law.
§ 15.7.16 DELEGATED POWERS
   The Mayor, Treasurer, Village Clerk and other Authorized Officers of the
Village be and they hereby are authorized and directed to take all action
necessary or appropriate to effectuate the provisions of this Article,
including without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the publication of
the summary of ordinance set out in §
15.7.29 (with such changes, additions and deletions as they may determine), and
delivery of the Bond Purchase Agreement and of such certificates as may be
required by the Finance Authority, the Bond Purchase Agreement, or Bond
Counsel.
§ 15.7.17 EVENTS OF DEFAULT
   Each of the following events is an "event of default";
   (A)   Nonpayment of Principal. Any payment of the principal of any of the
bonds is not made when due and payable at maturity or otherwise.
   (B)   Nonpayment of Interest. Any payment of any installment of interest on
the bonds is not made when the same becomes due and payable or within 30 days
thereafter.
   (C)   Default of any Provision. Any failure by the Village to observe or
perform any covenant, condition or agreement on its part to be observed or
performed (other than as referred to in §
15.7.17(A) or(B)), which failure continues for a period of 60 days after
written notice specifying the failure and requesting that it be remedied has
been given to the Village by the owners of 25% in principal amount of the bonds
then outstanding.
   (D)   Bankruptcy or Insolvency of Village. (1) The Village shall (a) apply
for or consent to the appointment of or the taking of possession by, a
receiver, custodian, trustee, liquidator or the like of the Village or of all
or a substantial part of its property; (b) commence a voluntary case under the
Federal Bankruptcy Code; or (c) file a petition seeking to take advantage of
any other law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, or reorganization; or (2) a
proceeding or case shall be commenced, without application or consent of the
Village, in any court of competent jurisdiction seeking (a) the liquidation,
reorganization, dissolution, winding-up or adjustment of debts of the Village;
(b) appointment of a trustee, receiver, custodian, liquidator or the like of
the Village or of all or a substantial part of its assets; or (c) similar
relief in respect of the Village under any law relating to bankruptcy,
insolvency, reorganization, winding-up or adjustment of debts.
§ 15.7.18 REMEDIES UPON DEFAULT
   Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any event of default, the
owners of not less than 25% in principal amount of the bonds then outstanding,
including but not limited to a trustee or trustees therefor, may proceed
against the Village, the board, and its agents, officers and employees to
protect and enforce the rights of any owner under this Article by mandamus or
other suit, action or special proceedings in equity or at law, in any court of
competent jurisdiction, either for specific performance of any covenant or
agreement contained herein or in an award or execution of any power herein
granted for the enforcement of any power, legal or equitable remedy as such
owners may deem most effectual to protect and enforce the rights aforesaid, or
thereby to enjoin any act or thing which may be unlawful or in violation of any
right of any registered owner, or to require the Board to act as if it were the
trustee of an express trust, or any combination of such remedies. All such
proceedings at law or in equity shall be instituted, had and maintained for the
equal benefit of all owners of the bonds then outstanding. The failure of any
owner so to proceed shall not relieve the Village or any of its officers,
agents or employees of any liability for failure to perform any duty. Each
right or privilege or any owner (or trustee thereof) is in addition and
cumulative to any other right or privilege, and the exercise of any right or
privilege by or on behalf of any owner shall not be deemed a waiver of any
other right or privilege thereof.
§ 15.7.19 DUTIES UPON DEFAULT
   Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any event of default, the
Village shall do and perform all proper acts on behalf of and for the owners to
protect and preserve the security created for the payment of the principal of
and interest on the bonds promptly as the same become due. In the event the
Village fails or refuses to proceed as provided in this section, the registered
owners of not less than 25% in principal amount of the bonds then outstanding,
after demand in writing, may proceed to protect and enforce the rights of the
owners as hereinabove provided.
§ 15.7.20 FEDERAL TAX MATTERS
   (A)   Tax Compliance. The Village (a) will take or cause to be taken such
actions which may be required of it for the interest on the bonds to be and
remain excludable from gross income for federal income tax purposes; and (b)
will not take or permit to be taken any actions which would adversely affect
that exclusion, and that it or persons acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the bonds to the governmental purpose of
the borrowing; (ii) restrict the yield on investment property acquired with
those proceeds; (iii) make timely rebate payments to the federal government
from the Rebate Fund, if required; (iv) maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports; and (v) refrain from certain uses of proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code. The Mayor, Treasurer and Village Clerk and other
appropriate officers are hereby authorized and directed to take any and all
actions, make calculations and rebate payments, and make or give reports and
certifications, if any, as may be required or appropriate to assure such
exclusion of that interest.
   (B)   Rebate Fund. In furtherance of the covenants set forth in the
preceding subsection (A), the Village hereby establishes a fund separate from
any other funds established and maintained hereunder designated as the Rebate
Fund (the "Rebate Fund"). Money and investments in the Rebate Fund shall not be
used for the payment of the bonds and amounts credited to the Rebate Fund shall
be free and clear under any pledge under this Article. Money in the Rebate Fund
shall be invested pursuant to the procedure that in a manner provided in §
15.7.22 for investment of money, and all amounts on deposit in the Rebate Fund
shall be held by the Village, or a designated trustee, in trust, to the extent
required to pay rebatable arbitrage to the United States of America. The
Village shall unconditionally be entitled to accept and rely upon the
recommendation, advice, calculation and opinion of an accounting firm or other
person or firm with knowledge of or experience in advising with respect to the
provisions of the Code relating to rebatable arbitrage. The Village shall remit
all rebate installments and the final rebate payment to the United States of
America as required by the provisions of the Code.
   (C)   Qualified Tax-Exempt Obligations. The bonds are hereby designated as
"qualified tax-exempt obligations" for purposes of § 265(b)(3) of the Code. The
Village has no "subordinate entities" with authority to issue tax-exempt
obligations within the meaning of that section of the Code. In that connection,
the Village hereby covenants that in or during the calendar year in which the
bond is issued, the Village (i) will not designate as "qualified tax-exempt
obligations" for the purposes of § 265(b)(3) of the Code tax-exempt
obligations, including the bonds, in an aggregate principal amount in excess
often million dollars; and (ii) will not issue tax-exempt obligations within
the meaning of § 265(b)(4) of the Code, including the bonds and any qualified
501(c)(3) bonds as defined in § 145 of the Code (but excluding obligations,
other than qualified 501(c)(3) bonds, that are private activity bonds as
defined in § 141 of the Code), in an aggregate principal amount exceeding
$10,000,000.
§ 15.7.21 DEFEASANCE
   (A)   Any bond and the interest thereon shall be deemed to be paid, retired,
and no longer outstanding (a "defeased bond") hereunder when payment of the
principal of such bond, plus interest thereon to the due date (whether such due
date be by reason of maturity, upon redemption, or other) either (i) shall have
been made or caused to be made in accordance with the terms thereof (including
the giving of any required notice of redemption); or (ii) shall have been
provided for on or before such due date by irrevocably depositing with or
making available to a qualified depository for such payment (1) lawful money of
the United States of America sufficient to make such payment; or (2) government
obligations which mature as to principal and interest in such amounts and at
such times as will ensure the availability, without reinvestment, of sufficient
money to provide for such payment (as verified by a certified or registered
public accountant), and when proper arrangements have been made by the Village
with a qualified depository for the payment of its services until all defeased
bonds shall have become due and payable. At such time as a bond shall be deemed
to be a defeased bond hereunder, such bond and the interest thereon shall no
longer be secured by, payable from, or entitled to the benefits of the ad
valorem taxes herein levied and pledged as provided in this Article, and such
principal and interest shall be payable solely from such money or government
obligations.
   (B)   Any moneys so deposited with the qualified depository may, at the
written direction of the Village, also be invested in government obligations,
maturing in the amounts and times required to make payments when due on the
defeased bonds, and all income from such government obligations received by the
qualified depository which is not required for the payment of the defeased
bonds and interest thereon, with respect to which such money has been so
deposited, shall be turned over to the Village for deposit in the interest and
sinking fund for payment of principal and interest on the bonds. The term
"government obligations" means direct obligations of the United States of
America, including obligations the principal of and interest on which are
unconditionally guaranteed by the United States of America which may be United
States Treasury Obligations such as its State and Local Government Series,
which may be in book-entry form.
§ 15.7.22 INVESTMENT OF MONEYS
   Moneys in any fund not immediately needed may be invested as provided by
state law and applicable federal statutes and regulations, provided that the
Village Board and the Village hereby covenant to the purchasers and the holders
of the bonds from time to time that the Village will make no use of the
proceeds of the bonds or any funds reasonably expected to be used to pay the
principal of or interest on the bonds which will cause the bonds to be
arbitrage bonds within the meaning of § 148 of the Code, as amended, or which
would adversely affect the tax status of interest on the bonds under the Code.
This covenant is for the benefit of the purchasers and the holders of the bonds
from time to time.
§ 15.7.23 ORDINANCE IRREPEALABLE
   After any of the bonds have been issued, this Article shall constitute a
contract between the Village and the holder or holders of the bonds and shall
be and remain irrepealable and unalterable until the bonds and the interest
thereon shall have been fully paid, satisfied and discharged, defeased or until
such payment has been duly provided for.
§ 15.7.24 SEVERABILITY
   If any section, paragraph, clause or provision shall be held to be invalid
or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions
of this Article.
§ 15.7.25 REPEALER CLAUSE
   All ordinances or resolutions or parts of ordinances or resolutions
inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed to the extent only of such
inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed to revive any ordinance or
resolution or part of any ordinance or resolution heretofore repealed.
§ 15.7.26 AMENDMENT
   (A)   This Article may be amended without the consent of the holder of any
bond to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any defect or
inconsistent provision contained herein, to add to the covenants and agreements
in this ordinance for the protection or benefit of the owners, to subject to
this Article additional revenues, properties or collateral, to comply with the
provisions of the Code, or to comply with any rule or regulation of the
Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the bonds. Except as provided
above, this Article may be amended or supplemented by ordinance adopted by the
Board in accordance with the laws of the State, without receipt by the Village
of any additional consideration but with the written consent of the owners of
75% of the bonds outstanding at the time of the adoption of such amendatory or
supplemental ordinance; provided, however, that no such ordinance (without the
consent of the registered owners of all of the bonds authorized by this Article
and outstanding at the time of adoption of such amendatory or supplemental
ordinance) shall have the effect of permitting:
      (1)   An extension of the maturity of any bond; or
      (2)   A reduction in the principal amount of any bond or the rate of
interest thereon due in connection therewith; or
      (3)   A reduction of the principal amount of bonds required for consent
to such amendatory or supplemental ordinance; or
      (4)   The establishment of priorities as between bonds issued and
outstanding under the provisions of this Article; or
      (5)   The modification of or otherwise affecting the rights of the
registered owners of less than all of the bonds then outstanding.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the issuance of the bonds,
this Article may be amended by resolution of the Village Board to cure, correct
or supplement any defect or inconsistent provision contained herein.
§ 15.7.27 PAYMENT DUE ON OTHER THAN BUSINESS DAYS
   In any case where the date of payment of principal, premium, if any, or
interest on the bonds or the date fixed for redemption of any bonds, or the
date for performing any act or exercising any right, shall be a day other than
a business day, then payment of interest or principal and premium, if any, or
the performance of such act or exercise of such right need not be made on such
date but may be made on the next succeeding business day with the same force
and effect as if it had been made on the date scheduled for such payment,
performance, or exercise.
§ 15.7.28 FINANCIAL INFORMATION
   The Village will provide the finance authority with financial statements
after the conclusion of each fiscal year as long as the bonds are outstanding.
§ 15.7.29 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCE
   The following notice shall be published one time in the Albuquerque Journal,
being a legal newspaper published and of general circulation in the Village, as
soon as is practicable following the adoption hereof:
   (Form of Notice of Adoption)
   VILLAGE OF LOS RANCHOS DE ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO
   NOTICE OF ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE NO. 283
      Notice is given of the adoption by the Village Board of the Village of
Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, New Mexico of its Ordinance No. 283 on October
13,.2021, relating to Village of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, New Mexico General
Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2021. The title of the Ordinance is:
      AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF THE VILLAGE OF LOS RANCHOS DE ALBUQUERQUE,
NEW MEXICO GENERAL OBLIGATION REFUNDING BONDS, SERIES 2021, IN THE AGGREGATE
PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF $1,900,000 FOR THE PURPOSE TO REFUND, PAY AND DISCHARGE THE
VILLAGE'S OUTSTANDING GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS, SERIES 2007; PROVIDING THAT THE
SERIES 2021 BONDS WILL BE PAYABLE FROM AD VALOREM TAXES LEVIED ON ALL TAXABLE
PROPERTY WITHIN THE VILLAGE, LEVIED WITHOUT LIMIT AS TO RATE OR AMOUNT;
PRESCRIBING OTHER DETAILS CONCERNING THE BONDS AND TAX PROCEEDS, INCLUDING BUT
NOT LIMITED TO COVENANTS AND AGREEMENTS IN CONNECTION THEREWITH AND THE FORM,
TERMS, CONDITIONS AND MANNER OF EXECUTION OF THE BONDS; RATIFYING ALL ACTION
PREVIOUSLY TAKEN IN CONNECTION THEREWITH; AND REPEALING ORDINANCES IN CONFLICT
HEREWITH.
      The title sets forth a general summary of the subject matter contained in
the ordinance. Complete copies of the ordinance are on file in the Office of
the Village Clerk and are available for inspection and/or purchase during
regular office hours. This Notice constitutes compliance with Sections 6-14-
4 through 6-14-7 NMSA 1978.
   (End of Form of Notice of Adoption)
Ordinances and State Law Reference Regarding Chapter 15, Article 7:
Ordinance #283, October 13, 2021.
CHAPTER 16
RESOLUTIONS
TBD
