CITY OF LOVINGTON, NEW MEXICO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-20 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 600, passed 8-14-23
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   The City of Lovington, New Mexico Code of Ordinances, originally published
by Book Publishing Company in 1992, was kept current by regular supplementation
by Matthew Bender & Company, Inc., its successor in interest until December
2008. Subsequently, updates have been provided by American Legal Publishing
Corporation.
   During original codification, the ordinances were compiled, edited and
indexed under the direction of James E. Snipes, city attorney.
   The code is organized by subject matter under an expandable three-factor
decimal numbering system which is designed to facilitate supplementation
without disturbing the numbering of existing provisions. Each section number
designates, in sequence, the numbers of the title, chapter, and section. Thus,
Section 2.12.040 is Section .040, located in Chapter 2.12 of Title 2. In most
instances, sections are numbered by tens (.010, .020, .030, etc.), leaving nine
vacant positions between original sections to accommodate future provisions.
Similarly, chapters and titles are numbered to provide for internal expansion.
   In parentheses following each section is a legislative history identifying
the specific sources for the provisions of that section. This legislative
history is complemented by an ordinance disposition table, following the text
of the code, listing by number all ordinances, their subjects, and where they
appear in the codification.
   A subject-matter index, with complete cross-referencing, locates specific
code provisions by individual section numbers.
   This supplement brings the code up to date through Ordinance 600, passed
August 14, 2023.
            American Legal Publishing
            525 Vine Street, Suite 310
            Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
            (513) 421-4248
Title 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapters
      
1.01   Code Adoption
      
1.04   General Provisions
      
1.08   Ordinances and Resolutions
      
1.12   Arrest and Citation Procedure
      
1.16   General Penalty
      
1.20   Mandatory Corrections Fee
Chapter 1.01
CODE ADOPTION
Sections:
   
1.01.010   Adoption.
   
1.01.020   Title-Citation-Reference.
   
1.01.030   Codification authority.
   
1.01.040   Ordinances passed prior to adoption of the code.
   
1.01.050   Reference applies to all amendments.
   
1.01.060   Title, chapter and section headings.
   
1.01.070   Reference to specific ordinances.
   
1.01.080   Effect on past actions and obligations.
   
1.01.090   Effective date.
   
1.01.100   Constitutionality.
1.01.010   Adoption.
   The city adopts mat certain code known as the "Lovington Municipal Code"'
which certain additions to. amendments to, revisions of, and repeal of certain
sections of previous code of the city of Lovington, New Mexico. (Ord. 367
(pan), 1992)
1.01.020   Title-Citation-Reference.
   This code shall be known as the "Lovington City Code" and it shall be
sufficient to refer to said code as the "Lovington Municipal Code" in any
prosecution for the violation of any provisions thereof or any proceeding at
law or equity. It shall be sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to,
amending, correcting or repealing all or anv part or portions thereof as an
addition, amendment to, correction or repeal of the "Lovington Municipal Code."
Further reference may be had to the titles, chapters, sections and subsections
of the "Lovington Municipal Code" and such references shall apply to that
numbered title, chapter, section or subsection as it appears in the code. (Ord.
367 (part), 1992;
1.01.030   Codification authority.
   This code consists of all the ordinances of general application of the city
of Lovington. (Ord. 367 (part), 1992)
1.01.040   Ordinances passed prior to adoption of the code.
   The last ordinance included in this code was Ordinance No. 363, passed
October 8, 1991. Ordinance No. 364 and No. 365 where passed subsequent to
Ordinance No. 363, but prior to adoption of this code, and are adopted by, and
made a part of this code. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature in
effect prior to Ordinance 363 but not contained the "Lovington Municipal Code"
are repealed from the effective date of the "Lovington Municipal Code." (Ord.
367 (part), 1992)
1.01.050   Reference applies to all amendments.
   Whenever a reference is made to this code as the "Lovington Municipal Code"
or to any portion thereof, or to any ordinance of Lovington, the reference
shall apply to all amendments, corrections and additions heretofore, now or
hereafter made. Reference applies to all amendments. (Ord. 367 (part), 1992)
1.01.060   Title, chapter and section headings.
   Title, chapter and section headings contained in this code shall not be
deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or
intent of the provisions of any title, chapter or section of this code. (Ord.
367 (part), 1992)
1.01.070   Reference to specific ordinances.
   The provisions of this code shall not in any manner affect matters of record
which refer to, or are otherwise connected with ordinances which are therein
specifically designated by number or otherwise and which are included within
the code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to the corresponding
provision contained within this code. (Ord. 367 (part), 1992)
1.01.080   Effect on past actions and obligations.
   Neither the adoption of this code nor the repeal or amendment hereby of any
ordinance of the city shall in any manner affect the prosecution for violations
of ordinances, which violations were committed prior to the effective date
hereof, nor be construed as a waiver of any license, fee or penalty at said
effective date due and unpaid under such ordinances, nor be construed as
affecting any of the provisions of such ordinances relating to the collection
of any such license, fee or penalty, or the penal provisions applicable to any
violation thereof, nor to affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit in
lieu thereof required to be posted, filed or deposited pursuant to any
ordinance and all rights and obligation thereunder appertaining shall continue
in full force and effect. (Ord. 367 (part), 1992)
1.01.090   Effective date.
   This code shall become effective on the date the ordinance adopting this
code as the "Lovington Municipal Code" shall become effective, which date shall
be June 3, 1992. (Ord. 367 (part), 1992)
1.01.100   Constitutionality.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code. The council
declares that it would have passed this code, and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases had been declared
invalid or unconstitutional, and if for any reason this code should be declared
invalid or unconstitutional, then the original ordinance or ordinances shall be
in full force and effect. (Ord. 367 (part), 1992)
Chapter 1.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sections:
   
1.04.010   Citation.
   
1.04.020   Construction.
   
1.04.030   Definitions.
   
1.04.040   Applicability of chapter.
   
1.04.050   Severability.
   
1.04.060   Catchlines.
   
1.04.070   Continuation of existing ordinances.
1.04.010   Citation.
   The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections
shall constitute and be designated as “The Code of the City of Lovington, New
Mexico,” and may so be cited. Such ordinances may also be cited as "Lovington
Municipal Code" or "Lovington City Code." (Amended during codification; prior
code § 1-1-1)
1.04.020   Construction.
   All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the
common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law
shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate
meaning. (Prior code § 1-1-2)
1.04.030   Definitions.
   In the construction of this code and of all ordinances of the city, the
following rules and definitions shall be observed, unless such construction
would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city commission:
   Acts by Agents. When this code requires an act to be done which may by law
be done by an agent as well as by the principal, such requisition shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   "The city" or "this city" shall mean the city of Lovington, in the county of
Lea and the state of New Mexico, except as otherwise provided.
   "City commission" means the city commission of the city of Lovington.
   Computation of Time. Unless otherwise specifically provided, in computing
time, the first day shall be excluded and the last included, unless the last
falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, in which case the time prescribed shall be
extended so as to include the whole of the following Monday. When any such time
is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday, from midnight to midnight shall be
excluded.
   "County" or "this county" means the county of Lea, New Mexico.
   "Department," ''board," "commission," "office," "officer" or "employee"
means a department, board, commission, office, officer or employee of the city
of Lovington, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   Gender. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter.
   "Hereafter" means the time after the section or ordinance containing such
word shall take effect.
   "Heretofore" means any time previous to the day when this code took effect;
   Joint Authority. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three or
more city officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority
to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise
expressly declared in the law giving authority.
   "Keeper" or "proprietor" means and includes persons, firms, associations,
corporations, clubs and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a
servant, agent or employee.
   "Land" and "real estate" means and includes rights and easements of
incorporeal nature.
   "Misdemeanor" means and shall be construed to stand in lieu of "violation of
ordinance."
   "Month" means a calendar month.
   Number. Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural
includes the singular number.
   "Oath" includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by law,
an affirmation may be substituted for an oath and in such cases, the words
"swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" or "affirmed."
   Or, And. "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense
requires it.
   "Owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in" common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety or person
holding a community interest of the whole or a part of such building or land or
person in possession and control of the premises.
   "Person" includes a corporation, company, partnership, association or
society as well as a natural person.
   "Personal property" includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
evidences of debt.
   "Preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
   "Property" includes real, personal and mixed estates and interests.
   "Public place" includes any street, alley, highway, park, cemetery,
schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto and any lake or stream.
   "Real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   Reasonable Time. In all cases where this code requires any act to be done in
a reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean such time only as may be necessary for the
prompt performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
   "Shall have been" includes past and future cases.
   "Sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curb line or the
lateral lines of a road way where there is no curb and the adjacent property
line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
   "Signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write,
his name being written near it, and witnessed by a person who writes his own
name as witness.
   "The state" or "this state" means the state of New Mexico.
   "Street" includes avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys, lanes,
viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto and all other public thoroughfares
in the city, and means the entire width thereof between abutting property
lines; it includes a sidewalk or footpath, unless the contrary is expressed or
unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the
city commission.
   "Tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person
who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
   Tenses. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the future
when applicable.
   "Week" means seven days, but publication in a newspaper of any notice or
other matter indicated to be for a stated number of weeks means one insertion
in each week, unless specifically stated to be for each day of the week or for
more than one day in each week. All publications heretofore made in accordance
with the terms of this definition are validated.
   "Written" and "in writing" may include printing, engraving or any other mode
of representing words and letters excepting those cases where the written
signature or mark of any person is required.
   "Year" means a calendar year.
(Prior code § 1-1-3)
1.04.040   Applicability of chapter.
   The rules of construction set forth in this chapter shall not be applied to
any section which shall contain any express provision excluding such
construction or when the subject matter or context of such section may be
repugnant thereto. (Prior code § 1-1-4)
1.04.050   Severability.
   It is declared to be the intention of the city commission that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are severable, and if
any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this code shall be
declared unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court
of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not
affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and
sections of this code. (Prior code § 1-1-5)
1.04.060   Catchlines.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in bold face
letters are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section
and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part
of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Prior code § 1-1-6)
1.04.070   Continuation of existing ordinances.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as those
of the 1971 Code and all ordinances adopted subsequent to the 1971 Code, and
included in this code, shall be considered continuations thereof and not as new
enactments. (Amended during 1992 codification; prior code § 1-1-7)
Chapter 1.08
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
Sections:
   
1.08.010   Purpose of ordinances.
   
1.08.020   Ordaining clause.
   
1.08.030   Adoption procedure.
   
1.08.040   Publication.
   
1.08.050   Codes adopted by reference.
   
1.08.060   Resolutions.
1.08.010   Purpose of ordinances.
   The governing body may adopt ordinances or resolutions not inconsistent with
the laws of New Mexico for the purpose of:
   A.   Effecting or discharging the powers and duties conferred by law upon
the municipality;
   B.   Providing for the safety, preserving the health, promoting the
prosperity, improving the morals, order, comfort and convenience of the
municipality and its inhabitants;
   C.   Enforcing obedience to the ordinances by prosecution in the municipal
court and metropolitan courts and upon conviction, the imposition of:
      1.   Except for those violations of ordinances described in subdivisions
2 and 3 of this subsection, a fine of not exceeding five hundred dollars or by
imprisonment not more than ninety days or both,
      2.   For a third and every subsequent conviction of violation of an
ordinance prohibiting driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or drugs, a fine of not more than one thousand dollars or
imprisonment for not more than six months or both, and
      3.   For violations of an industrial user wastewater pretreatment
ordinance as required by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, a
fine of not more than one thousand dollars a day for each violation. (Amended
during 1992 codification: prior code § 2-3-1)
1.08.020   Ordaining clause.
   The acting clause of a municipal ordinance shall be: "Be it Ordained by the
Governing Body of the City of Lovington." (Prior code § 2-3-2)
1.08.030   Adoption procedure.
   A.   If a majority of all the members of the governing body vote in favor of
adopting the ordinance or resolution, it is adopted. The municipal clerk shall
record in the minute book the vote of each member of the governing body on each
ordinance or resolution.
   B.   Within three days after the adoption of an ordinance or resolution, the
mayor shall validate the ordinance or resolution by endorsing "Approved" upon
the ordinance or resolution and signing same. (Prior code § 2-3-3)
1.08.040   Publication.
   A.   An ordinance shall be recorded in a book kept for that purpose, shall
be authenticated by the signature of the presiding officer of the governing
body and the municipal clerk, and shall bear the seal of the city. Notice by
publication of the title and subject matter of any ordinance proposed for
adoption by the governing body must take place one time at least two weeks
prior to the consideration of final action upon the ordinance, except that this
section shall not apply to ordinances dealing with an emergency declared by the
mayor to be an immediate danger to the public health, safety and welfare of the
municipality, or to ordinances the subject matter of which is amending the city
zoning map, provided the amendment has been considered by, and recommended to
the city commission by the zoning and planning board.
   B.   Copies of a proposed ordinance shall be available to interested persons
during normal and regular business hours of the municipal clerk upon request
and payment of a reasonable charge beginning with the date of publication and
continuing to the date of consideration by the municipality's elected
commission. (Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 2-3-4)
1.08.050   Codes adopted by reference.
   The municipality may adopt by ordinance the conditions, provisions,
limitations and terms of any code not in conflict with the laws of New Mexico
or valid regulations issued by any board or agency of New Mexico authorized to
issue regulations. An ordinance adopting any such code need only refer the
proper title and date of the code. The ordinance shall further specify at least
one place within the municipality where the code, so adopted, is available for
inspection during the normal and regular business hours of the municipal clerk.
A copy of the code shall be available upon request and payment of a reasonable
fee. (Prior code § 2-3-6)
1.08.060   Resolutions.
   Resolutions shall be used in every case where an ordinance is not required
and shall be appropriate in the following instances:
   A.   Entering into a contract;
   B.   Directives of the governing body;
   C.   Adoption of a policy concerning employees, utility services or
equipment;
   D.   Granting of a right or privilege to any person when a contract is not
required;
   E.   Changes in the zoning map of the city;
   F.   Changes of the fire districts of the city;
   G.   Changes of the master plan of the city;
   H.   Authorizing the issuance of bonds;
   I.   In every other case where it is deemed in the public interest that a
full and permanent record be made and kept of the action of the governing body.
Resolutions shall be numbered consecutively and shall bear a title which shall
set forth the general terms of its subject matter; shall contain a resolving
clause; and shall bear the date, signature of the mayor and attesting officer,
and the seal of the city. The city clerk shall keep a permanent log book in
which the original of each resolution considered, whether or not adopted, shall
be kept.
(Prior code § 2-3-7)
Chapter 1.12
ARREST AND CITATION PROCEDURE
Sections:
   
1.12.010   Procedure.
   
1.12.020   Citation to appear.
1.12.010   Procedure.
   A.   In any action for the violation of any ordinance in which an arrest has
not been made, a warrant for the arrest of the defendant may issue in the first
instance upon the affidavit of any person making a complaint that he has
reasonable grounds to believe the party charged is guilty. Any person arrested
upon such warrant shall, without delay, be taken before the proper officer to
be tried for the alleged offense or be allowed to post an appropriate bond.
   B.   The first process shall be a citation or summons in cases involving
violations of any ordinance not amounting to a breach of the peace, requiring
the party charged to appear before the municipal judge at a time fixed in the
citation or summons. Upon the failure of the party charged to appear, a warrant
for his arrest shall forthwith issue by the municipal judge. (Prior code § 5-2-
18)
1.12.020   Citation to appear.
   A.   A law enforcement officer who arrests a person without a warrant for
offenses defined as petty misdemeanors under the statutes of the state, or for
violation of city ordinances, may offer the person so arrested the option of
accepting a citation to appear in lieu of taking the person to jail.
   B.   A citation issued pursuant to this section shall contain:
      1.   The name and address of the cited person;
      2.   The offense charged;
      3.   The time and place for the person to appear. Unless the person so
cited requests an earlier date, the time specified in the citation shall be at
least five days after issuance of the citation. The law enforcement officer
shall explain to the person the person's right to refuse to sign the citation,
the effects of signing the citation, as well as the effects of not signing the
citation, and he shall explain the effect of the person's failure to appear at
the time and place stated on the citation.
   C.   The person's signature on the citation shall constitute a promise to
appear at the time and place stated in the citation. One copy of the citation
to appear shall be delivered to the person cited and one copy shall be filed by
the officer with the court as soon as practicable.
   D.   A citation issued pursuant to this section shall be a valid complaint
against the person so cited.
   E.   It shall be a petty misdemeanor and/ or a violation of city ordinances
for a person signing a citation promising to appear not to appear at the time
and place stated in the citation regardless of the ultimate disposition of the
offense for which the citation was issued. A written promise to appear may be
complied with by appearance of counsel. (Ord. 304 § 2, 1981: prior code § 7-5-
1)
Chapter 1.16
GENERAL PENALTY
Sections:
   
1.16.010   General penalty designated.
   
1.16.015   Maximum penalty.
   
1.16.020   Mandatory fees collected upon conviction.
   
1.16.025   Disposition and use of fees collected.
   
1.16.030   Minimum penalty for repeated offenses.
   
1.16.040   Failure to pay penalty—Imprisonment.
   
1.16.050   Credit towards fine for each day imprisoned.
   
1.16.060   Inability to pay fines.
1.16.010   General penalty designated.
   A.   Whenever in this code or any other ordinance or resolution of the
municipality or any rule or regulation promulgated under the provisions of this
code, any act is prohibited or declared to be unlawful or an offense or
misdemeanor or the doing of any act required or failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor and no specific penalty
is provided therefor, any person who shall be convicted of the violation of any
such provision of this code or other ordinance or resolution of the
municipality enacted or of such rules and regulations shall be punished by a
fine of not more than five hundred dollars or by imprisonment in jail not
exceeding ninety days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   B.   Every day any violation of this code or any other ordinance or
resolution of the municipality or any other rule or regulation promulgated
under the provisions of this code is permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense. (Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 5-2-12)
1.16.015   Maximum penalty.
   Unless a lesser maximum penalty or a specified penalty is established by
ordinance for a particular offense, the maximum penalty for violation of any
municipal ordinance shall be as follows:
   A.   Except for those violations of ordinances described in subsections B
and C of this section, a fine of not more than five hundred dollars or
imprisonment for not more than ninety days or both;
   B.   For violations of an ordinance prohibiting driving a motor vehicle
while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs, a fine of not more
than nine hundred ninety-nine dollars or imprisonment for not more than one
hundred seventy-nine days or both; and
   C.   For violations of an industrial user wastewater pretreatment ordinance
as required by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, a fine of not
more than nine hundred and ninety-nine dollars a day for each violation. (Ord.
386 § 1, 1994)
1.16.020   Mandatory fees collected upon conviction.
   In addition to any fine or imprisonment described in Section
1.16.015 of this chapter, there is imposed upon any person convicted of
violating any municipal ordinance the penalty for which carries a potential
jail term or any ordinance relating to the operation of a motor vehicle the
following mandatory fees:
   A.   A corrections fee of ten dollars;
   B.   A judicial education fee of three dollars; and
   C.   A court automation fee of three dollars.
   As used in this section, "convicted" means the defendant has been found
guilty of a criminal charge by the municipal judge, either after trial, a plea
of guilty or a plea of nolo contendere, or has elected to pay a penalty
assessment in lieu of trial. (Ord. 493, 2009; Ord. 386 § 2, 1994: Ord. 348,
1987: prior code § 5-2-13.1)
1.16.025   Disposition and use of fees collected.
   A.   All corrections fees collected shall be deposited in a special
corrections fund in the municipal treasury and shall be used only for municipal
jailer training, for construction planning, construction, operation and
maintenance of the municipal jail, for paying the costs of housing the
municipality's prisoners in other detention facilities in the state, or for
complying with match or contribution requirements relating to jails.
   B.   All judicial education fees collected shall be remitted monthly to the
state treasurer for credit to the judicial education, fund and shall be used
for the education and training, including production of benchbooks and other
written material, of municipal judges and other municipal court personnel.
   C.   All court automation fees collected shall be remitted monthly to the
state treasurer for credit to the municipal court automation fund and shall be
used for the purchase and maintenance of court automation systems in the
municipal courts.
   The court automation systems shall have the capability of providing, on a
timely basis, electronic records in a format specified by the judicial
information system council. (Ord. 386 § 3, 1994)
1.16.030   Minimum penalty for repeated offenses.
   In any case where any section of this code or other ordinance of the city
shall not provide the greater penalty for a second or subsequent conviction of
a violation thereof, any person violating the same, who shall previously have
been convicted of a violation thereof, shall be subject to a fine of not less
than ten dollars nor more than two hundred dollars for each offense; except
that where the penalty provided by this code for a first violation thereof
shall be larger than the penalty provided by this section, such larger penalty
shall be applicable. (Prior code § 5-2-14)
1.16.040   Failure to pay penalty— Imprisonment.
   When a fine shall be imposed for the violation of this code, the court may
also sentence the defendant to pay the cost of the action and to be imprisoned
until such fine and costs are paid. In no case, however, shall such
imprisonment exceed ninety days and the court may also issue an execution
against the property of the defendant for such fine and costs. (Prior code § 5-
2-15)
1.16.050   Credit towards fine for each day imprisoned.
   Whenever any person is committed to prison for nonpayment of any fine or
costs, or both, he shall be credited with five dollars a day in reduction of
the fine. When the person has remained imprisoned a sufficient length of time
to extinguish the fine or costs, or both, computed at this rate, the officer
having the prisoner in custody shall discharge him from custody under
commitment. (Prior code § 5-2-16)
1.16.060   Inability to pay fines.
   If the person in custody makes an affidavit that he has no property out of
which he can pay the fine and costs, either or any part, the prisoner shall not
be retained in custody longer than three months. The affidavit shall be
delivered to the officer having custody of the prisoner. (Prior code § 5-2-17)
Chapter 1.20
MANDATORY FEES
Sections:
   
1.20.010   Mandatory fees.
   
1.20.020   Mandatory fees upon conviction for driving under the influence of
intoxicating alcohol or drugs.
   
1.20.030   Mandatory fees upon conviction for possession of marijuana.
1.20.010   Mandatory fees.
   A.   Any person convicted of violating any municipal ordinance the penalty
for which carries a potential jail term, or any ordinance relating to the
operation of a motor vehicle shall pay to the municipal court, in addition to
any other fine or other sentence, the following:
      1.   A mandatory correction fee of ten dollars;
      2.   A judicial correction fee of one dollar; and
      3.   A municipal court automation fee of six dollars.
   B.   The municipal court shall collect such fees and shall deposit the
correction fee into a special municipal fund and remit the judicial correction
fee and the municipal automation fees to the State Treasurer for credit to the
judicial education fund, and to the municipal court automation fund.
(Ord. 414 (part), 1998: Ord. 376 § 1, 1993)
1.20.020   Mandatory fees upon conviction for driving under the influence of
intoxicating alcohol or drugs.
   Any person convicted of violation of Section 12-6-12.1 of the Uniform
Traffic Code shall be assessed and in addition to any other fees or fines:
   A.   A fee of sixty-five dollars to defray the costs of chemical and other
tests used to determine the influence of liquor or drugs; and
   B.   A fee of seventy-five dollars to fund comprehensive community programs
for the prevention of driving while under the influence of intoxicating liquor
or drugs and for other traffic safety purposes.
(Ord. 414 (part), 1998: Ord. 376 § 2, 1993)
1.20.030   Mandatory fees upon conviction for possession of marijuana.
   Any person convicted of violation of Section
9.12.080 of the Lovington municipal code shall be assessed by the court, in
addition to any other fees:
   A.   A person convicted of a violation of possession of a controlled
substance pursuant to municipal ordinance shall be assessed by the court, in
addition to any other fee or fine, a fee of seventy-five dollars to defray the
costs of chemical and other analyses of controlled substances.
   B.   The municipality shall require assessment of the fee pursuant to
subsection A of this section and provide for transmittal of the money collected
to the administrative office of the courts.
(Ord. 414 (part), 1998)
Title 2
ADMINISTRATION AND PERSONNEL
   Chapters:
   DIVISION I. FORM OF GOVERNMENT
      
2.04   General Provisions
   DIVISION II. MUNICIPAL OFFICERS
      
2.08   Elected Officers Generally
      
2.12   City Commission
      
2.16   City Manager
      
2.20   City Clerk
      
2.24   City Attorney
      
2.25   Treasurer
      
2.28   City Engineer
      
2.32   City Health Officer
      
2.36   Director of Public Works
      
2.38   Parks and Recreation Director
   DIVISION III. DEPARTMENTS
      
2.40   Police Department
      
2.44   Fire Department
      
2.48   Sanitation Department
      
2.52   Street Department
   DIVISION IV. MUNICIPAL COURT
      
2.56   General Provisions
      
2.60   Municipal Judge
   DIVISION V. BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
2.64   General Provisions
      
2.68   Civil Defense Organization
      
2.72   Planning and Zoning Commission
      
2.76   Library Board
      
2.80   Lea County Museum Board
      
2.84   (Reserved)
      
2.88   City Cemetery
      
2.90   Parks and Recreation Board
   DIVISION VI. PERSONNEL POLICY
      
2.92   Personnel Merit System
      
2.96   Labor-Management Relations
DIVISION I.
FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Chapter 2.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sections:
   
2.04.010   Commission-manager form of government
   
2.04.020   General powers.
2.04.010   Commission-manager form of government.
   The city of Lovington shall be governed by a commission-manager form of
government. (Prior code § 2-1-1)
2.04.020   General powers.
   The city of Lovington is a municipality and is a body politic and corporate
under the name and form of government known as commission-manager. The city
may:
   A.   Sue or be sued;
   B.   Enter into contracts;
   C.   Acquire and hold property, both real and personal;
   D.   Have a common seal which may be altered at pleasure;
   E.   Exercise such other privileges that are incident to corporations of
like character or degree that are not inconsistent with the laws of New Mexico;
   F.   Protect generally the property of its municipality and its inhabitants;
   G.   Preserve peace and order within the municipality;
   H.   Establish rates by services provided by municipal utilities and revenue
producing projects. (Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 2-1-12)
DIVISION II.
MUNICIPAL OFFICERS
Chapter 2.08
ELECTED OFFICERS GENERALLY
Sections:
   
2.08.010   Designated.
   
2.08.020   Oath of office required.
   
2.08.030   Term of office.
   
2.08.040   Qualifications.
2.08.010   Designated.
   The elective officers of the city shall be five commissioners and a
municipal judge. (Prior code § 2-1-2)
2.08.020   Oath of office required.
   Any elected officer or subsequently appointed officer, shall take an oath of
office or affirmation to support the constitution of the United States, the
constitution and laws of New Mexico and faithfully perform the duties of his
office. The governing body shall declare vacated the office of any person who
fails, within ten days after he has been notified of his election or
appointment to office, to take the oath of office. (Prior code § 2-1-3)
2.08.030   Term of office.
   The municipal judge shall be elected for a four-year term. The five
commissioners shall be elected for staggered periods of four years until their
successors are elected and qualified. (Amended during 1992 codification: prior
code § 2-1-4)
2.08.040   Qualifications.
   Any qualified elector may be a candidate for municipal office, provided he
or she resides within the corporate limits of the city and has so resided for
thirty days preceding the municipal election and is registered to vote within
the city and within the district in which they live. (Amended during 1992
codification: prior code § 2-1-6)
Chapter 2.12
CITY COMMISSION
Sections:
   
2.12.010   Commissioner districts.
   
2.12.020   Powers.
   
2.12.030   Selection of mayor.
   
2.12.040   Regular meetings.
   
2.12.050   Special meetings.
   
2.12.060   Quorum required for action.
   
2.12.070   Agenda.
   
2.12.080   Rules of debate.
   
2.12.090   Addressing the governing body.
   
2.12.100   Decorum.
   
2.12.110   Order of business.
   
2.12.120   Compensation.
   
2.12.130   Vacancies.
2.12.010   Commissioner districts.
   A.   The city shall be divided into five commission districts and one
commissioner, who resides in the subject district, shall be elected from each
district.
   B.   The five single member districts for the city commission elections
shall be comprised as follows:
      1.   Election District No. 1: Beginning at the intersection of South 7th
Street and West Avenue K: along West Avenue K east to the city limits; along
the city limits north, west...south to North 2nd Street; along North 2nd Street
south to West Polk Avenue; along West Polk Avenue east to North Main Street;
along North Main Street south to West Avenue G; along West Avenue G west to
South 3rd Street; along South 3rd Street south to West Avenue I; along West
Avenue I west to South 7th Street; along South 7th Street south to West Avenue
K; and ending at the intersection of West Avenue K and South 7th Street.
      2.   Election District No. 2: Beginning at the intersection of North 7th
Street and the city limits: along the city limits east, north, east to North
2nd Street; along North 2nd Street south to West Polk Avenue; along West Polk
Avenue east to North Main Street; along North Main Street south to West Avenue
G; along West Avenue G west to South 3rd Street; along South 3rd Street south
to West Avenue I; along West Avenue I west to South 7th Street; along South 7th
Street north to West Jefferson Avenue; along West Jefferson Avenue west to
North 8th Street; along North 8th Street north 0.3 miles to an alley; along
said alley east to North 6th Street; along North 6th Street north to West Polk
Avenue; along West Polk Avenue west to North 7th Street; along North 7th Street
north to the city limits; and ending at the intersection of the North 7th
Street and the city limits.
      3.   Election District No. 3: Beginning at the intersection of South 11th
Street and West Avenue D: along South 11th Street south 0.33 miles to an alley;
along said alley west to South 13th Street; along South 13th Street south 0.301
miles to an alley; along said alley east to South 9th Street; along South 9th
Street north to West Avenue K; along West Avenue K east to South 7th Street;
along South 7th Street north to West Jefferson Avenue; along West Jefferson
Avenue west to North 8th Street; along North 8th Street north 0.3 miles to an
alley; along said alley east to North 6th Street; along North 6th Street north
to West Polk Avenue; along West Polk Avenue west to North 7th Street; along
North 7th Street north to the city limits; along the city limits west to North
9th Street; along North 9th Street south to West Polk Avenue; along West Polk
Avenue west to North 11th Street; along North 11th Street south to West
Jefferson Avenue; along West Jefferson Avenue east to South 9th Street; along
9th Street south to West Avenue D; along West Avenue D west to South 11th
Street; and ending at the intersection of South 11th Street and West Avenue D.
      4.   Election District No. 4: Beginning at the intersection of North 9th
Street and the city limits: along North 9th Street south to West Polk Avenue;
along West Polk Avenue west to North 11th Street; along North 11th Street south
to West Jefferson Avenue; along West Jefferson Avenue east to South 9th Street;
along South 9th Street south to West Avenue D; along West Avenue D west to
South 11th Street; along South 11th Street south 0.33 miles to an alley; along
said alley west to South 13th Street; along South 13th Street south 0.301 miles
to an alley; along said alley west to the city limits; along the city limits
north...west to North 9th Street; and ending at the intersection of North 9th
Street and the city limits.
   5.   Election District No. 5: Beginning at the intersection of West Avenue K
and South 9th Street: along South 9th Street south 0.121 miles to an alley;
along said alley west to the city limits; along the city limits south,
east...west to East Avenue K; along East Avenue K west to South 9th Street; and
ending at the intersection of West Avenue K and South 9th Street.
   C.   Each district shall be compact in area and shall have populations as
nearly equal to each other as possible.
   D.   One commissioner who resides in the district shall be elected for
regular periods of four years for each of the five districts. The regular
elections shall be staggered to allow election of one or more commissioners
every two years.
   E.   The governing body of the city shall re-district the city whenever
redistricting is warranted.
   F.   Upon petition signed by qualified electors, in a number equal to the
votes cast for the commissioner receiving the greatest number of votes at the
last regular municipal election, the governing body of the municipality shall
re-district the municipality.
(Ord. 587, 2021; Ord. 438, 2001; Ord. 399, 1996: amended during 1992
codification: prior code § 2-1-7)
2.12.020   Powers.
   All powers of the municipality are vested in the commission. The commission
shall:
   A.   Pass all ordinances and other measures conducive to the welfare of the
municipality;
   B.   Perform all acts required for the general welfare of the municipality;
and
   C.   In addition to the office of manager, create all offices necessary for
the proper carrying on of the work of the municipality. (Prior code § 2-1-11)
2.12.030   Selection of mayor.
   At the first meeting of the new commission after each election, or as soon
thereafter as practicable, the commissioners shall elect one of their number as
mayor to act for two years, or until a successor is elected and qualified,
unless sooner removed by death, resignation or removal from office. The mayor
shall preside at meetings of the commission and perform other duties,
consistent with his office as imposed by the commission. The mayor has all
powers and duties of a commissioner, including the right to vote upon all
questions considered by the commission. He is the official head of the
municipality for all ceremonial purposes. During his absence or disability, his
duties shall be performed by another member of the commission, appointed by a
majority of the commission and designated as mayor pro tern. (Amended during
1992 codification: prior code § 2-1-9)
2.12.040   Regular meetings.
   A.   The governing body shall at the last regular meeting in December of
each year, set the dates of the regular meetings for the subsequent year. Such
regular meetings shall be held two times per month on Mondays at seven p.m.,
unless good cause exists to establish a different time. When the day of the
regular meeting falls on a legal holiday, such meetings shall be held on a date
determined by the governing body. All regular meetings shall be held at
Commission Chambers, City Hall, or such other public places the governing body
may designate.
   B.   The commission shall meet at least twice each month. Meetings shall be
open to the public, and the official records of the meetings shall be open to
inspection at all times. (Amended during 1992 codification: Ord. 266, 1977:
prior code §§ 2-1-10, 2-2-1)
2.12.050   Special meetings.
   The mayor, or a majority of the members of the commission, may call special
meetings by notice to each member of the commission, personally served or left
at his usual place of residence and by notice to the public as provided by law.
(Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 2-2-2)
2.12.060   Quorum required for action.
   No action shall be taken unless a quorum is present. A majority of the
members of the governing body shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
transacting business at any regular or special meeting where each question must
be decided by a majority vote of the members present. (Prior code § 2-2-3)
2.12.070   Agenda.
   All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, contracts, documents
or other matters to be submitted to the governing body shall be delivered to
the city manager or clerk at least two days prior to each meeting, whereupon
the clerk shall immediately arrange a list of such matters according to the
order of business. Each commissioner, the mayor, the city manager and the city
attorney will be furnished with a copy of the order of business at the
commission meeting, and as far in advance of the meeting as time for
preparation will permit. Additional items may be added to the agenda by
unanimous consent of the members of the governing body present. (Amended during
1992 codification: Ord. 267, 1977: prior code § 2-2-4)
2.12.080   Rules of debate.
   A.   The mayor may not make and second motions, may debate from the chair,
and shall have all privileges of other members.
   B.   Each commissioner desiring to speak shall address the presiding officer
and after being recognized confine himself to debate, avoiding personalities
and indecorous language.
   C.   A commissioner having been recognized shall not be interrupted except
to call him to order. If called to order, he shall cease speaking until the
point of order is decided after which he may proceed.
   D.   The commissioner moving the adoption of an ordinance or resolution
shall have the privilege of closing debate.
   E.   A motion to reconsider any action taken by the governing body shall be
made on the day such action was taken. Such motion shall have precedence over
ail other motions except a motion to adjourn and shall be debatable.
   F.   A member of the commission may request the privilege of having his
statement on any subject under consideration entered in the minutes subject to
the consent of the governing body, provided that any member shall have the
right to cause his reasons for dissent or protest against the action of the
commission entered in the minutes without consent.
   G.   The newest version of Robert's Rules of Order shall be used by the
commission in determining any issue not covered by this section. A copy of the
newest version of Robert's Rules of Order book will be kept in the city clerk's
office.
(Ord. 592, 2022: amended during 1992 codification; prior code § 2-2-5)
2.12.090   Addressing the governing body.
   A.   Written Communications. Interested parties or their representatives may
address the governing body by written communication regarding any matter.
   B.   Oral Address. Taxpayers or residents of the municipality or their
authorized representatives may orally address the governing body on any matter
concerning the business of the municipality, provided that preference shall be
given to those persons who have notified the cleric in advance of their desire
to speak.
   C.   Reading of Protests and Petitions. Taxpayers or residents of the
municipality and their authorized representatives may address the governing
body by the reading of protests, petitions or communications.
   D.   Persons Other Than Taxpayers and Residents. Persons other than
taxpayers and residents must receive prior approval before orally addressing
the governing body.
   E.   Manner of Address. Each person orally addressing the governing body
shall first seek the recognition of the presiding officer and after being
recognized shall stand and give his name and address for the records before
proceeding. All remarks shall be addressed to the commission as a whole and not
to any member thereof. No person, other than a commissioner and the person
having the floor, shall be permitted to enter into any discussion without
permission of the presiding officer. No question shall be asked a commissioner
except through the presiding officer.
   F.   Time Limit. In order mat the business of the municipality may be
disposed of in an expeditious manner, the presiding officer may place a limit
on the length of time any person may speak. (Prior code § 2-2-6)
2.12.100   Decorum.
   A.   The mayor shall preserve the order and decorum, decide all questions of
order and conduct the proceedings of the meeting in accordance with the
parliamentary rules contained in Robert's Rules of Order unless otherwise
provided by ordinance.
   B.   While the governing body is in session, the members shall observe order
and decorum and neither delay nor interrupt (he proceedings of the commission
nor disturb any member while speaking nor refuse to obey the orders of the
commission or its presiding officer.
   C.   While the governing body is in session, no person shall act in a
disorderly manner nor, while addressing the governing body, shall any person
make any personal, impertinent or slanderous remarks. The presiding officer may
bar anyone acting improperly from continuing his address to the governing body.
   D.   The chief of police or such police officer as he may designate shall be
the sergeant-at-arms of the governing body and shall carry out all orders of
the presiding officer for the purpose of maintaining the order and decorum of
the session. Upon orders of the presiding officer, it shall be the duty of the
sergeant-at-arms to place any person who violates the provisions of this
section under arrest and cause him to be prosecuted upon the complaint of the
presiding officer. (Prior code § 2-2-7)
2.12.110   Order of business.
   The order of business of the governing body shall be taken up for
consideration and disposition in the following order:
   A.   Call to Order. The mayor, or in his absence, the mayor pro tern, shall
call the meeting to order precisely at the appointed hour.
   B.   Roll Call. Before proceeding with the order of business, the clerk or
his deputy shall call the roll of the members, and the names of those present
shall be entered in the minutes.
   C.   Reading of the Minutes. After a reading of the minutes, the same shall
be considered approved if correct, and errors rectified, if any exist.
   D.   Reports by Officers. Municipal officials and/or committees shall
present such reports as may be required by the governing body.
   E.   Old Business. The commission shall consider any business that has been
previously considered and which is still unfinished.
   F.   New Business. The commission shall consider any business not heretofore
considered, including the introduction or reading of ordinances and
resolutions.
   G.   Petitions. Petitions, remonstrances, communications and comments or
suggestions from citizens present, shall be heard by the commission. All such
remarks shall be addressed to the commission as a whole, and not to any member
thereof. Such remarks shall be limited to a reasonable time and such
determination will be in the discretion of the presiding officer. No person
other than the individual speaking shall enter into die discussion without the
permission of the presiding officer.
   H.   Other Business. Prior to adjournment the commission shall, as it deems
necessary, consider such business as is not specifically provided for herein.
   I.   Adjournment. The commission may, by a majority vote of those present,
adjourn from time to time to a specific date and hour. A motion to adjourn
shall always be in order and decided without debate. (Prior code § 2-2-8)
2.12.120   Compensation.
   The members of the city commission elected after March 9, 2020, shall each
be paid four hundred fifty-five dollars per month for services rendered as
commissioners. The commissioner elected mayor shall receive an additional two
hundred fifty dollars per month. (Ord. 560 (part), 2018: Ord. 423, 2000: prior
code § 2-1-5)
2.12.130   Vacancies.
   If a vacancy occurs in the commission the remaining elected and appointed
commissioners shall by a majority vote appoint a qualified elector to fill the
vacancy until the next regular municipal election. (Prior, code § 2-1-8)
Chapter 2.16
CITY MANAGER
Sections:
   
2.16.010   Appointment- Qualifications-Salary.
   
2.16.020   Duties.
2.16.010   Appointment-Qualifications-Salary.
   The commission shall appoint a manager and shall hold him responsible for
the proper and efficient administration of the municipal government within the
city. The manager shall be chief administrative officer of the city. He shall
be employed for an indefinite term and until a vacancy is created by death,
resignation or removal by the commission. The manager shall be appointed solely
on the basis of administrative qualifications and his selection shall not be
limited by reason of former residence. The manager shall receive a salary to be
fixed by the commission. The manager shall not be removed arbitrarily from
office except for just and probable cause relating to malfeasance in office,
neglect of his duties or failure to carry out the orders of the commission. The
manager shall possess extensive training and experience in municipal management
under the New Mexico Municipal Code for at least two years. The manager shall
have a seat, but no vote, at every meeting of the commission. The commission
shall request the opinion of the manager on any proposed measure. All municipal
employees including department supervisors, city clerk, chief of police,
director of public works and city attorney, are subordinate to and subject to
discharge or suspension in the discretion of the manager, all in accordance
with the personnel merit system set out in
Chapter 2.92 of this title. (Prior code § 2-4-1)
2.16.020   Duties.
   The manager shall:
   A.   Enforce and carry out all ordinances, rules and regulations, enacted by
the commission;
   B.   Employ and discharge all persons engaged in the administrative service
of the municipality, in accordance with the personnel merit system;
   C.   Prepare and submit an annual budget;
   D.   Make recommendations to the commission on all matters concerning the
welfare of the municipality;
   E.   Employ, promote, suspend and discharge, subject to the provisions of
the personnel merit system, all persons, including department heads, engaged in
the administrative services of the municipality;
   F.   Submit a program for capital improvements. (Prior code § 2-4-2)
Chapter 2.20
CITY CLERK
Sections:
   
2.20.020   Duties.
   
2.20.030   Appointments of deputy clerks.
2.20.020   Duties.
   A.   The city clerk shall record all proceedings of the city commission in a
book provided for that purpose and shall record all ordinances in the ordinance
book and all resolutions in the book to be known as the resolution book. The
city clerk shall countersign all warrants drawn on the treasurer under the city
seal. The city clerk shall make out all licenses to be issued under the
ordinances of the city and countersign the same under the city seal. Before
issuing any license, the city clerk shall present such to the city manager for
his signature and approval. The city clerk shall keep a full and complete
record of warrants and licenses, with the names of the parties to whom issued,
including dates, amounts and numbers and the purpose for which issued. The city
clerk shall, on the first day of each month or as soon thereafter as the city
manager may require, prepare a full and complete report of all warrants and
licenses issued, and of all other transactions of their office during the month
preceding such report, and shall submit such to the city commission at its
first regular meeting in each month. The city clerk shall be the keeper of the
city seal and shall affix the seal to all instructions which are required to be
attested by the city seal. The city clerk shall have the custody of and safely
keep all records and documents of the city except as otherwise provided by law.
In addition to the duties above enumerated the city clerk shall perform such
other duties as may be enjoined upon him or her by the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 547, 2016; prior code § 2-6-5 (a-e))
2.20.030   Appointments of deputy clerks.
   It is lawful for the city manager to appoint, by and with the consent of the
city commission, deputy city clerks who shall perform such of the duties of the
office as may be directed by the city manager and shall have the full powers of
deputy clerks. The city clerk shall be responsible to the city for the actions
of the deputies and may require of such deputies a bond in such sum as may be
fixed by the city commission payable to the clerk and conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the deputies’ duties.
(Ord. 547, 2016; prior code § 2-6-5 (f))
Chapter 2.24
CITY ATTORNEY
Sections:
   
2.24.010   Duties.
   
2.24.020   Qualifications and removal.
2.24.010   Duties.
   The city attorney shall enforce all laws and act to protect the interests of
the city and he shall:
   A.   Advise the city commission or its committees or any city officer, when
requested, upon all legal questions arising in the conduct of city business;
   B.   Prepare or revise ordinances when so requested by the city commission
or any committee thereof;
   C.   Give his opinion upon any legal matter or question submitted to him by
the city commission, or any of its committees, or by any city officer;
   D.   When requested by the City Commission or another lawfully authorized
city official, attend meetings of the city commission in their entirety for the
purpose of giving the city commission any legal advice requested by its
members;
   E.   Prepare for execution all contracts and instruments to which the city
is a party and shall approve, as to form, all bonds required to be submitted to
the city;
   F.   Prepare, when authorized by the city commission, all charges and
complaints against and shall appear in the appropriate court in the prosecution
of every person charged with the violation of a city ordinance or of any
regulations adopted under authority of the charter or with the commission of a
misdemeanor or as declared by the charter or by virtue of its authority. In any
prosecution for violation of any regulation adopted by any board or commission
created under authority of the charter, the city attorney shall act under the
directions of such board or commission subject to such paramount control as is
given to the city commission by the charter;
   G.   Immediately report the outcome of any litigation in which the city has
an interest to the city commission;
   H.   Have charge of all legal services auxiliary to city commission's action
in connection with the appropriating of property to public use and in the
levying of assessments;
   I.   Keep a complete record of all suits in which the city had or has an
interest, giving the names of the parties, the court where brought, the nature
of the action, the disposition of the case or its condition if pending and the
briefs of counsel;
   J.   Keep a complete record of all written opinions furnished by him and of
all certificates or abstracts of titles furnished by him to the city or any
department or official of the city;
   K.   Deliver all records, documents and property of every description in his
possession, belonging to his office or to the city, to his successor in office,
who shall give him duplicate receipts therefor, one of which he shall file with
the city clerk. (Ord. 444 (part), 2002)
2.24.020   Qualifications and removal.
   The city attorney shall be a member of the bar of this state, in good
standing for at least two years and shall possess extensive training in the
area of municipal law. He shall not be removed except for just cause relating
to malfeasance in office, neglect of his duties or his failure to carry out the
desires of the governing body. (Ord. 444 (part), 2002)
Chapter 2.25
TREASURER
Sections:
   
2.25.010   Duties.
   
2.25.020   Records open to inspection.
   
2.25.030   Appointments of deputy treasurers.
2.25.010   Duties.
   A.   The treasurer shall be the finance officer for the municipality unless
another officer is directed by ordinance to be the finance officer. The finance
officer shall be employed and discharged by the city manager subject to the
approval of the city commission. The finance officer shall:
      1.   Receive all money belonging to the municipality;
      2.   keep accounts and records in the manner prescribed by the city
commission;
      3.   keep the money of the municipality separate from any other money in
his or her possession;
      4.   expend the money only as directed by the city commission;
      5.   submit monthly, or as often as required by the city commission and
city manager a report of the receipts and expenditures of the municipality;
      6.   prepare annually, at the close of the fiscal year, a financial
report showing the receipts, expenditures and balances for each fund. A copy of
the financial report shall be filed in the office of the city clerk as a public
document;
      7.   supervise the depositing and safekeeping of all money belonging to
the municipality; and
      8.   serve as the chief procurement officer of the municipality;
      9.   with the direction of the city commission designate banks qualified
to receive on deposit money entrusted to his or her care.
(Ord. 547, 2016)
2.25.020   Records open to inspection.
   The records of the finance officer shall be open to inspection by any
citizen during the regular business hours of the municipality.
(Ord. 547, 2016)
2.25.030   Appointments of deputy treasurers.
   It is lawful for the city manager to appoint, by and with the consent of the
city commission, deputy city treasurers who shall perform such of the duties of
the office as may be directed by the city manager and shall have the full
powers of deputy treasurers. The treasurer shall be responsible to the city for
the actions of the deputies and may require of such deputies a bond in such sum
as may be fixed by the city commission payable to the treasurer and conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the deputies’ duties.
(Ord. 547, 2016)
Chapter 2.28
CITY ENGINEER
Sections:
   
2.28.010   City manager appointed-Duties.
2.28.010   City manager appointed- Duties.
   The city manager shall perform the duties of city engineer. In addition to
his other duties, it shall be the duty of the city engineer to establish
throughout the city initial points and monuments and from such points to extend
the surveys of the city. It shall also be his duty, when called upon to do so,
to locate, establish and survey all lines of property, public and private, in
the city and to make all surveys and calculations for grading, leveling or
other work to be done on streets, alleys, sidewalks, bridges, culverts or
sewers, to make all plans and specifications for public works and to draw all
maps or plats of land within the city that may be required. When any line of
any street or property has been surveyed or located by the city engineer, such
shall not be changed by him or his successor without good cause shown and on an
order of the city commission. The city manager shall have general supervision
of all contracts or other work and see that it is performed in a workmanlike
manner in accordance with the authorized plans and in conformity with the terms
of the contract and specifications. (Amended during 1992 codification: prior
code § 2-6-1)
Chapter 2.32
CITY HEALTH OFFICER
Sections:
   
2.32.010   City manager appointed-Duties.
2.32.010   City manager appointed- Duties.
   The city manager shall perform the duties of city health officer. The city
health officer shall have charge and control of all functions involved in
protecting and preserving the public health, and he shall adopt such measures
as will prevent the spreading or aid in the prevention of communicable disease.
The city health officer shall inspect and supervise the preparation,
manufacture, storage and sale of all articles, commodities and foods intended
for human consumption and shall examine food handlers, inspect commercial,
industrial and housing conditions including ventilation, lighting and
sanitation fixtures, (Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 2-6-2)
Chapter 2.36
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
Sections:
   
2.36.010   Duties.
   
2.36.020   Removal from office.
2.36.010   Duties.
   A.   The director of public works shall be responsible for all matters
relating to construction, management, maintenance and operation of the physical
properties of the city.
   B.   He shall supervise all engineering services for the department and for
such other departments of the city as may from time to time require such
services. He shall supervise the city inspectors who shall issue all permits
for and inspect the work involved in the construction of sewers and water
services, sidewalks, curb cuts and street cuts. He shall inspect all work done
under the provisions of the electrical, plumbing and building codes of the city
and inspect all premises, including structures and appurtenances thereon for
safety features.
   C.   The director of public works shall supervise the construction,
operation and maintenance of the city water distribution and sewerage systems.
He shall supervise the operation and maintenance of all city parks and
cemeteries. He shall supervise the construction, installation, repairing and
maintenance of all facilities of the fire and police signal systems, traffic-
control signals and other electrically operated signals but excluding the
police radio system. He shall supervise the operation of the municipal garage
and shall maintain and provide for city uses all automotive equipment owned by
the city other than that used by the fire department.
   D.   The director of public works shall supervise the collection of garbage
and rubbish, operate the city dump and be responsible for the clearing of snow
and clean improved streets. He shall supervise the maintenance of and provide
for adequate drainage on all streets, sidewalks and bridges. (Prior code § 2-6-
3 (part))
2.36.020   Removal from office.
   The director of public works may be removed for malfeasance in office,
neglect of his duties or failure to carry out the desires of the governing
body. (Prior code § 2-6-3 (part))
Chapter 2.38
PARKS AND RECREATION DIRECTOR
Sections:
   
2.38.010   Duties.
2.38.010   Duties.
   A.   The parks and recreation director shall be responsible for all matters
relating to the management, operation, and maintenance of departments in the
parks and recreation division of the city and report directly to the city
manager. Duties will include:
      1.   Planning, managing, directing, supervising, and coordinating various
recreation and special programs for the city.
      2.   Planning, directing, and supervising the work of employees.
      3.   Managing division and department budgets.
      4.   Planning, developing, and implementing improvements at various parks
and recreation facilities.
      5.   Coordinating assigned activities with other city departments,
outside organizations, and the general public.
      6.   Providing reports to the parks and recreation board as needed.
      7.   Providing reports to the city commission as requested.
      8.   Other tasks as assigned by the city manager.
   B.   Departments reporting to the director include the cemetery, library,
parks and recreation department, senior citizens center, theatre, and youth
center.
   C.   The parks and recreation director shall be employed by the city
manager, subject to the approval of the city commission. (Ord. 566, 2018)
DIVISION III.
DEPARTMENTS
Chapter 2.40
POLICE DEPARTMENT
Sections:
   
2.40.010   Created.
   
2.40.020   Rules and regulations.
   
2.40.030   Police chief-Appointment-Duties- Oath-Bond.
   
2.40.040   Police officers-Duties.
   
2.40.050   Police officers-Oath and bond.
   
2.40.060   Uniforms.
   
2.40.070   Duty of citizens to aid.
   
2.40.080   Extraterritorial duty.
   
2.40.090   Reserve police.
   
2.40.100   Private police.
2.40.010   Created.
   There is created a police department for the city which shall consist of one
chief of police and as many policemen as may from time to time be deemed
necessary for the safety and good order of the city. (Prior code § 4-1-1)
2.40.020   Rules and regulations.
   The police department shall be operated and managed in accordance with such
departmental rules and regulations as may be adopted by the commission. (Prior
code § 4-1-2)
2.40.030   Police chief-Appointment-Duties- Oath-Bond.
   The chief of police shall be appointed by the governing body. The chief of
police shall:
   A.   Execute and return all writs and processes as directed by the municipal
judge;
   B.   Serve criminal writs and processes in any part of the county wherein
the municipality is situated; and
   C.   Within the municipality, to suppress all riots, disturbances and
breaches of the peace, apprehend all disorderly persons, pursue and arrest any
person fleeing from justice, and apprehend any person in the act of violating
the laws of the state or the ordinances of the municipality and bring him
before competent authority for examination and trial;
   D.   Render such accounts of the police department, his duties, department
operations and receipts as may be required by the commission and keep records
of the department and his office open to public inspection at all reasonable
times;
   E.   Before entering upon the duties of such office, the chief of police
shall take and subscribe to an oath that he will support the constitution and
laws of the state of New Mexico, the constitution of the United States and the
ordinances of the municipality, and that he will faithfully perform the duties
of the office upon which he is about to enter.
   F.   He shall furnish a surety bond in a principal sum to be fixed and
conditioned upon the faithful discharge of the duties of his office, or a
surety bond covering all officers of the department may be secured.
   G.   He may be removed for just and probable cause relating to malfeasance
in office, neglect of duties or failure to carry out the desires of the
governing body. (Prior code § 4-1-3)
2.40.040   Police officers-Duties.
   All members of the police department shall:
   A.   Perform all duties as required by law;
   B.   Suppress all riots, disturbances and breaches of the peace, apprehend
all disorderly persons in the city, and shall pursue and arrest any person
fleeing from justice in any part of the state;
   C.   Be the enforcement officers of the city and shall see that the
provisions of this code, city ordinances, and the laws of the state of New
Mexico are complied with. They shall arrest without process all persons engaged
in the violation in their presence of any provision of this code or the law of
the state. Upon such arrest, they shall forthwith convey such offenders before
the proper officer to be dealt with according to law; provided, that they may
incarcerate any person whom they shall arrest at a late and unusual hour of the
night until the following morning; and provided further, that in the special
cases relating to traffic offenses they may release an arrested person upon his
written promise to appear in court;
   D.   Report such offenses as may come to their knowledge to the proper
municipal official or they shall report the same to the municipal judge,
securing a warrant for the arrest of offenders as shall be directed;
   E.   Execute and return all writs and process to them directed by the
municipal judge in any case arising under a municipal ordinance, and may serve
the same in any part of the county in which such municipality is situated;
   F.   Observe the condition of the streets, sidewalks, and alleys of the
city, and of any obstruction, nuisance, or impediments therein, and shall take
necessary measures to remove or abate the same. (Prior code § 4-1-4)
2.40.050   Police officers-Oath and bond.
   Before entering upon the duties of his office, each police officer shall
take and subscribe to an oath that he will support the constitution and laws of
the state of New Mexico, the constitution of the United States, and the
ordinances of the municipality, and that he will faithfully perform the duties
of the office upon which he is about to enter. (Prior code § 4-1-5)
2.40.060   Uniforms.
   Every police officer shall wear, at all times while on duty, a uniform of
the type and quality prescribed by the city commission. (Prior code § 4-1-6)
2.40.070   Duty of citizens to aid.
   It shall be the duty of all persons, when called upon by any police officer,
to promptly aid and assist such officer in the discharge of his duties. (Prior
code § 4-1-7)
2.40.080   Extraterritorial duty.
   The chief of police may in his discretion, upon request of the chief of
police or person exercising the functions thereof in any other jurisdiction,
assign police officers under his control together with such equipment as he
shall deem to be proper, to perform temporary duty in the requesting
jurisdiction. (Prior code § 4-1-8)
2.40.090   Reserve police.
   The mayor may upon any emergency, riot, pestilence, invasion or at any time
he shall deem it necessary for the peace, good order or health of the
municipality, order the chief of police to appoint reserve policemen for a
specified time, not exceeding two days, without the approval of the commission.
He may also, with the approval of a majority of the city commission, order the
chief of police to appoint such number of reserve policemen as may be agreed
upon by the commission, to serve upon days of election, public celebration and
holidays, and said reserve policemen shall have and possess all the powers and
privileges of regular policemen during the time for which they may be
appointed. (Prior code § 4-1-9)
2.40.100   Private police.
   Any person desiring the services of a special policeman in or about his
property or place of business, upon agreeing to defray all expenses of
maintenance of such special policeman, upon application to the commission may
have any suitable person named for such special policeman duly appointed as
such. Such special policeman shall take the usual oath of office and shall have
the powers of a regular police officer in and upon the premises for which he
may have been appointed, but not elsewhere; provided, however, special police
officers so appointed shall be under the control of the chief of police. The
person at whose instance such officer was appointed shall be responsible for
the pay of such officer, and the city shall in no case incur any liability
whatever by reason of the appointment of such special policeman. No person
appointed as a special policeman under the terms of this section shall be
considered a member of the police department. All special or reserve police
officers shall wear a shield having inscribed thereon, "Special Policeman,"
while on duty. It is unlawful for any special police officer to wear his badge
or shield when he is not performing the duties for which he was employed.
(Prior code § 4-1-10)
Chapter 2.44
FIRE DEPARTMENT
Sections:
   
2.44.010   Created.
   
2.44.020   Rules and regulations.
   
2.44.030   Fire chief-Duties.
   
2.44.040   Assumption of fire chiefs duties.
   
2.44.050   Fire personnel-Qualifications-Requirements.
   
2.44.060   Equipment-Purchase-Use restrictions.
   
2.44.070   Equipment-Control and responsibility.
   
2.44.080   Equipment-Private use prohibited without consent.
   
2.44.090   Joint use agreements.
   
2.44.100   Authorized emergency vehicles.
   
2.44.110   Entry onto adjacent property.
   
2.44.120   Prescribing limits at scene of fire.
   
2.44.130   Mutual aid agreements.
   
2.44.140   Fire alarms.
   
2.44.150   Inspections-Uniform codes adopted by reference.
   
2.44.160   Adopted codes- Definitions.
   
2.44.170   Adopted codes-Amendments to- Availability to public.
   
2.44.180   Enforcement-Bureau of fire prevention.
   
2.44.190   Fire prevention-Fire marshal.
   
2.44.200   Inspectors.
   
2.44.210   Inspections.
   
2.44.220   Inspections-Penalty for violations or obstruction.
   
2.44.230   Variances to fire prevention code.
   
2.44.240   Variances-Records.
   
2.44.250   Appeals.
   
2.44.260   Additional requirements for new processes or materials.
   
2.44.270   Violations of fire prevention code.
   
2.44.280   Cotton gins-Requirements.
   
2.44.290   Fire escapes-Required when.
   
2.44.300   Fire escapes-Permit to construct.
   
2.44.310   Fire exits.
   
2.44.320   Storage of gasoline-Permit required.
   
2.44.330   Gasoline storage permit-Application-Expiration.
   
2.44.340   Delivery of gasoline.
   
2.44.350   Inspection of storage facilities-Right of entry.
2.44.010   Created.
   The fire department shall consist of a combination of such permanent city
employees and such members of the Lovington volunteer fire department as the
city commission may deem necessary or appropriate. In addition to its regular
duties, the fire department shall provide emergency ambulance services and
medical services, hereafter referred to as ambulance services. (Ord. 326
(part), 1984: prior code § 4-2-1)
2.44.020   Rules and regulations.
   The fire department and ambulance service shall be operated and managed in
accordance with rules and regulations compiled or approved by the city
commission. (Ord. 326 (part), 1984: prior code § 4-2-2)
2.44.030   Fire chief-Duties.
   A.   The fire chief shall be employed by the city manager subject to the
approval of the city commission. The fire chief shall:
      1.   Be accountable to the city manager for the personnel, morale and
general efficiency of the department;
      2.   Direct the operations of the fire department and ambulance service
and set the rules and regulations thereof;
      3.   Supervise the manner of handling fires in order to minimize injury
to persons and damage to property. During the progress of a fire or emergency
incident involving the personnel and/or equipment of the department, the
authority of the fire chief in all matters connected with the management or
direction thereof or the disposition of property endangered by it shall be
absolute, subject to authority of mayor. All orders issued by the fire chief on
such occasions shall be respected, and any fireman or citizen ignoring or
refusing to obey the same is guilty of a misdemeanor;
      4.   Conduct, or cause to be conducted, suitable drills or instruction in
the operation and handling of equipment, first-aid and rescue work, civil
defense and salvage operations;
      5.   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, studies of building structures and
other potential hazards within the municipality, be familiar therewith, and
have the study results available to the department personnel;
      6.   Establish fire zones;
      7.   Investigate the origin, cause and circumstances of all fires and
assist other proper authorities in investigating and suppressing arson;
      8.   Inspect buildings and premises, places of public assembly and places
housing dangerous material, or cause the same to be inspected, serve written
notice upon owner or occupants of inspected premises to abate within specified
time and correct any and all fire hazards and violations that may be found.
   For the purpose of conducting such inspections, the chief, or designated
representative of the chief, may enter any and all buildings and premises
within the municipality at any reasonable hour. Any person served with notice
to abate any fire hazard and/or violation shall comply therewith and promptly
notify the chief of remedial measures taken;
      9.   Keep complete records of all fires, inspections, emergency medical
runs, apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information concerning
operations of the fire department and ambulance service, furnish the commission
with such information as may be requested and maintain records open to the
public for inspection at all reasonable times, except for records that may
violate rights of privacy and/or require subpoena action;
      10.   Make a complete annual report, in writing, to the commission within
one month after the close of the fiscal year, such report to include the
information specified in subdivision 9 of this subsection, together with
comparative experience data for previous years with recommendations
for improvement of the fire department and ambulance service;
      11.   Employ, evaluate, promote, demote, dismiss or expel any officer or
member of the fire department and ambulance service, which demotion, dismissal
or expulsion of any officer or member of the fire department and ambulance
service may occur for neglect or refusal to perform departmental duties but
shall be subject to the right of any member so demoted, dismissed or expelled
to appeal to the commission or other body as provided by personnel rules and
regulations; and approve work and vacation schedules for personnel of the fire
department and ambulance service;
      12.   Enforce, or cause to be enforced, all ordinances, laws and
regulations of the city, state and federal government, insofar as they pertain
to the fire department and ambulance service;
      13.   Establish, subject to the approval of the city manager and/or the
city commission, employment policies and selection procedures for all
departments under his control;
      14.   Perform, or cause to be performed, the duties of the civil defense
coordinator for the city;
      15.   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, the annual budget for the fire
department and ambulance service.
   B.   The duties and authorities of the fire chief which apply to employees
of the fire and ambulance department shall also apply to members of authorized
volunteer and/or nonemployee members of agencies and/or organizations assigned
to the fire chief. (Ord. 326 (part), 1984: Ord. 280, 1979: prior code § 4-2-3)
2.44.040   Assumption of fire chiefs duties.
   The duties of the fire chief in his absence shall be assumed by those
officers designated in the current approved department operating procedures.
(Ord. 326 (part), 1984: prior code § 4-2-11)
2.44.050   Fire personnel- Qualifications- Requirements.
   A.   Firemen shall be appointed at such time and in such manner as the
commission may deem necessary or appropriate. Firemen may be employed by the
city or may be volunteer members of the fire department or a combination of
both and shall be employed without regard to sex, religion, race, national
origin, age or sexual preference. The term "fireman" shall apply to either
sex..
   B.   Minimum age requirements shall be set forth by the state of New Mexico
licensing agencies which govern the services performed by the department.
   C.   Preference shall be given to those applicants who reside within five
minutes response time of the central fire department over applicants who live
more than five minutes response time from the central fire department.
   D.   All department personnel shall be required to have telephones in their
home.
   E.   Firemen shall be subject to the supervision of the fire chief and/or
his designated personnel.
   F.   Firemen are subject to department policies established by the fire
chief.
   G.   Firemen shall respond as directed by the fire chief or designee to all
fire, disaster and/or emergency medical alerts referred to in this chapter as
fires.
   H.   Firemen shall also respond as directed by the fire chief or designee to
watch and/or warning alerts and shall also take part in departmental training
as directed.
   I.   All department personnel, including those above the rank of firemen,
shall conform to the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 326 (part), 1984: prior code § 4-2-4)
2.44.060   Equipment-Purchase- Use restrictions.
   The department shall be equipped with such apparatus and other equipment as
may be required from time to time to maintain its efficiency and provide
adequate protection from fire. Acquisition of necessary equipment and
facilities shall be made by the chief, and upon approval by the commission,
purchased pursuant to the Public Purchases Act. All equipment of the department
shall be safely and conveniently housed in such a place or places as may be
designated by the commission. No person shall use any fire apparatus or
equipment for any private purpose, nor shall any person wilfully take away or
conceal any article used in any way by the department. No person shall enter
any place where fire apparatus is housed or handle any apparatus or equipment
belonging to the department unless accompanied by, or having special permission
of an officer or authorized member of the department. No fire apparatus or
equipment shall be hired out or permitted to leave the fire station except in
response to a call for aid at a fire within the corporate limits of the city,
or in response to a call for aid at a fire in an authorized fire protection
service area or mutual aid under provisions of Section
2.44.090. (Ord. 326 (part), 1984: prior code § 4-2-6)
2.44.070   Equipment-Control and responsibility.
   All hose carts or carriages, hooks, ladders and all other fire machinery,
apparatus, tools, buckets and property of any description whatsoever, in any
way relating to or connected with the fire department of the city shall be
under the control and charge of the fire chief. (Ord. 326 (part), 1984: prior
code § 4-2-12)
2.44.080   Equipment-Private use prohibited without consent
   No person having charge of any hose, fire truck or other fire apparatus
shall suffer the same to be applied to private use without the consent of the
city commission and the fire chief and he shall be personally liable in
addition thereto for any injuries thereby caused to such apparatus. (Ord. 326
(part), 1984: prior code § 4-2-16)
2.44.090   Joint use agreements.
   The commission may from time to time enter into agreements, for the joint
use of facilities, buildings and equipment with fire districts organized under
the laws of the state of New Mexico. (Ord. 326 (part), 1984: prior code § 4-2-
7)
2.44.100   Authorized emergency vehicles.
   Each member of the department driving a car shall be issued suitable
insignia to be attached to the car. The driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle shall operate such vehicle pursuant to the New Mexico Uniform Traffic
Ordinance. No person shall drive any vehicle over fire hoses except from
specific orders from the chief or other officer in charge where the hose is
used. (Ord. 326 (part), 1984; prior code § 4-2-9)
2.44.110   Entry onto adjacent property.
   It is lawful for any fireman acting under the direction of the chief or
another officer in command to enter upon the premises adjacent to or in the
vicinity of any building or other property that is on fire, for the purpose of
extinguishing such fire, and no person shall hinder, resist or obstruct any
fireman in the discharge of his duty as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 326
(part), 1984: prior code § 4-2-5)
2.44.120   Prescribing limits at scene of fire.
   The fire chief or such officer as may be in command at any fire scene may
prescribe limits within which no person shall be admitted to the area. Such
officer in command at any designated location of imminent danger or potential
disaster may prescribe limits to the area or areas within which no unauthorized
personnel shall be admitted. Exceptions shall be by order of the mayor, his
designee and/or by order of the emergency operating center for the city. (Ord.
326 (part), 1984: prior code § 4-2-15)
2.44.130   Mutual aid agreements.
   The city is authorized to enter into agreements or contracts to furnish fire
protection outside the municipality or to enter into mutual aid agreements. The
members of the fire department are authorized and directed to render
firefighting service to communities, organizations, owner or occupants of
premises outside the corporate limits of the city. Such service shall only be
rendered subject to the terms of the agreements or contract entered into by the
city. (Ord. 326 (part), 1984: prior code § 4-2-8)
2.44.140   Fire alarms.
   Suitable alarm systems, arrangements or equipment shall be provided for use
in turning in an alarm, and for alerting department members to report to duty
stations. It is unlawful for any person to maliciously turn in, or cause to be
turned in, a false alarm. (Ord. 326 (part), 1984: prior code § 4-2-10)
2.44.150   Inspections-Uniform codes adopted by reference.
   For the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to
life and property from fire and other hazards in an ever changing environment,
there are adopted by the city those codes and standards known as the Uniform
Building Code, Uniform Fire Code, Life Safety Code, National Electrical Code,
National Fire Protection Association Standards, Uniform Mechanical Code, ICBO
Plumbing Code and the Occupational Health and Safety Standards for General
Industry as amended from time to time, as well as all state and federal
requirements pertaining to the inspected occupancy at the time of the
inspection. (Ord. 326 (part), 1984: prior code § 4-2-14)
2.44.160   Adopted codes- Definitions.
   A.   Wherever the word "municipality" is used in the fire prevention code,
it shall be held to mean the city of Lovington.
   B.   Wherever the words "chief of the bureau of fire prevention" are used in
the fire prevention code, they shall be held to mean the fixe marshal. (Prior
code §§ 4-2-22,4-2-23)
2.44.170   Adopted codes- Amendments to- Availability to public.
   Those certain inspection references and standards adopted under Section
2.44.150 are adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this
chapter. Amendments, changes and/or reprints as well as new editions of the
referenced materials) shall be as approved by the city commission and/or city
manager upon recommendation by the fire chief. Maintenance and storage of
inspection references shall be as directed by the city commission and/or city
manager. All inspection reference material shall be made available to the
general public during regular business hours for their review. (Ord. 326
(part), 1984: prior code § 4-2-18)
2.44.180   Enforcement-Bureau of fire prevention.
   The fire prevention code shall be enforced by the bureau of fire prevention
in the fire department of the city which is established and which shall be
operated under the supervision of the fire chief. (Ord. 326 (part), 1984: prior
code § 4-2-19)
2.44.190   Fire prevention-Fire marshal.
   The fire marshal shall be employed or appointed by the fire chief, subject
to the approval of the city manager. The fire marshal shall:
   A.   Be subordinate to the authority of the fire chief in all matters
connected with the management of a fire or other emergency, or direction
thereof, or the disposition of property endangered by the fire or emergency and
shall assist with the suppression of the fire or emergency when directed by the
fire chief;
   B.   Conduct drills and/or instruction for personnel in the operation and
handling of equipment assigned to the fire prevention and investigation
division as well as investigative techniques and practices required by the
division; shall prepare studies of, and familiarize himself and division
personnel with the building structures and other appropriate items relating to
his duties as fire marshal in the municipality. He, as well as the fire chief,
shall be responsible for the establishment of fire zones, water supplies and
other matters generally considered essential to adequate fire prevention,
investigation and safety of life and property from loss by fire;
   C.   Assist the proper authorities in suppressing the crime of arson by
investigating or causing to be investigated the cause, origin and circumstances
of all fires;
   D.   Inspect buildings and premises and serve written notice upon the owner
or occupant to abate, within a specified time, any and all lire hazards that
may be found. For the purpose of conducting such inspection, the fire chief or
fire marshal may enter any and all buildings and premises within the
municipality at any reasonable hour. Any person served with a notice to abate
any fire hazard shall comply therewith and promptly notify the fire chief of
the remedial measures taken;
   E.   Keep complete records of all fires, inspections, division personnel and
other information concerning operations of the division. He shall furnish the
fire chief with such information as may be requested;
   F.   Make a complete annual report, in writing to the fire chief within two
weeks
after the close of the fiscal year, such report to include the information
specified in subsection E of this section, together with comparative experience
data for previous years with recommendations for improving the effectiveness of
the division and department;
   G.   Prepare and submit to the fire chief the annual budget for the fire
prevention bureau and investigative division;
   H.   Enforce, or cause to be enforced, all ordinances, laws and regulations
of the city and state and federal governments as they apply to the fire
prevention bureau and investigative division;
   I.   Performs other duties as assigned by the fire chief. (Ord. 326 (part),
1984: Ord. 281, 1979: prior code § 4-2-20)
2.44.200   Inspectors.
   The fire chief may detail such members of the fire department as inspectors
as shall from time to time be necessary. (Ord. 326 (part), 1984: prior code §
4-2-21)
2.44.210   Inspections.
   It shall be the duty of the fire chief, or designee under his direction to
visit and inspect all buildings, warehouses, industry and business locations
and places of assembly within the municipality for compliance with fire and/or
life safety codes according to their occupancy. Any person violating, or
failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with, any provisions, regulations or
requirements of the city pertaining to such inspection shall be reported to the
city manager and/or the city attorney and/or the regulatory agency of higher
authority for immediate prosecution and/or other action as appropriate. (Ord.
326 (part), 1984: prior code § 4-2-13)
2.44.220   Inspections-Penalty for violations or obstruction.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or who shall refuse to
allow the fire chief or his designee to make proper inspection of the store
building, warehouse or house used as a store building or warehouse, belonging
to or under the control of such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord.
326 (part), 1984: prior code § 4-2-17)
2.44.230   Variances to fire prevention code.
   The chief of the bureau of fire prevention shall have power to modify any of
the provisions of the fire prevention code upon application in writing by the
owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code;
provided, that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured
and substantial justice done. All modifications shall first be approved by the
governing body. (Prior code § 4-2-24)
2.44.240   Variances-Records.
   The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the
decision of the chief of the bureau of fire prevention thereon shall be entered
upon the records of the department and a signed copy shall be furnished the
applicant. (Prior code § 4-2-25)
2.44.250   Appeals.
   Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a license or permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the
provisions of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the
code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal
from the decision of the chief of the fire department to the city commission
within thirty days from the date of the decision of the appeal. (Prior code §
4-2-26)
2.44.260   Additional requirements for new processes or materials.
   The mayor, the chief of the fire department and the chief of the bureau of
fire prevention shall act as a committee to determine and specify, after giving
affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or
occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated
in the fire prevention code. The chief of the bureau of fire prevention shall
post such list in a conspicuous place in his office, and distribute copies
thereof to interested persons. (Prior code § 4-2-27)
2.44.270   Violations of fire prevention code.
   A.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the fire prevention
code adopted by Section
2.44.150 of this chapter or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails
to comply with any order made thereunder, or who builds in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder
or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has
been taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified
by the city commission or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time
fixed in this chapter, shall severally for each such violation and
noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The imposition of one
penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise
specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall
constitute a separate offense.
   B.   The application of a penalty for violation of this section shall not be
held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (Amended during
1992 codification: prior code § 4-2-28)
2.44.280   Cotton gins- Requirements.
   All cotton gins located within the corporate limits of the city shall
install suitable fireproof bur pits or incinerators and shall take such other
steps to prevent fires and eliminate, as near as practical, the smoke and other
obnoxious features of such gins as may be prescribed by the fire chief of the
fire department of the city. All cotton gins located within the corporate
limits shall follow all of the rules and regulations of the Health and Social
Services Department of the state of New Mexico. (Prior code § 4-2-29)
2.44.290   Fire escapes-Required when.
   Every hotel, roominghouse, lodge room and club room, or house of public
assembly within the city and two or more stories high shall be furnished with
at least one fire escape for each story. The first escape shall be built with a
landing at the exit of each story and the bottom of the fire escape shall be
not more than nine feet from the ground. (Prior code § 4-2-30)
2.44.300   Fire escapes-Permit to construct.
   Any person desiring to construct a fire escape or exit shall first procure a
permit therefor from the building inspector and pay to him the sum of one
dollar for each permit Such fee shall be deposited with the city treasurer for
the use and benefit of the city and the construction of such fire escapes and
exits shall be under the supervision of the building inspector. (Prior code §
4-2-31)
2.44.310   Fire exits.
   Every theater, church, school house or other structure for public
assemblage, in addition to the requirements of Section
2.44.290 of this chapter, shall be provided with a side or rear exit at the
ground floor to consist of double doors to swing outward. On the inside wall of
each such building, near the exits, the words "Fire Escape" shall be printed in
conspicuous letters. (Prior code § 4-2-32)
2.44.320   Storage of gasoline- Permit required.
   All persons who maintain storage facilities, storage containers or keep
gasoline or motor fuel in quantities in excess of fifty-six gallons shall
acquire from the city clerk a permit authorizing such storage facilities as
provided in this code and at the time of the passage of this chapter such
persons shall have sixty days in which to comply with the provisions of this
section. (Prior code § 4-2-33)
2.44.330   Gasoline storage permit- Application-Expiration.
   A.   The city clerk shall, upon the application and payment of a fee of one
dollar, issue a permit for storage of gasoline and motor fuel, providing the
following information is furnished and certain conditions and terms are met:
      1.   A statement from the fire chief that the existing or proposed
storage facilities do not and will not constitute a fire hazard;
      2.   The location of the existing or proposed storage facilities;
      3.   The type and capacity of the existing or proposed storage
facilities;
      4.   The name of the owner of the storage facilities.
   B.   All permits shall expire as of February 1st, of the succeeding year.
(Prior code § 4-2-34)
2.44.340   Delivery of gasoline.
   It is unlawful for any distributor of gasoline to deliver gasoline or motor
fuel to any person who does not have a current and valid permit for storage of
gasoline or motor fuel and such deliveries shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. (Prior code § 4-2-35)
2.44.350   Inspection of storage facilities-Right of entry.
   The fire chief and the gasoline tax collecting official of the city shall
have the right to entry during usual business hours to inspect any and all
buildings, premises, meters, books of record, measuring devices and storage
containers in the performance of their duties. (Prior code § 4-2-36)
Chapter 2.48
SANITATION DEPARTMENT
Sections:
   
2.48.010   Created.
2.48.010   Created.
   The city creates and establishes a sanitation department of the city for the
purpose of management, control, collection and disposal of garbage, litter,
refuse, waste and undesirable matters within the city. The city manager shall
have the overall control and management of such things relating to the
sanitation department. (Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior code § 4-5-1)
Chapter 2.52
STREET DEPARTMENT
Sections:
   
2.52.010   Created.
2.52.010   Created.
   There is created and established a street department of the city for the
purpose of management, maintenance, care and operation of the steets and
sidewalks of the municipality. The city manager shall have the overall control
and management of all things relating to the municipal streets and sidewalks.
(Prior code § 4-4-1)
DIVISION IV.
MUNICIPAL COURT
Chapter 2.56
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sections:
   
2.56.010   Jurisdiction-Presiding officer.
   
2.56.020   Rules of procedure.
   
2.56.030   Complaint and warrant issuance.
   
2.56.040   Docketing all cases.
   
2.56.050   Entering judgment.
   
2.56.060   Suspension, probation, community service.
   
2.56.070   Appeals-Time limit
   
2.56.080   Appeal-Procedure.
2.56.010   Jurisdiction-Presiding officer.
   The municipal court has exclusive original jurisdiction over all offenses
and complaints under the code or ordinances of the city and may issue subpoenas
and warrants and punish for contempt. The court shall be located in quarters
provided by the city commission and shall be presided over by the municipal
judge. (Prior code § 5-1-1)
2.56.020   Rules of procedure.
   The municipal judge shall establish rules of procedure which are necessary
for the purpose of officially carrying out the provisions of the ordinances of
the city and for the proper administration of justice. Such rules shall not be
inconsistent with the applicable statutes of the state of New Mexico or the
ordinances of the city. (Prior code § 5-2-8)
2.56.030   Complaint and warrant issuance.
   The municipal judge shall, before proceeding to try any person for the
violation of any ordinance of the city, cause a complaint to be made, a warrant
issued to arrest the person and a return to be made on the warrant. It shall be
sufficient to state in the complaint the number of the section of the code
violated. (Prior code § 5-2-9)
2.56.040   Docketing all cases.
   All cases tried before the municipal judge shall be docketed in the name of
the city against the defendant, and the municipal judge shall enter on the
docket, in a plain and intelligent manner, an account of each step taken in
such case and of particular fines assessed in same. (Prior code § 5-2-10)
2.56.050   Entering judgment.
   Judgment shall be entered in each and every case of guilty or not guilty of
the offense charged, and by the judgment the defendant shall be discharged,
fined or imprisoned, or fined and imprisoned as the case may be. Where judgment
of guilty shall be entered in any case before him requiring confinement in the
municipal jail, the municipal judge shall issue a commitment against the
defendant commanding the chief of police of the city to commit the defendant to
the city jail, all in accordance with the terms of the judgment and ordinances
of the city. (Prior code § 5-2-11)
2.56.060   Suspension, probation, community service.
   A.   Upon a plea of guilty or a judgment of conviction for violation of a
municipal ordinance, the municipal court may suspend in whole or in part the
execution of sentence, or place the defendant on probation for a period not
exceeding one year on terms and conditions the court deems best, or both.
   B.   Suspension of execution of the sentence or probation, or both, shall be
granted only when the municipal judge is satisfied it will serve the ends of
justice and of the public.
   C.   The defendant's liability for any fine or other punishment imposed
shall be fully discharged upon successful completion of the terms of probation.
   D.   The municipal court may as a condition of probation require the
defendant to serve a period of time in volunteer labor to be known as community
service. The type of labor and period of service shall be at the sole
discretion of the court; provided, that any person receiving community service
shall be immune from any civil liability other than gross negligence arising
out of the community service, and any person who performs community service
pursuant to court order or any criminal diversion program shall not be entitled
to any wages, shall not be considered an employee for any purpose and shall not
be entitled to workmen's compensation, unemployment benefits or any other
benefits otherwise provided by law. As used in this section, "community
service" means any labor that benefits the public at large or any public,
charitable or educational entity or institution. (Ord. 349, 1987: prior code §
5-2-13)
2.56.070   Appeals-Time limit.
   The city or the defendant may appeal to the district court from the judgment
of the municipal court within fifteen days after judgment and sentence rendered
in the municipal court. Failure of either party to appeal within the prescribed
time is jurisdictional and an appeal not timely filed shall not be entertained.
(Prior code § 5-3-1)
2.56.080   Appeal-Procedure.
   An appeal from the municipal court is taken by filing with the clerk of the
district court a notice of appeal. When the defendant takes an appeal, the
notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a bond to the city in the sum and with
condition, fixed by the municipal judge as sufficient to secure the appearance
of defendant, and the judgment and sentence of the municipal court. The clerk
of the district court shall docket the appeal on the civil docket upon payment
of a docket fee of ten dollars and shall transmit a copy of the notice of
appeal to the municipal judge and municipal attorney. Within ten days after
receipt of the notice of appeal from the clerk of the district court, the
municipal judge shall file with the clerk of the district court, a transcript
of all municipal court docket entries in the action, together with all
pleadings and other documents, relating to the action. The docketing of an
appeal operates as a stay of execution upon the municipal court in the action
until final disposition of the appeal. (Prior code § 5-3-2)
Chapter 2.60
MUNICIPAL JUDGE
Sections:
   
2.60.010   Elected.
   
2.60.020   Qualifications.
   
2.60.030   Bond and oath.
   
2.60.040   Alternates to serve during temporary absence.
   
2.60.050   Benefits and salary.
   
2.60.060   Duties.
   
2.60.070   Recordkeeping.
2.60.010   Elected.
   The municipal judge shall be elected as provided by law. Vacancy shall be
filled by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city commission. (Prior
code § 5-2-1)
2.60.020   Qualifications.
   The municipal judge shall be a registered, qualified elector of the city.
(Prior code § 5-2-2)
2.60.030   Bond and oath.
   The municipal judge shall, before he enters the duties of office, if no
corporate surety bond covering all municipal officials exists, execute a surety
bond to the city in the amount of five thousand dollars conditioned upon the
faithful performance of his duties and the paying over to the city of all
fines, forfeited bonds and other money which comes into his hands by virtue of
his office. The municipal judge shall take the oath of office as required in
Section 3-10-2 NMSA, 1978. (Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 5-2-
3)
2.60.040   Alternates to serve during temporary absence.
   The mayor with the advice and consent of the city commission shall designate
two qualified electors of the city as alternate municipal judges, one of whom
shall serve as acting municipal judge during the vacation, temporary absence,
unavailability or incapacity of the municipal judge. The municipal judge,
before absenting himself shall select, or upon his failure to select, the mayor
shall select, one designee from those set forth above to serve as temporary
municipal judge to exercise all powers of the municipal judge until the return
of the municipal judge. Compensation of alternate municipal judges shall be
fixed by the city commission. (Prior code § 5-2-4)
2.60.050   Benefits and salary.
   The municipal judge elected after March 14, 2022, shall receive a salary of
forty thousand dollars per year. (Ord. 560 (part), 2018: Ord. 413, 1998: Ord.
409, 1997: Ord. 356,1988; Ord. 313 (part), 1982: Ord. 275, 1978; prior code §
5-2-5)
2.60.060   Duties.
   In addition to those duties set forth in the laws of the state, the
municipal judge shall hold court at least four hours each day. The municipal
judge shall be available at all reasonable hours for the issuance of warrants
and summons. The municipal judge shall also:
   A.   Receive fines and issue receipts therefor;
   B.   Receive and issue receipts for bail bonds;
   C.   Enter on the court docket the time for appearance of all persons coming
before the court and notify the arresting officer to be present;
   D.   Notify the city attorney of such violations and complaints as may be
designated by the city attorney;
   E.   Keep a record of all alleged violations of traffic ordinances together
with a notation of final disposition. Such record shall indicate all types of
offenses and the total of each type, and shall be maintained for a period of
three years from the date of case closure;
   F.   Keep a record of all traffic accidents, warnings, arrests, convictions
and complaints reported for each driver which shall be filed alphabetically
under the name of the driver. Such record shall be available for use and
information of the police department and city attorney's office;
   G.   Submit reports to the city manager, in,the manner and form prescribed
by him of all citations issued and arrests made for violations of all
ordinances, all fines collected and the final disposition of current status of
every case. Such reports shall show all types of violations and the totals of
each type. All receipts of fines shall be rendered promptly to the city clerk.
(Ord. 572, 2019: Ord. 313 (part), 1982; prior code § 5-2-7)
2.60.070   Recordkeeping.
   The municipal judge shall keep or cause to be kept a record of every traffic
complaint, uniform traffic citation and other form of traffic charge filed in
his court and every official action and disposition of the charge by his court.
Within ten days after disposition of every charge of violating the traffic code
of the city, the municipal judge shall upon forms furnished by the commissioner
of motor vehicles prepare, certify as correct, and forward to the State
Department of Motor Vehicles an abstract of the record. A report need not be
made of any conviction involving illegal parking or standing of a vehicle
except when a uniform traffic citation is used. When the uniform traffic
citation is issued, the form of the abstract on the back of the officers first
copy containing the above information shall be used. The failure or refusal of
the municipal judge to comply with the provisions of this section is misconduct
in office and ground for removal. (Prior code § 5-2-6)
DIVISION V.
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Chapter 2.64
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sections:
   
2.64.010   Created.
   
2.64.020   Notice of appointment.
   
2.64.030   Meetings.
   
2.64.040   Quorum.
   
2.64.050   Removal from office.
   
2.64.060   Termination.
   
2.64.070   Vacancy.
   
2.64.080   Ex officio members.
2.64.010   Created.
   The following boards and commissions are created and shall be appointed and
carry out such duties as are provided in this division:
   A.   Library Board;
   B.   Planning and Zoning Commission;
   C.   Civil Defense Council;
   D.   Youth Center Board.
(Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 3-1-1)
2.64.020   Notice of appointment.
   Each member shall be given notice of his appointment by a certificate which
shall state his appointment, date, date of expiration and shall bear the
signature of the mayor, attestation of the city clerk-treasurer and the city
seal. Each member shall hold office until his successor is qualified. (Prior
code § 3-1-2)
2.64.030   Meetings.
   AH meetings of the boards and commissions shall be held at City Hall or such
other public building as may be designated. (Prior code § 3-1-3)
2.64.040   Quorum.
   A majority of all the members of a board or commission delegation shall
constitute a quorum for the transacting of business. A motion shall carry upon
the majority vote of members present at any meeting. (Prior code § 3-1-4)
2.64.050   Removal from office.
   The city commission may remove any member of any board or commission named
in Section
2.64.010 by the majority vote of members upon the grounds of malfeasance or
nonfeasance of office or for any reason whatsoever upon the affirmative vote of
all of the members. (Prior code § 3-1-5)
2.64.060   Termination.
   The tenure of any member of a board or commission shall be automatically
terminated if such member shall absent himself from more than two consecutive
regular meetings of his board or commission without having notified his
chairman in advance of the reason for such absence, provided that the city
commission, at its discretion, may continue any member in office if sufficient
reason be shown for his absence. (Prior code § 3-1-6)
2.64.070   Vacancy.
   If a vacancy occurs on a board or commission, the mayor with the consent of
the governing body shall appoint a person to fill the vacancy for the remainder
of the unexpired term. (Prior code § 3-1-7)
2.64.080   Ex officio members.
   The mayor, members of the governing body, or administrative officers of the
city may be appointed as ex officio members of any board or commission except
the personnel board. (Prior code § 3-1-8)
Chapter 2.68
CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION
Sections:
Article I. Department of Emergency Management
   
2.68.010   Created.
   
2.68.020   Established.
   
2.68.030   Purpose.
   
2.68.040   Coordinator's duties and authority.
   
2.68.050   Funds.
Article II. Emergency Interim Successors Procedures
   
2.68.060   Emergency Interim Successors-Title.
   
2.68.070   Purpose.
   
2.68.080   Authority.
   
2.68.090   Applicability.
   
2.68.100   General.
   
2.68.110   Emergency management coordinator's responsibility.
   
2.68.120   Department directors' responsibility.
   
2.68.130   Listing of successors.
Article I.
Department of Emergency Management
2.68.010   Created.
   There is created the civil defense organization for the city as an agency of
such government to be composed of the mayor and such other persons that he may
appoint with the advice and consent of the city commission from time to time.
The mayor shall appoint with the advice and consent of the city commission a
director and a staff to serve at the pleasure of the mayor until repeal of this
section. (Prior code § 3-3-1)
2.68.020   Established.
   There hereby is established a Department of Emergency Management, in
accordance with Section 12-10-5, NMSA 1978 (1998 Repl. Pamph.) which shall
consist of:
      1.   A coordinator of emergency management who shall be appointed by the
city manager and subject to approval by the director of the emergency
management division of the state.
      2.   Such additional professional and administrative staff personnel as
may be required to effectively carry out the emergency management program.
      3.   All other city officers and employees, together with these volunteer
forces enrolled to aid them during periods of emergency, shall be considered as
part of the emergency management organization of the city. (Ord. 451 (part),
2003)
2.68.030   Purpose.
   The purpose of the emergency management organization is to coordinate the
efforts of all municipal agencies and employees and non-governmental agencies
to prepare for, and function in the event of, emergencies endangering the lives
and property of the citizens of the city. It shall be the duty of such
organization to coordinate the development of plans for the effective
employment of municipal resources to protect the lives and health of the
citizens of the city and the private and public property therein from the
effects of natural or man caused disasters, including acts of war, and to
coordinate the implementation of such plans during periods of emergency. Such
plans shall be coordinated with those of the county and in consonance with the
state emergency management plans. (Ord. 451 (part), 2003)
2.68.040   Coordinator's duties and authority.
   A.   The emergency management coordinator shall be the executive head of the
department of emergency management. He/she shall be responsible to the city
manager for the organization, administration and operation of the emergency
management program of the city. The coordinator shall coordinate the emergency
management activities of all municipal departments and agencies and
nongovernmental agencies, and shall maintain liaison with and cooperate with
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) agencies of the federal
government, the state and other political subdivisions therein.
   B.   The coordinator shall have all necessary authority to act for the
government of the city in all matters pertaining to emergency management,
including the obligation of such municipal funds as may be appropriated for
emergency management purposes. He/she shall develop an organizational structure
for the department, subject to the approval of the city manager and is
authorized to make appointments to fill the positions established herein. (Ord.
451 (part), 2003)
2.68.050   Funds.
   A.   Funds for necessary expenses of the department of emergency management,
including salaries for approved paid positions, may be made available through
appropriations by the city commission in accordance with Section 12-10-7, NMSA
1978 (1998 Repl. Pamph.).
   B.   The coordinator shall prepare and submit to the commission through the
city manager an annual proposed budget for emergency management expenditures,
and shall indicate therein those amounts eligible for matching funds under the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) programs.
   C.   Emergency management funds may be obligated by the coordinator only in
the amounts appropriated and for the purposes authorized by the city
commission. (Ord. 451 (part), 2003)
Article II.
Emergency Interim Successors Procedures
2.68.060   Title.
   Sections
2.68.100 through 2.68.170 of this article may be cited as Emergency Interim
Successors Procedures. (Ord. 452 (part), 2003)
2.68.070   Purpose.
   The purpose of this directive is to set forth the names of emergency interim
successors as required by Section 12-11-6 NMSA 1978 (1998 Repl. Pamph.)
Disaster Succession Act. (Ord. 452 (part), 2003)
2.68.080   Authority.
   These regulations are promulgated pursuant to the authority granted to local
governmental agencies in Sections 12-11-6 and 12-11-10 NMSA 1978 (1998 Repl.
Pamph.). (Ord. 452 (part), 2003)
2.68.090   Applicability.
   This directive is applicable to all city departments, agencies and specific
functions which support the Emergency Operations Center. (Ord. 452 (part),
2003)
2.68.100   General.
   In times of emergency and/or disaster, the city must be prepared to carry
out its responsibilities to the citizens of Lovington. To ensure that the
unavailability of a department director will not result in a breakdown of city
services, this policy provides that each department director shall recommend to
the city manager at least three qualified emergency interim successors. To
qualify as an emergency interim successor, a person must meet any applicable
constitutional, statutory, or code requirements relevant to holding the office
of the person whose powers and duties he/she is designated to succeed.
Emergency interim successors will be listed in order, alternates being called
upon only in the absence of all persons listed ahead of them as emergency
interim successors. (Ord. 452 (part), 2003)
2.68.110   Emergency management coordinator's responsibility.
   It is the responsibility of the emergency management coordinator of the
city, to approve the appointment of emergency interim successors. He/she has
delegated the authority to approve these appointments to the city manager. It
is also the responsibility of the emergency manager coordinator to ensure that
the address and home and business telephone numbers of each person identified
in this administrative policy is correct and that this data is available and
maintained in the department of public safety communications center and the
emergency operations center. (Ord. 452 (part), 2003)
2.68.120   Department directors' responsibility.
   It is the responsibility of each department director to notify the emergency
manager coordinator when an emergency interim successor is no longer able to
serve in such a position or the department director desires to recommend a
replacement. (Ord. 452 (part), 2003)
2.68.130   Listing of successors.
   A.   Mayor;
   B.   City Manager;
   C.   Assistant City Manager;
   D.   City Attorney;
   E.   City Clerk;
   F.   Chief of Police;
   G.   Director of Human Resources;
   H.   Deputy Clerk/Treasurer;
   I.   Director of Streets;
   J.   Library Director;
   K.   Municipal Judge;
   L.   Director of Parks;
   M.   Director of Recreation;
   N.   Director of Water Department;
   O.   Director of Senior Services; and
   P.   Emergency Management Coordinator. (Ord. 452 (part), 2003)
Chapter 2.72
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
Sections:
   
2.72.010   Offices may be combined.
   
2.72.020   Planning and zoning commission-Created.
   
2.72.030   Membership.
   
2.72.040   Reports and recommendations-Time limit.
   
2.72.050   Duties.
   
2.72.060   Recommendations for improvements.
   
2.72.070   Annual report.
2.72.010   Offices may be combined.
   The mayor may appoint the present members of the planning commission as
members of the zoning commission and their terms and offices shall be identical
to the terms and offices now held by them in the planning commission. Upon such
appointment of the members of the planning commission, the commission shall be
known as the city planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 557 (part), 2018: prior
code § 3-5-1)
2.72.020   Planning and zoning commission- Created.
   There is created a planning and zoning commission for the city and it shall
have all the powers, duties, authority and jurisdiction conferred by Sections
3-19-1 through 3-19-12, 3-20-2 through 3-20-15, and 3-21-1through 3-21-2, NMSA,
1978. (Ord. 557 (part), 2018: prior code § 3-5-2)
2.72.030   Membership.
   The planning and zoning commission shall consist of seven members who shall
own real property within the city or reside within a five-mile radius of the
corporate boundaries of Lovington. They shall be appointed by the mayor and
with the consent of the city commission. The term of each appointment shall be
for two years. The city manager, fire chief, planning and zoning coordinator,
and the city attorney shall be ex officio members of the planning and zoning
commission without the right to vote. (Ord. 557 (part), 2018: prior code §3-5-
3)
2.72.040   Reports and recommendations-Time limit.
   Whenever any plan, proposal or ordinance relating to matters coming within
the duties or jurisdiction of the city planning and zoning commission, as set
forth in this chapter or hereafter adopted, shall have been referred to the
city planning and zoning commission for construction or advice, the city
planning and zoning commission shall return the same to the city commission
with its report and recommendation, in writing, within thirty days after such
plans, proposals or ordinances shall have been referred to the city planning
and zoning commission, unless the city commission shall, in referring such,
direct that a longer or shorter period shall be allowed for such report. Upon
the request or recommendation of the city planning and zoning commission, the
time for the making of such report and recommendation may be extended within
the discretion of the city commission.
   When any plan, proposal or ordinance shall have been referred by the city
commission to the city planning and zoning commission, the city shall not take
action thereon until the expiration of the time allowed for the report and
recommendation of the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 557 (part), 2018:
prior code § 3-5-4)
2.72.050   Duties.
   The planning and zoning commission shall study the zoning questions in the
city and shall prepare a report and suggest ordinances for regulation of the
height of buildings and structures, setback lines or building lines, the
intensity of the use of lot areas, location of trades and industries and
buildings designed for industrial, business, residential or other uses, and for
dividing the city into various uses, heights and other districts for the
purpose of establishing and enforcing adequate and proper zoning regulations.
It shall be the duty of the city planning and zoning commission to formulate
general plans and designs to promote the welfare, beauty and comfort of the
city and to improve and develop means of transportation, ornamentation,
drainage, sewerage and ail other means of municipal improvements. The planning
and zoning commission shall submit to the city commission reports, maps and
plans for such purposes. The planning and zoning commission shall have the
authority to approve or deny conditional approval for nonconforming structures.
(Ord. 557 (part), 2018: prior code § 3-5-5)
2.72.060   Recommendations for improvements.
   A.   It shall be the duty of the city planning and zoning commission to keep
itself informed as to the progress of city planning in this and other
communities, and to make studies and recommendations for the improvement of
sanitation, recreation, and general welfare of the public and to improve
traffic transportation and the general convenience of the public. The city
planning and zoning commission shall submit to the city commission plans,
reports and recommendations concerning the development of facilities for public
recreation, the development and improvement of public parks, boulevards,
highways and other grounds, and the extension and opening of streets and
highways.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the city planning and zoning commission to
formulate and submit to the city commission, reports and plans for dividing the
municipality into districts of such numbers, shape, area and form as may be
deemed best, and to submit reports and plans regulating or restricting the
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of buildings,
structures or lands within such districts.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the planning and city zoning commission to
submit to the city commission reports, plans and recommendations to regulate
and restrict the height, number of stories and size of buildings and other
structures, percentages of lots that may be occupied, the size of yards, courts
and other open spaces, the density of population and the location and use of
buildings, structures and lands for trade, industry, residences or other
purposes. (Ord. 557 (part), 2018: prior code § 3-5-6)
2.72.070   Annual report.
   On or before the fifteenth day of March of each year, the planning and
zoning commission shall make a written report to the mayor and city commission
of the work of the planning and zoning commission during the preceding year.
Such report shall summarize all recommendations made by the planning and zoning
commission to the city commission during the year, and all references by the
city commission to the planning and zoning commission of matters for
investigation, report or advice, together with the action of the city
commission, if any, taken thereon. Such report shall contain the general
program of improvements for the city as shall be recommended by the planning
and zoning commission, and may contain estimates of cost and recommendations as
to the means of defraying such. (Ord. 557 (part), 2018: prior code § 3-5-7)
Chapter 2.76
LIBRARY BOARD
Sections:
   
2.76.010   Created-Purpose.
   
2.76.020   Membership.
   
2.76.030   Honorary life member.
   
2.76.040   Election of officers.
   
2.76.050   Duties of officers.
   
2.76.060   Powers of the board.
   
2.76.070   Advisory committee.
   
2.76.080   Meetings.
   
2.76.090   Removal from office.
2.76.010   Created-Purpose.
   The Lovington municipal library board shall be an administrative agency of
the city of Lovington, Lea County, New Mexico; the board shall have the
responsibility and conduct of the affairs of the municipal libraries and shall
advise the city commission. (Ord. 350 (part), 1988: prior code § 3-2-1)
2.76.020   Membership.
   A.   The library board shall consist of nine members including the mayor of
the City or his designee, and the superintendent of schools or his designee.
The remaining seven members of the board shall be appointed by the mayor,
subject to the approval of the city commission and shall include one board
member representing the Business and Professional Women's Club of Lovington,
and one board member representing the Lea County Genealogical Society of
Lovington and five members are to be chosen from the general population. Upon
dissolution of either club, the position representing that club shall convert
to an at-large position. At the discretion of the member presently holding that
position, the member may be the appointee.
   B.   Each member of the board shall remain in office until a successor is
appointed and qualified. The library board shall submit to the mayor three
names for appointment for any vacancy on the board except in case of
reappointment of a serving member of the board. When the library board is
recommending the reappointment of one of its serving members it shall submit
only the name of the serving member. If the mayor declines to reappoint the
member, the library board shall submit three names to fill the vacancy.
   C.   The term of office for each member of the library board will be five
years upon staggered terms with no limit to the number of terms served.
   D.   The terms of the board members shall expire on the January 31st of each
year as applicable.
(Ord. 419, 1998; Ord. 370,1993; Ord. 350 (part), 1988: prior code § 3-2-2)
2.76.030   Honorary life member.
   The city commission may, if it deems it appropriate, appoint a board member
serving twenty years or more as an honorary life member. An honorary life
member shall be an ex officio member, having no vote, but serving in an
advisory capacity to the library board. (Ord. 350 (part), 1988: prior code § 3-
2-3)
2.76.040   Election of officers.
   The library board shall meet on or before January 31st of each year and
organize its body and elect a chairman, a vice chairman and one of its members
as secretary (at the direction of the elected secretary, the secretarial duties
may be delegated to the librarian). (Ord. 350 (part), 1988: prior code § 3-2-4)
2.76.050   Duties of officers.
   A.   The chairman of the library board shall preside at all meetings of the
board.
   B.   The vice chairman of the library board shall act in the place and serve
in the place of the chairman at all times when the chairman is unable to
perform his duties.
   C.   The secretary of the library board shall keep a complete record of all
matters of the library board in reference to the city library and shall, upon
request, submit a copy of the minutes of the meetings to the city commission.
(Ord. 350 (part), 1988: prior code § 3-2-5)
2.76.060   Powers of the board.
   A.   The library board shall have the power and authority to plan the
development of the city's libraries within the city for submission to the city
commission for approval and shall be charged with the duties of carrying out
all the policies of the city commission concerning the city's libraries.
   B.   The library board shall make rules and regulations governing the city's
libraries.
   C.   The library board shall submit an annual budget for each fiscal year
beginning July 1st to the city manager for approval containing the recommended
expenditures for the city's libraries; provided, however, that no expenditure
shall be made except with the expressed approval of the city commission as
provided by the laws of the state of New Mexico; and provided further, that the
employment and discharge of all employees of the city's libraries shall be by
the city manager after consultation with and consideration of the
recommendations of the library board. (Ord. 350 (part), 1988: prior code § 3-2-
6)
2.76.070   Advisory committee.
   The library board may appoint an advisory committee, composed of citizens of
the city to advise and counsel the library board in various appropriate
matters. (Ord. 350 (part), 1988: prior code § 3-2-7)
2.76.080   Meetings.
   A.   The library board shall meet regularly at specified hours and days in
the months of January, March, May, July, September and November of each year,
but special meetings may be called at any time by the written request of three
members of the library board to the chairman of the library board or on call by
the chairman of the library board. All meetings shall be advertised as required
by law, and shall be open to the public as provided by the laws of the state of
New Mexico.
   B.   A majority of the members of the board shall constitute a quorum and no
action can be taken in the absence of a quorum present. (Ord. 350 (part), 1988:
prior code § 3-2-8)
2.76.090   Removal from office.
   Any member of the library board provided in this chapter may be removed by
the city commission. Any member of the library board who fails to attend three
consecutive regular meetings of the board, without valid reason approved by the
board, shall be deemed to have resigned his/her office, and upon notice of such
resignation, the mayor, with the approval of the city commission, shall appoint
someone to fill out such member's term. (Ord. 350 (part), 1988: prior code §
3,2-9)
Chapter 2.80
LEA COUNTY MUSEUM BOARD
Sections:
   
2.80.010   Created.
   
2.80.020   Powers and duties.
   
2.80.030   Membership-Terms.
   
2.80.040   Officers.
   
2.80.050   Officers-Duties.
   
2.80.060   Advisory committee.
   
2.80.070   Meetings.
   
2.80.080   Removals and vacancies from office.
2.80.010   Created.
   There is created the Lea County museum board, an administrative agency of
the city charged with the responsibility for conducting the affairs of the Lea
County museum. (Ord. 315 § 1, 1982)
2.80.020   Powers and duties.
   A.   The museum board shall have the powers and authority to plan the
development of the Lea County museum within the city subject to the approval of
the city commission, and shall be charged with the duties of carrying out all
the policies of the city commission with reference to the Lea County museum.
   B.   The museum board shall be authorized to make all necessary rules and
regulations governing the use and care of the museum. The museum board shall
submit to the city manager for approval, an annual budget for each fiscal year
beginning July 1st, which budget shall contain the recommended expenditures for
the museum; no expenditures shall be made except with the expressed approval of
the city commission as provided by the laws of the state.
   C.   The employment and discharge of all employees of the Lea County museum,
shall be by the city manager after consultation with and consideration of the
recommendations of the museum board.
   D.   The museum board shall also be charged with the duty of keeping a
complete and accurate inventory of the property owned by, and property loaned
to, the Lea County museum. (Ord. 315 § 5, 1982)
2.80.030   Membership-Terms.
   A.   The museum board shall consist of eleven members: the mayor and the
president of the Lovington Women's Club or the club's appointed representive,
and nine other members whose terms of office shall be for five years, except
that the initial term of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh members shall be
for a term of one, two, three, four years, respectively, to be determined by
lottery.
   B.   Each member of the board shall remain in office until a successor is
appointed and qualified. The mayor shall appoint successors to the board upon
expiration of the subject terms and shall appoint persons to fill vacancies for
unexpired terms resulting through resignation or from other causes, subject to
the approval of the city commission.
   C.   The terms of the directors of the board shall expire on the first day
of February, as their respective appointments terminate. (Ord. 328, 1984: Ord.
315 § 2, 1982)
2.80.040   Officers.
   The museum board when first appointed shall meet and organize their body by
electing one of their members as chairman, one of their members as vice
chairman, and one of their members as secretary, and annually thereafter the
museum board elect their officers for the coming year at the first regular
meeting following the first day of February each year. (Ord. 315 § 3, 1982)
2.80.050   Officers-Duties.
   A.   The chairman of the museum board shall preside at all meetings of the
board.
   B.   The vice chairman of the museum board shall act in the place of the
chairman at all times when the chairman is unable to perform his duties.
   C.   The secretary of the museum board shall keep a complete record of all
matters of the museum board in reference to the Lea County museum and shall
submit copies of the minutes of the meetings to the city commission upon
request. (Ord. 315 § 4, 1982)
2.80.060   Advisory committee.
   The museum board shall have the authority to appoint an advisory committee,
composed of citizens of the city to advise and counsel the museum board in the
selection of equipment, materials and exhibits for the museum. (Ord. 315 § 6,
1982)
2.80.070   Meetings.
   The museum board shall meet regularly, at least once a month, on a regular
date to be designated by the museum board and special meetings may be called at
any time by the written request to the chairman of the museum board, by three
of its members, or on call by the chairman of the museum board. All meetings,
whether special or regular, shall be open to the public, as provided by the
laws of the state. A majority of the entire membership of the board shall
constitute a quorum and no action can be had in the absence of a quorum
present. For the purpose of a quorum the ex officio members shall be counted as
members present. (Ord. 315 § 7, 1982)
2.80.080   Removals and vacancies from office.
   Any member of the museum board as provided in this chapter may be removed by
the city commission by a majority vote of the full commission. (Ord. 315 § 8,
1982)
Chapter 2.84
(RESERVED)
Chapter 2.88
CITY CEMETERY
Sections:
   
2.88.010   Deeds to burial lots.
2.88.010   Deeds to burial lots.
   The municipality in the exercise of its duties in making disposition of
burial lots is authorized to execute deeds conveying title to the purchases,
such deeds to be executed by the mayor and attested by the clerk and the seal
of the city. (Prior code § 3-6-5)
Chapter 2.90
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
Sections:
   
2.90.010   Intent.
   
2.90.020   Membership and appointment.
   
2.90.030   Terms of office.
   
2.90.040   Vacancies.
   
2.90.050   Compensation.
   
2.90.060   Organization.
   
2.90.070   Meetings.
   
2.90.080   Removal from office.
   
2.90.090   Duties.
2.90.010   Intent.
   It is the intent of the city that the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board,
hereinafter referred to as the “Board”, shall:
   A.   Represent the community at large and not any specific recreational
organization;
   B.   The Board shall keep itself informed of city parks and recreation needs
and to serve as a forum for public discussion; and
   C.   To encourage the general use of parks and recreation programs including
cooperation with other agencies and organizations that are involved in
providing recreation services for the public good. (Ord. 507, 2013)
2.90.020   Membership and appointment.
   The Board shall consist of seven members, one of whom shall be a duly
elected and qualified member of the City Commission. The Mayor, with the
approval and consent of the City Commission, shall appoint the remaining six
from citizens. Five shall reside within the city limits of Lovington, one
within the Lovington Extraterritorial Zone. The Mayor, Parks and Recreation
Director, Parks and Recreation Division Director, the department heads of the
Parks and Recreation Division, and superintendent of the Lovington Municipal
Schools shall be ex officio members of the Board, but shall have no vote in any
of its proceedings. (Ord. 578 (part), 2020: Ord. 564 (part), 2019: Ord. 554,
2017: Ord. 507, 2013)
2.90.030   Terms of office.
   Initially, the Mayor shall appoint to the Board three members for one year,
two members for two years and one member for three years. The City Commission
member so appointed shall serve for a term concurrent with their duly elected
term as a member of the City Commission. Thereafter, the terms of all Board
members, except the member who is a City Commissioner, shall be for three
years, and until their successors shall be appointed and qualified. (Ord. 507,
2013)
2.90.040   Vacancies.
   Vacancies occurring in the membership of the Board by reason of death,
resignation, termination of residence in the city or removal from the Board for
cause shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor, with the approval of the
City Commission, for the unexpired part or portion of the vacant membership.
(Ord. 507, 2013)
2.90.050   Compensation.
   Members of the Parks and Recreation Board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 507, 2013)
2.90.060   Organization.
   The Board members, when appointed, shall meet within fifteen days after
their appointment to organize by the election of one of their members as
chairperson and one as vice chairperson. The terms of the officers so elected
shall be for one year and until their successors are elected by an annual
election of the membership of the Board. (Ord. 507, 2013)
2.90.070   Meetings.
   The Board shall hold a regular meeting at least once per quarter and convene
such specially called meetings as it may deem appropriate. The Board meetings
will comply with the New Mexico Open Meetings Act and reasonable notice shall
be provided to the public. Minutes shall be kept of all Board meetings. (Ord.
507, 2013)
2.90.080   Removal from office.
   Any member of the Board provided in this chapter may be removed by the City
Commission. Any member of the Parks and Recreation Board who fails to attend
three consecutive regular meetings of the Board, without valid reason approved
by the Board, shall be deemed to have resigned his or her office, and upon
notice of such resignation, the Mayor, with the approval of the City
Commission, shall appoint someone to fill out such member’s term. (Ord. 507,
2013)
2.90.090   Duties.
   The Board shall:
   A.   Carry out the policies of the City Commission and receive, study and
recommend to the City Commission all requests by individuals or groups in
reference to the activities, programs and plans of the Commission.
   B.   Advise and consult with the City Commission on public reaction to the
activities of the Board.
   C.   Make recommendations as to priority for additions to or construction of
parks or recreation facilities.
   D.   Have no power to make any final determination upon any of the foregoing
matters and shall have advisory power only.
   E.   Provide recommendations for programs and activities conducted by the
Parks and Recreation Division. The Parks and Recreation Division includes the
Cemetery, Library, Parks and Recreation Department, Senior Citizens Center,
Theatre, and Youth Center.
   F.   Provide the City Commission with a quarterly report on its
recommendations, actions taken, and other information requested by the
Commission. The report shall be given by the chairperson or other board member
as designated by the chairperson.
(Ord. 564 (part), 2019: Ord. 507, 2013)
DIVISION VI.
PERSONNEL POLICY
Chapter 2.92
PERSONNEL MERIT SYSTEM*
* Prior code history: Prior code §§ 6-1-6-13.
Sections:
Article I. General Provisions
   
2.92.010   Purpose.
   
2.92.020   Scope.
   
2.92.030   Amendment of policy.
   
2.92.040   Equal employment opportunity policy.
   
2.92.050   Management rights.
   
2.92.060   Pronouns.
   
2.92.070   Definitions.
Article II. Employment Status
   
2.92.080   Classified employees
   
2.92.090   Unclassified employees.
Article III. Recruitment and Selection
   
2.92.100   Recruitment posting discipline.
   
2.92.110   Permission for transfer.
   
2.92.120   Applicant responsibility.
   
2.92.130   Selection.
   
2.95.140   Ineligibility for hire and rehire.
   
2.92.150   Ineligibility of applicants for police officer.
Article IV.   Changes in Employment Status
   
2.92.160   Promotion.
   
2.92.170   Demotion.
   
2.92.180   Transfer.
   
2.92.190   Resignation.
   
2.92.200   Reemployment.
   
2.92.210   Reduction in force.
   
2.92.220   Dismissal.
   
2.92.230   Return of city property.
Article V. Conditions of Employment
   
2.92.240   Performance evaluation.
   
2.92.250   Prohibited political activities.
   
2.92.260   Nepotism.
   
2.92.270   Conflicts.
   
2.92.280   Discrimination and sexual harassment policy.
   
2.92.290   Drug testing policy.
   
2.92.300   Refusal to submit to drug testing.
   
2.92.310   Random drug testing.
   
2.92.320   Positive results of alcohol and drug testing.
   
2.92.330   Retesting.
   
2.92.340   Confidentiality.
   
2.92.350   Prescription or over-the-counter medications.
Article VI. Employee Discipline
   
2.92.360   Basis for employee procedure-Exceptions.
   
2.92.370   Progressive discipline.
Article VII. Grievance Procedures-Formal and Informal
   
2.92.380   Formal grievance procedure.
   
2.92.390   Informal grievances.
   
2.92.400   Conditions or actions not grievable.
Article VIII. Compensation and Benefit Program
   
2.92.410   Position classification.
   
2.92.420   Pay plan.
   
2.92.430   Hours of work.
   
2.92.440   Breaks.
   
2.92.450   Work week.
   
2.92.460   Pay periods.
   
2.92.470   Payroll deductions.
   
2.92.480   Retirement benefits.
   
2.92.490   Insurance benefits.
   
2.92.500   Compensatory time off.
   
2.92.510   Off-shift response pay.
   
2.92.520   Final pay check.
   
2.92.530   Personal safety equipment.
   
2.92.540   Gratuities.
   
2.92.550   Per diem and mileage.
   
2.92.560   Time sheets.
Article IX. Leave and Holidays
   
2.92.570   Authorized leave.
   
2.92.580   Unauthorized leave.
   
2.92.590   Holidays.
   
2.92.600   Annual leave with pay.
   
2.92.610   Sick leave.
   
2.92.620   Family and medical leave of absence (FMLA).
   
2.92.630   Emergency leave.
   
2.92.640   Administrative leave with pay.
   
2.92.650   Occupational injury time-Workers' Compensation.
   
2.92.660   Civil duty leave.
   
2.92.670   Military leave for reserve or National Guard duties.
   
2.92.680   Inclement weather.
Article X. Miscellaneous
   
2.92.690   Chain of command.
   
2.92.700   Designated work areas.
   
2.92.710   Personal business.
   
2.92.720   Safety.
   
2.92.730   City property.
   
2.92.740   City vehicles.
   
2.92.750   Dress and appearance.
   
2.92.760   Personnel files.
   
2.92.770   Inspection of personnel files.
   
2.92.780   Additional rules.
Article I.
General Provisions
2.92.010   Purpose.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish consistent, basic policies and
practices concerning relations between the city and its employees. This chapter
establishes the formal grievance procedure available to classified employees to
hear grievances with respect to demotions, dismissals and suspensions, and
provides the method by which formal grievances are decided. The general
provisions of this chapter apply to all city employees, except that the
provisions governing merit, discipline for cause, and the grievance of
disciplinary actions do not apply to unclassified employees. (Ord. 435 § 1.1,
2001)
2.92.020   Scope.
   Definite rules and regulations cannot be readily formulated for every
possible problem and situation. This chapter serves as a general basis and
guide for the proper, efficient, and effective administration of personnel
matters for the city. The ordinance codified in this chapter repeals and
supersedes the ordinance dated 1975 and all personnel rules and regulations
applicable to employees of the city, including, but not limited, to the City of
Lovington Personnel Regulations effective September 1, 1986, and all its
amendments. (Ord. 435 § 1.2, 2001)
2.92.030
2.92.030   Amendment of policy.
   There shall be no resolution or other action of the city commission or other
city officials which is inconsistent with this chapter, except by amendment of
this chapter as required by law. The city commission reserves the right to
amend this chapter at its discretion. (Ord. 435 § 1.3,2001)
2.92.040   Equal employment opportunity policy.
   The city provides equal employment opportunity to all qualified employees.
No employee of the city or prospective employee shall be discriminated against
on the basis of race, age, religion, color, national origin, ancestry, sex,
marital status, physical or mental disability or serious medical condition, or
veteran status in consideration for employment, duration of employment,
training, transfer, salary, benefits, and other terms and conditions of
employment. It is the objective of the city to comply with the requirements of
equal employment opportunity as set forth in federal and state laws and to
comply with applicable presidential executive orders. (Ord. 435 § 1.4,2001)
2.92.050   Management rights.
   The city reserves the right to direct the work of its employees to produce
cost effective and efficient results for the citizens of the city and to take
appropriate disciplinary action when necessary. (Ord. 435 § 1.5,2001)
2.92.060   Pronouns.
   All pronouns used in this chapter include the masculine and feminine and
include the singular and plural. The context of this chapter must be read
accordingly. (Ord. 435 § 1.6, 2001)
2.92.070   Definitions.
   As used in this chapter:
   "Administrative leave with pay" means leave with pay granted at the city
manager's discretion for good cause.
   "Anniversary date" means a day twelve months from an employee's date of
hire.
   "Annual leave" means leave with pay granted to a classified or qualified
appointed employee after accrual at a specific rate
   "Appeal" means a written request that a formal grievance decision by
management be reconsidered at a further stage in the grievance procedure.
   "Applicant" means a person who has made formal application on an official
city personnel application form for a position in the city service.
   "Appointed employee" means an unclassified, terminable-at-will employee.
   "Casual employee" means an employee called on short notice or on an
occasional basis for a short period of time or an employee who works less than
twenty hours per week.
   "Classified employee" means a full- or part-time employee who is hired to
fill a classified position and has completed the probationary period.
Classified employees can only be disciplined for cause and are entitled to all
the rights and benefits of this chapter.
   "Classified position" means one whose employees can only be disciplined for
cause.
   "City business" means the performance of duties of a city position at an
employee's normal workstation or at a location authorized by the city.
   "Compensatory time" means those hours granted in lieu of overtime pay to a
Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) nonexempt employee as defined by the FLSA, on
the basis of one and one-half hours compensatory time for
each hour of overtime actually worked by the employee.
   "Demotion" means a personnel action which reduces the employee's
responsibilities and pay. Demotions may be voluntary or may be the result of a
disciplinary action.
   "Department head" means the following: city manager, assistant city manager,
city clerk/treasurer, police chief, and fire chief.
   "Dismissal" means an action by the city, which involuntarily terminates an
individual's employment with the city.
   "Due process" means the right granted to a full-time or part-time classified
employee who has completed the probationary period to a pre- and a post-
disciplinary hearing, for actions of suspension, demotion, or dismissal.
   "Elected official" means an individual elected by popular vote or appointed
to fill vacancies in an elective office (i.e. city commission).
   "Exempt employee" means all executive, administrative, and professional
employees as defined in Department of Labor regulations to the FLSA, and whose
compensation is based on a fixed annual salary. Classification as exempt is
determined by a position's requirements and responsibilities as described in
the Department of Labor Regulations. Exempt employees do not receive additional
pay or compensatory time for working more than forty hours per week.
   "Full-time employee" means one who works a minimum of forty hours per week,
except firefighters, who work a varied work week.
   "Grievance" means a complaint of an employee concerning actions taken by
management which result in loss of pay to the employee (formal grievance) or
which results from dissatisfaction with the working conditions or relationships
(informal grievance).
   "Insubordination" means the conduct of an employee constituting defiance,
disobedience, dissention, rebelliousness, or resistance to supervision.
   "Layoff (reduction in force)" means the involuntary separation of an
employee from the city service without fault on the part of the employee due to
reorganization, lack of work, or lack of funds.
   "Nonexempt employees" means all employees who are covered by the provisions
of the FLSA and the regulations interpreting the Act. Nonexempt employees
receive compensatory time off or overtime pay for actual hours worked in excess
of forty hours per work week.
   "Part-time employee" means a position in which the employee works a minimum
of thirty-two hours per week on a regular basis, but less than forty hours.
   "Personnel committee" means a committee comprised of city employees and one
noncity employee, appointed by the city commission, which makes recommendations
to the city manager on specified personnel matters.
   "Post-disciplinary hearing" means a formal hearing held after disciplinary
action has been taken and which is conducted by a hearing officer at the
request of a classified employee who is grieving a suspension or demotion, or a
former employee who is grieving a dismissal.
   "Pre-disciplinary hearing" means a hearing conducted by the city manager for
the benefit of classified employees before the imposition of the disciplinary
actions of suspension, demotion, or dismissal.
   "Probationary employee" means a full-time or part-time employee hired to
fill a classified position who has not yet completed the six-month probationary
period or one thousand forty hours, whichever is greater, of employment during
which time the employee is terminable-at-will and cannot grieve his
termination. Ail uniformed certified employees of the police and fire
departments serve a six-month probationary period, except uncertified uniformed
officers, who serve a one-year probationary period or two thousand eighty
hours, whichever is greater.
   "Promotion" means transfer to a position requiring higher responsibilities
and salary.
   "Sick leave" means leave with pay granted to a classified or qualified
appointed employee, after accrual at a specific rate, when personal illness
keeps the employee from performing the duties of the position or when an
employee's spouse, parent, or child, who is related by marriage or blood meets
the definition of a serious medical condition under the Family and Medical
Leave Act.
   "Sick leave abuse" means use of accrued sick leave for nonmedical problems
or for repeated absences on Mondays and Fridays or for calling in sick for the
purpose of extending scheduled annual leave or holiday time. Employees abusing
sick leave may be disciplined up to and including dismissal.
   "Suspension" means an enforced leave of absence without pay, not to exceed
fifteen working days, for disciplinary reasons.
   "Temporary position" means an employee is hired on either a full-time or
part-time basis to a seasonal position or to a position established for a
period of no more than three months. Temporary positions are unclassified.
   "Terminable-at-will" means an employee who fills an appointed or temporary
position or is one who has not completed his probationary period. A terminable-
at-will employee serves at the discretion of the city, and his employment can
be terminated with or without cause. A terminable-at-will employee cannot
grieve suspension, demotion, dismissal, or other disciplinary actions.
   "Transfer" means the transfer of an employee from one department or office
to another department or office in the city service having the same salary. The
city may transfer employees from one position to another in accordance with
city needs.
   "Unclassified employees" means those employees filling appointed, casual, or
temporary positions, and those who have not completed the probationary period.
   "Volunteers" means individuals who serve on boards and commissions and are
not city employees. (Ord. 435 § 2,2001)
Article II.
Employment Status
2.92.080   Classified employees
   A.   Full-time Classified Employee. A full-time classified employee is one
who has completed the probationary period and who normally is scheduled to work
forty hours per week, except firefighters. A full-time classified employee is
eligible for all rights and benefits provided by the city.
   B.   Part-time Classified Employee. A part-time classified employee is an
employee who has completed the probationary period, who regularly works a
minimum of twenty hours per week, but less than forty hours. Part-time
classified employees do not accrue vacation or comp time. Part-time classified
employees may accrue sick leave and holiday pay. Part-time classified employees
who work a minimum of thirty hours per week are eligible for insurance
benefits. (Ord. 567 (part), 2019: Ord. 435 § 3.1,2001)
2.92.090   Unclassified employees.
   A.   Appointed Employees. Appointed employees are the city manager, city
clerk/treasurer, assistant city manager, police chief, and fire chief.
Appointed employees are unclassified, are terminable-at-will and cannot avail
themselves of the grievance procedures set forth herein, but are entitled to
all other benefits provided by the city in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   Probationary Employee. The purpose of the probationary period is to
evaluate the employee's ability, potential, and performance. A full-time or
part-time probationary employee is an unclassified employee who is hired to
fill a classified position, but who has not yet completed the probationary
period of employment during which time he is terminable-at-will. Probationary
employees may not avail themselves of the grievance procedures set forth
herein, but are entitled to all city benefits provided herein.
      1.    To determine whether an employee has satisfactorily completed the
probationary period, the employee's department head shall evaluate the
employee's performance and the employee's ability to work with the public,
peers, supervisors, and management. A probationary employee must be evaluated
in writing at the end of the probationary period before becoming a classified
employee. A probationary employee may be evaluated at any other time during the
probationary period.
      2.    An uncertified employee hired to fill a public safety position
serves a one-year probationary period or two thousand eighty hours, whichever
is greater, and must obtain the statutorily required certification for the
position within one year from the date of hire. If the employee fails to obtain
such certification within one year or two thousand eighty hours, whichever is
greater, the employee shall be terminated unless the employee is enrolled in
the law enforcement or fire academy on the employee' s anniversary date. Any
employee who completes the law enforcement or fire academy training and fails
to obtain certification shall be terminated.
      3.   All other employees serve a six-month probationary period.
      4.   If an employee does not satisfactorily complete the probationary
period, the employee shall be dismissed. Proposed dismissal of a probationary
employee must be discussed with the city attorney and city manager.
      5.   If an employee is hired to a full-time or part-time classified
position, the first day of work in that position shall be used in computing the
beginning of the probationary period.
      6.   An employee who fills a temporary position and is subsequently hired
to fill a classified position shall serve the required probationary period. The
beginning date of the probationary period is the date the employee changes from
temporary to probationary status.
      7.   A former city employee rehired more than six months after
resignation or rehired at any time to fill a different position shall serve the
required probationary period.
      8.   If a probationary employee changes positions during the probationary
period, he must serve the remainder of the current probationary period or serve
a three-month probationary period whichever is greater.
   C.   Temporary Employee. A temporary employee is hired on either a full-time
or part-time basis to a seasonal position or to a position established for a
period of no more than three months. Temporary employees are terminable-at-
will, are not entitled to grieve personnel actions, do not receive city
benefits, and do not accrue leave.
   D.   Casual Employee. A casual employee is hired on an as needed basis.
Casual employees are terminable-at-will, are not entitled to grieve personnel
actions, do not receive city benefits, and do not accrue leave. (Ord. 435 §
3.2, 2001)
Article III.
Recruitment and Selection
2.92.100   Recruitment posting procedure-Exceptions.
   A.   The department head shall prepare the request for the position. The
vacancy shall be posted in the city for seven calendar days and advertised in
the local newspaper at least once. The city manager or his designee is
responsible for posting and advertising.
   B.   Exceptions to Posting. Posting is waived, with the approval of the city
manager, when an applicant is authorized to perform the duties of a position on
a temporary basis. (Ord. 435 §§ 4.1,4.2, 2001)
2.92.110   Permission for transfer.
   No city employee or department head can deny another city employee, who has
completed the probationary period and who is not the subject of disciplinary
action, permission to apply for a job vacancy in any other city office or
department for which the employee is qualified. (Ord. 435 § 4.3, 2001)
2.92.120   Applicant responsibility.
   A.   Submission of Applications. Applications for employment shall be
accepted for vacant positions at city hail during normal business hours.
Applicants shall be considered for positions for which they have applied and
are qualified. Applications must be submitted on the employment application
form provided by the city.
   B.   Proof of Qualification. The applicant is responsible for furnishing
proof of qualifications or possession of any license, certificate, or degree
when these requirements are necessary and set forth in the job description.
   C.   Immigration Act Compliance. The applicant is responsible for furnishing
proof of identification and right to work in accordance with the Immigration
Reform and Control Act of 1986.
   D.   Certification. The applicant is responsible for signing the employment
application and certifying the truth of all statements made in the application.
   E.   Referral to Department Head. The city manager or his designee shall
submit applicants to the department head for interviews. (Ord. 435 § 4.4, 2001)
2.92.130   Selection.
   The department head shall recommend the top candidate to the city manager.
The selection shall be based on the following: skills, educational background,
experience, personal interview, references, and results of preemployment
examinations when required. Recommendations must be in writing and must have
supporting documentation. The city manager must approve the selection. If the
recommendation is rejected by the city manager, the department head must submit
another qualified applicant or start the selection process from the beginning.
   A.   Employment Reference Checks. References provided by the applicant shall
be checked. Applicants shall be asked by the city to sign a written
authorization for the city to check references. Only those applicants who sign
this written authorization shall be considered for the position for which they
have applied.
   B.   Physical Examinations and Drug Testing. Applicants to whom job offers
have been made shall be required to undergo medical examinations which shall
include urinalysis, blood testing, and radiographic examinations and drug and
alcohol testing. Law enforcement officer applicants, to whom jobs are offered,
are also required to undergo psychological testing. Preempioyment medical
examinations must be completed and reviewed before actual employment begins.
Offers of employment are contingent upon the physician's statement that the
individual can perform the assigned duties and tasks of that position and is
drug free. Positive drug or alcohol tests shall result in the withdrawal of the
offer of employment. Preempioyment medical examinations shall be paid for by
the city. (Ord. 435 § 4.5,2001)
2.92.140   Ineligibility for hire and rehire.
   A.   An applicant is considered ineligible for hire or rehire by the city if
the applicant has:
      1.   Made any false statement or omission on the employment application;
      2.   Not met the requirements of the position;
      3.   Failed to complete preempioyment examinations or other requirements
as directed by the city;
      4.   Not met the criteria for insurance or bonding as required by the
city or state law;
      5.   Been dismissed from city service as a disciplinary measure;
      6.   Not been certified by a physician that the applicant can perform the
essential functions of the position;
      7.   Been convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor as described in NMSA
1978 § 28-2-3, et seq.
   B.   The above list is not necessarily exhaustive, and does not include all
the reasons which would make an applicant ineligible for hire or rehire. (Ord.
435 § 4.6,2001)
2.92.150   Ineligibility of applicants for police officer.
   No person who has been convicted of or pled guilty to or entered a plea of
nolo contendere to any felony charge or, within the three-year period
immediately preceding his application, to any violation of any federal or state
law or local ordinance relating to aggravated assault, theft, driving while
intoxicated, controlled substances or other crime involving moral turpitude and
has not been released or discharged under dishonorable conditions from any of
the armed forces of the United States is eligible to serve as a police officer.
(Ord. 469, 2006: Ord. 435 § 4.7, 2001)
Article IV.
Changes in Employment Status
2.92.160   Promotion.
   City employees are encouraged to take advantage of promotional opportunities
and apply for higher paying positions for which they qualify. (Ord. 435 §
5.1,2001)
2.92.170   Demotion.
   An employee may be demoted to a vacant position for which the employee is
qualified when the employee would otherwise be terminated because the
employee's position is being abolished due to a lack of funds or lack of work
and there are no appropriate vacancies at the same level or; when the employee
does not possess the necessary ability or licensure to render satisfactory
performance in the position presently held; or when the employee voluntarily
requests such a demotion. Demoted employees shall receive a reduction in pay.
Only a classified employee involuntarily demoted due to an inability to render
satisfactory performance in the position presently can grieve the demotion.
(Ord. 435 § 5.2,2001)
2.92.180 Transfer.
   Employees may be moved from one position to another at the same rate of pay
either voluntarily or involuntarily. An employee may be transferred if it is in
the best interest of the city as determined by the city manager or mayor. (Ord.
435 § 5.3, 2001)
2.92.190   Resignation.
   An employee voluntarily resigning shall submit, in writing, a two-week
notice of resignation. Failure to provide written two-week notice of
resignation may be grounds for refusal of future employment with the city.
Unauthorized absence from work for two regularly-scheduled working days shall
be considered a voluntary resignation. The days absent without authorization
need not be consecutive to be considered a voluntary resignation. (Ord. 435 §
5.4, 2001)
2.92.200   Reemployment.
   For former city employees who resign after at least three years of
satisfactory performance and who are rehired within three months of
resignation, the employees' anniversary date shall be the original date the
employee started employment and all leave shall be calculated accordingly.
(Ord. 435 § 5.5,2001)
2.92.210   Reduction in force.
   If it is necessary for the city to reduce the number of city employees
because of lack of funds or lack of work, the department head shall make the
determination of the necessity for layoffs. The reduction shall occur in the
following manner:
   A.   Temporary and probationary employees shall be laid off before full- or
part-time classified employees unless they are filling positions which require
specific skills and knowledge.
   B.   Lay-off of classified employees shall be determined by the department
head based on the employee's suitability for the jobs remaining, ability to
perform available work, and past job performance. If all other criteria are
equal, length of service with the city shall be considered.
   C.   Employees scheduled for lay-off shall be given as much notice as
possible. Employees to be laid off may be notified at any time during a pay
period and may be allowed to work through the end of that regular pay period or
receive pay to the end of that period.
   D.   Accrued annual leave shall be paid through the final day of employment.
   E.   All employees laid off in good standing shall be eligible for rehire.
   F.   A laid-off employee returning to city employment within six months of
the date of lay-off shall not serve a probationary period, if hired to the
former position.
   G.   A laid-off employee, if rehired, within six months of the lay-off,
shall retain the original date of hire for the purposes of computing sick and
annual leave. (Ord. 435 § 5.6,2001)
2.92.220   Dismissal.
   The department head has the authority to recommend the dismissal of
classified employees for just cause, which includes, but is not limited to,
unsatisfactory performance, illegal activity, unacceptable conduct,
insubordination, or any other reason referenced in Article VI of this chapter.
All dismissals must be discussed with the city manager and city attorney before
any action is taken. (Ord. 435 § 5.7, 2001)
2.92.230   Return of city property.
   At the time that an employee is voluntarily or involuntarily terminated, the
employee must return all city property to the appropriate department head,
including, but not limited to: keys, vehicles, supplies, equipment, and
uniforms that may be in the employee's possession. Failure to return all city
property shall result in a deduction from the employee's final paycheck. The
department head must notify the payroll office in writing that the employee
returned all equipment before a final check shall be issued. (Ord. 435 § 5.8,
2001)
Article V.
Conditions of Employment
2.92.240   Performance evaluation.
   A.   Probationary Period Evaluations. The department head shall discuss
performance with the employee during the probationary period. The employee must
receive a written performance evaluation of satisfactory or better at the end
of the probationary period before the employee can become a classified employee
entitled to all of the rights and benefits of that status. Also see Section
2.92.090(B).
   B.   Other Evaluations. Other evaluations may be done at the discretion of
the department head under the following conditions:
      1.   Unsatisfactory performance;
      2.   Promotion or reassignment;
      3.   Demotion or suspension.
   C.   Contents of Evaluation. A performance evaluation shall contain an
overall appraisal of the employee's performance such as satisfactory, above
satisfactory, or unsatisfactory. The performance evaluation shall state areas
of responsibilities and standards of performance. Performance appraisals become
part of an employee's personnel file.
   D.   Unsatisfactory Evaluation. In the event a classified employee receives
an evaluation of unsatisfactory, the employee shall be provided with written
information in the evaluation as to specific areas of deficient performance and
steps for improvement, and also shall be warned that failure to meet reasonable
performance standards of the position within a set time period, not to exceed
ninety days, shall result in dismissal. An employee who receives an overall
evaluation of unsatisfactory shall be reevaluated within ninety days, and, if
performance remains unsatisfactory, shall be dismissed pursuant to the
procedures in this chapter.
   E.   Employee Rebuttal. The employee may submit a rebuttal statement to the
performance evaluation which shall be attached to and become a part of the
performance evaluation. The rebuttal shall be submitted within ten days of the
evaluation and shall become part of the employee's personnel file. (Ord. 435 §
6.1,2001)
2.92.250   Prohibited political activities.
   All elected officials and employees are prohibited from:
   A.   Using official authority or influence for the purpose of interfering
with or affecting the result of an election or a nomination for office, or for
any other political purpose.
   B.   Directly or indirectly coercing, attempting to coerce, commanding or
advising a city officer or employee to pay, lend, or contribute anything of
value to a party, committee, or organization, agency, or person for a political
purpose.
   C.   Threatening to deny promotions to any employee who does not vote for
certain candidates, requiring employees to contribute part of their pay to a
political fund, influencing subordinate employees to buy tickets to political
fundraising events and similar events, advising employees to take part in
political activity and matters of a similar nature.
   D.   Engaging in political activity while on duty or on city property during
normal working hours.
   E.   Any employee elected to municipal office in the city shall resign from
the employ of the city.
(Ord. 525, 2014; Ord. 435 § 6.2, 2001)
2.92.260   Nepotism.
   A.   Definition of Nepotism. Nepotism, for purposes of this chapter, is
defined as the practice of giving preferential treatment in areas of employment
including, but not limited to, selection, benefit, pay, promotion, and
discipline to an employee's near relatives. Near relatives are defined as the
employee's spouse, children, parents, siblings, grandparents, grandchildren,
aunts, uncles, first cousins, and all like relations of the employee's spouse,
and any former spouse(s), or to unrelated persons sharing a spousal
relationship. This definition is to cover any person related to the employee by
birth, adoption, or marriage.
   B.   Prohibited Practices.
      1.   The practice or appearance of nepotism is prohibited. Near relatives
shall not work in the same department when there is a supervisory relationship
between them. Employees cannot fill or be promoted into a position which
requires supervision by a near relative.
      2.   No elected official or city employee shall give employment as clerk,
deputy, or assistant, or other class of department employee to any near
relative when that person's compensation is six hundred dollars or more per
year in accordance with NMSA 1978, § 10-1-10. Any exceptions to this rule must
be approved by the city commission.
      3.   No department head shall hire near relatives under any
circumstances. (Ord. 435 § 6.3,2001)
2.92.270   Conflicts.
   A.   Conflict Ban. No employee shall engage in any business or transaction
or accept private employment or other public employment which is incompatible
with the proper discharge of the employee's responsibilities for the city or
which gives the appearance of impropriety.
   B.   Outside Employment. All full-time employees must advise the city
manager in writing of any outside employment in which they are engaged. All
full-time employees must obtain the permission of the city manager to engage in
outside employment. Upon the request of the city manager, no employee shall
continue in outside employment if such employment has a negative impact on the
employee's job performance, creates liability for the city, or appears to be a
conflict of interest. (Ord. 435 § 6.4, 2001)
2.92.280   Discrimination and sexual harassment policy.
   A.   Prohibition of Discrimination and Sexual Harassment.
      1.   The city is committed to a policy of equal employment opportunity
for applicants and employees. Decisions regarding employment, promotional
opportunities, benefits, discipline, and other terms and conditions of
employment shall comply with state and federal laws prohibiting discrimination
in employment.
      2.   The city does not tolerate discrimination based on an individual's
race, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, religion, age, national
origin, mental or physical disability or serious medical condition. The city
reasonably accommodates job applicants and employees with disabilities.
Violations of this policy shall subject an employee to disciplinary action up
to and including dismissal.
   B.   Harassment is a Form of Discrimination. The term harassment includes
unwarranted discipline, slurs, jokes, other offensive remarks based on an
individual's race, color, sex, religion, age, national origin, mental or
physical disability or serious medical condition and is a form of
discrimination.
   C.   Sexual Harassment. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has
adopted guidelines which state that unwelcome sexual advances, requests for
sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature
constitute "sexual harassment" when:
      1.   Submission to the conduct is an explicit or implicit term or
condition of an individual's employment;
      2.   The submission to or rejection of the conduct by an individual is
the basis for any employment decision affecting that individual; or
      3.   The conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or
offensive working environment. A hostile work environment may be one where
inappropriate touching occurs, crude or vulgar language is used, jokes of a
sexual nature are told, comments are made that demean an individual based on
gender, unwelcome nicknames, such as honey or babe are used, or photographs,
calendars, magazines, books, etc. of nude or partially nude individuals are
disseminated.
   D.   Discrimination and Sexual Harassment Complaint Procedure. Any employee
who feels that she or he has been the subject of discrimination or sexual
harassment by anyone, including nonemployees, should follow the procedure in
bringing the matter to the city's attention:
      1.   The employee should promptly bring the matter to the attention of
the city manager. If the complaint is against the city manager, the matter
should be promptly reported to the mayor. This report may be oral or written;
      2.   The mayor or city manager shall advise the person who allegedly
engaged in the discrimination or sexual harassment of the charge, and the mayor
or city manager shall cause an investigation to be done promptly and
impartially. The complaint and investigation shall be kept as confidential as
possible;
      3.   After the investigation, the mayor or city manager shall notify the
parties of the results;
      4.   If a determination is made that discrimination or sexual harassment
has occurred, appropriate disciplinary action, which may include discharge,
shall be taken. The severity of the discipline shall be determined by the
degree and/or frequency of the offense;
      5.   Employees who bring a complaint of discrimination or sexual
harassment to the attention of the mayor or city manager, or those who assist
another in bringing such a complaint shall not be retaliated against;
      6.   Nothing in these procedures prohibits the employee from filing a
complaint directly with the Federal Equal Employment Opportunity office or the
New Mexico Human Rights Division. These avenues should be used when the
employee feels that the employee cannot obtain appropriate relief within the
steps as explained above. However, employees are encouraged to seek
consultation with the mayor or city manager before filing a formal complaint of
discrimination or sexual harassment with an administrative agency. (Ord. 435 §
6.5,2001)
2.92.290   Drug testing policy.
   The city is committed to the goal of a drug-free workplace in compliance
with the Drug-Free Work Place Act of 19SS.
   A.   Prohibited Activities. The use of controlled substances, drugs,
prescribed and nonprescribed, or alcohol is a concern to the city when it
interferes with job performances, conduct, attendance, safety, or when it is a
violation of the law. The unlawful manufacture, distribution, possession, or
use of a controlled substance or alcohol by an employee while on city premises
or while on city business is prohibited. Conducting city business, which
includes, but is not limited to, driving vehicles or operating city equipment,
while under the influence of alcohol, controlled substances, or drugs is
strictly prohibited. Engaging in any of these prohibited activities shall
result in dismissal from employment.
   B.   Preemployment Drug Testing. Once an individual has been selected to
fill a vacant position, including temporary positions, the employee shall be
tested for alcohol or drugs when he reports for his preemployment medical
examination. A confirmed positive test result is grounds for revoking the job
offer.
   C.   Reasonable Suspicion Testing-Only with Authority of the City Manager.
   Any city employee shall be tested for alcohol and drugs if the city manager
has reasonable grounds to suspect that the employee is engaging in the use of
drugs or alcohol on the job or is reporting to work under the influence of
drugs or alcohol. Reasonable suspicion includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Job accidents requiring medical treatment or causing damage to
property, including city property or persons, where the employee is a
contributing factor to the accident;
      2.   Evidence of alcohol or drugs or drug paraphernalia discovered at the
employee's workplace or in a city vehicle;
      3.   Any employee showing signs of erratic behavior, changes in mood,
altered appearance or speech patterns, dilated or constricted pupils, glazed
stare, poor concentration, difficulty walking, needle marks, smell of alcohol
on breath and person, or an increase in absenteeism, tardiness, and a
deterioration of work performance;
      4.   Report of drug use, distribution, or possession by a reliable
source. (Ord. 435 § 6.6, 2001)
2.92.300   Refusal to submit to drug testing.
   Refusal by the employee to submit to drug testing based on reasonable
suspicion shall be grounds for dismissal. (Ord. 435 § 6.7, 2001)
2.92.310   Random drug testing.
   Random drug testing for alcohol and controlled substances applies to those
employees who fill positions requiring a CDL and are subject to the federal
Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations. For more information on the DOT
regulations contact the city manager. Any employee who is subject to random
testing and who refuses to be randomly tested shall be dismissed. (Ord. 435 §
6.8,2001) '
2.92.320   Positive results of alcohol and drug testing.
   The guidelines established by the Department of Health and Human Services
shall be used to determine whether an employee tests positive. Any employee who
tests positive for drugs or alcohol shall be dismissed. Test results shall be
sent to the city manager and kept confidential. Only those persons with a need
to know shall be informed of the results. (Ord. 435 § 6.9, 2001)
2.92.330   Retesting.
   An employee who tests positive on a drug test may elect to have, at the
employee's expense, a retest of the original sample, provided the request is
made in writing within twenty-four hours of the employee receiving notice of a
positive test result. The city shall pay for the retest only if the retest is
negative. (Ord. 435 § 6.10, 2001)
2.92.340   Confidentiality.
   No laboratory reports or test results shall appear in the employee's
personnel file unless they are a part of a disciplinary action, but shall be
placed in a special locked file. (Ord. 435 § 6.11,2001)
2.92.350   Prescription or over-the-counter medications.
   An employee using prescription drugs or over-the-counter medications that
could affect the employee's performance must inform his supervisor. A doctor's
statement that the employee poses no safety risk while on medication may be
required. (Ord. 435 § 6.12, 2001)
Article VI.
Employee Discipline
2.92.360   Basis for employee discipline.
   A.   Just Cause Discipline. Disciplinary actions for classified employees,
full and part-time are based on just cause in order to promote the efficiency
of the services rendered by the city and the operation of its respective
departments and offices. Disciplinary actions shall be consistent with
governing laws and regulations and shall be taken without regard to race, age,
religion, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, physical or mental
disability or serious medical condition, or any nonmerit factor. No employee
shall be disciplined for refusing to perform an unlawful act.
   B.   Definition of Just Cause. Just cause is defined as any conduct, action
or inaction arising from, or directly connected with the employee's work which
is inconsistent with the employee's obligation to the city and reflects the
employee's disregard of the city's interest. Just cause includes, but is not
limited to: inefficiency; incompetence; theft; misconduct; negligence;
insubordination; violation of city policy or procedure; unauthorized use of
city funds, property, facilities, and materials; disruptive behavior; repeated
tardiness and excessive absences; or unsatisfactory work performance which
continues to be inadequate after reasonable efforts have been made to correct
the performance problems; or for conviction of a felony or misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude as described in the Criminal Offender Employment Act,
NMSA 1978, § 28-2-1, et seq.
   C.   Disciplinary Action. Any department head may take disciplinary action
against an employee pursuant to the department head's authority and consistent
with departmental policies and this chapter. Copies of any documented
disciplinary action shall be furnished to the city manager's office for
placement in the employee's file with the signature of the recipient
acknowledging receipt of the action.
   D.   Consultation with the City Manager and the City Attorney. Dismissal,
involuntary demotion, and suspension require consultation with the city manager
and/or the city attorney before implementation. Whenever such consultation is
not practical because of urgent circumstances, the employee should be put on
administrative leave with pay and the situation reviewed with the city manager
as soon as practical. (Ord. 435 § 7.1, 2001)
2.92.370   Progressive discipline.
   A classified employee shall be progressively disciplined for unsatisfactory
work performance whenever practical. Each case of inadequate performance or act
of misconduct shall be judged individually. The step of corrective action used
depends on the severity of the infraction and the employee's previous work
record. Under certain circumstances, as described below, suspension without pay
or dismissal may be the appropriate initial disciplinary action.
   A.   Verbal Counseling. Verbal counseling is used for minor infractions such
as informing the employee that his actions, behavior or conduct needs to
change. Supervisors shall keep written notations of verbal reprimands. These
shall be placed in the employee's personnel file. Verbal counseling is not
grievable. Causes for verbal counseling include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Substandard work performance including failure to complete
assignments or failure to complete them timely;
      2.   Inaccurate or unprofessional appearing work product;
      3.   Interrupting other employees and keeping them from completing their
work;
      4.   Excessive use of the telephone for personal business;
      5.   Loud and disruptive conduct;
      6.   Conducting personal business while on duty; and
      7.   Tardiness or absences.
   B.   Written Reprimand.
      1.   An employee shall receive a written reprimand because the deficiency
or infraction is of a greater degree than that for which a verbal reprimand may
be used or if a verbal reprimand was not effective in correcting the employee's
conduct. Causes for written reprimands include, but are not limited to:
         a.   The causes listed above for verbal reprimands;
         b.   Repeated absences or tardiness;
         c.   Failure to follow instructions;
         d.   Failure to follow city rules and procedures;
         e.   Solicitation of funds from citizens and other employees or the
sale of products during work hours;
         f.   Using the city's postage meter, copy machine, computer, or other
equipment for personal use or gain;
         g.   Writing personal letters on city letterhead and sending personal
mail in city envelopes;
      2.   Written reprimands shall be placed in the employee's personnel file
by the employee's supervisor after providing the employee with a copy of the
statement. The employee shall be asked to acknowledge having read the comments
by signing the statement. The employee's signature indicates the employee read
the statement, but does not necessarily indicate concurrence with its content.
If the employee refuses to sign, a witness must attest that the statement was
presented to the employee. The employee may respond with a written rebuttal,
which shall be placed in the employee's personnel file. The placement of a
written reprimand in an employee's file is not subject to the formal grievance
procedure.
   C.   Suspension. An employee may be suspended without pay for a single
serious offense or for continued inadequate job performance or misconduct after
previous attempt(s) to correct the conduct have failed or for misconduct. The
employee's supervisor must discuss the decision to suspend an employee with the
city manager. Such suspension shall not exceed fifteen working days. Suspension
is not a necessary step in progressive discipline, and it may be eliminated if
circumstances warrant. Suspension of a classified employee is subject to the
formal grievance procedure. Causes for suspensions include, but are not limited
to:
      1.   The causes listed for verbal counseling and written reprimands;
      2.   Continued instances of unsatisfactory performance.
   D.   Demotion. An employee may be demoted to a vacant position for which the
employee is qualified when the employee would otherwise be terminated because
the employee is unable to satisfactorily perform in the position presently
held. Demoted employees shall receive a reduction in pay. A classified employee
demoted due to an inability to render satisfactory performance in the position
presently held is entitled to a grievance proceedings. Demotion is not a
necessary step in progressive discipline.
   E.   Dismissal. Dismissal is the final consequence when progressive
discipline has failed to change unacceptable behavior or performance or when
the employee has engaged in behavior that is of a very serious nature and which
is unacceptable for a city employee even though the employee has not been
previously disciplined. The employee's supervisor must discuss the decision to
dismiss an employee with the city manager and the city attorney. Causes for
dismissal without progressive discipline include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Theft;
      2.   Conviction of a job-related felony and misdemeanor as described in
the Criminal Offender Employment Act, NMSA 1978, § 28-2-1 et seq.;
      3.   Acts of negligence causing damage to persons or city property;
      4.   Falsification of information on the employee's job application or
other city records;
      5.   Manufacturing, distributing, dispensing, possessing or using
controlled substances or alcohol on the job or reporting to work under the
influence of an unlawful controlled substance or alcohol;
      6.   Failure to meet the standards of the city's drug policy;
      7.   Intentional abuse or destruction of city equipment and/or property;
      8.   Refusal to carry out reasonable orders, or insubordination;
      9.   Discriminating against or harassment of employees or citizens based
on race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, sexual
orientation, age, mental or physical disability or serious medical condition;
      10.   Bringing unapproved weapons on to city property;
      11.   Refusal or failure to comply with city policy or state and federal
regulations;
      12.   Disruptive conduct interfering with the city's operation;
      13.   Unauthorized use of city property, facilities, equipment, including
computers, materials, or other city assets for personal use;
      14.   Accepting gratuities;
      15.   Sleeping on the job, except as set forth in job description
(firefighters); and/or
      16.   Any other conduct deemed not to be in the best interest of the city
and its employees, such as fighting or causing harm to others.
   The above examples are typical of the types of infractions sometimes
encountered, but are not inclusive of all situations which may arise warranting
dismissal without progressive discipline. The city reserves the right to
exercise judgment and render disciplinary action or dismissal as determined
appropriate based on the circumstances of each case. (Ord. 435 § 7.2, 2001)
Article VII.
Grievance Procedures- Formal and Informal
2.92.380   Formal grievance procedure.
   The formal grievance procedure applies exclusively to the suspension,
involuntary demotion, and dismissal of classified employees.
   A.   Written Notification. The department head shall present the classified
employee with written notification of intent to suspend, demote, or dismiss
three working days in advance of the proposed action. The written notification
shall explain the reasons for the proposed action; the evidence supporting the
decision; and the employee's right to a predisciplinary hearing. The
notification shall be hand delivered to the employee and signed by the employee
when at all possible. If not possible, the notification shall be sent to the
employee by certified mail in order to have a signed receipt.
   B.   Administrative Leave With Pay. In cases where city property, city
employees or citizens are at risk because of the employee's actions, the
employee, after the approval of the city manager, shall be placed on
administrative leave with pay while an investigation is conducted, the
appropriate disciplinary action is contemplated, and until the predisciplinary
hearing is held and the final decision is rendered by the city manager.
   C.   Procedure for Predisciplinary Hearings for Suspension, Involuntary
Demotion, or Dismissal. Employees shall pursue a formal grievance according to
the rules contained herein.
      1.    Request for Predisciplinary Hearing
         a.   Within three working days of the receipt of the disciplinary
notice, the employee shall notify the city manager, in writing, indicating
whether or not the employee shall avail himself of a predisciplinary hearing
with the city manager. The employee may respond to the notice of contemplated
action in writing in lieu of a prediscipline hearing;
         b.   Upon receipt of the employee's written statement indicating
participation in a predisciplinary hearing, the city manager or his designee
shall set the time, place, and date of the predisciplinary hearing. The
employee and the employee's supervisor must be advised of the scheduled
predisciplinary hearing in writing.
      2.   Predisciplinary Hearing Procedure. The city manager or his designee
shall meet with the employee, the employee's representative, and
representatives of the employee's department at the appointed time. At this
predisciplinary hearing, the employee shall have the opportunity to respond to
the proposed disciplinary action. The hearing shall be held within five working
days of the receipt of the request for the prediscipiinary hearing by the city,
unless a continuation is mutually agreed upon by both parties in writing.
      3.   Prediscipiinary Hearing Decision. The city manager shall issue a
decision in writing within five working days of the hearing. The written
decision shall include the time, date, and location of the meeting; persons
present; and the city manager's determination. The written decision shall be
delivered directly to the employee (obtaining employee's signature of receipt
of the decision) or be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested. The
employee has the right to grieve the city manager's decision to the hearing
officer.
      4.   Effect of the Decision. Disciplinary actions shall become effective
at the time that the final decision is issued by the city manager.
   D.   Post-Disciplinary Hearings-Appeals to the Hearing Officer.
      1.   Notice of Appeal. Within five working days of receipt of the city
manager's decision, the grievant must notify the city manager in writing of the
intent to avail himself of a post-disciplinary hearing.
      2.   Appointment of a Hearing Officer. Within five working days of the
grievant's notification of intent to pursue a post-disciplinary hearing, the
city shall provide the grievant the name of a proposed hearing officer.
      3.   Hearing Officer Qualifications. The hearing officer must be familiar
with public or private personnel systems, or have pertinent experience in the
appropriate areas of management or law. The hearing officer cannot be an
employee or former employee or former or current elected official of the city.
      4.   Post-Disciplinary Hearing Scheduled. The post-disciplinary hearing
must be held as soon as possible, but not to exceed thirty days of the receipt
of notification of the employee's request for a post-disciplinary hearing by
the city manager. The parties must agree in writing to any postponement of the
grievance hearing beyond the thirty days. At this hearing, the grievant shall
have an opportunity to present witnesses and physical evidence and cross-
examine the city's witnesses before the hearing officer. The grievant, at his
own expense, may have legal counsel represent him.
   E.   Procedures for Post-Disciplinary Hearings.
      1.   The hearing officer shall determine the date, time, and location of
the post-disciplinary hearing and grant continuances agreed to by both parties.
The hearing shall be conducted at a time and place which is mutually convenient
to all parties. Requests for continuances of hearings shall be made in writing
to the city manager with a copy to the opposing party at least five working
days prior to the scheduled hearing, absent extenuating circumstances.
      2.   Post-disciplinary hearings shall be conducted as open meetings with
notice given to the public pursuant to the New Mexico Open Meetings Act, and
the city's Open Meeting Resolution unless the parties agree to have a closed
meeting.
      3.   The hearing officer shall:
         a.   Determine the order of agenda items;
         b.   Rule on procedural and substantive issues of the hearing;
         c.   Determine the admissibility of evidence and testimony, all of
which must have a direct bearing on the issue according to the evidentiary
standard for administrative agencies. The New Mexico Rules of Evidence shall be
liberally interpreted;
d. Issue written findings of fact and conclusions of law.
      4.   The following persons are required to be present at all formal
personnel hearings: the grievant, grievant's representative (if any), and the
city's designated representative.
      5.   The parties shall stipulate to the facts and issues to the greatest
extent possible prior to the hearing.
      6.   Prior to the formal hearing, the parties shall prepare copies of all
exhibits and evidence which are expected to be presented. The parties shall
stipulate to exhibits to the extent possible and bring to the hearing adequate
copies for the hearing officer and opposing party.
      7.   At least five working days prior to the formal hearing, ail parties
shall submit to the hearing officer a statement identifying the issues to be
heard, a witness list, and a complete list of documents to be admitted as
evidence.
      8.   Witnesses in formal grievance hearings shall not be admitted into
the hearing room until called upon to testify, except those who are required to
be present pursuant to subsection (E)(4) of this section.
      9.   Notice of the hearing shall be sent by certified mail to the
grievant and postmarked at least ten days prior to the scheduled hearing.
Copies of the hearing notice shall be sent concurrently to all relevant
parties.
      10.   All formal hearings shall be tape recorded.
      11.   The city may have legal representation at the formal hearing, even
if the grievant is not represented by counsel.
   F.   Presentation Order.
      1.   Opening Statement of Issues. The city shall present its statement of
issues, followed by the grievant.
         a.   City's Presentation. Witnesses for the city shall be called and
questioned on their involvement in, or knowledge of, the case. Following each
witness's testimony, the grievant shall have the opportunity to cross-examine
the witness. The hearing officer shall then have the opportunity to question
the witness on matters related to the witness's testimony. Follow up or
redirect questioning shall be allowed at the discretion of the hearing officer.
         b.   Grievant's Presentation. Witnesses for the grievant may be called
and questioned on their involvement in, or knowledge of, the case. Following
each witness's testimony, the city shall have the opportunity to cross-examine
the witness. The hearing officer shall then have the opportunity to question
the witness on matters related to the witness's testimony. Follow up or
redirect questioning shall be allowed at the discretion of the hearing officer.
      2.   Rebuttal Testimony. Following presentation of the grievant's
position, the city may offer rebuttal testimony. Such testimony must be brief
and shall address only the issues brought forth in the grievant's presentation.
      3.   Closing Statements. The city's closing statement shall be presented,
followed by that of the grievant. These statements shall not exceed ten minutes
without the permission of the hearing officer, and at a minimum shall contain a
request for the desired outcome. The city shall have the opportunity to make a
final statement, not to exceed five minutes, and must be limited to issues
brought forth in the grievant's closing statement.
      4.   The hearing officer may require the parties to prepare proposed
findings of fact and conclusions of law and/or closing argument.
   G.   Hearing Officer's Decision. The hearing officer shall prepare written
findings of fact and conclusions of law and submit them to the parties within
thirty calendar days from the date of the hearing or from the date the proposed
findings and conclusions are submitted to the hearing officer by the attorneys,
if requested. The hearing officer may uphold, modify, or reverse the decision
of the city manager, and may reinstate the employee and award only back pay and
benefits. The decision of the hearing officer is binding and subject to review
by petition for writ of certiorari by either party to the Fifth Judicial
District Court of the state. The record of the proceedings shall be retained by
the city manager's office for a period of not less than one year from the
hearing date, along with all of the physical evidence admitted by the hearing
officer. The verbal record shall be transcribed only in the case of appeal to
the district court by one of the respective parties. The party requesting the
transcript shall pay the cost of the transcript. (Ord. 435 § 8.1, 2001)
2.92.390   Informal grievances.
   The purpose of informal grievance procedures is to provide employees, in an
atmosphere of courtesy and cooperation, an equitable solution to problems or
complaints which may affect employees in the course of their employment with
the city. When applicable, the informal grievance procedure allows employees to
voice complaints concerning alleged improper actions of supervisors or
management. The informal grievance procedure does not apply to suspensions,
involuntary demotions, and terminations.
   A.   Step One-Meeting with Department Head.
      1.   The employee is required to contact his department head within five
calendar days of the incident or action being grieved to discuss the same;
      2.   Within three working days of the completion of the meeting, the
department head shall provide the employee with a written decision.
   B.   Step Two-Meeting with City Manager.
      1.   The employee may appeal the decision of the department head to the
city manager in writing within three working days of the receipt of the
department head's written decision.
      2.   The employee and one witness of his choice (if desired) and the
department head shall meet with the city manager or his designee to discuss the
grievance within five working days of receipt of the written request by the
city manager. Within five working days of the meeting, the city manager shall
advise the employee of his decision in writing. The city manager's decision
shall be final. (Ord. 435 § 8.2, 2001)
2.92.400   Conditions or actions not grievable.
   The following are not grievable:
   A.   Employee complaints of discrimination or harassment based on race,
color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, national origin, physical or
mental disability or serious medical condition. These should be reported
directly to the city manager or mayor who shall investigate and resolve in
compliance with Section
2.92.280 of this chapter.
   B.   Matters where the city is without authority to act or does not have the
ability to provide a remedy.
   C.   Dismissal of probationary employees prior to the expiration of their
probationary period.
   D.   Release of temporary or casual employees prior to or at the end of
their anticipated employment period.
   E.   Dismissal of appointed employees at any point during their employment
with the city.
   F.   Transfers, temporary assignments, removal from temporary assignments,
and promotions.
   G.   Performance appraisals, verbal reprimands, or selection for vacant
positions. (Ord. 435 § 8.3,2001)
Article VIII.
Compensation and Benefit Program
2.92.410   Position classification.
   A.   The classification plan is a way of making "equal pay for equal work" a
firm city policy. Where there is an important similarity of duties performed
and responsibilities assumed, the classification plan ensures that the same
employee qualifications shall be required and the same pay schedules shall be
applied.
   B.   The classification plan is used: (1) as a guide in recruiting and
examining applicants for city employment; (2) in determining pay ranges for
various types of work; (3) in describing career ladders and employee
development programs; (4) in budgeting payroll costs; and (5) in providing a
common terminology for all city employees and officials and the general public.
(Ord. 435 § 9.1, 2001)
2.92.420   Pay plan.
   A.   The pay plan assigns pay ranges to varying levels of expertise and
responsibility outlined by grades in the classification plan. The amount of
money paid to employees depends on the money appropriated by the city
commission for payroll costs in the city's budget.
   B.   The pay plan consists of pay grades, which specify pay ranges for each
job assigned to that grade.
   C.   The actual pay range assigned to each grade and the wage assigned are
determined after consulting several salary surveys. The surveys are to learn
what other employers in the Lovington area and other cities are paying their
workers. (Ord. 435 § 9.2, 2001)
2.92.430   Hours of work.
   Full-time employees are expected to work forty hours per week, except for
firefighters or police officers under certain circumstances. All employees
shall work their scheduled hours pursuant to work schedules established by
their department heads with the approval of the city manager. Except as
otherwise provided, employees shall not be paid for travel time from home to
the site of their work within the city or from the work site to their home.
Actual work periods may fluctuate at the discretion of the department heads.
   A.   In the event municipal revenues decline, the city commission may elect
to adopt a FLSA Section K exemption for police officers assigned to the patrol
division. This exemption will cause officers to be placed on an eighty-six (86)
hour pay period or one hundred seventy-two (172) hours every twenty-eight (28)
days. Officers will not be eligible for overtime or compensatory time until
they have worked in excess of eight-six (86) hours in a fourteen (14) day
period.
(Ord. 545, 2016: Ord. 435 § 9.3, 2001)
2.92.440   Breaks.
   Full-time employees take a one hour unpaid lunch break. Law enforcement
officers receive one-half hour paid lunch break, and firefighters receive a
one-hour paid lunch and dinner break. Full-time employees may take two fifteen-
minute breaks per day, workload permitting. Employees working four hours per
day may take one fifteen-minute break per day, workload permitting. Only
supervisors can determine whether breaks should be limited or delayed because
of an emergency or unusual conditions. Break time does not accrue for use at a
later time or later date. Breaks should be taken in the immediate vicinity of
the worksite unless otherwise approved by the supervisor. Breaks cannot be
substituted for other time off. (Ord. 435 § 9.4, 2001)
2.92.450   Workweek.
   The city's work week begins on Monday at twelve a.m. and ends on Sunday, at
11:59 p.m. (Ord. 435 § 9.5, 2001)
2.92.460   Pay periods.
   Employees are paid every two weeks by one p.m. on Tuesday. The payroll
period consists of two consecutive work weeks. All department heads shall
report to the payroll office all hours worked and all absences, paid and
unpaid, for each employee during the pay period by eight-thirty a.m. on the
Monday morning prior to the Tuesday pay date. Paychecks are accompanied by a
statement listing gross pay and itemized deductions. If payday falls on a
holiday, employees shall receive pay on the next work day. Employees shall not
be paid for time not worked. (Ord. 532 (part), 2014; Ord. 459, 2005: Ord. 435 §
9.6, 2001)
2.92.470   Payroll deductions.
   The city is required by federal and state law to make payroll deductions for
income tax, social security deductions, and other statutorily-mandated
purposes. To avoid problems with either federal or state agencies, each
employee shall report any changes in family status to the payroll department.
(Ord. 435 § 9.7, 2001)
2.92.480   Retirement benefits.
   The city is an affiliated public employer with the Public Employee’s
Retirement Association (PERA). PERA membership is a mandatory condition of
full- time employment with state and affiliated public employers. Details of
the program may be obtained from the city clerk/treasurer. (Ord. 532 (part),
2014; Ord. 435 § 9.8, 2001)
2.92.490   Insurance benefits.
   The city provides employees with the opportunity to purchase medical
insurance, life insurance, dental insurance, and accidental death and
dismemberment benefits to its full-time employees, the cost of which is shared
by the city and the employee. The employee's share is made through payroll
deductions. Insurance plans may be changed at the discretion of the city
commission. Specific details about eligibility and enrollment can be obtained
from the city clerk/treasurer. (Ord. 435 § 9.9, 2001)
2.92.500   Compensatory time off.
   Compensatory time off is given to FLSA nonexempt employees for hours worked
beyond forty hours of actual work, nonexempt firefighters who work more than
one hundred six hours, and should the city commission adopt a police department
Section K exemption for officers who work more than eighty-six hours in a two
week period. Holidays, annual leave, sick leave, and all other paid leave time
are not considered hours worked for purposes of calculating and accruing
compensatory time off or overtime. A nonexempt employee shall accrue
compensatory time at the rate of one and one-half hours of time off for each
hour over forty hours of actual time worked (one hundred six hours for
firefighters). Overtime hours worked and compensatory time hours accrued and
used shall be recorded for each nonexempt employee and submitted to the payroll
department each pay period on approved forms.
   A.   Nonexempt employees may accrue a maximum balance of sixty hours.
   B.   Employees who exceed the maximum compensatory time accrual of sixty
hours will be paid for all overtime hours worked.
   C.   Overtime pay at one and one-half the employee's usual rate of pay shall
be paid to an employee when an employee accrues overtime in excess of the hours
identified in subsection A of this section, or if the employee requests
overtime pay instead of accruing compensatory time off.
   D.   The department heads are responsible for monitoring overtime and
limiting its use and authorization of overtime. Excessive overtime shall be
considered in evaluating the performance of department heads.
   E.   Compensatory time may be used with prior approval of the department
head. Approval is subject to the city's work needs.
   F.   Any portion of an hour in excess of five minutes shall be computed and
paid to the closest one-tenth of an hour.
   G.   Upon termination, the employee shall be paid for the unused balance of
compensatory time owed.
   H.   Employees shall not work overtime without supervisory permission.
Failure to obtain permission to work overtime shall lead to disciplinary
action.
   I.   Nonexempt employees shall not be permitted to work overtime and donate
it to the city.
(Ord. 545, 2016; Ord. 532 (part), 2014; Ord. 435 § 9.10, 2001)
2.92.510   Off-shift response pay.
   Nonexempt employees who are called to work beyond their scheduled work day
shall be compensated for the actual call time. No compensation for actual call
shall be less than one hour's pay. (Ord. 435 § 9.11, 2001)
2.92.520   Final pay check.
   An employee who resigns shall receive a final pay check on the first
regularly scheduled payday following the employee's effective date of
resignation. Any employee who is dismissed shall receive a final paycheck no
later than five p.m. on the fifth day following dismissal, with deductions for
any unreturned city property. The employee's rate of pay after deductions for
unreturned property will not be less than the minimum hourly wage. Day one
begins the day of dismissal and includes Saturday and Sunday. In case of death,
final salary and compensation for unused annual leave shall be paid to the
employee's named beneficiary, or if unnamed, to the employee's estate. (Ord.
435 § 9.12, 2001)
2.92.530   Personal safety equipment.
   An employee in a designated job with the city may be required to wear
special uniforms, equipment, or clothing to perform the job function. Certain
items of equipment or clothing may be paid for by the city and must be returned
to the city at the employee's separation from city employment. (Ord. 435 §
9.13,2001)
2.92.540   Gratuities.
   All city employees are prohibited from accepting gifts or other
considerations from vendors given with the intent of modifying the employees'
performance of duties or encouraging the employees to make purchases from the
vendor involved. Employees shall maintain the highest moral standards and any
attempt to influence an employee's performance by a vendor or other person
shall be reported to the department head. (Ord. 435 § 9.14,2001)
2.92.550   Per diem and mileage.
   All payments of per diem and mileage allowance to city employees shall be
made pursuant to policies established by the state. In no event shall any
mileage be paid for travel by a city employee in connection with the employee's
regular job duties within the boundaries of the city without the express
written consent of the department head. (Ord. 435 § 9.15, 2001)
2.92.560   Time sheets.
   A.   The city must keep accurate records of each hour worked by nonexempt
employees. The department head shall forward the payroll time register for that
department to the payroll office on alternate Monday mornings. The payroll
department shall keep a cumulative record of all leave time accrued and used.
Weekly time sheets shall be signed by the employee and by the employee's
immediate supervisor. If a time sheet lacks a required signature, the paycheck
shall be prepared and shall be held until the necessary signature is obtained
or special authorization is provided by the department head. Time sheets must
be submitted prior to issuance of the paychecks.
   B.   No employee is permitted to record time for another employee. Any
employee intentionally reporting time not worked for himself or another
employee shall be disciplined up to and including dismissal. (Ord. 435 § 9.16,
2001)
Article IX.
Leave and Holidays
2.92.570   Authorized leave.
   Leave is any authorized absence, with or without pay, during regularly
scheduled work hours which is approved by the department head. The department
head is responsible for the maintenance and transmittal of leave records to the
payroll office. (Ord. 435 § 10.1, 2001)
2.92.580   Unauthorized leave.
   Absence without approved leave is subject to disciplinary action and loss of
pay. (Ord. 435 § 10.2, 2001)
2.92.590   Holidays.
   The city establishes its holiday schedule at the beginning of each fiscal
year. Holidays may include the following;
   New Year's Day
   Martin Luther King Day
   Memorial Day
   Independence Day
   Labor Day
   Thanksgiving Day
   The Day after Thanksgiving Day
   Christmas Eve Day
   Christmas Day
   Floating Holiday
   The following conditions shall apply with respect to holidays and holiday
pay:
   A.   When a legal holiday observed by the city falls on a workday, full-time
and part-time classified employees shall receive holiday pay for the hours
normally worked on that particular day.
   B.   Temporary and casual employees are not entitled to holiday pay.
   C.   When a holiday falls on an employee's day off, the employee's holiday
shall be observed on the following work day, work load permitting as determined
by the department head, or compensated for on the next paycheck.
   D.   When a holiday falls during an employee's annual leave, the day shall
be counted as a holiday and not a vacation day.
   E.   In order to receive pay for a designated legal holiday, employees must
be in a work or paid leave status on their scheduled work day immediately
preceding and following the holiday, or must have worked on the stated holiday.
An employee absent without leave on their scheduled work day before or after a
holiday shall not receive pay for that holiday.
   F.   When a holiday falls on a Saturday, it shall be observed on the
preceding Friday. If the holiday falls on Sunday, it shall be observed on the
following Monday.
   G.   If employees are required to work on a holiday, the employees shall be
paid one and one-half times their base pay for all hours worked, plus the
employee's regular holiday pay.
   H.   No employee on leave of absence shall receive holiday pay.
   I.   Floating holidays do not carry over to the next fiscal year.
(Ord. 567 (part), 2019: Ord. 532 (part), 2014; Ord. 435 § 10.3, 2001)
2.92.600   Annual leave with pay.
   Classified and qualified unclassified full-time city employees accrue annual
leave from their date of hire according to the following schedules:
   A.   Regular full-time employees:
 
Years of Service Hours Per Pay Period Maximum Accrual
0 - 5            3.08                 120 hours
6 - 10           4.62                 160 hours
10+              6.16                 200 hours
 
   Firefighters (2,756 annual hours);
   Police officers assigned to patrol division (2,236 annual hours) if Section
K exemption implemented by city commission:
 
Years of Service Hours Per Pay Period Maximum Accrual
0 - 5            4.62                 180 hours
6 - 10           6.92                 240 hours
10+              9.23                 300 hours
 
   B.   Annual leave begins to accrue at date of hire up to the maximum number
of hours as shown above in section A.
   C.   An employee does not accrue annual leave for any time worked in excess
of forty hours per week.
   D.   Annual leave cannot be taken by the employee until the employee
completes six months of employment.
   E.   Annual leave shall not be granted in advance of accrual.
   F.   Upon termination from city employment, an employee will be paid for all
accrued annual leave.
   G.   An employee may use accrued annual leave just before the employee's
separation from city employment.
   H.   Annual leave should be requested as much in advance as possible.
Reasonable effort shall be made to accommodate the employee's request, though
approval shall be subject to advance notification and the needs of the
department. If annual leave is requested by one or more employees at the same
time, seniority shall rule.
   I.   Temporary and casual employees do not accrue annual leave.
(Ord. 567 (part), 2019: Ord. 549, 2016; Ord. 532 (part), 2014; Ord. 435 § 10.4,
2001)
2.92.610   Sick leave.
   A.   Sick Leave With Pay. Leave with pay is granted to a classified full-
time, qualified unclassified full-time, or part-time classified employees for
serious personal illness, pregnancy, or disability, or when an employee's child
or spouse, or parent requires the personal attention of the employee because of
a serious injury or illness as defined in the Family and Medical Leave Act.
      1.   Regular full-time and part-time classified employees begin to accrue
sick leave at date of hire. Regular full-time employees accrue sick leave at
the rate of 3.70 hours per pay period, while firefighters (2,756 annual hours)
and police officers assigned to patrol division (2,236 annual hours), if
Section K exemption implemented by city commission, accrue 5.54 hours per pay
period. Part-time classified employees shall accrue sick leave at the rate of
1.85 hours per pay period as long as they have worked at least twenty hours per
week during the pay period.
      2.   Regular full-time employees may accrue a maximum of five hundred
seventy-six hours, while firefighters may accrue a maximum of eight hundred
sixty-four hours.
      3.   Classified employees shall be paid for sick leave hours in excess of
four hundred eighty hours, seven hundred twenty hours for firefighters, in
December of each year or upon separation of employment.
      4.   Sick leave is not granted in advance of accrual.
      5.   There shall be no pay for sick leave upon resignation, lay-off, or
involuntary dismissal, except after five years of continuous employment,
employees are entitled to accrued sick leave at the termination of their
employment for any reason.
      6.   Temporary and casual employees do not accrue sick leave.
      7.   Any employee making a false claim for sick leave or who refuses to
be examined by a physician may be dismissed.
      8.   Sick leave for three days or more must be supported by the
certification of a licensed physician.
      9.   Planned use of sick leave must be reported to the department head as
much in advance as possible.
      10.   In the case of an extended illness, an employee may apply accrued
annual leave or compensatory time to sick leave.
   B.   Sick Leave for Retiring Employees. All retiring employees whose age and
years of service equals eighty-six shall be paid for all accrued sick leave at
the time of retirement. All other retiring employees, who are at least sixty-
two years, shall receive a partial payment for accrued sick leave based on a
proportion of the age plus years of service. For example, if age and years of
service total seventy-eight, then the employee shall receive pay for ninety-one
percent of the accrued sick leave.
   C.   Physical Examination. The city may request that an employee have a
medical examination when it appears to the department head that the employee
cannot perform the essential functions of his position, when a pattern of sick
leave develops, or when an employee advises the department head that he cannot
perform his job for medical reasons. The city shall pay for the examination. An
employee who refuses to be examined by a physician designated by the city shall
not receive sick leave pay for the claimed period of absence and may be
dismissed. Employees who cannot perform the essential functions of their
positions shall be terminated if reasonable accommodation creates an undue
hardship or if the employee poses a safety threat to other city employees, the
public, or to himself
   D.   Reporting Sick Leave. Sick leave shall be reported to the employee's
supervisor by the employee or an immediate family member on a daily basis and
as soon as possible but no later than one-half hour after the beginning of the
employee's work shift unless the nature of the illness requires extended leave
certified by the employee's physician and of which the employee's supervisor
has been notified.
   E.   Use of Sick Leave During Probationary Period. Probationary employees
accrue sick leave. Use of sick leave must be approved by the employee's
supervisor on a day-by-day basis during the probationary period.
   F.   Donation of Leave Time for Nonwork-Related Serious Injury or Illness.
City employees who have accumulated annual leave time under Section
2.92.600 or sick leave time under this section may, but are not required or
urged to, donate the time to other city employees. Such donations shall be made
under the terms and conditions specified below:
      1.   Nonprobationary city employees who have accumulated more than forty
hours of annual leave may donate up to sixteen hours of that annual leave time
to other nonprobationary city employees who have exhausted all annual leave,
sick leave, or compensatory time due to a n on work-related serious injury or
illness.
      2.   The employee in need of donated time must make a request for such
time in writing to the city manager, who shall inform city employees of the
request.
      3.   Donations of time shall be made on forms provided by the city,
signed by the donating employee and witnessed by the department head. Donations
of time shall be in hourly increments. The receiving employee shall be paid at
his hourly rate of pay for donated time, not at the donor's rate.
      4.   Donated time accrues to the employee receiving the donation and no
time shall be returned, if not used. Under no circumstances shall time donated
to any employee exceed the maximum time allowed under subsection A of this
section.
      5.   Donations of time are completely voluntary. No employee, supervisor,
or elected official shall demand the donation of time from any employee,
although a request from an employee may be communicated to other employees
either orally or by written notice.
      6.   Terminated employees are ineligible to receive donations.
      7.   No right of donation is created in any employee, regardless of
circumstance.
(Ord. 567 (part), 2019: Ord. 549, 2016; Ord. 532 (part), 2014; Ord. 435 § 10.5,
2001)
2.92.620   Family and medical leave of absence (FMLA).
   A.   Eligibility. To be eligible for family and medical leave benefits, an
employee must have worked for the city for a total of at least twelve months
and have worked at least one thousand two hundred fifty hours over the previous
twelve months. Eligible employees may receive up to a total of twelve workweeks
of unpaid leave during a twelve-month period (measured backwards from the date
the leave is first to commence) for one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   The birth of the employee's child;
      2.   The placement of a child for adoption or foster care;
      3.   To care for an immediate family member (spouse, child or parent)
with a serious health condition. "Serious health condition" means an illness,
injury, impairment or physical or mental condition that involves either
inpatient care in a hospital, hospice, or residential health care facility or
continuing treatment or supervision by a health care provider; or
      4.   To take medical leave when the employee is unable to work because of
a serious health condition.
      All time taken off from work for any of the above reasons shall be
counted against the remaining balance of FMLA leave.
      Leave for the birth, adoption, or placement in foster care of a child
must be completed within twelve months of the applicable event.
   B.   Required Use of Accrued Leave. The city shall require an employee to
use all of the employee's accrued and unused sick and vacation days to cover
leave prior to going on unpaid leave.
   C.   Requesting Family and Medical Leave and Medical Certification.
Employees requesting family care and medical leave shall be required to
provide: (a) thirty day advance notice when the need for the leave is
foreseeable; (b) medical certification (both prior to the leave and prior to
reinstatement); (c) periodic recertification; and (d) periodic reports during
the leave. The medical certification must state the date the condition started,
how long it is expected to last, and, if the leave is to care for an immediate
family member, how long the employee shall be needed to provide care and that
the serious health condition requires the employee to provide such care. If the
leave is for the employee's own serious health condition, the certification
must also state that the employee is unable to perform the essential functions
of the employee's current position. When leave is needed to care for an
immediate family member or the employee's own serious health condition and is
for planned medical treatment, the employee must try to schedule treatment so
as not to unduly disrupt department operations.
   If the employer has any doubt as to the validity of the certification, a
second opinion may be required from a medical provider of the city's choice and
at its expense. In addition, the city may require that a third opinion be
obtained from a health care provider at the city's expense. In such an event,
the opinion of the third provider shall be final and binding.
   D.   Reinstatement. An employee returning from an approved family and
medical care leave of absence that does not exceed the maximum eligible length
of leave shall be reinstated to his or her original position or an equivalent
one with no loss of seniority or benefits that accrued prior to taking the
leave. A medical release to return to work from a leave taken because of the
employee's own serious health condition may be required from the employee's
health care provider. An employee who does not return to work at the end of an
authorized leave and does not obtain an approved extension of leave shall be
regarded as having voluntarily resigned.
   If an employee on leave is a salaried employee who is among the top ten
percent of employees in terms of gross earnings and keeping the job open for
the employee during the leave would result in substantial grievous economic
injury to the operations of the city, reinstatement may be denied. In such
cases, the city must give the employee a reasonable opportunity to return to
work after notifying the employee of the intent to refuse reinstatement.
   E.   Continuation of Benefits. During an approved leave, the city shall
continue to provide, if otherwise available, medical coverage under its group
health plan on the same conditions that would have applied if the employee had
not taken the leave. In no case shall the city continue to pay for such
coverage for more than twelve weeks in any twelve-month period. The employee
shall remain responsible for paying the employee's portion, if any, of the
insurance premium, including the premium for dependent coverage, if available.
Failure to pay premiums on a timely basis may result in a lapse of coverage. If
the employee fails to return to work when the leave expires, the employee shall
be required to reimburse the city for the group health insurance premium paid
by the city on behalf of the employee during the leave unless the employee
fails to return because of a continuation, reoccurrence, or onset of a serious
health condition that entitles the employee to leave under this policy or due
to circumstances beyond the employee's control.
   No sick or annual leave shall accrue while an employee is on unpaid leave.
   F.   Intermittent Leave. Intermittent leave or reduced work schedule shall
only be permitted if the employee suffers from a serious condition or if an
employee's spouse, child, or parent suffers from a serious condition requiring
continuing medical treatment. Intermittent leave must be scheduled with the
employee's supervisor in advance of the need to take intermittent leave and
must not unduly affect the city's business. The city may temporarily transfer
an employee requesting intermittent leave to an alternative position under
certain circumstances. (Ord. 435 § 10.6, 2001)
2.92.630   Emergency leave.
   In the event of the death of an employee's spouse, parent, grandparent,
child, grandchild, or sibling, employees may receive up to three days of paid
leave at the discretion of the city manager. Paid emergency leave of three days
may also be granted in cases of extreme or unusual hardship of an emergency
nature. All emergency leave must be granted by the city manager. Employees
desiring more than three days off may use accrued compensatory time or annual
leave. (Ord. 435 § 10.7, 2001)
2.92.640   Administrative leave with Pay
   Leave with pay and travel pay may be authorized by the department head to
allow employees to attend training, workshops, and meetings of boards and
commissions when the employee's attendance is on the behalf of the city and in
the best interest of the city. Employees shall also receive payment for per
diem, mileage, and all necessary and preapproved out-of-pocket expenses. If the
employee is paid by the board or commission for his attendance in excess of per
diem, the city shall pay the employee his regular salary less the amount
received by the employee from the board or commission or the employee may turn
over the compensation from the board or commission to the city. Administrative
leave with pay may also be granted by a department head with the approval of
the city manager pending disciplinary action. (Ord. 435 § 10.8, 2001)
2.92.650   Occupational injury time- Workers' Compensation.
   A.   Workers' Compensation. Employees injured on the job or suffering from
occupational diseases, as defined in the New Mexico Workers' Compensation
Statute, shall receive workers' compensation benefits as prescribed by law. An
employee may elect to continue group health coverage, with the employee and the
employer paying their respective share of the premium, during an unpaid leave
of absence for which workers' compensation is being paid for up to a period of
twelve weeks, provided however, all other eligibility requirements must
continue to be met for the period of continuation of coverage.
   B.   Reporting Procedure. Any employee claiming to be entitled to
compensation shall give notice in writing to the employee's supervisor of the
accident within fifteen days after the employee knew, or should have known, of
its occurrence, unless, by reason of his injury or some other cause beyond his
control, the employee is prevented from giving notice within that time, in
which case he shall give notice as soon as may reasonably be done and at all
events not later than sixty days after the occurrence of the accident. No
written notice is required to be given where a department head or supervisor or
other agent in charge of the work in connection with the accident had actual
knowledge of its occurrence.
   C.   Medical Procedure. An employee, who incurs a job-related injury/
illness, should see the health care provider of his choice. The city may
require the injured employee to seek consultation or treatment with another
health care provider at a later time in accordance with the Worker's
Compensation Act.
   D.   Return to Work. An employee must return to his former position or be
reassigned to a comparable position if the employee's physician certifies that
the employee can return to work within three months of the injury. If an
employee is unable to perform the essential functions of his job with
reasonable accommodations at the end of three months, the employee may be
dismissed within the guidelines of the law.
   E.   Modified Work Schedule.
      1.   An employee returning from workers' compensation disability may
return to light duty if an appropriate position is available and the employee's
physician certifies that the employee can return to a modified work schedule.
      2.   "Light duty" is defined either as performing the same job as the
employee held before the injury, or as performing the duties of another
position for which the employee is qualified, for fewer than eight hours each
day or having reduced physical requirements for the full day or less than the
full day.
      3.   The times and conditions of light duty shall be determined by the
employee's department head in conjunction with the city manager. All light duty
assignments are temporary and shall not exceed three months.
   F.   Reemployment of City Employees Injured on the Job. A classified full-
time or part-time employee, who has received benefits pursuant to the Worker's
Compensation Act and who was unable to return to work during the twelve-week
period during which the city held the employee's position open, may apply for
his preinjury job, a modified job similar to the preinjury job, or any job that
pays less than the preinjury job, provided that the employee is qualified for
this job and the city is hiring. The city shall rehire the classified full-time
or part-time employee provided that the employee's treating health care
provider certifies that the employee is fit to carry out the job without
significant risk of injury. (Ord. 435 § 10.9, 2001)
2.92.660   Civil duty leave.
   An employee shall be given necessary time off with pay for the following:
   A.   Jury Duty. Pay for jury duty shall be authorized only for those days
that the employee is scheduled to work. If excused by the court during a
working day, the employee shall return to duty if at least one hour of city
duty can be served in that work day. If the employee does not return to work,
the balance of the day shall be charged to annual leave or leave without pay.
      1.   The employee shall provide his supervisor with a copy of the summons
for jury duty;
      2.   Employees are expected to report to work for the hours before and
after jury duty;
      3.   Part-time and temporary employees do not receive pay for jury duty.
   The employees seeking pay for jury time shall turn over to the city all
compensation received from the court for serving as a juror.
   B.   Court Appearance Time. Full-time and part-time employees shall be paid
for court time when required by city duties or subpoenaed to appear before a
court, personnel hearing officer, public body or city commission for the
purpose of testifying in regard to city matters. If a court appearance is not
required by city duties, the employee shall not receive pay unless the employee
uses accrued vacation or compensatory time.
   C.   Voting. For purposes of a national, state, or local election, an
employee who is registered to vote shall be granted up to two hours' paid leave
for voting, between the time of opening and the time of closing polls. The
employee's supervisor may specify the hours for the leave. This leave shall not
be granted to any employee whose work day begins more than two hours subsequent
to the time of the opening of the polls, or ends more than three hours before
the closing of the polls. Time off for voting shall not be used for other
purposes. Department heads may inquire in the office of the county clerk to see
if an employee is a registered voter before granting time off to vote. (Ord.
435 § 10.10, 2001)
2.92.670   Military leave for reserve or National Guard duties.
   A.   Paid Military Leave for Reserve or National Guard Activities. Paid
military leave shall be granted for authorized reserve or National Guard
activities for a maximum of fifteen working days during a one-year period.
Military leave must be requested twenty days in advance. The employee must
furnish proof of duty orders or other documentation prior to leave being
granted unless the leave is for emergency purposes.
   B.   Unpaid Military Leave. Employees voluntarily or involuntarily serving
on active duty for more than fifteen working days shall be placed on leave
without pay. The employee taking military leave shall not first be required to
exhaust annual and sick leave.
   C.   Employees Returning from Unpaid Military Leave. Any employee who leaves
a position he has held with the city, other than a temporary position, to enter
the armed forces of the United States, National Guard or organized reserve, and
who serves on active duty and is honorably discharged or released from active
duty to complete his remaining service in a reserve component, and who is still
qualified to perform the duties of the city position previously held, shall be
reemployed in such position or to a position of like seniority, status, and
pay. To be reemployed in such position, the employee must make application for
reemployment within ninety days after he is released from training or duty or
within ninety days of release from hospitalization which continued after
honorable discharge for a period of not more than one year.
      1.   The returning employee shall be deemed to have accrued seniority and
length of service rights as though his employment with the city had been
continuous since the date of initial employment;
      2.   The returning employee shall have all annual and sick leave accrued
at the time of his departure for military services restored. (Ord. 435 § 10.11,
2001)
2.92.680   Inclement weather.
   The city manager may at his discretion close offices and send employees home
with pay due to inclement weather. (Ord. 435 § 10.12, 2001)
Article X.
Miscellaneous
2.92.690   Chain of command.
   All employees are required to follow the chain of command. (Ord. 435 § 11.1,
2001)
2.92.700   Designated work areas.
   All employees must be at their designated work areas on time and ready to
work. They shall work until the scheduled quitting time, unless permission of
the supervisor has been obtained for different work hours. Employees shall not
litter work areas and shall keep them neat and clean. (Ord. 435 § 11.2, 2001)
2.92.710   Personal business.
   Personal business must not be conducted during work hours while on city
premises. (Ord. 435 § 11.3, 2001)
2.92.720   Safety.
   The city is committed to having all work conducted in a safe manner. All
safety precautions must be followed. The city's safety committee is responsible
for establishing a general safety program. See the city's safety manual or the
compliance rules and regulations. (Ord. 435 § 11.4, 2001)
2.92.730   City property.
   Employees must not misuse city property, records, or other material in their
care, control, custody, or remove any city property, records, or other material
from the premises of the city offices unless permission has been given by the
department head. Employees must not use city property, records or equipment for
personal use. (Ord. 435 § 11.5, 2001)
2.92.740   City vehicles.
   No city vehicles shall be taken out of the city without permission of the
department head, and employees must notify the department head of their
destinations and itineraries. City vehicles must be used only for city business
and commuting to and from work, if required for a work-related purpose. City
vehicles shall not be used for personal business, except as is incidental in
commuting as determined by the employee's department head. (Ord. 435 § 11.6,
2001)
2.92.750   Dress and appearance.
   Employees are constantly in the public eye, consequently it is important
that the employees present the best possible image to the public. Employees
should always be clean and neatly dressed in clothing suitable for their work
assignments. Employees shall not wear athletic clothing, t-shirts with logos or
printing, or tank tops to work. (Ord. 435 § 11.7, 2001)
2.92.760   Personnel files.
   Subsequent to hiring, a separate file shall be prepared and maintained for
each employee. These records shall be kept in the city clerk's office. It is
the responsibility of each department head and the employee to ensure that the
records of the employees are completed and up-to-date. (Ord. 435 § 11.8, 2001)
2.92.770   Inspection of personnel files.
   Personnel files are subject to the New Mexico Public Records Act, NMSA 1978,
§ 14-2-1 and are open for public inspection, except records pertaining to
physical or mental examinations and medical treatment of persons confined to
any institution; letters of reference concerning employment, licensing, or
permits; or letters of memoranda which are matters of opinion in personnel
files. Any employee wanting to review his personnel file may do so by making
arrangements with the city clerk/treasurer. (Ord. 435 § 11.9, 2001)
2.92.780   Additional rules.
   Employees shall obey all additional rules, directives and requests stated
verbally or in writing by their supervisors, their department heads or the city
manager. Employees are required to follow all standards, rules, procedures and
policies that are similar or normally expected in the workplace. (Ord. 435 §
11.10,2001)
Chapter 2.96
LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS
Sections:
   
2.96.010   Short title.
   
2.96.020   Purpose.
   
2.96.030   Conflicts.
   
2.96.040   Definitions.
   
2.96.050   Rights of employees.
   
2.96.060   Management rights.
   
2.96.070   Labor management relations board created- Terms.
   
2.96.080   Board-Powers and duties.
   
2.96.090   Hearing procedures.
   
2.96.100   Appropriate bargaining units.
   
2.96.110   Elections.
   
2.96.120   Exclusive representation.
   
2.96.130   Decertification of exclusive representative.
   
2.96.140   Scope of bargaining.
   
2.96.150   Negotiations and impasse resolution.
   
2.96.160   Employers-Prohibited practices.
   
2.96.170   Employees-Labor organizations-Prohibited practices.
   
2.96.180   Strikes and lockouts prohibited.
   
2.96.190   Agreements valid- Enforcement.
   
2.96.200   Judicial enforcement™ Standard of review.
2.96.010   Short title.
   This chapter may be cited as the "City of Lovington Labor Management
Relations Ordinance." (Ord. 460 § 1, 2005)
2.96.020   Purpose.
   The purpose of this chapter is to guarantee employees the right to organize
and bargain collectively with their employer; to protect the rights of the
employer and the employees and to promote harmonious and cooperative
relationships between the employer and the employees; and to acknowledge the
obligation of the employer and the employees to provide orderly and
uninterrupted services to the citizens. (Ord. 460 § 2, 2005)
2.96.030   Conflicts.
   In the event of conflict with other city of Lovington ordinances, the
provisions of this chapter shall supersede other previously enacted ordinances.
   City of Lovington sanctioned rules and regulations, administrative
directives, departmental rules and regulations, and workplace practices shall
control unless there is a conflict with a collective bargaining agreement.
Where a conflict exists, the collective bargaining agreement shall control.
(Ord. 460 § 3, 2005)
2.96.040   Definitions.
   As used in this chapter:
   "Appropriate bargaining unit" means a group of employees designated by the
board for the purpose of collective bargaining.
   "Board" means the city of Lovington labor management relations board.
   "Certification" means the designation by the board of a labor organization
as the exclusive representative for all employees in an appropriate bargaining
unit.
   "Collective bargaining" means the act of negotiating between the employer
and an exclusive representative for the purpose of entering into a written
agreement regarding wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment.
   "Confidential employee" means a person who devotes a majority of his/her
time to assisting and acting in a confidential capacity with respect to a
person who formulates, determines, and effectuates management policies.
   "Emergency" means a one-time crisis that was unforeseen and unavoidable.
   "Employee" means a regular, nonprobationary employee of the city of
Lovington.
   "Employer" means the city of Lovington.
   "Exclusive representative" means a labor organization that, as a result of
certification by the board, represents all employees in an appropriate
bargaining unit for the purposes of collective bargaining.
   "Fair share" means the payment to a labor organization, which is the
exclusive representative for an appropriate bargaining unit, by an employee of
that bargaining unit who is not a member of that labor organization, equal to a
certain percentage of membership dues. Such figure is to be calculated based on
United States and New Mexico statutes and case law identifying those
expenditures by a labor organization which are permissibly chargeable to all
employees in the appropriate bargaining unit under United States and New Mexico
statutes and case law, including, but not limited to, all expenditures incurred
by the labor organization in negotiating the contract applicable to all
employees in the appropriate bargaining unit, servicing such contract, and
representing all such employees in grievances and disciplinary actions.
   "Governing body" means the city of Lovington council.
   "Impasse" means failure of the employer and an exclusive representative,
after good faith bargaining, to reach agreement in the course of negotiating a
collective bargaining agreement.
   "Labor organization" means any employee organization, one of whose purposes
is the representation of public employees in collective bargaining and in
otherwise meeting, consulting, and conferring with employers on matters
pertaining to employment relations.
   "Lockout" means an act by the employer to prevent its employees from going
to work for the purpose of resisting demands of the employees' exclusive
representative or for the purpose of gaining a concession from the exclusive
representative.
   "Management employee" means an employee who is engaged primarily in
executive and management functions and is charged with the responsibility of
developing, administering, or effectuating management policies. An employee
shall not be deemed a management employee solely because the employee
participates in cooperative decision making programs on an occasional basis.
   "Mediation" means assistance by an impartial third party to resolve an
impasse in contract negotiation between the employer and an exclusive
representative through interpretation, suggestion and advice.
   "Professional employee" means an employee whose work is predominantly
intellectual and varied in character and whose work involves the consistent
exercise of discretion and judgment in its performance and requires knowledge
of an advanced nature in a field of learning customarily requiring specialized
study at an institution of higher education or its equivalent. The work of a
professional employee is of such character that the output or result
accomplished cannot be standardized in relation to a given period of time.
   "Strike" means an employee's refusal, in concerted action with other
employees, to report for duty or his wilful absence or withholding of service
in whole or in part from the full, faithful, and proper performance of the
duties of employment for the purpose of inducing, influencing, or coercing a
change in the working conditions, compensation, rights, privileges, or
obligations of employment.
   "Supervisor" means an employee who devotes a majority amount of work time to
supervisory duties, who customarily and regularly directs the work of two or
more other employees, and who has the authority in the interest of the employer
to hire, promote, or discipline other employees or to recommend such actions
effectively. This definition does not include individuals who perform merely
routine, incidental, or clerical duties or who occasionally assume supervisory
or directory roles or whose duties are substantially similar to those of their
subordinates and does not include lead employees or employees who occasionally
participate in peer review or evaluation of employees. (Ord. 460 § 4, 2005)
2.96.050   Rights of employees.
   Employees, other than management, supervisory, confidential, and
probationary employees, may form, join, or assist any labor organization for
the purpose of collective bargaining through a representative chosen by the
employees without interference, restraint, or coercion. Employees also have the
right to refuse to form, join, or assist any labor organization. (Ord. 460 § 5,
2005)
2.96.060   Management rights.
   Unless limited by the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement or by
other statutory provision, the employer's rights shall include, but are not
limited to, the following:
   A.   To direct the work of, hire, promote, assign, transfer, demote,
suspend, discharge, or terminate public employees;
   B.   To determine qualifications for employment and the nature and content
of personnel examinations;
   C.   To take actions as may be necessary to carry out the mission of the
employer in emergencies; and
   D.   The employer retains all rights not specifically limited by a
collective bargaining agreement or by the Public Employee Bargaining Act. (Ord.
460 § 6, 2005)
2.96.070   Labor management relations board created- Terms.
   A.   The labor management relations board is created. The board shall be
composed of three members appointed by the mayor and approved by the city
council. One member shall be appointed on the recommendation of individuals
representing labor, one member shall be appointed on the recommendation of the
city manager, and one member shall be appointed on the recommendation of the
first two appointees.
   B.   Board members shall serve for a period of one year with terms
commencing in the month of September, except in the initial appointment, which
will be a shorter term, effective the same day as the ordinance codified in
this chapter. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original
appointment, and such appointments shall only be made for the remainder of the
unexpired term. A board member may serve an unlimited number of terms.
   C.   During the term of appointment, no board member shall hold or seek any
other political office or public employment or be an employee of a union, an
organization representing public employees, or a public employer.
   D.   Each board member shah be paid per diem and mileage in accordance with
the provisions of the Per Diem and Mileage Act. (Ord. 460 § 7, 2005)
2.96.080   Board-Powers and duties.
   A.   The board shall promulgate rules and regulations necessary to
accomplish and perform its functions and duties as established in this chapter,
including the establishment of procedures for:
      1.   The designation of appropriate bargaining units;
      2.   The selection, certification, and decertification of exclusive
representatives; and
      3.   The filing, hearing, and determination of complaints of prohibited
practices. This does not apply to negotiation impasse or grievances subject to
the required negotiated grievance process.
   B.   The board shall:
      1.   Hold hearings and make inquiries necessary to carry out its
functions and duties;
      2.   Request from employers and labor organizations the information and
data necessary to carry out the functions and responsibilities of the board.
   C.   The board may issue subpoenas requiring, upon reasonable notice, the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of any evidence,
including books, records, correspondence, or documents relevant to the matter
in question. The board may prescribe the form of the subpoena, but it shall
adhere insofar as practicable to the form used in civil actions in the district
court. The board may administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and
receive evidence. Subject to the approval of funds, the board may contract with
a third party to assist it in carrying out its functions.
   D.   The board shall decide all issues by majority vote and shall issue its
decisions in the form of written orders and opinions. The decisions of the
board on interpretation and applications of this chapter are final and binding
on the parties subject to the appeal process provided in Section
2.96.200 of this chapter. The board's hearing authority does not apply to
negotiation impasses or issues dealing with the collective bargaining agreement
where a grievance procedure has been negotiated for that purpose by the parties
as required by law.
   E.   The board has the power to enforce provisions of this chapter and the
board's labor management relations rules and regulations through the imposition
of appropriate administrative remedies.
   F.   The board shall have no power to promulgate policy other than for its
own operation.
   G.   No rule or regulation promulgated by the board shall require, directly
or indirectly, as a condition of continuous employment, any employee covered by
this chapter to pay money to any labor organization that is certified as an
exclusive representative. This issue of fair share shall be a permissive as
opposed to a mandatory subject of bargaining between the employer and the
exclusive representative. (Ord. 460 § 8, 2005)
2.96.090   Hearing procedures.
   A.   The board may hold hearings for the purposes of:
      1.   Information gathering and inquiry;
      2.   Adopting rules and regulations; and
      3.   Adjudicating disputes and enforcing the provisions of this chapter,
and rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   The board shall adopt regulations setting forth procedures to be
followed during hearings of the board. Such regulations shall meet minimal due
process requirements of the state and federal constitution.
   C.   Proceedings against the party alleged to have committed a prohibited
practice shall be commenced by service upon it and the board of a written
notice together with a copy of the charges and relief requested.
   D.   All adopted rules and regulations shall be filed in accordance with
applicable laws.
   E.   A verbatim record made by electronic or other suitable means shall be
made of every rule-making and adjudicatory hearing. The record shall not be
transcribed unless required for judicial review or unless ordered by the board.
The party requesting the transcript shall pay for the transcription. In the
case of judicial review, the payment shall be made by the party filing the
appeal.
   F.   Each party to a prohibited labor practice shall bear the cost of
producing its own witnesses and paying its representative for hearings under
this chapter.
   G.   No regulation proposed to be adopted by the board that affects any
person or governmental entity outside of the board and its staff shall be
adopted, amended, or repealed without public hearing and comment on the
proposed action before the board. The public hearing shall be held after notice
of the subject matter of the regulation, the action proposed to be taken, the
time and place of the hearing, the manner in which interested persons may
present their views, and the method in which copies of the proposed regulation,
proposed amendment, or repeal of an existing regulation may be obtained. All
meetings shall be held at a city facility. Notice shall be published once at
least thirty days prior to the hearing date in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city of Lovington, and notice shall be mailed at least
thirty days prior to the hearing date to all persons who have made a written
request for advance notice of hearings. (Ord. 460 § 9, 2005)
2.96.100   Appropriate bargaining units.
   A.   The board shall, upon receipt of a petition for a representation
election filed by a labor organization, designate the appropriate bargaining
unit. Appropriate bargaining units shall be established on the basis of
occupational groups or clear and identifiable community of interest in
employment terms, employment conditions, and related personnel matters among
the employees involved. Occupational groups shall generally be identified as
blue collar, secretarial/clerical, technical, para-professional, professional,
corrections, firefighters, and police officers. Department, craft, or trade
designations other than as specified above shall not determine bargaining
units. The parties, by mutual agreement and approval of the board, may further
consolidate occupational groups. The essential factors in determining
appropriate bargaining units shall include the principles of efficient
administration of government, the history of collective bargaining, and the
assurance to employees of their rights guaranteed by this chapter.
   B.   If the labor organization and the employer cannot agree on the
appropriate bargaining unit within thirty days, the board shall hold a hearing
concerning the composition of the bargaining unit. Any agreement as to the
appropriate bargaining unit between the employer and the labor organization is
subject to the approval of the board.
   C.   The board shall not include in any appropriate bargaining unit,
probationary, supervisory, managerial, or confidential employees. (Ord. 460 §
10, 2005)
2.96.110   Elections.
   A.   Whenever, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the board, a
petition is filed by a labor organization containing the signatures of at least
thirty percent of the employees in an appropriate bargaining unit, the board
shall post a notice to affected employees regarding the filed petition and
proceed with the process for conducting a secret ballot representation
election.
   B.   Once a labor organization has filed a petition with the board
requesting a representation election, other labor organizations may seek to be
placed on the ballot. Any labor organization may file a competing petition
containing the signatures of not less than thirty percent of the employees in
the appropriate bargaining unit no later than ten calendar days after the board
has posted a written notice that a petition for a representation election has
been filed by a labor organization.
   C.   All representation elections shall include the option for "no
representation," except in a run-off election where the choice of "no
representation" was not one of the two choices that received the highest votes.
   D.   In the event of an election with two or more labor organizations on the
ballot and none of the choices on the ballot received a majority of the votes
cast, then a run-off election shall be held within fifteen calendar days. The
choices on the run-off election shall consist of the two choices, which
received the greatest number of votes in the original election.
   E.   A valid election requires that at least forty percent of the eligible
employees in an appropriate bargaining unit cast a vote. In an election with
only one labor organization, and the majority of the votes cast are in favor of
representation, the board shall certify that labor organization as the
exclusive representative for all the employees in the bargaining unit.
   F.   No election shall be conducted if an election has been conducted in the
twelve month period immediately preceding the proposed representation election.
No election shall be held during the term of an existing collective bargaining
agreement, except as provided in Section
2.96.130(B) of this chapter, or after the expiration of the third year of a
collective bargaining agreement with a term of more than three years.
   G.   Election disputes shall be resolved by the board.
   H.   As an alternative to the provisions of subsection A of this section,
the employer and a labor organization with a reasonable basis for claiming to
represent a majority of the employees in an appropriate bargaining unit may
establish an alternative appropriate procedure for determining majority status.
The procedure may include a labor organization's submission of authorization
cards from a majority of the employees in an appropriate bargaining unit. The
local board shall not certify an appropriate bargaining unit if the employer
objects to the certification without an election. (Ord. 460 § 11,2005)
2.96.120   Exclusive representation.
   A labor organization that has been certified by the board as the exclusive
representative for employees in an appropriate bargaining unit shall represent
all employees in the bargaining unit. The exclusive representative shall act
for all employees in the bargaining unit and negotiate a collective bargaining
agreement covering all employees in the bargaining unit. The exclusive
representative shall represent the interests of all employees in the bargaining
unit without discrimination or regard to membership or nonmembership in the
labor organization. The existence of an exclusive bargaining representative
shall not prevent employees from taking their grievances through the grievance
process or filing prohibited practices with the board. Any settlement of a
grievance or relief given on a prohibited practice brought by an individual
shall not be inconsistent with, or in violation of, the collective bargaining
agreement in effect between the employer and the exclusive representative or
inconsistent with, or in violation of, a memorandum of understanding between
the employer and the exclusive representative applicable to the day-to-day
administration of the collective bargaining agreement. The exclusive
representative shall be afforded the opportunity to be present at such hearings
and make its views known. (Ord. 460 § 12, 2005)
2.96.130   Decertification of exclusive representative.
   A.   Any member of a labor organization or the labor organization itself may
initiate de-certification of a labor organization as the exclusive
representative if thirty percent of the employees in the appropriate bargaining
unit make a written request to the board for a decertification election. A
decertification election shall be valid only if at least forty percent of the
eligible employees in the bargaining unit vote in the election.
   B.   When there is a collective bargaining agreement in effect, a request
for a decertification election shall be made to the board no earlier than
ninety days and no later than sixty days before the expiration of the
collective bargaining agreement; provided, however, that a request for a
decertification election may be filed at any time after the expiration of the
third year of a collective bargaining agreement with a term of more than three
years.
   C.   When, within the time period prescribed in subsection B of this
section, a competing labor organization files a petition containing signatures
of at least thirty percent of the employees in the appropriate bargaining unit,
a representation election rather than a decertification election shall be
conducted.
   D.   When an exclusive representative has been certified but no collective
bargaining agreement is in effect, the board shall not accept a request for a
decertification election earlier than twelve months subsequent to a labor
organization's certification as the exclusive representative. (Ord. 460 § 13,
2005)
2.96.140   Scope of bargaining.
   A.   Except for retirement programs provided under the Public Employees
Retirement Act, the parties shall bargain in good faith on all wages, hours,
and other terms and conditions of employment and other issues agreed to by the
parties. The parties shall enter into a written agreement covering employment
relations regarding the issues agreed to in collective bargaining.
   B.   Bargaining in good faith shall not require either party to agree to a
proposal or to make a concession.
   C.   The obligation to bargain collectively imposed by this chapter shall
not be construed as authorizing employers and exclusive representatives to
enter into any agreement that is in conflict with state statutes or federal
statutes. In the event of conflict between the provision of any federal or
state statutes and any agreement entered into by the employer and the exclusive
representative, the former shall prevail.
   D.   Payroll deduction of the exclusive representative's membership dues
shall be a mandatory subject of bargaining if either part{'}'}' chooses to
negotiate the issue. The amount of dues shall be certified in writing by an
official of the labor organization and shall not include special assessments,
penalties, or fines of any type levied by the exclusive representative. During
the time that a board certification is in effect for a particular exclusive
representative, the employer shall not deduct dues for any other labor
organization from members of the same bargaining unit.
   E.   Any agreement or impasse resolution by the employer and an exclusive
representative that requires the expenditure of funds shall be contingent upon
the specific appropriation of funds by the governing body and the availability
of funds to fund the agreed upon provision. An arbitrator's decision shall not
require the reappropriation of funds.
   F.   The parties have a requirement that a grievance procedure culminating
with final and binding arbitration be negotiated. This applies only to
grievances and the interpretation and application of the agreement between the
parties and does not apply to negotiation impasses. The parties shall share the
cost of any proceedings conducted pursuant to this subsection equally. Each
party is responsible for paying any cost related to its witnesses and
representation. (Ord. 460 § 14, 2005)
2.96.150   Negotiations and impasse resolution.
   A.   The following meetings shall be closed:
      1.   Meetings for the discussion of collective bargaining strategy
between the governing body and the employer's negotiating team preliminary to
negotiations sessions;
      2.   Collective bargaining sessions; and
      3.   Consultations and impasse resolution procedures at which the
employer and/or the exclusive representative of the appropriate bargaining unit
are present.
   B.   The following negotiation procedures shall apply to the employer and
exclusive representatives:
      1.   The negotiations for the first contract shall be opened upon written
notice by either party to the other requesting that negotiating sessions be
scheduled. Subsequent requests for negotiations shall be post-marked no earlier
than one hundred twenty days nor later than sixty days prior to the contract
ending date or as negotiated by the parties. The parties may open negotiations
at any time by mutual agreement;
      2.   All negotiations will be conducted in closed sessions. Negotiations
will be held at a facility and at a time mutually agreed upon by the parties;
      3.   Recesses and study sessions may be called by either team. Prior to
the conclusion of any negotiating sessions, the reconvening time will be agreed
upon. Caucuses may be taken as needed;
      4.   Tentative agreements reached during negotiations will be reduced to
writing, dated, and initialed by each team spokesperson. Such tentative
agreements are conditional and may be withdrawn should later discussion change
either party's understanding of the language as it related to another part of
the agreement;
      5.   Agreement on contract negotiations is accomplished when the union
president and the city manager sign the agreement. Provisions in multi-year
agreements providing for economic increases for subsequent years shall be
contingent upon the governing body appropriating the funds necessary to fund
the increase for the subsequent year(s). Should the governing body not
appropriate sufficient funds to fund the agreed upon increase, either party may
reopen negotiations.
   C.   The following impasse procedure shall be followed by the employer and
exclusive representative:
      1.   If an impasse occurs, either party shall request mediation
assistance. If the parties cannot agree on a mediator, either party may request
the assistance of the federal mediation and conciliation service;
      2.   If the impasse continues after thirty calendar days, either party
may request an unrestricted list of seven arbitrators from the federal
mediation and conciliation service. The parties shall choose one arbitrator by
alternately striking names from such list. Which party strikes the first name
shall be determined by coin toss. The arbitrator shall render a final, binding,
written decision resolving unresolved issues no later than thirty calendar days
after the arbitrator has been notified of his or her selection by the parties.
The arbitrator's decision shall be limited to a selection of one of the two
parties' complete, last, best offer. However, an impasse resolution decision of
an arbitrator or an agreement provision by the employer and an exclusive
representative that requires the expenditure of funds shall be contingent upon
the specific appropriation of funds by the governing body and the availability
of funds. An arbitrator's decision shall not require the employer to re-
appropriate funds. The parties shall share all of the arbitrator's costs
incurred pursuant to this subsection equally. Each party shall be responsible
for paying any costs related to its witnesses and representation. The decision
shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the standards set forth in the
Uniform Arbitration Act;
      3.   In the event that an impasse continues after the expiration of a
contract, the existing contract will continue in full force and effect until it
is replaced by a subsequent written agreement. However, this shall not require
the employer to increase any employees' levels, steps, or grades of
compensation contained in the existing contract. (Ord. 460 § 15, 2005)
2.96.160   Employers-Prohibited practices.
   A.   A public employer or its representative shall not:
      1.   Discriminate against an employee with regard to terms and conditions
of employment because of the employee's membership in a labor organization;
      2.   Interfere with, restrain, or coerce any employee in the exercise of
any right guaranteed under this chapter;
      3.   Dominate or interfere in the formation, existence, or administration
of any labor organization;
      4.   Discriminate in regard to hiring, or any term or condition of
employment in order to encourage or discourage membership in a labor
organization;
      5.   Discharge or otherwise discriminate against an employee because the
employee has signed or filed an affidavit, petition, grievance, or complaint or
given any information or testimony under the provisions of this chapter or
because an employee is forming, joining, or choosing to be represented by a
labor organization;
      6.   Refuse to bargain collectively in good faith with the exclusive
representative;
      7.   Refuse or fail to comply with any provisions of this chapter, board
regulations, or the Public Employee Bargaining Act; or
      8.   Refuse or fail to comply with any collective bargaining agreement.
This issue is subject to the required grievance procedure negotiated by the
parties.
   B.   Daring the negotiation and the impasse procedure, city council and
management employees are prohibited from negotiating issues which are the
subject of negotiations and from making any offers, commitment, or promise
whatsoever to employees or the exclusive representative, other than Through the
appointed city negotiating team. It is the intent of this language that the
integrity of the negotiating process be maintained. All negotiations and
concessions shall occur only between the respective appointed negotiating
teams. (Ord. 460 § 16, 2005)
2.96.170   Employees-Labor organizations-Prohibited practices.
   A.   An employee, a labor organization, or its representative shall not:
      1.   Discriminate against an employee with regard to labor organization
membership because of race, color, religion, creed, age, disability, sex, or
national origin;
      2.   Solicit membership for an employee or labor organization during the
employee's duty hours. This does not include the work breaks or lunch periods;
      3.   Restrain or coerce any employee in the exercise of any right
guaranteed by the provisions of this chapter;
      4.   Refuse to bargain collectively in good faith with the employer;
      5.   Refuse or fail to comply with any collective bargaining agreement
with the employer. This issue is subject to the required negotiated grievance
procedure negotiated by the parties;
      6.   Refuse or fail to comply with any provision of this chapter;
      7.   Picket homes or private businesses of employees, appointed
individuals, or elected officials of the city of Lovington;
      8.   Restrain or coerce the employer in the selection of its agent for
bargaining.
   B.   During the negotiation and the impasse procedure, the employees, the
exclusive representative or any of its employees are prohibited from
negotiating issues which are the subject of negotiations with anyone other than
the appointed city negotiating team. It is the intent of this language that the
integrity of the negotiating process be maintained. All negotiations and
concessions shall occur only between the respective appointed negotiating
teams. (Ord. 460 § 17, 2005)
2.96.180   Strikes and lockouts prohibited.
   A.   No employee or labor organization shall engage in a strike. No labor
organization shall cause, instigate, encourage, or support a strike. The
employer shall not cause, instigate, or engage in an employee lockout.
   B.   The employer may apply to the district court for injunctive relief to
end a strike, and an exclusive representative of public employees affected by a
lockout may apply to the district court for injunctive relief to end a lockout.
   C.   The board, upon a clear and convincing showing of proof at a hearing
that a labor organization directly caused or instigated an employee strike, may
impose appropriate penalties on that labor organization, up to and including
decertification of the labor organization with respect to any of its bargaining
units which struck as a result of such causation or instigation. A strike means
an employee's refusal, in concerted action with other employees, to report for
duty or his wilful absence or withholding of service in whole or in part from
the full, faithful, and proper performance of the duties of employment for die
purpose of inducing, influencing, or coercing a change in the working
conditions, compensation, rights, privileges, or obligations of employment.
(Ord. 460 § 18, 2005)
2.96.190   Agreements valid- Enforcement.
   All collective bargaining agreements and other agreements between the
employer and exclusive representative are valid and enforceable according to
their terms when entered into in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 460 § 19, 2005)
2.96.200   Judicial enforcement- Standard of review.
   A.   The board may request the district court to enforce any order issued
pursuant to this chapter, including those for appropriate temporary relief and
restraining orders. The court shall consider the request for enforcement on the
record made before the board. The court shall uphold the action of the board
and take appropriate action to enforce it unless the court concludes that the
order is:
      1.   Arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion;
      2.   Not supported by substantial evidence on the record considered as a
whole; or
      3.   Otherwise not in accordance with law.
   B.   Any person or party, including any labor organization, affected by a
final regulation, order, or decision of the board, may appeal to the district
court for further relief. All such appeals shall be based upon the record made
at the board hearing. All such appeals to the district court shall be taken
within thirty calendar days of the date of the final regulation, order, or
decision of the board. Actions taken by the board shall be affirmed unless the
court concludes that the action is:
      1.   Arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion;
      2.   Not supported by substantial evidence on the record taken as a
whole; or
      3.   Otherwise not in accordance with law. (Ord. 460 § 20, 2005)
Title 3
REVENUE AND FINANCE
   Chapters:
      
3.04   Purchasing
      
3.08   Claims Against the City
      
3.12   Municipal Gross Receipts Tax
      
3.16   Lodger’s Tax
      
3.20   Affordable Housing Program
Chapter 3.04
PURCHASING
Sections:
   
3.04.010   Supplies-Written requisition required.
3.04.010   Supplies-Written requisition required.
   No supplies for the city of any character shall be purchased by any officer,
authorized to make purchases therefor, unless upon a requisition signed by a
department head or other authorized person. (Prior code § 2-5-2)
Chapter 3.08
CLAIMS AGAINST THE CITY
Sections:
   
3.08.010   Accounts.
3.08.010   Accounts.
   All accounts, claims and demands against the city shall be fully and
completely itemized with date and character of item and by whose order or at
whose instance or upon what contract the supplies were furnished or labor
performed. Such accounts and claims shall be written upon or attached to
vouchers furnished by the city, to which shall be annexed for the signature of
claimant, his bookkeeper or agent, a certificate in the following form:
   I,         , certify that the foregoing account is true and correct as to
each and every item thereof; that the prices charged are reasonable; that no
part of the said account has been paid, and the above amount is due after
allowing all just credits and offsets.
(Prior code § 2-5-1)
Chapter 3.12
MUNICIPAL GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
Sections:
Article I. Gross Receipts Tax
   
3.12.010   Imposition.
   
3.12.020   Adopted by reference.
   
3.12.030   Specific exemptions.
   
3.12.040   Dedication of funds.
Article II. Municipal Infrastructure Gross Receipts Tax
   
3.12.050   Imposition.
   
3.12.060   General provisions.
   
3.12.070   Specific exemptions.
   
3.12.080   Dedication.
Article I.
Gross Receipts Tax
3.12.010   Imposition.
   There is imposed on any person engaging in business in this municipality for
the privilege of engaging in business in this municipality an excise tax equal
to one-fourth of one percent of the gross receipts reported or required to be
reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico Gross Receipts and
Compensating Tax Act as it now exists or as in may be amended. The tax imposed
under this chapter is pursuant to the Municipal Gross Receipts Tax Act as it
now exists or as it may be amended and shall be known as the "municipal gross
receipts tax." (Ord. 361 § 1, 1990)
3.12.020   Adopted by reference.
   This chapter adopts by reference all definitions, exemptions and deductions
contained in the Gross Receipts and Compensating Tax Act as it now exists or as
it may be amended. (Ord. 361 § 2, 1990)
3.12.030   Specific exemptions.
   No municipal gross receipts tax shall be imposed on the gross receipts
arising from:
   A.   The transmission of messages by wire or other means from one point
within the municipality to another point outside the municipality;
   B.   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor vehicle,
air transportation or any other means from one point within the municipality to
another point outside the municipality; or
   C.   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a gross receipts tax distribution is made
pursuant to subsection C of Section 7-1-6.4 NMSA, 1978. (Ord. 361 § 3, 1990)
3.12.040   Dedication of funds.
   Revenue from the municipal gross receipts tax will be used for the purpose
(s) listed in this section: Street repair. (Ord. 361 § 4, 1990)
Article II.
Municipal Infrastructure Gross Receipts Tax
3.12.050   Imposition.
   There is imposed on any person engaging in business in this municipality for
the privilege of engaging in business in this municipality an excise tax equal
to one-eighth of one percent of the gross receipts reported or required to be
reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico Gross Receipts and
Compensating Tax Act as it now exists or as it may be amended. The tax imposed
under this article is pursuant to the Municipal Local Option Gross Receipts
Taxes Act as it now exists or as it may be amended and shall be known as the
"municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax." (Ord. 496 § 1, 2010)
3.12.060   General Provisions.
   This article hereby adopts by reference all definitions, exemptions and
deductions contained in the Gross Receipts and Compensating Tax Act as it now
exists or as it may be amended. (Ord. 496 § 2, 2010)
3.12.070   Specific Exemptions.
   No municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax shall be imposed on the gross
receipts arising from:
   A.   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor vehicle,
air transportation or any other means from one point within the municipality to
another point outside the municipality;
   B.   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a state gross receipts tax distribution is
made pursuant to Subsection C of Section 7-1-6.4 NMSA 1978; or
   C.   Direct broadcast satellite services. (Ord. 496 § 3, 2010)
3.12.080   Dedication.
   Revenue from the municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax will be used
for the purpose(s) listed below:
   A.   Municipal infrastructure improvements; and
   B.   Economic development plans and projects. (Ord. 496 § 4, 2010)
Chapter 3.16
LODGER’S TAX*
*   Prior ordinance history: Ords. 398 and 403.
Sections:
   
3.16.010   Title.
   
3.16.020   Purpose.
   
3.16.030   Definitions.
   
3.16.040   Imposition of tax.
   
3.16.050   Licensing.
   
3.16.060   Exemptions.
   
3.16.070   Collection of the tax and reporting procedures.
   
3.16.080   Duties of the vendor.
   
3.16.090   Failure to make return-Computation-Civil penalty and notice-
Collection of delinquencies- Occupancy tax is a lien.
   
3.16.100   Criminal penalties.
   
3.16.110   Refunds and credits.
   
3.16.120   Vendor audits.
   
3.16.130   Confidentiality of return and audit.
   
3.16.140   Administration of lodger's tax monies collected.
   
3.16.150   Use of lodger's tax monies.
   
3.16.160   Severability.
   
3.16.170   Repealer.
3.16.010   Title.
   This chapter shall be known as and cited as the "Lodger's Tax Ordinance."
(Ord. 461 (part), 2005)
3.16.020   Purpose.
   The purpose of this chapter is to impose a tax which will be borne by
persons using commercial lodging accommodations which tax will provide revenues
for the purpose of advertising, publicizing and promoting facilities, tourist
attractions, and acquisition, construction and maintenance of certain
facilities, tourist attractions, and acquisition, construction and maintenance
of certain facilities, as authorized in Section 3.16.156 of this chapter. (Ord.
461 (part), 2005)
3.16.030   Definitions.
   As used in this chapter:
   "Board" means the advisory board established herein to make recommendations
to the governing body, keep minutes of its proceedings and submit its
recommendations, correspondence and other pertinent documents to the governing
body.
   "City clerk" means the city clerk of Lovington, New Mexico.
   "Gross taxable rent" means the total amount of rent paid for lodging, not
including the state gross receipts tax or local sales taxes.
   "Lodging" means the transaction of furnishing rooms or other accommodations
by a vendor to a vendee who, for a rent, uses, possesses or has the right to
use or possess any room or rooms or other units of accommodations in or at
taxable premises.
   "Lodging" means the rooms or other accommodations furnished by a vendor to a
vendee by a taxable service of lodgings.
   "Lodgings" means the rooms or other accommodations furnished by a vendor to
a vendee by a taxable service of lodgings.
   "Occupancy tax" means the tax on lodging authorized by the Lodger's Tax Act.
   "Person" means a corporation, firm, other body corporate, partnership,
association or individual, includes an executor, administrator, trustee,
receiver or other representative appointed according to law and acting in a
representative capacity, but does not include the United States of America, the
state of New Mexico, any corporation, department, instrumentality or agency of
the federal government or the state government, or any political subdivision of
the state.
   "Rent" means the consideration received by a vendor in money, credits,
property or other consideration valued in money for lodgings subject to an
occupancy tax authorized in the Lodgers' Tax Act.
   "Taxable premises" means a hotel, motel, recreational vehicle park or other
premises used for lodging that is not the vendee's household or primary
residence.
   "Temporary lodging" means lodging for the purpose of housing a vendee within
proximity of the vendee's employment or job location.
   "Tourist" means a person who travels for the purpose of business, pleasure
or culture to a municipality or county imposing an occupancy tax.
   "Tourist-related events" means events that are planned for, promoted to and
attended by tourists.
   "Tourist-related facilities and attractions" means facilities and
attractions that are intended to be used by or visited by tourists.
   "Tourist-related transportation systems" means transportation systems that
provide transportation for tourists to and from tourist-related facilities and
attractions and tourist- related events.
   "Vendee" means a natural person to whom lodgings are furnished in the
exercise of the taxable service of lodging.
   "Vendor" means a person or the persons agent furnishing lodgings in the
exercise of the taxable service of lodging.
(Ord. 583 (part), 2020; Ord. 461 (part), 2005)
3.16.040   Imposition of tax.
   There is imposed an occupancy tax of five percent of gross taxable rent for
lodging within the municipality paid to vendors. (Ord. 461 (part), 2005)
3.16.050   Licensing.
   A.   No vendor shall engage in the business of providing lodging in the
municipality of Lovington who has first not obtained a license as provided in
this section.
   B.   Applicants for a vendor's license shall submit an application to the
city clerk stating:
      1.   The name of the vendor, including identification of any person as
defined in this chapter, who owns, operates a place of lodging and the name or
trade names under which the vendor proposes to do business and the post office
address thereof;
      2.   A description of the facilities, including the number of rooms, and
the usual schedule of rates thereof;
      3.   A description of other facilities provided by vendor or others to
users of the lodgings such as restaurant, bar, cleaning, laundry, courtesy
care, stenographer, tailor or others, and a statement identifying the license
issued.
   If applicable, also the identification number provided by the Bureau of
Revenue of the state of New Mexico;
      4.   The nature of the business practices of the vendor and to what
extent, if any, his/her business is exempt from the lodger's tax;
      5.   Other information reasonably necessary to effect a determination
eligibility for such license.
   C.   The city clerk shall review applications for license within ten days of
receipt thereof, and grant the license in due course if the applicant is doing
business subject to the lodger's tax.
   D.   An applicant who is dissatisfied with the decision of the city clerk
may appeal the decision to the governing body by written notice to the city
clerk of such appeal to be made within fifteen days of the date of the decision
of the city clerk on the application. The matter shall be referred to the
governing body for hearing at a regular or special meeting in the usual course
of business, the decision of the governing body made thereof shall be expressed
in writing and be communicated in the same manner as the decision of the city
clerk is transmitted. The action of the governing body shall be deemed final.
   E.   If the governing body finds for the applicant, the city clerk shall
issue the appropriate license or other notice conforming to the decision made
by the governing body.
   F.   The fee for such license shall be seven dollars and fifty cents. (Ord.
461 (part), 2005)
3.16.060   Exemptions.
   The occupancy tax shall not apply:
   A.   If a vendee:
      1.   Has been a permanent resident of the taxable premises for a period
of at least thirty consecutive days, unless those premises are temporary
lodging; or
      2.   Enters into or has entered into a written agreement for lodgings at
the taxable premises for a period of at least thirty consecutive days, unless
those premises are temporary lodging.
   B.   If the rent paid by the vendee is less than two dollars a day;
   C.   To lodging accommodations at religious, charitable, educational or
philanthropic institutions, including without limitation such accommodations at
summer camps operated by institutions;
   D.   To clinics, hospitals or other medical facilities;
   E.   To privately-owned and operated convalescent homes, or homes for the
aged, infirm, indigent, or chronically ill;
   F.   To lodging accommodations at institutions of the federal government,
the state or any political subdivision thereof.
(Ord. 583 (part), 2020; Ord. 461 (part), 2005)
3.16.070   Collection of the tax and reporting procedures.
   A.   Every vendor providing lodgings shall collect the tax thereon on behalf
of the municipality and shall act as a trustee thereof.
   B.   The tax shall be collected from vendees and shall be charged separately
from the rent fixed by the vendor for the lodgings.
   C.   Each vendor licensed under this chapter shall be liable to the
municipality of Lovington for the tax provided herein on the rent paid for
lodging at his/her respective place of business.
   D.   Each vendor shall make a report by the twenty-fifth day of each month,
on forms provided by the city clerk, of the receipts for lodging in the
preceding calendar month, and shall submit the proceeds of the lodger's tax to
the municipality and include sufficient information to enable the municipality
to audit the reports and shall be verified on oath by the vendor. (Ord. 461
(part), 2005)
3.16.080   Duties of the vendor.
   Vendor shall maintain adequate records of facilities subject to the tax and
of proceeds received for the use thereof. Such records shall be maintained in
Lovington, New Mexico, and shall be open to the inspection of the municipality
during reasonable hours and shall be retained for three years. (Ord. 461
(part), 2005)
3.16.090   Failure to make return-Computation-Civil penalty and notice-
Collection of delinquencies-Occupancy tax is a lien.
   A.   Every vendor is liable for the payment of the proceeds of any occupancy
tax that the vendor failed to remit to the municipality, whether due to his/her
failure to collect the tax or otherwise. He/She shall be liable for the tax
plus a civil penalty equal to the greater of ten percent of the amount not
remitted or one hundred dollars. The city clerk shall give the delinquent
vendor written notice of the delinquency, which notice shall be mailed to the
vendor's local address.
   B.   If payments are not received within fifteen days of the mailing of the
notice, the municipality may bring an action in law or equity in the district
court for the collection of any amounts due, including, without limitation,
penalties thereon, interest on the unpaid principal at a rate not exceeding one
percent a month. If the city attempts collection through an attorney or the
city attorney for any purpose with regard to this chapter, the vendor shall be
liable to the municipality for all costs, fees paid to the attorney or city
attorney, and all other expenses incurred in connection therewith.
   C.   The occupancy tax is imposed by municipality constitutes a lien in
favor of the municipality upon the personal and real property of the vendor
providing lodgings. The Hen may be enforced as provided in Sections 3-36-
1 through 3-36-7 NMSA 1978. Priority of the lien shall be determined from the
date of filing.
   D.   Under process or order of the court, no person shall sell the property
of a vendor without first ascertaining from the city clerk or treasurer the
amount of any occupancy tax due the municipality. Any occupancy tax due the
municipality shall be paid from the proceeds of the sale before payment is made
to any judgment creditor or any other person with a claim on the proceeds of
the sale. (Ord. 461 (part), 2005)
3.16.100   Criminal penalties.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter for a failure to pay
the tax, to remit proceeds thereof to the municipality, or to properly account
for any lodging and tax proceeds pertaining thereto shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined in an amount not to exceed five
hundred dollars, or by imprisonment not to exceed ninety days, or both. (Ord.
461 (part), 2005)
3.16.110   Refunds and credits.
   If any person believes he/she has made payment of any lodger's tax in excess
of that for which he/she was liable, he/she may claim a refund thereof by
directing to the city clerk, no later than ninety days from the date of payment
was made, a written claim for refund. Every claim for refund shall state the
nature of the person's complaint and the affirmative relief requested. The city
clerk shall allow the claim in whole, in part, or may deny it. Refunds of tax
and interest erroneously paid and amounting to one hundred dollars or more may
be made only with the approval of the governing body. (Ord. 461 (part), 2005)
3.16.120   Vendor audits.
   A.   Options.
      1.   Option A-For Municipalities That Collect More Than Fifty Thousand
Dollars Per Year in Occupancy Tax.
   The governing body shall select for annual random audits one or more vendors
to verify the amount of gross rent subject to the occupancy tax and to ensure
that the full amount of occupancy tax on the rent is collected, from each
vendor thus audited.
      2.   Option B-For Municipalities Collecting Less Than Fifty Thousand
Dollars Per Year in Occupancy Tax.
   The governing body shall conduct random audits to verify full payment of
occupancy tax receipts.
   B.   The governing body shall determine each year the number of vendors
within the municipality to audit.
   C.   The audit(s) may be performed by the city clerk or by any other
designee of the governing body. A copy of the audit(s) shall be filed annually
with the local government division of the department of finance and
administration. (Ord. 461 (part), 2005)
3.16.130   Confidentiality of return and audit.
   It is unlawful for any employee of the municipality of Lovington to reveal
to any individual other than another employee of the municipality of Lovington
any information contained in the return of audit of any taxpayer, including
vendors subject to the Lodger's Tax Act, except to a court of competent
jurisdiction in response to an order thereof in an action relating to taxes to
which the municipality of Lovington is a party, and in which information sought
is material to the inquiry; to the taxpayer himself or to his/her authorized
representative; and in such manner, for statistical purposes, the information
revealed is not identified as applicable to any individual taxpayer. (Ord. 461
(part), 2005)
3.16.140   Administration of lodger's tax monies collected.
   The governing body shall administer the lodger's tax monies collected. The
mayor shall appoint an advisory board of five residents of the municipality;
two of whom shall represent the lodging industry, two of whom are directly
involved in tourist-related industries and one member at large who shall
represent the general public. The board shall advise the governing body on
expenditure of funds authorized under Section
3.16.150 of this chapter for advertising, publicizing and promoting tourist
attractions and facilities in the municipality and surrounding area. (Ord. 461
(part), 2005)
3.16.150   Use of lodger's tax monies.
   A.   The municipality may use the proceeds of the tax to defray the cost of:
      1.   Collecting and otherwise administering the tax;
      2.   Establishing an operating, constructing, purchasing, otherwise
acquiring, reconstructing, extending, bettering, or otherwise improving
fairgrounds, exposition buildings, field houses, auditoriums, welcome centers,
tourist information centers, museums, performing arts facilities, in operation
prior to January 1, 1989, convention halls or other convention facilities of
the municipality, of the county within which the municipality is located or of
the county and acquiring improvements incidental thereto;
      3.   Equipping and furnishing such facilities, as specified in this
section of the municipality or county;
      4.   Acquiring a suitable site, grounds or other real property or any
interest therein for such facilities of the municipality or county;
      5.   The principal of and interest on any prior redemption premiums due
in connection with and any other charges pertaining to revenue bonds authorized
by Section 3-38-23 or Section 3-38-24 NMSA 1978;
      6.   Advertising, publicizing and promoting such facilities of the
municipality or county and tourist facilities or attractions within the area;
except that a municipality located in a Class A county or a Class A county
imposing an occupancy tax of more than two percent shall use not less than one-
half of the proceeds derived from the tax for the purposes of this subsection;
provided that this use of the proceeds of the occupancy tax shall not affect
the payment of principal and interest on outstanding bonds issued prior to July
1,1977 pursuant to Section 3-38-23 or 3-38-24 NMSA 1978, which shall be made in
accordance with the retirement schedules of the bonds established at the time
of issuance. The amount of expenditures required by this subsection shall be
reduced each year, if necessary, to make required payments of principal and
interest of all outstanding bonds issued prior to July 1, 1977;
      7.   Any combination of the foregoing purposes or transactions stated in
this section.
   B.   The following portions of the proceeds from the occupancy tax that are
collected based on the first thirty days a vendee rents lodging or lodgings in
taxable premises shall be used only for advertising, publicizing and promoting
tourist-related facilities and attractions and tourist-related events:
      1.   The first three percent, no less than one half shall be used for
those purposes.
      2.   The tax in excess of three percent, no less than one fourth shall be
used for those purposes.
      3.   The proceeds from the occupancy tax that are collected based on the
first thirty days a vendee rents lodging or lodgings in taxable premises in
excess of the amount required to be used for advertising, publicizing and
promoting tourist-related facilities and attractions and tourist-related events
may be used for any purpose authorized in Section 3-38-21 NMSA 1978.
   C.   The proceeds from the occupancy tax that are required to be used to
advertise, publicize and promote tourist-related facilities and attractions and
tourist-related events shall be used within two years of the close of the
fiscal year in which they were collected and shall not be accumulated beyond
that date or used for any other purpose.
   D.   Proceeds from the occupancy tax that are collected based on the thirty-
first and subsequent days a vendee rents lodging or lodgings in taxable
premises for any municipal purpose to include:
      1.   Maintenance of city facilities;
      2.   Operating cost of city facilities;
      3.   Construction of city facilities;
      4.   Maintenance and construction of roadways and pedestrian
improvements;
      5.   Providing police and fire protection for the municipality;
      6.   Providing funding for community economic development;
      7.   Providing funding for arts, culture, and historical facilities and
operations.
(Ord. 583 (part), 2020; Ord. 461 (part), 2005)
3.16.160   Severability.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter. (Ord. 461 (part), 2005)
3.16.170   Repealer.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this chapter are repealed.
(Ord. 583 (part), 2020; Ord. 461 (part), 2005)
Chapter 3.20
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAM
Section:
   
3.20.010   Short title.
   
3.20.020   Purpose.
   
3.20.030   Definitions.
   
3.20.040   Requirements for governmental entities.
   
3.20.050   General requirements.
   
3.20.060   Discrimination prohibited.
   
3.20.070   Administration.
   
3.20.080   Termination.
3.20.010   Short title.
   This chapter may be cited as the "Lovington Affordable Housing Ordinance."
(Ord. 506, 2013)
3.20.020   Purpose.
   This chapter is adopted to implement Lovington's affordable housing program.
In accordance with New Mexico Constitution Article IX, Section 14, the
Affordable Housing Act, N.M.S.A. 1978, Section 6-27-1 et seq. (the "Act") and
New Mexico Mortgage Finance Authority Act Rules, the purpose of the Lovington
Affordable Housing Ordinance is to:
   A.   Establish procedures to ensure that both state and local housing
assistance grantees are qualifying grantees who meet the requirements of the
Act and the Rules promulgated pursuant to the Act both at the time of the award
and throughout the term of any grant or loan under the program;
   B.   Establish an application and award timetable for state housing
assistance grants or loans to permit the selection of the qualifying grantee(s)
by the city;
   C.   Create an evaluation process to determine:
      1.   The financial and management stability of the applicant;
      2.   The demonstrated commitment of the applicant to the community;
      3.   A cost-benefit analysis of the project proposed by the applicant;
      4.   The benefits to the community of a proposed project;
      5.   The type or amount of assistance to be provided;
      6.   The scope of the affordable housing project;
      7.   Any substantive or matching contribution by the applicant to the
proposed project;
      8.   A performance schedule for the qualifying grantee with performance
criteria; and
      9.   Any other rules or procedures the city believes are necessary for a
full review and evaluation of the applicant and the application or which MFA
believes is necessary for a full review of the city's evaluation of the
applicant.
   D.   Require long-term affordability of Lovington's affordable housing
projects so that a project cannot be sold shortly after completion and taken
out of the affordable housing market to ensure a quick profit for the
qualifying grantee;
   E.   Require that the city enter into a contract with the qualifying grantee
consistent with the Act, which contract shall include remedies and default
provisions in the event of the unsatisfactory performance by the qualifying
grantee and which contract shall be subject to the review of MFA in its
discretion;
   F.   Require that a grant or loan for a project must impose a contractual
obligation on the qualifying grantee that the affordable housing units in any
project be occupied by persons of low or moderate income;
   G.   Provide for adequate security against the loss of public funds or
property in the event that the qualifying grantee abandons or otherwise fails
to complete the project;
   H.   Require review and approval of a housing grant project budget by the
city and/or MFA before any expenditure of grant funds or transfer of granted
property;
   I.   Require that a condition of grant or loan approval be proof of
compliance with all applicable state and local laws, rules and ordinances;
   J.   Provide definitions for "low-income and moderate-income" and setting
out requirements for verification of income levels;
   K.   Provide the city with a valid affordable housing program; and
   L.   Require that the city have an existing valid affordable housing plan or
housing elements contained in this plan are met prior to making or authorizing
a housing assistance grant. (Ord. 506, 2013)
3.20.030   Definitions.
   The following words and terms shall have the following meanings.
   "Act" shall mean the Affordable Housing Act, N.M.S.A. 1978, Section 6-27-
1 et seq.
   "Affordable" shall mean consistent with minimum rent and/or income
limitations set forth in the MFA Act, and in guidelines established by MFA.
   "Affordable housing" means residential housing primarily for persons or
households of low or moderate income and whose monthly cost does not exceed 30%
of household's gross monthly income.
   "Affordable housing funds" shall mean any or all funds awarded or to be
awarded, loaned or otherwise distributed under the Act for payment of the costs
of infrastructure for affordable housing under an affordable housing plan.
   "Affordable housing plan" or "Plan" shall mean a plan pursuant to an
affordable housing program that contemplates one or more affordable housing
projects, which may be developed in one or more phases.
   "Affordable housing program" or "Program" shall mean any programs the city
and/or MFA establish pursuant to the Act or the plan.
   "Affordable housing project" or "Project" shall mean any work or
undertaking, whether new construction, acquisition of existing residential
housing, remodeling, improvement, rehabilitation or conversion, which may be
undertaken in one or more phases, as part of an affordable housing plan, as
approved by the city and/or MFA for the primary purposes as allowed by the Act.
   "Affordability period" shall mean:
      1.   If the fair market value of any housing assistance grant or the
total amount of affordable housing funds that have been awarded, loaned,
donated, or otherwise conveyed to the qualifying grantee is less than $15,000,
then the affordability period shall be not less than five years.
      2.   If the fair market value of any housing assistance grant or the
total amount of affordable housing funds is at least $15,000 but less than
$40,000, then the affordability period shall be not less than ten years.
      3.   If the fair market value of any housing assistance grant or the
total amount of affordable housing funds is at least $40,000 but less than
$100,000, then the affordability period shall be not less than fifteen years.
      4.   If the fair market value of any housing assistance grant or the
total amount of affordable housing funds is $100,000 or greater, then the
affordability period shall be not less than twenty years.
   "Applicant" shall mean, subject to further qualifications in Section
3.20.050 C., an individual; a governmental housing agency; regional housing
authority; a for-profit organization, including a corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, joint venture, syndicate or association or a
nonprofit organization meeting the appropriate criteria of the city and/or MFA.
   "Application" shall mean an application to participate in one or more
affordable housing programs or affordable housing plans under the Act submitted
by an applicant to the city and/or MFA.
   "Builder" shall mean an individual or entity licensed as a general
contractor to construct residential housing in the state that satisfies the
requirements of a qualifying grantee and has been approved by the city and/or
MFA to participate in an affordable housing program. The term shall also
include an individual or entity that satisfies the requirements of a qualifying
grantee and has been approved by the city and/or MFA to participate in an
affordable housing program, who is not licensed as a general contractor in the
state, provided such individual or entity contracts with a general contractor
licensed in the state to construct residential housing.
   "Building" shall mean a structure capable of being renovated or converted
into affordable housing or a structure that is to be demolished and is located
on land donated for use in connection with an affordable housing project.
   "City" shall mean Lovington, New Mexico, a unit of local government under
the Constitution and laws of the State of New Mexico.
   "Congregate housing facility" shall mean residential housing designed for
occupancy by more than four persons of low or moderate income living
independently of each other. The facility may contain group dining,
recreational, health care or other communal living facilities and each unit in
a congregate housing facility shall contain at least its own living, sleeping,
and bathing facilities.
   "Federal government" shall mean the United States of America and any agency
or instrumentality corporate or otherwise of the United States of America.
   "Household" shall mean one or more persons occupying a housing unit.
   "Housing assistance grant" means the donation, provision, or payment by the
city or MFA of:
      1.   Land upon which the affordable housing will be constructed;
      2.   An existing building that will be renovated, converted, or
demolished and reconstructed as affordable housing;
      3.   The costs of acquisition, development, construction, financing, and
operating or owning affordable housing; or
      4.   The costs of financing or infrastructure necessary to support
affordable housing.
   "HUD" shall mean the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
   "Infrastructure Improvement" includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Sanitary sewage systems, including collection, transport, storage,
treatment, dispersal, effluent use and discharge;
      2.   Drainage and flood control systems, including collection, transport,
diversion, storage, detention, retention, dispersal, use and discharge;
      3.   Water systems for domestic purposes, including production,
collection, storage, treatment, transport, delivery, connection and dispersal;
      4.   Areas for motor vehicle use for road access, ingress, egress and
parking;
      5.   Trails and areas for pedestrian, equestrian, bicycle or other non-
motor vehicle use for access, ingress, egress and parking;
      6.   Parks, recreational facilities and open space areas for the use of
residents for entertainment, assembly and recreation;
      7.   Landscaping, including earthworks, structures, plants, trees and
related water delivery systems;
      8.   Electrical transmission and distribution facilities;
      9.   Natural gas distribution facilities;
      10.   Lighting systems;
      11.   Cable or other telecommunications lines and related equipment;
      12.   Traffic control systems and devices including signals, controls,
markings and signs;
      13.   Inspection, construction management and related costs in connection
with the furnishing of the items listed in this definition.
   "Infrastructure purpose" shall mean:
      1.   Planning, design engineering, construction, acquisition or
installation of infrastructure, including the costs of applications, impact
fees and other fees, permits and approvals related to the construction,
acquisition or installation of the infrastructure, provided the city may
determine it appropriate to reduce or waive building permit fees, sewer and
water hookup fees and other fees with respect to an affordable housing project
for which affordable housing funds and/or housing assistance grants are
awarded, loaned, donated or otherwise distributed under the Act;
      2.   Acquiring, converting, renovating or improving existing facilities
for infrastructure, including facilities owned, leased or installed by the
owner;
      3.   Acquiring interests in real property or water rights for
infrastructure, including interests of the owner; and
      4.   Incurring expenses incident to and reasonably necessary to carry out
the purposes specified in this definition.
   "MFA" shall mean the New Mexico Mortgage Finance Authority.
   "MFA Act" shall mean the Mortgage Finance Authority Act, enacted as Chapter
303 of the Laws of 1975 of the State of New Mexico, as amended (N.M.S.A. 1978,
Sections 58-18-1 through 58-18-27).
   "Mortgage" shall mean a mortgage, mortgage deed, deed of trust or other
instrument creating a lien, subject only to title exceptions as may be
acceptable to the city and/or MFA, on a fee interest in real property located
within the state or on a leasehold interest that has a remaining term at the
time of computation that exceeds or is renewable at the option of the lessee
until after the maturity day of the mortgage loan.
   "Mortgage lender" shall mean any bank or trust company, mortgage company,
mortgage banker, national banking association, savings bank, savings and loan
association, credit union, building and loan association and any other lending
institution; provided that the mortgage lender maintains an office in the
state, is authorized to make mortgage loans in the state and is approved by the
city and/or MFA and either the Federal Housing Authority, Veterans' Affairs,
Federal National Mortgage Association ("Fannie Mae"), or Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation ("Freddie Mac").
   "Mortgage loan" shall mean a financial obligation secured by a mortgage,
including a mortgage loan for a project.
   "Multiple family housing project" shall mean residential housing that is
designed for occupancy by more than four persons or families living
independently of each other or living in a congregate housing facility, at
least sixty percent of whom are persons of low or moderate income, including
without limitation persons of low or moderate income who are elderly and
handicapped as determined by the city and/or MFA, provided that the percentage
of low-income persons and families shall be at least the minimum, if any,
required by federal tax law.
   "Multi-family housing program" shall mean a program involving a congregate
housing facility, a multiple family housing project or a transitional housing
facility.
   "Persons of low or moderate income" shall mean persons and families within
Lovington who earn up to one hundred twenty percent of the area median income.
For purposes of this definition, the
word "families" shall mean a group of persons consisting of, but not limited
to, the head of a household; his or her spouse, if any; and children, if any,
who are allowable as personal exemptions for federal income tax purposes.
   "Ordinance" shall mean this Ordinance No. 506.
   "Policies and procedures" shall mean policies and procedures of MFA,
including but not limited to, mortgage loan purchasing, selling, servicing and
reservation procedures, which MFA may update and revise from time to time MFA
deems appropriate.
   "Public service agencies" shall include, but are not limited to, any
entities that support affordable housing and which believe that the program or
project proposed by the applicant is worthy and advisable, but which are not
involved, either directly or indirectly, in the affordable housing program or
project for which the applicant is applying.
   "Qualifying grantee" means:
      1.   An individual who is qualified to receive assistance pursuant to the
Act and is approved by the city; and
      2.   A governmental housing agency, regional housing authority,
corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, syndicate,
association or a nonprofit organization that:
         a.   Is organized under state or local laws and can provide proof of
such organization;
         b.   If a nonprofit organization, has no part of its net earnings
inuring to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual; and
         c.   Is approved by the city.
   "Recertification" shall mean the recertification of applicants and/or
qualifying grantees participating in any affordable housing programs or in any
programs under the Act as determined necessary from time to time by the city
and/or MFA.
   "Rehabilitation" shall mean the substantial renovation or reconstruction of
an existing single-family residence or a multi-family housing project, which
complies with requirements established by MFA. Rehabilitation shall not include
routine or ordinary repairs, improvements or maintenance, such as interior
decorating, remodeling or exterior painting, except in conjunction with other
substantial renovation or reconstruction.
   "Residential housing" shall mean any building, structure or portion thereof
that is primarily occupied, or designed or intended primarily for occupancy, as
a residence by one or more households and any real property that is offered for
sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of such a building,
structure or portion thereof. "Residential housing" includes congregate
housing, manufactured homes and housing intended to provide or providing
transitional or temporary housing for homeless persons.
   "Residential use" shall mean that the structure or the portion of the
structure to benefit from the affordable housing funds or housing assistance
grant, is designed primarily for use as the principal residence of the occupant
or occupants and shall exclude vacation or recreational homes.
   "RFP" shall mean any request for proposal made by the city.
   "Rules" shall mean the New Mexico Finance Authority Affordable Housing Rules
adopted pursuant to N.M.S.A.1978, Section 6-27-8(B), as amended.
   "State" shall mean the State of New Mexico.
   'Transitional housing facility" shall mean residential housing that is
designed for temporary or transitional occupancy by persons of low or moderate
income or special needs. (Ord. 506, 2013)
3.20.040   Requirements for governmental entities.
   This chapter is created and shall be administered in accordance with the
Affordable Housing Act, N.M.S.A. 1978, Section 6-27-1 et seq. and in accordance
with MFA Affordable Housing Act Rules. All affordable housing contributions
authorized by this chapter will be in compliance with the Act and plan and any
recipients of all such contributions will comply with MFA Affordable Housing
Rules. (Ord. 506, 2013)
3.20.050   General requirements.
   The following requirements shall apply to all housing assistance grants and/
or affordable housing funds awarded, loaned or otherwise distributed by the
city under the Act to a qualifying grantee.
   A.   All affordable housing contributions authorized by this chapter shall
be in compliance with the Lovington affordable housing plan and the Affordable
Housing Act Rules.
   B.   Request for proposals. The city, in its discretion, may issue one or
more RFPs to solicit applications or shall otherwise identify a qualifying
grantee for the use of any affordable housing funds or housing assistance
grants to be awarded, loaned, donated or otherwise distributed under the Act.
   C.   Applicant eligibility. The following applicants are eligible under the
Act to apply for affordable housing funds or a housing assistance grant to
provide housing or related services to persons of low or moderate income in the
community:
      1.   All individuals who are qualified to receive assistance pursuant to
the Act, the Rules, and this chapter that are approved by the city;
      2.   All regional housing authorities and any governmental housing
agencies;
      3.   All for-profit organizations, including any corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, joint venture, syndicate or association;
      4.   All non-profit organizations meeting the following requirements:
         a.   A primary mission of the nonprofit organization must be to
provide housing or housing-related services to persons of low or moderate
income;
         b.   The nonprofit organization must have received its 501(c)(3)
designation prior to submitting an application; and
         c.   Have no part of its net earnings inuring to the benefit of any
member, founder, contributor, or individual;
      5.   All non-individual applicants must:
         a.   Be organized under state or local laws and provide proof of such
organization and be approved by the city;
         b.   Have a functioning accounting system that is operated in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or has designated
entity that will maintain such an accounting system consistent with generally
accepted accounting principles;
         c.   Have among its purposes significant activities related to
providing housing or services to persons or households of low or moderate
income; and
         d.   Have no significant outstanding or unresolved monitoring findings
from the city, MFA, or its most recent independent financial audit, or if it
has any such findings, it has a certified letter from the city, MFA, or auditor
stating that the findings are in the process of being resolved.
   D.   Applications.
      1.   Process for applying. Applicants wishing to apply for a housing
assistance grant, including the use of any affordable housing funds, or to
participate in any affordable housing program are required to submit to the
city the following (as applicable):
         a.   One original application, together with all required schedules,
documents, or such other information which may be required by the city or in
any RFP;
         b.   A proposal describing the nature and scope of the affordable
housing project proposed by the applicant and which describes the type and/or
amount of assistance which the applicant proposes to provide to persons of low
or moderate income;
         c.   Executive summary and project narrative(s) that address the
evaluation criteria set forth in any RFP issued by the city for the affordable
housing funds or the housing assistance grant;
         d.   A proposed budget for the affordable housing project or for a
housing assistance grant;
         e.   Current independent financial audit;
         f.   If the applicant is a nonprofit organization:
            i.   Proof of 501(c)(3) tax status;
            ii.   Documentation that confirms that no part of its net earnings
inures to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor or individual;
         g.   If an applicant is a legal entity, including a nonprofit
organization:
            i.   A current annual budget for the applicant, including all
sources and uses of funds not just those related to relevant programs and/or a
current annual budget only for the program for which the applicant is applying
for a housing assistance grant, or as otherwise may be required by city and/or
MFA in its discretion;
            ii.   An approved mission statement that the applicant has among
its purposes significant activities related to providing housing or housing-
related services to persons or households of low or moderate income;
            iii.   A list of members of the applicant's current board of
directors or other governing body, including designated homeless participation,
where required by city and/or MFA;
            iv.   Evidence (or a certification as may be allowed by city and/or
MFA) that the applicant has a functioning accounting system that is operated in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; or has a designated
entity that will maintain such an accounting system consistent with generally
accepted accounting principles;
            v.   Evidence that the applicant has no significant outstanding or
unresolved monitoring findings from city, MFA, or its most recent independent
financial audit; or if it has any significant outstanding or unresolved
monitoring findings from city, MFA, or its most recent independent financial
audit, it has a certified letter from city, MFA, or the auditor stating that
the findings are in the process of being resolved;
            vi.   An organizational chart, including job titles and
qualifications for the applicant's employees or as otherwise may be required by
city and/or MFA in its discretion. Job descriptions may be submitted as
appropriate;
            vii.   Documentation that the applicant is duly organized under
state or local law and certification that the applicant is in good standing
with any state authorities, including the Public Regulation Commission and the
Secretary of State;
         h.   Information as may be required by the city in order for it to
determine the financial and management stability of the applicant;
         i.   Information as may be required by the city in order for it to
determine the demonstrated commitment of the applicant to the community;
         j.   A completed cost-benefit analysis of the affordable housing
project proposed by the applicant. Any cost-benefit analysis must include
documentation that clearly evidences that there is or will be a direct benefit
from the project proposed by the applicant to the community and/or to the
purported beneficiaries of the project, consistent with the provisions of the
Act;
         k.   Information supporting the benefits to the community of the
affordable housing project proposed by the applicant;
         l.   Proof of substantive or matching funds or contributions and/or
in-kind donations to the proposed affordable housing project in connection with
the application for funds under the Act. Nothing contained herein shall prevent
or preclude an applicant from matching or using local, private, or federal
funds in connection with a specific housing assistance grant or a grant of
affordable housing funds under the Act;
         m.   Any certifications or other proof which the city may require in
order for the city to confirm that the applicant is in compliance with all
applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and ordinances;
         n.   A verification signed by the applicant before a notary public
that the information provided, upon penalty of perjury, is true and correct to
the best of the applicant's information knowledge, and belief;
         o.   Certifications as may be required by the city and signed by chief
executive officer, board president, or other authorized official of the
applicant, provided that the city at its discretion may waive any of the
foregoing requirements not deemed applicable;
         p.   Applicant shall submit adequate information, as required by the
city and/or MFA, of the affordable housing project proposed by the applicant.
The information provided must clearly evidence the need for the subsidy, that
the value of the housing assistance grant reduces the housing costs to persons
of low or moderate income, and that there is or will be a direct benefit from
the project proposed by the applicant to the community and/or to the purported
beneficiaries of the project, consistent with the provisions of the Act.
      2.   Additional requirements for multi-family housing projects.
Applicants who are submitting applications in connection with a multi-family
housing program must also submit the following additional information:
         a.   A verified certificate that, among other things:
            i.   Identifies every multi-family housing program, including every
assisted or insured project of HUD, RHS, FHA and any other state or local
government housing finance agency in which such applicant has been or is a
principal;
            ii.   Except as shown on such certificate, states that:
               (a)   No mortgage on a project listed on such certificate has
ever been in default, assigned to the federal government or foreclosed, nor has
any mortgage relief by the mortgagee been given;
               (b)   There has not been a suspension or termination of payments
under any HUD assistance contract in which the applicant has had a legal or
beneficial interest;
               (c)   Such applicant has not been suspended, debarred or
otherwise restricted by any department or agency of the federal government or
any state government from doing business with such department or agency because
of misconduct or alleged misconduct; and
               (d)   The applicant has not defaulted on an obligation covered
by a surety or performance bond.
         If such applicant cannot certify to each of the above, such applicant
shall submit a signed statement to explain the facts and circumstances that
such applicant believes will explain the lack of certification. The city may
then determine if such applicant is or is not qualified.
         b.   The experience of the applicant in developing, financing and
managing multiple-family housing projects; and
         c.   Whether the applicant has been found by the United States Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission or the New Mexico Human Rights Commission to
be in noncompliance with any applicable civil rights laws.
      3.   Additional requirements for mortgage lenders. If the applicant is a
mortgage lender, the city shall consider, among other things:
         a.   The financial condition of the applicant;
         b.   The terms and conditions of any loans to be made;
         c.   The aggregate principal balances of any loans to be made to each
applicant compared with the aggregate principal balances of the loans to be
made to all other applicants;
         d.   The city's assessment of the ability of the Applicant or its
designated servicer to act as originator and servicer of mortgage loans for any
multi-family housing programs or other programs to be financed; and
         e.   Previous participation by the applicant in MFA's programs and
HUD, Federal Housing Authority, or Rural Housing Service programs.
      4.   Submission procedure.
         a.   Time, place and method of submission delivery.
            i.   If the city has issued an RFP, all applications must be
received by the city no later than the deadline set forth in the RFP;
otherwise, all applications must be received by the deadline the city has
established in connection with the respective award or grant. So that any
qualifying grantees may be selected prior to January of the year in which any
MFA housing assistance grant would be made, the city shall issue any RFP's,
solicit any applications, or otherwise identify any qualifying grantees no
later than October 15 of any year in order to allow sufficient time for
prospective applicants to respond to any such RFP, solicitation, or otherwise,
and further to allow MFA not less than forty-five days in which to review any
such applications or otherwise determine or confirm that an applicant is a
qualifying grantee under the Act and consistent with the Rules.
            ii.   Applications shall be submitted by applicants to the city in
the form required by the city and shall contain all information which is
required by this chapter and any RFP which may have been issued.
         b.   Additional factors. The application procedures shall take into
consideration:
            i.   Timely completion and submission to the city of an application
or other appropriate response to any solicitation by the city;
            ii.   Timely submission of all other information and documentation
related to the program required by the city as set forth in this chapter or as
set forth in the Rules;
            iii.   Timely payment of any fees required to be paid to the city
at the time of submission of the application; and
            iv.   Compliance with program eligibility requirements as set forth
in the Act, the Rules and this chapter.
         c.   Submission format.
            i.   City forms or MFA forms (if available) must be used when
provided and no substitutions will be accepted; however, attachments may be
provided as necessary.
            ii.   An applicant's failure to provide or complete any element of
an application, including all requirements of the city or as may be listed on
any RFP, may result in the rejection of the application prior to review.
            iii.   Illegible information, information inconsistent with other
information provided in the application, and/or incomplete forms will be
treated as missing information and evaluated accordingly.
            iv.   The city and MFA reserve the right to request further
information from any applicant so long as the request is done fairly and does
not provide any applicant an undue advantage over another applicant.
            v.   The city in its discretion may cancel any RFP or reject any or
all proposals in whole or part submitted by any applicant.
            vi.   Neither the city nor MFA shall be responsible for any
expenses incurred by an applicant in preparing and submitting an application.
However, the city or MFA, as applicable may establish and collect fees from
applicants who file applications. Notice that fees will be charged and the
amount of any such fees shall be included by the city or MFA, as applicable, in
any RFP or otherwise shall be advertised as part of the application
solicitation process.
            vii.   Review by city. On receipt of an application, the city
shall:
               (a)   Determine whether the application submitted by the
applicant is complete and responsive;
               (b)   Determine whether the applicant is a qualifying grantee as
defined herein and in the Act;
               (c)   Review and analyze whether the applicant has shown a
demonstrated need for activities to promote and provide affordable housing and
related services to persons of low or moderate income;
               (d)   Determined whether the applicant has demonstrated
experience related to providing housing or services to persons of low or
moderate income, as well as experience and/or the capacity to administer the
affordable housing program or project for which the applicant has applied;
               (e)   Determine whether the applicant's proposal provides a plan
for coordinating with other service providers in the community; whether the
applicant's plan addresses how persons of low income or moderate income in need
of housing and/or housing related supportive services can receive supportive
services and referrals to federal, state and local resources; and, whether the
applicant's plan addresses outreach efforts to reach the population to be
served as identified by the city in any RFP or otherwise;
               (f)   Determine whether the applicant has support from public
service agencies, or such other support as may be required by the city and/or
MFA in its discretion, for its proposed services in the community;
               (g)   Ascertain the amount of any matching funds or in-kind
services specific to the program that may be utilized by the applicant in
connection with the program;
               (h)   Ascertain whether any local, private, or federal funds
will be used by the applicant in connection with the specific grant for which
the applicant is applying;
               (i)   Ascertain whether the applicant has and can demonstrate
the capability to manage the implementation; of the program for which the
applicant is applying;
               (j)   If applicant is a prior recipient of either a housing
assistance grant, affordable housing funds and/or other program funds, confirm
that the applicant had no outstanding findings or matters of non-compliance
with program requirements from the city or MFA, as applicable or if it has any
such findings, it has a certified letter from the city, MFA, or auditor stating
that the findings are in the process of being resolved;
               (k)   If applicant is a prior recipient of either a housing
assistance grant, affordable housing funds and/or other program funds, confirm
that the applicant reasonably committed and expended the funds under the prior
program and/or met anticipated production levels as set forth in any contract
with the city or MFA, as applicable, for those prior program funds;
               (l)   Evaluate the applicant's proposal in part based upon the
applicant's current financial audit;
               (m)   Evaluate the applicant's proposed budget for the project
for which the applicant is applying for affordable housing funds or a housing
assistance grant which proposed budget must be approved by the city before
applicant can be approved as a qualifying grantee and any expenditure of grant
funds under the Act or granted property is transferred to the applicant;
               (n)   On receipt of an application from a builder, the city will
analyze the builder's ability to construct and sell sufficient residential
housing units to persons of low or moderate income within the time or times as
may be required by the city;
               (o)   Consider other factors it deems appropriate to ensure a
reasonable geographic allocation for all affordable housing programs.
            vi.   Certification by city to MFA, city shall certify an
application to MFA in writing upon:
               (a)   Completion of its review of the application;
               (b)   Determination that the application is complete;
               (c)   Determination that the requirements of the Act, the rules
and this chapter have been satisfied; and
               (d)   Determination that the applicant is a qualifying grantee.
            vii.   Review by MFA. MFA upon its receipt of the certification
from the city may, in its discretion, review the application and any of the
materials submitted by the applicant to the city. MFA may also request any
additional information from the applicant, which it may require in order to
determine whether the applicant is a qualifying grantee under the Act and the
application is complete. MFA will then notify the city of its determination of
whether or not the application is complete and that the requirements of the Act
and the Rules have been satisfied and the applicant is a qualifying grantee.
Unless the period is extended for good cause shown, MFA shall act on an
application within forty-five days of its receipt of any application, which MFA
deems to be complete, and, if not acted upon, the application shall be deemed
to be approved.
            viii.   Notification of acceptance. The city, upon completion of
the review of the application using the criteria as set forth in this chapter
and/or any RFP issued by the city and upon its receipt of notification from MFA
that it agrees that the application is complete and that the Act and Rules have
been satisfied and the applicant is a qualifying grantee, shall provide written
notice to each applicant of the approval or disapproval of its application. The
City's and MFA's determination of any application shall be conclusive.
   E.   Additional requirements. Upon acceptance, the following additional
requirements shall apply:
      1.   Contractual requirements. The qualifying grantee shall enter into
one or more contracts with the city, which contract(s) shall be consistent with
the Act and subject to the review of MFA, in its discretion, and which contract
(s) shall include remedies and default provisions in the event of the
unsatisfactory performance by the qualifying grantee.
      2.   Security provisions; collateral requirements. In accordance with the
Act, the Rules and this chapter, the city shall require the qualifying grantee
to execute documents, which will provide adequate security against the loss of
public funds or property in the event the qualifying grantee abandons or fails
to complete the affordable housing project, and which shall further provide, as
may be permitted by law, for the recovery of any attorney fees and costs which
the city and/or MFA may incur in enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the
Rules, the Act and/or any agreement entered into by the city and the qualifying
grantee, and which documents may include, but are not limited to the following:
note, mortgage, loan agreement, land use restriction agreement, restrictive
covenant agreements and/or any other agreement which the city may require in
order to allow for any funds which the qualifying grantee may receive under a
housing assistance grant or affordable housing funds to be adequately secured
and to allow the city and MFA to ensure that such funds shall be utilized by
the qualifying grantee in accordance with the Act, the Rules and this chapter.
      3.   Performance schedule and criteria. The qualifying grantee shall be
required to abide by a reasonable performance schedule and performance criteria
that the city, in its discretion, may establish.
      4.   Examination of books and records. The qualifying grantee shall
submit to and the city shall cause to be made such examinations of the books
and records of each qualifying grantee as the city and/or MFA deems necessary
or appropriate to determine the qualifying grantee's compliance with the terms
of the Act, the Rules, this chapter and any contracts between the qualifying
grantee and the city, the city and/or MFA may require each qualifying grantee
to pay the costs of any such examination.
      5.   Infrastructure cost reimbursement contracts.
         a.   Cost reimbursements. Payment to a qualifying grantee under cost
reimbursable contract provisions shall be made upon the city's receipt
from the qualifying grantee of certified and documented invoices for actual
expenditures allowable under the terms of any agreement between the qualifying
grantee and city.
         b.   Cost reimbursements for units of service. Payment under any unit
cost contract provisions shall be made upon the city's receipt from the
qualifying grantee of a certified and documented invoice showing the number of
units of service provided during the billing period.
         c.   Rate at which costs incurred. Under unit cost or cost
reimbursable contracts, it is anticipated that costs will be incurred by the
qualifying grantee at an approximate level rate during the term of any
agreement between the qualifying grantee and city. If the city determines that
the qualifying grantee is under spending or overspending, then the city may
reduce the budget and/or exercise such other budgetary fiscal controls it deems
appropriate.
         d.   Invoices. Qualifying grantees shall not submit invoices more than
once a month, unless written approval is obtained in advance from the city.
Failure to submit invoices within twenty days of the close of the month for
which payment is sought may result in the non-availability of funds for
reimbursement.
         e.   No dual application of costs. The qualifying grantee shall
certify that any direct or indirect costs claimed by the qualifying grantee
will not be allocable to or included as a cost of any other program, project,
contract, or activity operated by the qualifying grantee and which has not been
approved by the city in advance, in writing.
         f.   Prohibition of substitution of funds. Any affordable housing
funds or other amounts received by qualifying grantee may not be used by
qualifying grantee to replace other amounts made available or designated by the
state or local governments through appropriations for use for the purposes of
the Act.
         g.   Cost allocation. The qualifying grantee shall clearly identify
and distribute all costs incurred pertaining to the affordable housing project
by a methodology and cost allocation plan at times and in a manner prescribed
by, or acceptable to city.
      6.   Additional information. Qualifying grantees shall provide the city
with any and all information which the city reasonably may require in order for
it to confirm that the qualifying grantees continue to satisfy the requirements
of the Act, the Rules and this chapter throughout the term of any contract and/
or any affordability period or otherwise as maybe required by the city or MFA
in its discretion. At a minimum, on an annual basis, the city shall certify to
MFA in writing that to the best of its knowledge the qualifying grantee is in
compliance with applicable provisions of the Act, the Rules and this chapter.
      7.   Compliance. All projects qualified to receive assistance pursuant to
the Act, the Rules and this chapter shall also comply with all requirements, as
amended from time to time.
   F.   Affordable housing requirements. All affordable housing funds or
housing assistance grants awarded under the Act are to be used by qualifying
grantees for the benefit of persons of low or moderate income subject to the
provisions of the Act and with particular regard to their housing related
needs.
      1.   Single family property. Qualifying grantees shall agree that they
shall maintain any single-family property which has been acquired,
rehabilitated, converted, leased, repaired, constructed, or which property has
otherwise benefitted from affordable housing funds, including but not limited
to any loans which have been repaid with affordable housing funds and which
loans previously were secured by such properties, as affordable housing for so
long as any or all of the affordable housing funds which have been awarded,
loaned, or otherwise conveyed to the qualifying grantee are unpaid and
outstanding or the affordability period, whichever is longer.
      2.   Multi-family property.
         a.   Single Apartment within a multi-family property. Qualifying
grantees shall agree that, if any single apartments are to be rehabilitated,
converted, leased, repaired, constructed, or otherwise are to
benefit from affordable housing funds; those apartments shall be leased to
persons of low or moderate income at the time of any such award. qualifying
grantees, who are the landlords and/or owners of such properties, shall further
agree to contribute at least sixty percent of the cost of the rehabilitation,
conversion, lease, repair, and/or construction. Qualifying grantees also shall
agree that the persons of low or moderate income, who are tenants of those
apartments, shall be allowed to remain tenants for so long as there are no
uncured defaults by those tenants under their respective leases and provided
that there is no just cause for the landlord to terminate any lease agreement
with those tenants.
         b.   Multiple apartments qualifying grantees shall agree that, if
multiple apartments or an entire multi-family property are to be acquired,
rehabilitated, converted, leased, repaired, constructed, or otherwise are to
benefit from affordable housing funds, including but not limited to any loans
which have been repaid with affordable housing funds and which loans previously
were secured by such properties, they shall maintain not less than sixty
percent of the housing units as affordable housing for so long as any or all of
the affordable housing funds which have been awarded, loaned, or otherwise
conveyed to the qualifying grantee are unpaid and outstanding or the
affordability period, whichever is longer.
      3.   Nonresidential property. Qualifying grantees shall agree that they
shall maintain any non-residential property which has been acquired,
rehabilitated, converted, leased, repaired, constructed, or which property has
otherwise benefitted from affordable housing funds, including but not limited
to any loans which have been repaid with affordable housing funds and which
loans previously were secured by such properties, as a facility which provides
housing related-services to persons of low or moderate income for so long as
any or all of the affordable housing funds which have been awarded, loaned, or
otherwise conveyed to the qualifying grantee are unpaid and outstanding or the
affordability period, whichever is longer.
      4.   Housing assistance grant affordability requirements. Qualifying
grantees shall agree that they shall maintain any land or buildings received as
a housing assistance grant either as single-family or multi-family affordable
housing in accordance with F.1. and F.2. of this section or as a facility which
provides housing related-services to persons of low or moderate income in
accordance with F.3. of this section (as applicable) for the duration of the
affordability period. Qualifying grantees shall agree that they shall maintain
any land or buildings for which they have received the costs of infrastructure
as a housing assistance grant either as single-family or multi-family
affordable housing or as a facility which provides housing related-services to
persons of low or moderate income (as applicable) for the duration of the
affordability period. In calculating the affordability period for housing and
assistance grants of either land or buildings, the fair market value of the
land or buildings or the costs of infrastructure at the time of the donation by
the state or county shall apply.
      5.   Affordability period. The city, in its discretion, may increase the
affordability period in any contract, note, mortgage, loan agreement, land use
restriction agreement, restrictive covenant agreements and/or any other
agreement which the city may enter into with any qualifying grantee or
beneficiary of the affordable housing funds or of the housing assistance grant.
See definition of affordability period in Section
3.20.030 of this chapter.
   G.   Consent to jurisdiction. Each qualifying grantee shall consent to the
jurisdiction of the courts of the state over any proceeding to enforce
compliance with the terms of the Act, the Rules and this chapter and any
agreement between the qualifying grantee and the city and/or MFA.
   H.   Recertification procedures.
      1.   The qualifying grantee must meet the requirements of the Act, the
Rules and this chapter both at the time of any award and throughout the term of
any grant and contract related thereto.
      2.   The city may establish procedures for recertifying qualifying
grantees from time to time.
      3.   Qualifying grantees that fail to satisfy the requirements for
recertification shall cease to be eligible and shall be denied further
participation in affordable housing programs until the requirements of the city
and MFA are satisfied.
   I.   Compliance with the law. Qualifying grantee shall provide the city with
any certifications or other proof that it may require in order for the city and
MFA to confirm that the qualifying grantee and the qualifying grantee's
proposed project are in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local
laws, rules and ordinances.
   J.   City grant requirements.
      1.   The city is authorized to make housing assistance grants under the
Act. Upon determination that the city will make a housing assistance grant,
including the use of any affordable housing funds, the city shall provide MFA
with the following:
         a.   Documentation that confirms that the city has an existing valid
affordable housing plan.
         b.   A copy of the proposed ordinance which provides for the
authorization of the housing assistance grant, including the use of any
affordable housing funds, together with a written certification that the
proposed grantee is in compliance with Act and the Rules so that MFA may
confirm both that the ordinance is in compliance with the Act, that the
application is complete, and that the proposed grantee is a qualifying grantee
under the Act and the Rules.
      2.   Prior to the submission of the ordinance to the Commission, the
Commission must approve the budget submitted by the applicant.
      3.   An ordinance authorizing the city to make a housing assistance grant
and/or distribute affordable housing funds:
         a.   Must authorize the grant, including use of affordable housing
funds if any;
         b.   Must state the requirements and purpose of the grant; and
         c.   Must authorize the transferor disbursement to the qualifying
grantee only after a budget is submitted to and approved by the Commission;
         d.   Must comply with the Rules, as amended;
         e.   May provide for matching or using local, private or federal funds
either through direct participation with a federal agency pursuant to federal
law or through indirect participation through MFA.
      4.   MFA shall act to approve the proposed housing assistance grant
authorized by the city within forty-five days of its receipt of the
documentation required above in J.1. through 3. of this Section.
      5.   The city, in its discretion, may also hold any award of affordable
housing funds or any housing assistance grant made by the city in suspense
pending the issuance by the city of any RFP or pending the award of the
affordable housing funds or of the housing assistance grant by the city to the
qualifying grantee without the issuance of an RFP by the city. Any award of
affordable housing funds or a housing assistance grant by the city shall
subject the qualifying grantee of the award or grant to the oversight of the
city and MFA under this chapter and the Rules.
   K.   Upon amendment of this chapter, it must be submitted to MFA for review
of any and all changes for determination that the amended ordinance remains in
compliance with the Act, these Rules, and other applicable law. (Ord. 506,
2013)
3.20.060   Discrimination prohibited.
   The development, construction, occupancy and operation of an affordable
housing program or an affordable housing project financed or assisted under the
Act shall be undertaken in a manner consistent with principles of non-
discrimination and equal opportunity, and the city shall require compliance by
all qualifying grantees with all applicable federal and state laws and
regulations relating to affirmative action, non-discrimination and equal
opportunity. (Ord. 506, 2013)
3.20.070   Administration.
   The city and MFA shall administer any affordable housing programs in
accordance with provisions of the Act, the Rules, Lovington affordable housing
plan, this chapter, any applicable state and federal laws and regulations as
each of which may be amended or supplemented from time to time. The city and
MFA, in establishing, funding and administering the affordable housing programs
and by making, executing, delivering and performing any award, contract, grant
or any other activity or transaction contemplated by the Act, shall not violate
any provision of law, rule or regulation or any decree, writ, order,
injunction, judgment, determination or award and will not contravene the
provisions of or otherwise cause a default under any of its agreements,
indentures, or other instruments to which it may be bound. (Ord. 506, 2013)
3.20.080   Termination.
   The Commission may repeal this chapter and terminate the city's affordable
housing program and any or all contracts undertaken in its authority.
Termination shall be by ordinance at a public hearing or in accordance with the
terms of the contract. If an ordinance or a contract is repealed or terminated,
all contract provisions of the contract regarding termination shall be
satisfied. (Ord. 506, 2013)
Title 4
RESERVED
Title 5
BUSINESS LICENSES AND REGULATIONS
   Chapters:
      
5.04   Business Registration and License Fees
      
5.08   Sale of Alcoholic Beverages
      
5.12   Boxing and Wrestling
      
5.16   Building Movers
      
5.20   Circuses and Carnivals
      
5.24   Dry Cleaners
      
5.28   Garage Sales
      
5.32   Junk Dealers
      
5.36   Pawnbrokers
      
5.40   Cannabis Regulation
      
5.44   Public Dance Halls
      
5.48   Taxicabs
      
5.52   Recreational Vehicle/Manufactured Home Parks
      
5.56   Solicitors, Transient, and Itinerant Merchants and Vendors
      
5.60   Regulations for Rates Charged to Cable Television Subscribers
Chapter 5.04
BUSINESS REGISTRATION AND LICENSE FEES
Sections:
   
5.04.010   Business registration fee- Imposition.
   
5.04.015   Mobile business activity fee- Imposition.
   
5.04.020   Registration application.
   
5.04.030   Application-Information required.
   
5.04.040   Registration-Renewal.
   
5.04.050   License-Imposition of fee.
   
5.04.060   License fee-Prorating.
   
5.04.070   Application for license or registration-Contents.
   
5.04.080   License-Denial or revocation- Hearing.
   
5.04.090   Register of all licenses issued.
   
5.04.100   Collection of fees-Levy or sale of property.
   
5.04.110   Lien on property.
   
5.04.120   Collection-Foreclosure of lien- Distraint warrant.
   
5.04.130   Violation-Penalty.
5.04.010   Business registration fee- Imposition.
   There is imposed on each place of business conducted in this municipality a
business registration fee of twenty-five dollars to be known as the "business
registration fee." The business registration fee shall not be prorated for
businesses conducted for a portion of a year. (Ord. 466, 2005: Ord. 369, 1993:
Ord. 308 (part), 1981: prior code § 19-1-1)
5.04.015   Mobile business activity fee- Imposition.
   In addition to the business registration fee, there is imposed an annual
mobile business activity fee of one hundred dollars for each calendar year for
those persons who engage in mobile business activity. The mobile business
activity fee may not be prorated for mobile business activity that occurs only
once in any calendar year and/or for only a limited number of days in any
calendar year. (Ord. 508, 2013)
5.04.020   Registration application.
   Any person proposing to engage in business within the municipal limits after
July 1, 1981 shall apply for and pay a business registration fee for each
outlet, branch or location within the municipal limits prior to engaging in
business. (Ord. 3 08 (part), 1981: prior code § 19-1-2)
5.04.030   Application-Information required.
   Any person filing an application for issuance or renewal of any business
registration shall include in the application his current revenue division
taxpayer identification number or evidence of application for a current revenue
division taxpayer identification number. (Ord. 308 (part), 1981: prior code §
19-1-4)
5.04.040   Registration-Renewal.
   Prior to March 16th of each year, any person with a place of business in
Lovington and subject to this chapter shall apply for a renewal of business
registration with the municipal clerk. (Ord. 308 (part), 1981: prior code § 19-
1-3)
5.04.045   Gross receipts tax.
   A.   There is imposed on any person engaging in the business in the city for
the privilege of engaging in business in this municipality an excise tax equal
to one-eighth of one percent of the gross receipts reported or required to be
reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico Gross Receipts and
Compensating Tax Act as it now exists or as it may be amended. The tax imposed
under this section is pursuant to the Municipal Infrastructure Gross Receipts
Tax Act as it now exists or as it may be amended and shall be known as the
"municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax."
   B.   General Provisions. This section hereby adopts by reference all
definitions, exemptions and deductions contained in the Gross Receipts and
Compensating Tax Act as it now exists or as it may be amended.
   C.   Specific Exemptions. No municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax
shall be imposed on the gross receipts arising from:
      1.   The transmission of messages by wire or other means from one point
within the municipality to another point outside the municipality;
      2.   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor
vehicle, air transportation or any other means from one point within the
municipality to another point outside the municipality; or
      3.   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a gross receipts tax distribution is made
pursuant to subsection C of Section 7-1-6.4 NMSA 1978.
   D.   Dedication. Revenue from the municipal infrastructure gross receipts
tax will be used for the following purpose(s) general fund use. (Ord. 366 §§ 1-
4, 1992)
5.04.050   License-Imposition of fee.
   The licensing or regulation of a business not otherwise exempt by law is
conducive to the promotion of health and general welfare of the community and
there is imposed a license fee. The license fee shall bear a reasonable
relation to the regulation of the business. (Ord. 308 (part), 1981: prior code
§ 19-1-5)
5.04.060   License fee-Prorating.
   A license fee may be prorated for the remainder of the calendar year in
which a business is to be operated. (Ord. 308 (part), 1981: prior code § 19-1-
6*)
*   Editor's Note: Ordinance 308 added two sections numbered 19-1-6.
5.04.070   Application for license or registration-Contents.
   A.   Any person filing an application for licenses authorized in this
chapter or for business registration shall provide that information required on
the appropriate applications as provided by the municipal clerk.
   B.   The city shall not issue a license to, or accept a business application
from, any person who does not furnish to the municipality the information
required. (Ord. 308 (part), 1981: prior code § 19-1-7)
5.04.080   License-Denial or revocation-Hearing.
   A.   For the purpose of regulation, and when deemed in the public interest,
the governing body may refuse to grant a license, but no license shall be
refused until the person seeking the license has been given the opportunity of
a hearing by the governing body. After such a hearing the majority of the
governing body at the hearing may still refuse to grant the license.
   B.   Whenever a person is guilty of violating an ordinance relating to the
granting of license, or, in the judgment of the governing body the public
welfare requires a license to be revoked, the governing body may revoke the
license. (Ord. 308 (part), 1981: prior code § 19-1-6*)
*   Editor's Note: Ordinance 308 added two sections numbered 19-1-6.
5.04.090   Register of all licenses issued.
   The city clerk shall keep a register in which he shall enter the date of
each license issued, the date of the expiration of the license, name of the
person to whom such license has been issued and the amount of the fee paid
therefor. It shall be the duty of the city clerk to also issue, sign and
deliver to the person paying the fee for the license an appropriate receipt and
a license, showing the date of such license, to whom issued, the date of
expiration thereof, the purpose or occupation for which the license was issued
and the amount paid as the license fee. Licenses shall be numbered
consecutively from number one and shall not be transferable. (Ord. 308 (part),
1981: prior code § 19-1-11)
5.04.100   Collection of fees-Levy or sale of property.
   No property of any person is exempt from levy and sale on execution issued
for the collection of a judgment for any business license fee or business
registration fee. (Ord. 308 (part), 1981: prior code § 19-1-8)
5.04.110   Lien on property.
   A.   After a business license fee or business registration fee is fixed, the
fee constitutes a lien in favor of the city upon the personal property of the
business. The lien has a priority over any lien or encumbrance except a lien
for state and county taxes.
   B.   Under process or order of court no person shall sell the property of
any business without first ascertaining from the clerk or treasurer of the
municipality in which the business is located the amount of any business
license fee or business registration fee due the municipality.
   C.   Any such fees due the municipality shall be paid from the proceeds of
the sale before payment is made to the judgment creditor or other persons at
whose instance such sale is had.
   D.   The municipal clerk or treasurer shall furnish to any person applying
for a certificate, a certificate showing the amount of all liens, taxes and
interest on record in the municipality against any business coming under the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 308 (part), 1981: prior code § 19-1-9)
5.04.120   Collection-Foreclosure of lien-Distraint warrant.
   A.   The lien authorized in this chapter may be foreclosed by a suit in the
manner security interests are foreclosed, or the municipal clerk or treasurer
may, under the seal of the municipality issue a distraint warrant against the
person who is delinquent in the payment of the business license fee or
registration fee. The warrant shall:
      1.   Be directed to the police officer of the municipality;
      2.   Order him to seize and sell the property of the business in an
amount sufficient to pay the delinquent business license fee or registration
fee.
   B.   Within five days after receiving the distraint warrant the police
officer shall seize an amount of the personal property of the business so that
the proceeds of the sale of the personal property will be sufficient to pay:
      1.   The delinquent business license fee or registration fee; and
      2.   All cost of the levy, seizure, preservation and sale of the property
unless the person whose property is to be seized pays the amount named in the
distraint warrant and all expenses and cost incurred before the sale.
   C.   Notice of the sale of the personal property shall be posted in six
conspicuous places within the municipality for a period of ten days before the
day of the sale. The notice shall state:
      1.   The time and place of the sale;
      2.   Property to be sold;
      3.   Amount to be realized from the sale. The property seized under the
distraint warrant shall be sold at public auction for cash to the highest and
best bidder.
   D.   The delinquent business license fee or registration fee and the cost of
(1) levying the warrant; (2) preserving the property; (3) advertising the sale;
and (4) conducting the sale shall be deducted from the proceeds of the sale.
Any surplus proceeds shall be paid to the person from whom the personal
property was seized. (Ord. 308 (part), 1981: prior code § 19-1-10)
5.04.130   Violation-Penalty.
   Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall be subject to a penalty of fifty dollars. (Ord. 308 (part),
1981: prior code § 19-1-14)
Chapter 5.08
SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Sections:
   
5.08.010   Definitions.
   
5.08.020   Compliance with chapter mandatory.
   
5.08.030   License required-Compliance with state law.
   
5.08.040   Licenses-Persons not eligible.
   
5.08.050   Hours of operation.
   
5.08.060   Drinking in public places prohibited-Curb service.
   
5.08.070   Sales to and by certain persons prohibited.
   
5.08.080   Dispenser's license-Fee.
   
5.08.090   Retailer's license-Fee.
   
5.08.100   Club license-Fee.
   
5.08.110   License fees-Areas annexed to city.
   
5.08.120   License applications.
   
5.08.130   License issuance-Investigation prerequisite.
   
5.08.140   License issuance-Petition prerequisite when.
   
5.08.150   License issuance- License from Bureau prerequisite.
   
5.08.160   License-Fees prorated.
   
5.08.170   Bond required.
   
5.08.180   Licenses-Term.
   
5.08.190   Forfeiture and revocation.
   
5.08.200   Violations-Penalty.
5.08.010   Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   "Alcoholic liquors" means and includes any and all distilled or rectified
spirits, potable alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, gin or any similar alcoholic
beverage, including all blended and fermented beverages, dilutions or mixtures
of one or more of the foregoing, containing more than one-half of one percent
of alcohol.
   "Beer" means any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of any
infusion or decoction of barley, malt and hops or other cereals in water, and
shall be construed to include such liquors as beer, porter, ale and stout.
   "Brewer" means and includes any person who owns, operates, carries on or
continues the operation of any manufactory, by the fermentation of any infusion
or decoction of barley, malt and hops or cereals in water, and shall be
construed to include the manufacture of such alcoholic beverages as beer,
porter, ale and stout.
   "Bureau" means the Bureau of Revenue of the state.
   "Club" means any organization of persons organized or operated under the
laws of the state and under the code or ordinances of the city, operated for
nonprofit to members, with a regularly admitted and enrolled membership of not
less than fifty, who have paid membership dues at Ihe rate of not less than
five dollars per year, which is the owner, licensee or occupant of premises
used exclusively for club purposes and which, in the judgment of the bureau and
the city commission is operated solely for recreation, social, patriotic,
political, benevolent or athletic purposes.
   "Dispenser" means any person selling or offering for sale or having in his
possession with intent to sell, alcoholic liquors by the drink or in packages
containing less than five gallons.
   "Distiller" means and includes any person engaged in the manufacturing of
spirituous liquors.
   "Hotel" means a place provided with space and accommodation, where, in
consideration of payment, lodging, or food and lodging both are habitually
furnished to guests.
   "Local option district" means any county or any city of over five thousand
population, according to the latest United States census, which shall, under
the laws of the state, have voted in favor of the sale of alcoholic liquors
within the limits of such county or city.
   "Package" means any container or containers or receptacles for the purpose
of containing alcoholic liquors, beer or wine, as marketed by the manufacturer
or bottler.
   "Rectifier" means any person who shall blend, mix or distill wine, alcohol,
liquors or spirits with other liquids or substances for the purpose of making a
concocted drink for the purpose of sale other than to the consumer by the
drink, and shall include bottlers of spirituous liquors.
   "Restaurant" means a place provided with special space and accommodation,
where, in consideration of payment, food (without lodging) is habitually
furnished to guests at tables, or seated at counters.
   "Retailer" means any person selling or offering for sale, or having in his
possession with intent to sell, any alcoholic liquors in unbroken packages
containing less than five gallons.
   "Spirituous liquors" means all alcoholic liquors as defined in this section
except fermented beverages such as wine, beer and ale.
   "Wholesaler" means any person whose place of business is located in the city
for the purpose of selling or possessing, with intent to sell, or offering for
sale, any alcoholic liquor for resale by purchaser of same.
   "Wine" includes the words "fruit juices" and means any alcoholic beverages
obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar contained in fruit or other
agricultural products, and which does not contain less than one-half of one
percent nor more than twenty-one percent alcohol by volume.
   "Winer" means and includes any person who owns, operates, carries on or
continues the operation of any manufactory of alcoholic beverages by the
fermentation of the natural sugar in fruit or fruit juices, with or without the
addition of sugar and with or without the addition of alcohol or spirits, and
shall include bottlers of wine. (Prior code § 9-1-1)
5.08.020   Compliance with chapter mandatory.
   The sale or possession for the purpose of sale or offering for sale,
manufacture or transportation of alcoholic liquors is prohibited within the
city, except upon the terms and conditions specified in this chapter. (Prior
code § 9-1-2)
5.08.030   License required-Compliance with state law.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person on his own behalf or as agent for another
person to directly or indirectly sell, offer for sale, ship or transport into
the city for resale any alcoholic liquors except to a resident licensed
wholesaler, unless such person shall have procured a license as wholesaler from
the Bureau.
   B.   It is a violation of this chapter for any person to deliver any
alcoholic liquors for resale within the city, unless such person has complied
with the provisions of the laws of the state in every respect as to permits,
quantity, shipper and consignee, and all other provisions of the laws of the
state. (Prior code § 9-1-3)
5.08.040   Licenses-Persons not eligible.
   The following classes of persons shall be prohibited from receiving licenses
to sell, deliver or distribute alcoholic liquors within the city:
   A.   Persons who have been convicted of a felony or for any violation of
this chapter or any ordinance of the city or statute of the state relative to
the sale, manufacture or transportation of intoxicating liquor;
   B.   Any person under the age of twenty-one years;
   C.   Any corporation which is not duly qualified to do business in New
Mexico unless the license issued under Section 40-6-A-7 N.M.S.A., 1978;
provided however, that a corporation which owns stock in a corporation which
owns a New Mexico liquor license does not need to be qualified to do business
in New Mexico regardless of the size of the ownership interest;
   D.   Any person who has not procured from the Bureau a retailer's license, a
dispenser's license, or a club license, in conformity with the laws of the
state;
   E.   Any person who is not the real party in interest in the business to be
conducted under the license;
   F.   Any other person not qualified under the terms of this chapter.
(Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 9-1-4)
5.08.050   Hours of operation.
   Removal of restrictions on Sundays, holidays, and election days.
   A.   On any given day, excluding Christmas Day, the hours of operation will
be:
      1.   Package sales, the hours of service are seven a.m. until midnight.
      2.   On-premises licensees, the hours of service are seven a.m. to two
a.m.
      3.   Restaurant license holders, hours are from seven a.m. until eleven
p.m. or when food service stops, whichever comes first.
   B.   Christmas Day. No sale, service or delivery of alcoholic beverages on
Christmas Day.
(Ord. 600, 2023; Prior code § 9-1-5)
5.08.060   Drinking in public places prohibited-Curb service.
   It is unlawful to drink or to use alcoholic liquors, in any public dance
hall, poolroom, bowling alley, street, state or federal building or in any
other public place, excepting establishments having a license to dispense
alcoholic liquor. It is unlawful to give curb service of liquor in broken
packages. (Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 9-1-6)
5.08.070   Sales to and by certain persons prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to serve or sell to persons under the age of
twenty-one years or to persons of unsound mind or to habitual drunkards, any
alcoholic liquors, including beer or wine. It is unlawful for any person to
permit any individual under the age of twenty-one years to sell or serve
alcoholic liquors, including wines and beer for such person. (Prior code § 9-1-
7)
5.08.080   Dispenser's license--Fee.
   A.   Any person residing within the city who is proprietor or owner of any
hotel or restaurant as defined in this chapter, or any other person who shall
desire to start or continue a business for the sale of alcoholic liquors, may
apply for a dispenser's license for the sale of all alcoholic liquors, and if
such application is approved by the city commission, may receive such license
upon payment to the city clerk of an annual fee of two hundred fifty dollars.
   B.   The license fee provided in this section shall be payable on or before
July 1st of each year.
   C.   The license shall entitle the holder to sell alcoholic liquors, as
defined in this chapter, by the drink or in packages containing less than five
gallons, at one regular place of business to be designated in the application
for such license. (Ord. 373 (part), 1993: amended during 1992 codification:
prior code § 9-2-1)
5.08.090   Retailer's license-Fee.
   A.   Any person who is a resident of the city and the proprietor or owner of
any mercantile business or any person who shall desire to start or continue a
business for the sale of alcoholic liquors, and who is otherwise qualified
under the terms of this chapter and under the laws of the state, may apply to
the city commission for a license to sell, by retail, alcoholic liquors within
the limits of the city, and if such application is approved, may receive such
license upon payment to the city clerk of an annual fee of two hundred fifrv
dollars.
   B.   The license fee provided in this section shall be payable on or before
July 1st of each year.
   C.   Such license shall entitle the holder to sell alcoholic liquors in
unbroken packages containing less than five gallons at one regular place of
business, to be designated in such license. No person licensed as a retailer of
alcoholic liquors shall permit any alcoholic liquors to be drunk or consumed
upon his premises, nor shall he sell in any other than his regular place of
business designated in the application of the license, and all alcoholic
liquors sold in packages by a retailer shall be sold in the original package of
less than five gallons in which they are received from the wholesaler and upon
which the United States tax has been paid, and upon which the New Mexico tax
stamp is affixed. (Ord. 373 (pan), 1993: amended during 1992 codification:
prior code § 9-2-2)
5.08.100   Club license-Fee.
   A.   Any club, as defined in this chapter, may apply for and receive a
license to sell alcoholic liquors upon the payment of a license fee in the
amount of two hundred fifty dollars, such license being subject to revocation
by the Bureau, or by the city commission in the event the city commission is of
the opinion that the licensee is not operating in conformity with this chapter
or the definition of "club."
   B.   Such license fee shall be payable on or before July 1st of each year.
(Ord. 373 (part), 1993: prior code § 9-2-3)
5.08.110   License fees-Areas annexed to city.
   The proprietors or owners of establishments holding state liquor licenses
whose establishments are within areas which are by any lawful means annexed to
the city, if such owners or proprietors and their establishments are in all
ways qualified, shall be issued licenses by the city clerk for the year in
which such annexation is effected upon payment of of the license fee specified
in Sections
5.08.080 through
5.08.100. (Ord. 373 (part), 1993: prior code § 9-2-4)
5.08.120   License applications.
   All applications for a license provided in this chapter shall be submitted
in writing and shall be in such form as may be prescribed by the city
commission and shall contain such information as shall be required by the city
commission. (Prior code § 9-2-9)
5.08.130   License issuance-
   Investigation prerequisite.
   Before the issuance of any license provided for in this chapter, the city
commission shall cause a thorough investigation to be made concerning the
character and integrity of the applicant and shall make a thorough
investigation of the conditions existing in the locality wherein the premises
to be occupied by the licensee are located, so that no license shall be granted
where the issuance thereof shall result in the impairment of the public health
and morals of the community. (Prior code § 9-2-5)
5.08.140   License issuance-Petition prerequisite when.
   Any person applying for a license for the sale of alcoholic liquors at a
location where alcoholic liquors are now being sold which is within six hundred
feet of a church or a school may be required by the city commission to submit
the signatures of a majority of the residents within two city blocks of the
proposed place of business to a document stating that they have no objection to
the granting of such license. If such applicant then fails to obtain a majority
of such residents to sign such a petition, the license shall not be granted.
(Prior code § 9-2-6)
5.08.150   License issuance-License from Bureau prerequisite.
   No license provided in this chapter shall be issued to any person who shall
not, prior to the issuance of such license and as a condition precedent
thereto, have secured from the Bureau a license either as a dispenser, retailer
or club. (Prior code § 9-2-7)
5.08.160   License-Fees prorated.
   License fees provided in this chapter shall not be prorated. (Ord. 373
(part), 1993: prior code § 9-2-8)
5.08.170   Bond required.
   Applicants for dispensers, retailer's and club licenses who have been
granted a license by the Bureau and have filed the bond required by the state
with such Bureau shall attach to their application a certified copy of the
license issued by the Bureau to such applicant and a certified copy of the bond
filed by such applicant with the Bureau. (Prior code § 9-2-10)
5.08.180   Licenses-Term.
   Licenses issued under this chapter shall be issued on an annual basis from
July 1st of each year through June 30th of the following year. (Prior code § 9-
2-12)
5.08.190   Forfeiture and revocation.
   If any license is forfeited or revoked by the city commission, no such
person whose license has been forfeited or revoked shall be eligible to apply
for and receive a license under the provisions of this chapter for a period of
two years. (Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 9-2-11)
5.08.200   Violations-Penalty.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding three hundred dollars or by imprisonment for a period of not more
than ninety days, or both, and his license thereupon shall be revoked by the
city commis-sion. (Prior code § 9-2-13)
Chapter 5.12
BOXING AND WRESTLING
Sections:
   
5.12.010   Permit required- Applications.
   
5.12.020   Permit issuance- Restrictions.
   
5.12.030   License fee.
5.12.010   Permit required- Applications.
   A.   Applications shall be made to the city commission through the city
manager for permits to hold any boxing or sparring matches or any wrestling
match or exhibition. Such application must be in writing and in such form as
the city manager shall prescribe. Such form shall state the time and place of
holding the match and the names of the contestants.
   B.   No public or private school shall be required to obtain such a permit.
(Prior code § 13-1-1) the event the city commission demands such certificate:
   C.   If intoxicating beverages will be sold on the premises used for the
match or exhibition or if the spectators at such match or exhibition will be
rough or profane or if the spectators at any previous exhibition held by the
applicant have been rough or profane;
   D.   If the city commission deems the holding of the match or exhibit will
be detrimental to the welfare of the people of the community;
   E.   If the applicant has previously violated the terms of a permit
previously issued. (Prior code § 13-1-2)
5.12.020   Permit issuance- Restrictions.
   No permit shall be issued in the following cases:
   A.   When it is determined that the match or exhibition will be a sham,
collusive or false;
   B.   If it is determined that the building or structure used for the purpose
of such match or exhibition will constitute a fire hazard, is unsanitary,
improperly ventilated or unsafely constructed;
   C.   If the applicant fails to submit a certificate from the physician that
the health of the participants will not be impaired, the event the city
commission demands such certificate;
   D.   If intoxicating beverages will be sold on the premises used for the
match or exhibition or if the spectators at such match or exhibition will be
rough or profane or if the spectators at any previous exhibition held by the
applicant have been rough or profane;
   E.   If the city commission deems the holding of the match or exhibit will
be detrimental to the welfare of the people of the community;
   F.   If the applicant has previously violated the terms of a permit
previously issued. (Prior code § 13-1-2)
5.12.030   License fee.
   Provided the provisions of this chapter are complied with, the license fee
shall be five dollars per day or twenty-five dollars per year to be issued by
the city clerk upon presentation of a permit from the city commission. (Prior
code § 13-1-3)
Chapter 5.16
BUILDING MOVERS
Sections:
   
5.16.010   Contractor's license required- Application-Fees.
   
5.16.020   License issuance-Bond required.
   
5.16.030   Permit required for each structure to be moved-Application- Fee.
   
5.16.040   Permit-Issuance restrictions.
   
5.16.050   Liability for damages.
   
5.16.060   njury to utility poles or trees.
   
5.16.070   Structures on public ways in excess of seventy-two hours.
5.16.010   Contractor's license required-Application- Fees.
   All persons conducting the business of removing houses, buildings or other
structures or parts thereof from one location to another, whether such
locations are within or without the limits of the city, in the event that the
streets, alleys or public ways of the city will be used in the process of such
moving, shall, before engaging in such business, annually make application to
the city manager for a license to conduct such business and upon compliance
with this chapter and the payment of a license fee of fifty dollars, such
license shall be issued by the city manager. (Prior code § 14-3-1)
5.16.020   License issuance-Bond required.
   Prior to the issuance of a license as provided in this chapter, the
applicant shall file with the city manager a bond payable to the city in the
amount of five thousand dollars in such form and with such sureties as shall be
approved by the mayor and the city attorney, conditioned upon the applicant's
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and all other ordinances of
the city which are now or may hereafter be adopted and which are pertinent to
such business. Such bond shall be further conditioned upon such applicant's
filling all basements left as a result of such moving, leaving all premises
vacated by such moving in a safe and sanitary condition, repairing and making
good, to the satisfaction of the mayor, any and all damages to any pavement,
sidewalk, hydrant, street, alley or other property of the city where damage to
which may be caused by the moving of such building, and further conditioned
upon the applicant's indemnifying and saving harmless the city against any and
all liability for damages, costs or expenses arising in any manner in favor of
any person by reason of the moving by applicant of any such building. (Prior
code § 14-3-2)
5.16.030   Permit required for each structure to be moved- Application-Fee.
   A.   Any person, the owner of any house, building or structure which is
intended to be moved upon the streets, alleys or other public ways of the city,
shall first apply for and obtain a permit from the building inspector of the
city to be approved by the city engineer. Such permit shall be conditioned by
the building inspector and city engineer upon the performance by the owner or
his agents with such reasonable requirements as may be deemed necessary for the
protection of the property of the city and its inhabitants. Such application
for a permit shall show, in connection with the house, building or structure to
be moved, its construction at the present time, its present use and location,
its new location together with a diagram of the lot showing the existence of
other buildings thereon and the substructure upon which it is intended to be
placed, its intended use for the future at such new location, the route to be
traversed in the moving thereof, the length of time required for such moving,
and the name of a properly licensed person contracting to move such structure.
   B.   A permit fee of twenty-five dollars shall be charged for each building,
house or structure to be so moved, for each seventy-two hours or portion
thereof that such structure shall remain standing upon any public street or way
in the city. (Prior code § 14-3-3)
5.16.040   Permit-Issuance restrictions.
   No permit shall be issued for the moving of any house, building or structure
in the event that the moving or placing of such structure at its new location
will in any manner violate the city building code or other pertinent city
ordinances and such permit shall not be issued if the placing of such structure
at its new location will violate the provisions of the contractual building
restrictions existing in the subdivision or area to which such structure shall
be moved. (Prior code § 14-3-4)
5.16.050   Liability for damages.
   Any person issued a license and a permit under the provisions of this
chapter shall be responsible and liable to the city for any damage or injury
caused to its property by the moving of such structure. The failure of any such
person to adjust any damage to the city or to any of the inhabitants of the
city shall result in the vesting in the proper city authorities the right to
cancel any outstanding licenses to such person together with the right to
refuse the issuance of any future license to such person together with
authority to deny the issuance of a permit to any person for the moving of any
structure when such contemplated moving is to be done by a party failing to
comply with the provisions of this chapter. (Amended during 1992 codification:
prior code § 14-3-5)
5.16.060   Injury to utility poles or trees.
   Nothing in any license or permit granted under this chapter shall be
construed as authorizing the holder thereof to break, injure or remove any
telegraph, telephone or electric light poles, lines or wires or in any way
injure shade trees or other property of any owner or owners thereof. (Prior
code § 14-3-6)
5.16.070   Structures on public ways in excess of seventy-two hours.
   No house, building or structure being moved under authority of the
provisions of this chapter shall be allowed to stand upon any public street,
alley or way of the city for more than seventy-two hours consecutively unless
the owner shall pay an additional fee of twenty-five dollars as provided by
Section
5.16.030. (Prior code § 14-3-7)
Chapter 5.20
CIRCUSES AND CARNIVALS
Sections:
   
5.20.010   Approval of amusements, circuses and carnivals by city commission.
5.20.010   Approval of amusements, circuses and carnivals by city commission.
   Carnivals and circuses shall only be allowed in the city by resolution of
the city commission upon consideration of appropriate applications and upon
such further terms and conditions as the city commission, in its discretion,
deems proper in the circumstances including but not limited to the following:
   A.   No person shall conduct, operate, manage or sponsor any Ferris wheel,
merry-go-round or other mechanical device that carries or conveys passengers
along, around or over a fixed or restricted route or course or within a defined
area for the purpose of giving its passengers amusement, pleasure, thrills or
excitement or for the business or for the purpose of promoting or advertising
any trade or business, until the city clerk is furnished proof of compliance
with New Mexico Carnival Insurance Acts and;
   B.   No authority shall be issued by the city until the city is furnished
with:
      1.   Proof of insurance in an amount of not less than one million dollars
against liabilities for injury to persons arising out of the operation of
carnival rides, listing each ride by name and serial number;
      2.   A certificate of inspection of each ride, said inspection shall have
been conducted within the previous twelve-month period;
      3.   Conformance with current fire codes and regulations dealing with
circuses, carnival rides, arcades and amusement houses or equipment and
approval of the fire department;
      4.   The applicant shall deposit with the city treasurer a cash bond in
the sum of one thousand dollars, conditioned upon saving harmless of the city
from any and all liabilities or causes of action, which might arise by virtue
of the granting of a permit to the applicant and conditioned further that no
damage will be done to the streets, sewers, trees or adjoining property and
that no dirt, paper, litter or other debris will be permitted to remain upon
the streets or upon any private property by such applicant. Such cash bond
shall be returned to the applicant upon certification by the chief of police
that all conditions of this chapter have been complied with;
      5.   The applicant shall pay to the city a fee in the amount of thirty-
five dollars per day. The fee may be waived or reduced under circumstances
deemed appropriate by the city commission. (Ord, 377, 1993)
Chapter 5.24
DRY CLEANERS
Sections:
   
5.24.010   Definitions.
   
5.24.020   License required.
   
5.24.030   Application.
   
5.24.040   Investigation of application.
   
5.24.050   License-Expiration and transferability.
   
5.24.060   License-Fees.
   
5.24.070   License-Insurance required.
   
5.24.080   License-Certificate from building inspector required.
   
5.24.090   Change of transient status to permanent-Bond.
   
5.24.100   Use of volatile inflammable products-Restricted.
5.24.010   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   "Dry cleaning" means and includes the act, art, or process of cleaning and
renovating wearing apparel, clothes, textiles, feathers, furs, hats, rugs or
other fabrics with volatile inflammable, volatile noninflammable or any other
liquid, in a commercial establishment
   "Dry dyeing" or "dyeing" means and includes the art, act, or process of
dyeing wearing apparel, felts, furs, hair, feathers, leathers, rugs, and all
other textile fabrics in a solution of volatile inflammable, volatile
noninflammable or any other liquid, in a commercial establishment.
   "Permanent cleaner," "dyer" or "presser" means and includes any person
engaged in the business of dry cleaning, dyeing or pressing within the city for
six months or more of any one year and who in fact carries on such business in
the city for profit.
   "Pressing" includes the pressing of clothes or other fabrics by whatever
means used, in a commercial establishment.
   "School" means and includes any establishment set up and operated for the
purpose of teaching the art of dry cleaning, dyeing or pressing, as defined in
this section.
   "Sponging and spotting" means and includes the removal of dirt, grease or
other foreign substances by local application of inflammable or noninflammable
products in a commercial establishment.
   "Transient cleaner, dyer or presser" means and includes any person who
engages in the dry cleaning, dyeing or pressing business in the city and
maintains such place of business in the city for less than six successive
months in any one year.
   "Volatile inflammable products" means liquids, viscous, or other compounds,
powder or solid products or substance having the capacity to evaporate,
generate and emit a gas or vapor propagative of flame, fire or explosion,
incident to evaporation.
   "Volatile noninflammable products" means liquids, viscous, or other
compounds, powder or solid product or substance having the capacity to
evaporate, generate and emit a gas or vapor not propagative of flame, fire or
explosion incident to evaporation. (Prior code § 15-1-1)
5.24.020   License required.
   It is unlawful for any person owning, controlling, conducting, managing or
acting as the agent or solicitor of any dry cleaning, dyeing, pressing,
sponging or spotting business to cause or permit the same to be conducted, or
operated, or to so solicit or receive wearing apparel or other apparel,
clothes, feathers, furs, hats, rugs, textiles or other fabrics for dry
cleaning, dyeing, sponging, spotting or pressing, whether having a fixed place
of business or not, without first applying for and receiving a license from the
city to do so, in the manner provided in this chapter. (Prior code § 15-1-2)
5.24.030   Application.
   Every applicant for a license required by this chapter shall file with the
city manager a written application containing the name of the person making
such application, and if such business is to be conducted under a fictitious
name, the name of each and all persons interested in such business. Such
application shall specify the location by street and number of the premises in
or upon which such place of business is to be conducted or the location by
street and number of the establishment to which the clothes, textiles, apparel
or other fabrics are to be taken. Such application shall be made on forms
furnished by the city, shall be verified and shall be accompanied by the
license fee as required by this chapter. (Prior code § 15-1-3)
5.24.040   Investigation of application.
   The chief of police shall investigate and verify all statements of
applicants in their application filed under this chapter; and after such
investigation, the chief of police shall forward his findings to the city
manager. (Prior code § 15-1-4)
5.24.050   License-Expiration and transferability.
   Licenses provided under this chapter shall expire on the December 31st
following the issuance thereof and shall not be transferable. (Prior code § 15-
1-5)
5.24.060   License-Fees.
   A.   The license fee for a transient cleaner, dyer or presser, as defined in
this chapter, shall be five dollars per day or fraction thereof for each person
engaging in such business.
   B.   The annual license fee for permanent cleaners, dyers or pressers shall
be twenty-five dollars.
   C.   Any person maintaining an establishment for the purpose of cleaning,
dyeing or pressing outside of the city but soliciting such articles for such
purpose within the city and taking the article outside of the city and
returning the same, shall pay a license fee of one hundred dollars per annum
for each solicitor.
   D.   Any person operating or conducting a school for the teaching of
cleaning, dyeing or pressing, as defined in this chapter, within the city,
shall pay a license fee of two hundred fifty dollars per annum.
   E.   A separate license is required for each branch establishment or
separate place of business. Where there is no fixed place of business, a permit
is required for each vehicle or means of transportation used. (Prior code § 15-
1-6)
5.24.070   License-Insurance required.
   Every person, before being granted any of the licenses provided for in this
chapter, shall deposit with the city clerk a standard form of bailees'
customers' insurance policy, to be approved by the city commission, insuring
all kinds of lawful goods and articles to be dry cleaned, dyed or pressed by
the insured, which are the property of its customers, while in the custody of
the insured, its agents or stores and while being transported in due course of
transit from its establishments, agents, or stores or while in the custody of
such person, against direct loss or damage. Any license issued under this
chapter shall immediately be revoked and canceled in the event the holder of
such license permits his policy of insurance to lapse. (Prior code § 15-1-9)
5.24.080   License-Certificate from building inspector required.
   The licenses provided for in this chapter shall not be issued unless and
until the building inspector of the city shall first have certified to the city
manager that the provisions of the building code of the city pertaining to dry
cleaning, dyeing and pressing establishments have been fully complied with.
(Prior code § 15-1-10)
5.24.090   Change of transient status to permanent-Bond.
   Any transient cleaner, dyer, or presser, as defined by this chapter, or any
person who may desire to qualify as a permanent cleaner, dyer or presser shall,
upon making application for such permanent cleaner's, dyer's or presser's
license, deposit with the city clerk a corporate surety or cash bond in the sum
of five hundred dollars, to be approved by the city commission, to guarantee
full and complete compliance with the provisions of this chapter. After being
fully qualified as such permanent cleaner, dyer or presser, such bond shall be
returned to such applicant, less the license fee of twenty-five dollars for one
annual license for a permanent cleaner, dyer or presser. Such license shall be
dated from the date of the original application therefor. If such applicant
shall fail to qualify and be classified as a permanent cleaner, dyer or presser
as defined in this chapter, the total amount of such bond shall thereupon be
forfeited. (Prior code § 15-1-7)
5.24.100   Use of volatile inflammable products- Restricted.
   It is unlawful for any person to do dry cleaning, dyeing, sponging, spotting
or renovating any wearing apparel, clothes, textiles, or other fabrics by the
use of any volatile inflammable products in any building or portion thereof now
or hereafter used or occupied as a hotel, lodginghouse, rooming house,
apartment house, residence, theater, motion picture house, school or public
hall or premises in connection with such. The provisions of this section shall
not apply to persons or individuals cleaning, dyeing, sponging, spotting or
renovating his or her own personal belongings, or those of his or her immediate
family, without having a license as provided in this chapter. (Prior code § 15-
1-8)
Chapter 5.28
GARAGE SALES
Sections:
   
5.28.010   Purpose.
   
5.28.020   Definitions.
   
5.28.030   Property permitted to be sold.
   
5.28.040   Permit required.
   
5.28.050   Permit-Written statement required.
   
5.28.060   Investigation.
   
5.28.070   Permit fee.
   
5.28.080   Permit conditions.
   
5.28.090   Permit-Refusal or revocation.
   
5.28.100   Hours of operation- Exceptions.
   
5.28.110   Display of permit.
   
5.28.120   Display of sale property.
   
5.28.130   Advertising signs-Restrictions.
   
5.28.140   Parking-Additional regulations.
   
5.28.150   Maintaining order and decorum.
   
5.28.160   Inspection-Right of entry.
   
5.28.170   Exemptions.
   
5.28.180   Violation-Penalty.
5.28.010   Purpose.
   The city commission finds and declares that:
   A.   Intrusion of nonregulated garage sales is causing annoyance to citizens
in residential areas of the city and congestion of the streets in residential
areas.
   B.   The provisions contained in this chapter are intended to prohibit the
infringement of any businesses in any established residential areas by
regulating the term and frequency of garage sales, so as not to disturb or
disrupt the residential environment of the area.
   C.   The provisions of this chapter do not seek control of sales by
individuals selling a few of their household or personal items.
   D.   The provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained are enacted not
to prevent, but to regulate garage sales for the safety and welfare of the
city's citizens. (Ord. 351 (part), 1988: prior code § 24-3-1)
5.28.020   Definitions.
   A.   "Garage sale" means and includes all general sales, open to the public,
conducted from or on a residential premises in any residential zone, as defined
by the zoning ordinance, for the purpose of disposing of personal property
including, but not limited to, all sales entitled "garage," "lawn," "yard,"
"attic," "porch," "room," "backyard," "patio," "flea market," or "rummage"
sale. This definition shall not include a situation where no more than five
specific items are held out for sale and all advertisement of such sale
specifically names those items to be sold.
   B.   "Personal property" means property which is owned, utilized and
maintained by an individual or members of his or her residence and acquired in
the normal course of living or maintaining a residence. It does not include
merchandise which was purchased for resale or obtained on consignment. (Ord.
351 (part), 1988: prior code § 24-3-2)
5.28.030   Property permitted to be sold.
   It is unlawful for any individual to sell or offer for sale, under authority
granted by this chapter, property other than personal property. (Ord. 351
(part), 1988: prior code § 24-3-3)
5.28.040   Permit required.
   No garage sale shall be conducted unless and until the individuals desiring
to conduct such sale obtain a permit therefor from the city manager. Members of
more than one residence may join in obtaining a permit for a garage sale to be
conducted at the residence of one of them. (Ord. 351 (part), 1988: prior code §
24-3-4)
5.28.050   Permit-Written statement required.
   Any individual conducting a garage sale shall obtain a permit from the city
manager at least five days in advance of the proposed sale. The individual
shall make application for the permit setting forth the following information:
   A.   Full name and address of applicant;
   B.   The location at which the proposed garage sale is to be held;
   C.   The date, or dates upon which the sale shall be held;
   D.   The date, or dates of any other garage sales within the current
calendar year;
   E.   An affirmative statement that the property to be sold was owned by the
applicant as his own personal property and was neither acquired or consigned
for the purposes of resale. (Ord. 351 (part), 1988: prior code § 24-3-5)
5.28.060   Investigation.
   Before issuing a permit, the city manager may conduct an investigation as
may reasonably be necessary to determine if there is compliance with this
chapter. (Ord. 351 (part), 1988: prior code § 24-3-10)
5.28.070   Permit fee.
   There shall be an administrative processing fee of three dollars for the
issuance of such permit. (Ord. 351 (part), 1988: prior code § 24-3-6)
5.28.080   Permit conditions.
   The permit shall set forth and restrict the time and location of such garage
sale. No more than two such permits may be issued to one residence and/or
family household during any calendar year. If members of more than one
residence join in requesting a permit then such permit shall be considered as
having been issued for each and all of such residences. (Ord. 351 (part), 1988:
prior code § 24-3-7)
5.28.090   Permit-Refusal or revocation.
   A.   Any permit issued under this chapter may be revoked or any application
for issuance of a permit may be refused by the city manager if the application
submitted by the applicant or permit holder contains any false, fraudulent or
misleading statement.
   B.   If any individual is convicted of an offense under this chapter, the
city manager is instructed to cancel any existing garage sale permit held by
the individual convicted and not to issue such individual another garage sale
permit for a period of two years from the time of conviction. (Ord. 351 (part),
1988: prior code § 24-3-17)
5.28.100   Honrs of operation- Exceptions.
   A.   Such garage sales shall be limited in time to no more than the daylight
hours of three consecutive days or two consecutive weekends (Saturday and
Sunday).
   B.   Exceptions.
      1.   If a garage sale is not held on the dates for which the permit is
issued or is terminated during the first day of the sale because of inclement
weather conditions, and an affidavit by the permit holder to this effect is
submitted, the city manager may issue another permit to the applicant for a
garage sale to be conducted at the same location within thirty days from the
date when the first sale was to be held. No additional permit fee is required.
      2.   A third garage sale shall be permitted in a calendar year if
satisfactory proof of a bona fide change in ownership of the real property is
first presented to the city manager or his duly authorized representative.
(Ord. 351 (part), 1988: prior code §§ 24-3-8, 24-3-9)
5.28.110   Display of permit.
   Any permit in possession of the holder or holders of a garage sale shall be
posted on the premises in a conspicuous place so as to be seen by the public
and the city manager or his designee. (Ord. 351 (part), 1988: prior code § 24-
3-12)
5.28.120   Display of sale property.
   Personal property offered for sale may be displayed within the residence, in
a garage, carport and/or in a rear yard, but only in such areas. However, a
vehicle offered for sale may be displayed on a permanently constructed driveway
within such front or side yards. (Ord. 351 (part), 1988: prior code § 24-3-11)
5.28.130   Advertising signs- Restrictions.
   A.   Only the following specified signs may be displayed in relation to a
pending garage sale:
      1.   Two signs of not more than four square feet shall be permitted to be
displayed on the property of the residence where the garage sale is being
conducted.
      2.   Two signs of not more than two square feet each are permitted
provided that the premises upon which the garage sale is conducted is not on a
major thoroughfare, and written permission to erect the signs is received from
the property owners upon whose property such signs are to be placed.
   B.   No sign or other form of advertisement shall be exhibited for more than
two days prior to the day such sale is to commence.
   C.   Signs must be removed each day at the close of the garage sale
activities or by the end of daylight, whichever first occurs. (Ord. 351 (part),
1988: prior code § 24-3-13)
5.28.140   Parking-Additional regulations.
   All parking of vehicles shall be conducted in compliance with all applicable
laws and ordinances. Further, the police department may enforce such temporary
controls to alleviate any special hazards and/or congestion created by any
garage sale. (Ord. 351 (part), 1988: prior code § 24-3-16)
5.28.150   Maintaining order and decorum.
   The individual to whom such permit is issued and the owner or tenant of the
premises on which such sale or activity is conducted shall be jointly and
severally responsible for the maintenance of good order and decorum on the
premises during all hours of such sale or activity. No such individual shall
permit any loud or boisterous conduct on the premises nor permit vehicles to
impede the passage of traffic on any roads or streets in the area of such
premises. All such individuals shall obey the reasonable order of any member of
the police or fire departments of the city in order to maintain the public
health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 351 (part), 1988: prior code § 24-3-14)
5.28.160   Inspection-Right of entry.
   A police officer or any other official designated by any city ordinance to
make inspections under the licensing or regulating ordinance to enforce the
same, shall have the right of entry to any premises showing evidence of a
garage sale for the purpose of enforcement or inspection and may close the
premises from such a sale or arrest any individual who violates the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 351 (part), 1988: prior code § 24-3-15)
5.28.170   Exemptions.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or affect the following:
   A.   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
   B.   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials;
   C.   Any sale conducted by any merchant or mercantile or other business
establishment from or at a place of business wherein such sale would be
permitted by the zoning regulations of the city and not otherwise prohibited in
other ordinances of the city;
   D.   Any bona fide charitable, eleemosynary, educational, cultural or
governmental institution or organization when the proceeds from the sale are
used directly for the institution or organization's charitable purposes and the
goods or articles are not sold on a consignment basis. (Ord. 351 (part), 1988:
prior code § 24-3-18)
5.28.180   Violation-Penalty.
   A.   Any person conducting any such sale or similar activity without being
properly licensed therefor or who shall violate any of the other terms and
regulations of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less then
twenty-five dollars nor more than fifty dollars or imprisoned for a period not
to exceed ten days for each violation.
   B.   Every article sold and every day a sale is conducted in violation of
this chapter shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 351 (part), 1988: prior
code §§ 24-3-19, 24-3-20)
Chapter 5.32
JUNK DEALERS
Sections:
   
5.32.010   Junk defined.
   
5.32.020   License-Required.
   
5.32.030   License-Application-Bond-Issuance.
   
5.32.040   License-Fee.
   
5.32.050   License-Suspension, revocation, transfer.
   
5.32.060   Certain transactions prohibited-Records required.
   
5.32.070   Mandatory holding period before removal or resale.
   
5.32.080   Maintenance of sanitary conditions-Inspection.
   
5.32.090   Sale of food prohibited.
   
5.32.100   Protection from weather and theft required.
   
5.32.110   Junk automobiles.
   
5.32.120   Noncomplying junk automobiles-Nuisances.
   
5.32.130   Notice to abate-Action by city.
   
5.32.140   Serving notice- Procedure.
5.32.010   Junk defined.
   "Junk" is defined as old iron, lead, brass, steel, copper or other metals or
old parts of machinery, dilapidated or partly dismantled automobiles, rags or
bagging, rope, rubber, bones, bottles and other similar materials. (Prior code
§ 18-1-1)
5.32.020   License-Required.
   It is unlawful for any person to carry on the business of a junk dealer or
shipper or storer of junk or of a junk collector or peddler within the city,
without first having obtained a license to do so as provided in this chapter.
(Prior code § 18-1-2)
5.32.030   License-Application- Bond-Issuance.
   Any person desiring a junk dealer's license as required by Section
5.32.020 shall make application therefor to the city manager. Such application
shall be in writing and shall set forth the full name of the applicant, his
residence and the location at which such junk is to be kept or stored and the
licensee shall not store or hold junk at any other place in the city. Such
applicant shall file with the city clerk a bond in the penal sum of five
hundred dollars with sureties to be approved by the city commission,
conditioned that the principal named therein will observe this code and police
regulations of the city. Such application shall be submitted to the city
commission and, if the city commission shall approve such application and
location, it may order the issuance of the license. (Prior code § 18-1-3)
5.32.040   License-Fee.
   The fee for a junk dealer's license required by Section
5.32.020 shall be twenty-five dollars per annum, payable in advance. (Prior
code § 18-1-5)
5.32.050   License-Suspension, revocation, transfer.
   Any license issued as required by Section
5.32.020 may be suspended or revoked or both in the discretion of the city
commission and no license shall be assigned or transferred. If revoked on
account of the conviction of the licensee of a violation of this chapter, no
part of the fee shall be returned. (Prior code § 18-1-4)
5.32.060   Certain transactions prohibited-Records required.
   A.   No licensee under Section
5.32.020 shall purchase or receive any junk from any minor without the written
consent of his parents or guardian or from any person who is at the time
intoxicated or from an habitual drunkard or from any person known by him to be
a thief or an associate of thieves or a receiver of stolen property.
   B.   Every licensee under Section
5.32.020 shall keep a book in which shall be recorded in English on the day of
each purchase or sale, an accurate account and description in the English
language of the junk purchased, received or sold, where and from or to whom
received, purchased or sold, the amount or thing paid or received therefor and
the time of the receipt, purchase or sale, which book, as well as the articles
purchased, shall be open at all times to the inspection of any police officer
of the city. (Prior code § 18-1-9)
5.32.070   Mandatory holding period before removal or resale.
   No licensee under Section
5.32.020 shall sell or remove from his location as indicated on his license or
from any car or vehicle in which he is storing junk, any article of junk
purchased by him until the same shall have been in his possession at least five
days. (Prior code § 18-1-10)
5.32.080   Maintenance of sanitary conditions-Inspection.
   The place where junk is kept or stored, together with the junk therein,
shall at all times be kept in a sanitary condition and open at all times to the
inspection of any member of the health department or police department. (Prior
code § 18-1-6)
5.32.090   Sale of food prohibited.
   No secondhand store or place of business in which secondhand goods or junk
are kept, sold or offered for sale within the city shall keep therein or sell
or offer for sale therein, any foodstuffs or other like provisions to be used
for human consumption. (Prior code § 18-1-8)
5.32.100   Protection from weather and theft required.
   All dealers in secondhand goods or junk in the city shall at all times keep
the goods or junk in a storeroom, warehouse or other enclosed building, so as
to protect it from the weather, to prevent the accumulation of water or other
trash and substances such as will make the same a nuisance and to protect the
same from petty sneak thieves within the city. (Prior code § 18-1-7)
5.32.110   Junk automobiles.
   It is unlawful for any person, his agent, servant, representative or
employee to permit, to park or to place dilapidated, inoperative, junk
automobiles in any yard, alley or other place within the city limits except
those persons meeting the requirements as set forth in this chapter. (Prior
code § 18-1-11)
5.32.120   Noncomplying junk automobiles-Nuisances.
   The existence of dilapidated, inoperative, junk automobiles contrary to
Section
5.32.110 is declared to be a nuisance. (Prior code § 18-1-12)
5.32.130   Notice to abate-Action by city.
   It shall be the duty of the city police department, the superintendent of
the city water department and the superintendent of the city street department
to notify or cause to be notified the owner or occupant of any premises to
immediately abolish, abate and remove such nuisance, and in case such owner or
occupant shall fail, neglect or refuse to abolish, abate or remove the same
within ten days after receiving such notice, such nuisance may be removed and
abated under and by order of the city manager or the chief of police, and the
owner or occupant, in addition to incurring penalties as provided in this code,
shall become indebted to the city for the damages, cost and charges incurred by
the city by reason of the removal and abatement of such nuisance. (Prior code §
18-1-13)
5.32.140   Serving notice- Procedure.
   If the city, by and through its employees and agents, is unable to serve the
owner or occupant of any premises, such notice shall be attached or affixed to
the junk automobile, and such service of notice shall be deemed notice to the
owner or occupant of the premises. (Prior code § 18-1-14)
Chapter 5.36
PAWNBROKERS
Sections:
   
5.36.010   Applicability.
   
5.36.020   Records required.
   
5.36.030   Daily report required.
   
5.36.040   Falsifying records unlawful.
   
5.36.050   Failure to supply identification-Duty to notify police.
   
5.36.060   Certain transactions prohibited.
   
5.36.070   Marked property.
   
5.36.080   Confiscation of stolen property.
   
5.36.090   Violation-Penalties.
5.36.010   Applicability.
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any person, firm or
corporation presently engaged as a pawnbroker within the city.
   B.   The requirements of this chapter shall apply to any agent or employee
of the person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of pawnbroker.
(Prior code §§ 8-1-7, 8-1-8)
5.36.020   Records required.
   It is the duty of every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business
of a pawnbroker within the city to provide a well bound book to be kept at his
place of business in which a record of all transactions had by the person, firm
or corporation shall be kept. The record shall contain an accurate and complete
description of each and every article taken in as a pledge, security or for
resale including serial numbers of same, if any, together with an accurate and
complete description of the parties from whom the goods are received or
purchased, together with the name of the person or persons, and his or their
address, giving the house or street number of same. The record book shall be
open at all times to the inspection of the chief of police or any member of the
police department, or any person who shall be authorized by the chief of
police. (Prior code § 8-1-1)
5.36.030   Daily report required.
   It is the duty of every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business
of a pawnbroker to furnish daily, an accurate and complete report before twelve
p.m. of each business day, to the chief of police, on blanks to be furnished by
the chief of police, which accurate and complete report reflects all property
of every kind received, together with the description of the property, serial
numbers, if any, the description of the persons offering the same to the
pawnbroker together with the person's or persons' address. The report shall
give the age, complexion, sex and approximate height of the persons delivering
the property to the pawnbroker, together with the time at which the property
was received, and the report shall contain any other information which from
time to time may be required by the chief of police. It shall be the
responsibility of the chief of police to pick up the reports. (Prior code § 8-
1-2)
5.36.040   Falsifying records unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business
of a pawnbroker to falsify any record required under the provisions of this
chapter. (Prior code § 8-1-3)
5.36.050   Failure to supply identification-Duty to notify police.
   In the event of the failure of any person to properly identify himself to
any pawnbroker, it shall be the duty of such pawnbroker to notify the police
department immediately. (Prior code § 8-1-9)
5.36.060   Certain transactions prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business
of a pawnbroker in the city to:
   A.   Knowingly enter into a pawn transaction with a person under the age of
eighteen years or under the influence of alcohol, any narcotic, drug, stimulant
or depressant;
   B.   Make any agreement requiring the personal liability of a pledgor in
connection with the pawn transaction;
   C.   Accept any waiver, in writing or otherwise, of any right or protection
accorded a pledgor under the Pawnbrokers Act (56-12-1 to 56-12-16 N.M.S.A.,
1978);
   D.   Fail to exercise reasonable care to protect pledged goods from loss or
damage;
   E.   Fail to return a pledged good to a pledgor upon payment of the full
amount due to the pawnbroker on the pawn transaction. In the event a pledged
good is lost or damaged while in the possession of the pawnbroker, the
pawnbroker shall compensate the pledgor for the reasonable value of the lost or
damaged good;
   F.   Make any charge for insurance in connection with a pawn transaction;
   G.   Purchase or otherwise receive any item of property from which the
manufacturer's name plate, serial number or identification mark has been
obviously defaced, altered, covered or destroyed;
   H.   Purchase or otherwise receive any item of property which the permit
holder knows is not lawfully owned by the person offering the same;
   I.   Enter into a pawn transaction in which the unpaid principal balance
exceeds two thousand dollars; or
   J.   Require that any of the proceeds of any cash loan be spent at the
pawnbroker's place of business or in any other manner directed by the
pawnbroker. (Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 8-1-5)
5.36.070   Marked property.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business
of a pawnbroker to buy any property of any kind or receive the same as a pledge
of security, which property is distinctly and plainly marked as being the
property of any firm or corporation or person other than the party offering to
sell or pledge the same, unless the party offering to sell or pledge the same
shall show satisfactory evidence in writing that he is the lawful owner of the
property or has been granted permission by the owner to pledge the property.
Failure to require such written evidence shall be prima facie evidence of
guilty knowledge on the part of the pawnbroker, his agents or employees, that
the party offering to pledge or sell the same is not the rightful owner thereof
and is a violation hereof. (Prior code § 8-1-6)
5.36.080   Confiscation of stolen property.
   A.   The chief of police or his authorized representatives have the right to
confiscate from a pawnbroker any item which has been reported as being stolen
or which the police department has reason or probable cause to believe has been
stolen. The officer confiscating the property shall give a receipt therefor
containing sufficient information to identify the item taken.
   B.   The officer confiscating suspect property from a pawnbroker shall
proceed without delay to determine whether the item actually was stolen. Should
it be determined that the property was stolen, the item may be retained as
evidence or returned to the rightful owner, otherwise the property shall be
returned to the pawnbroker. (Prior code § 8-1-4)
5.36.090   Violation-Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation, their agents, servants or employees who
violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a
fine not exceeding three hundred dollars or by imprisonment not exceeding
ninety days or both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
municipal court. (Prior code § 8-1-10)
Chapter 5.40
CANNABIS REGULATION
Sections:
   
5.40.010   Definitions.
   
5.40.020   Adopted.
   
5.40.030   Zoning Permit Required.
   
5.40.040   Hours of Operation.
   
5.40.050   Cannabis Consumption Area.
   
5.40.060   Mobile Units.
   
5.40.070   Smoking of Cannabis in Public Places.
   
5.40.080   Personal Use Cultivation and Production.
   
5.40.090   Location Restrictions.
   
5.40.110   Enforcement.
   
5.40.120   Penalties.
5.40.010   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “Cannabis.” All parts of the plant genus Cannabis containing a delta-9-
tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than three-tenths percent on a dry
weight basis, whether growing or not; the seeds of the plant; the resin
extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant, its seeds or its resin; and
does not include:
   1.   The mature stalks of the plant; fiber produced from the stalks; oil or
cake made from the seeds of the plant; any other compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of the mature stalks, fiber, oil or cake; or
the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of germination; or
   2.   The weight of any other ingredient combined with cannabis products to
prepare topical or oral administrations, food, drink or another product.
   “Cannabis consumption area.” An area, licensed by the New Mexico Cannabis
Control Division, where cannabis products may be served and consumed.
   “Cannabis courier.” A person that transports cannabis products to qualified
patients, primary caregivers or reciprocal participants or directly to
consumers and is licensed by the New Mexico cannabis control division.
   “Cannabis establishment.” Means:
      1.   A cannabis testing laboratory;
      2.   A cannabis manufacturer;
      3.   A cannabis producer;
      4.   A cannabis retailer;
      5.   A cannabis research laboratory;
      6.   A vertically integrated cannabis establishment;
      7.   A cannabis producer microbusiness; or
      8.   An integrated cannabis microbusiness.
   “Cannabis manufacturer.” A person that:
      1.   Manufactures cannabis products;
      2.   Packages cannabis products;
      3.   Has cannabis products tested by a cannabis testing laboratory; or
      4.   Purchases, acquires, sells or transports wholesale cannabis products
to other cannabis establishments.
   “Cannabis producer.” A person that:
      1.   Cultivates cannabis plants;
      2.   Has unprocessed cannabis products tested by a cannabis testing
laboratory;
      3.   Transports unprocessed cannabis products only to other cannabis
establishments; or
      4.   Sells cannabis products wholesale.
   “Cannabis producer microbusiness.” A cannabis producer at a single licensed
premises that possesses no more than 200 total mature cannabis plants at any
one time.
   “Cannabis product.” A product that is or that contains cannabis or cannabis
extract, including edible or topical products that may also contain other
ingredients.
   “Cannabis research laboratory.” A facility that produces or possesses
cannabis products and all parts of the plant genus Cannabis for the purpose of
studying cannabis cultivation, characteristics or uses.
   “Cannabis retailer.” A person that sells cannabis products to qualified
patients, primary caregivers or reciprocal participants or directly to
consumers.
   “Cannabis testing laboratory.” A person that samples, collects and tests
cannabis products and transports cannabis products for the purpose of testing.
   “Integrated cannabis microbusiness.” A person that is authorized to conduct
one or more of the following:
      1.   Production of cannabis at a single licensed premises; provided that
the person shall not possess more than 200 total mature cannabis plants at any
one time;
      2.   Manufacture of cannabis products at a single licensed premises;
      3.   Sales and transportation of only cannabis products produced or
manufactured by that person;
      4.   Operation of only one retail establishment; and
      5.   Couriering of cannabis products to qualified patients, primary
caregivers or reciprocal participants or directly to consumers.
   “Vertically integrated cannabis establishment.” A person that is authorized
to act as any of the following:
      1.   A cannabis courier;
      2.   A cannabis manufacturer;
      3.   A cannabis producer; and
      4.   A cannabis retailer.
(Ord. 588 (part), 2022)
5.40.020   Adopted.
   A.   The city commission adopts by reference the state Occupational and
Professional Licensing Commercial and Medical Cannabis; Title 16 Chapter 8 Part
2 NMSA, or any adopted edition adopted by the State of New Mexico henceforth.
   B.   A copy of the State Occupational and Professional Licensing Commercial
and Medical Cannabis code shall be kept in the office of the city manager at
the city hall and will be available at all reasonable times and subject to
inspection.
(Ord. 588 (part), 2022)
5.40.030   Zoning permit required.
   In addition to the business registration fee, there is imposed a zoning
permit. Any person seeking to operate a cannabis establishment in the city may
obtain a cannabis permit under the following conditions:
   A.   The permit shall be obtained from the community service department.
   B.   The cost of the permit shall be $250.00 for the initial permit, and
$100.00 for annual renewal of the permit. The annual renewal date shall
coincide with business registration. Fee shall not be prorated.
   C.   The community service department zoning coordinator shall require the
following information from the applicant:
      1.   The name, address and business organization of the applicant and
location the applicant intends to transact business, as well as the specific
business to be transacted.
      2.   Site plan or premises diagram
      3.   If the applicant is an individual, the residence address of the
applicant as well as the applicant's birthdate and social security number.
      4.   If the applicant is a partnership, the names, residence addresses,
birthdates, and social security number of all partners.
      5.   If the applicant is a limited liability company, the state of
organization, address of the resident agent in New Mexico sufficient for
service of process, the name of the managing member together with residence
address, birthdate, and social security number and the name, residence address,
birthdate and social security number of each member of the company.
      6.   If the applicant is a corporation, the state of corporation, the
name and address of the registered agent in New Mexico sufficient for service
of process, the name, residence, birthdate, and social security number of each
officer or director of the corporation.
      7.   Prior to the issuance of a permit, any limited liability company or
corporation shall provide a certificate of good standing.
      8.   The applicant shall provide federal and state tax identification
numbers.
   D.   Prior to issuance of a permit or annual renewal the code enforcement
officer shall inspect for compliance of all applicable city codes.
   E.   Prior to issuance or annual renewal of a permit the fire marshal or
designee shall inspect for compliance with fire codes.
   F.   A temporary permit may be issued for state licensing purposes as long
as all requirements of this section are met. A final permit shall be issued
upon proof of a provisional license issued by the New Mexico cannabis control
division.
   G.   No permit shall issue to a mobile, temporary or portable building.
   H.   No permit shall issue to a drive-through cannabis establishment.
   I.   Failure to meet the conditions above will result in a non-issuance of a
permit.
      1.   If a denial of an application for a new permit or renewal is deemed
necessary by the community service planning zoning coordinator, written notice
of the decision shall be provided to the applicant.
      2.   Any person or entity denied a permit may, within ten (10) days of
the receipt of a notice of denial, file an appeal with the city commission. The
notice of the appeal shall be delivered to the city manager and a hearing shall
be scheduled within thirty (30) days of receipt of the notice. The commission
shall make a written findings of fact and conclusions of law supporting its
decision.
      3.   Operation of cannabis establishment without a permit is a violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 588 (part), 2022)
5.40.040   Hours of operation.
   It is a violation of this chapter for any cannabis retailers and cannabis
consumption areas to operate other than the following hours:
   A.   Cannabis consumption areas. Products may only be served and consumed
between the hours of 7:00 am and midnight Monday through Sunday.
   B.   Cannabis retailers. Cannabis retailers may only sell cannabis products
for off-site consumption between the hours of 7:00 am and midnight Monday
through Sunday.
(Ord. 588 (part), 2022)
5.40.050   Cannabis consumption areas.
   Cannabis consumption areas are subject to the following:
   A.   A cannabis consumption area in which consumption is limited to
consumption by qualified patients or reciprocal participants may be located
inside any cannabis retailer, provided, however that smoking of cannabis
products in such consumption areas is only allowed if the cannabis consumption
area is in a designated smoking area or in a stand alone building from which
smoke does not infiltrate other indoor work spaces or other indoor public
places where smoking is otherwise prohibited pursuant to the Dee Johnson Clean
Indoor Act, NMSA 1978, Chapter 24, Article 16.
   B.   Cannabis consumption areas that are open to consumers are subject to
the following:
      1.   The smoking of cannabis products is only allowed within a licensed
cannabis consumption area that occupies a designated smoking area or a stand-
alone building from which smoke does not infiltrate other indoor workplaces or
other indoor public places where smoking is otherwise prohibited pursuant to
the Dee Johnson Clean Indoor Air Act, NMSA 1978, Chapter 24, Article 16: and
      2.   Access to cannabis consumption areas open to consumers is restricted
to persons twenty-one years of age and older.
(Ord. 588 (part), 2022)
5.40.060   Mobile units.
   Cannabis sales from mobile, portable, or temporary units or drive- through
locations are prohibited.
(Ord. 588 (part), 2022)
5.40.070   Smoking of cannabis in public places.
   Smoking of cannabis products in a public place, except as permitted by state
law, is prohibited.
(Ord. 588 (part), 2022)
5.40.080   Personal use cultivation and production.
   Cannabis cultivation and production for personal use in quantities and as
permitted by the Cannabis Regulations ACT and Lynn and Erin Compassionate Use
Act is allowed anywhere in the city subject to the following: Cannabis
cultivation and production for personal use must not be visible from the public
right-of-way.
(Ord. 588 (part), 2022)
5.40.090   Location restrictions.
   A.   Minimum separation distance. A cannabis establishment and/or cannabis
consumption area must maintain a minimum separation distance of 300 feet from
any religious assembly or church, community center, public park, school, or
daycare center that was in existence at the time the cannabis establishment was
licensed by the state.
   B.   Density. No cannabis establishment, or cannabis consumption area. Shall
be within 300 feet of another cannabis establishment or consumption area.
   C.   Measurements. For the purposes of Section 5.40.090A and 5.40.090B of
this section of the chapter, distances shall be measured in a straight line
from property line to property line, without regard to intervening structures
or objects.
   D.   Zone requirements.
      1.   No cannabis establishment or consumption area as defined in this
chapter shall be in zone A or zone B.
      2.   Cannabis establishments or consumption area as defined in this
chapter shall be in zone(s) C, D, or E and must meet all requirements in the
zone it is located in.
(Ord. 588 (part), 2022)
5.40.110   Enforcement.
   A city of Lovington code officer, a certified city of Lovington police
officer, a Lea County deputy or city of Lovington fire marshal or designee may
issue citations for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 588 (part), 2022)
5.40.120   Penalties.
   The maximum penalty per violation shall be $300.00. Each day during the time
in which a violation occurs shall be deemed a separate violation. Nothing
herein shall prevent city of Lovington from seeking injunctive relief, if
appropriate.
(Ord. 588 (part), 2022)
Chapter 5.44
PUBLIC DANCE HALLS
Sections:
   
5.44.010   Public dance hall defined.
   
5.44.020   License-Fees-Approval.
   
5.44.030   Hours of operation.
   
5.44.040   Officer of law to be present.
   
5.44.050   Minors-Guardian required.
5.44.010   Public dance hall defined.
   A public dance hall, for the purpose of this chapter, is defined to be any
building, structure or tent or defined areas such as streets, sidewalks,
parking lots or vacant lots of any kind or character in which dancing is
allowed or permitted for the profit of the operator of such dance and to which
the public generally is invited for the purpose of dancing and in which a
charge is made, directly or indirectly, by the operator of such dance hall for
the privilege of dancing in such building, structure, tent or defined area.
(Ord. 371 (part), 1993: prior code § 7-3-16 (part))
5.44.020   License-Fees-Approval.
   No person shall maintain, operate, conduct, control or manage any public
dance hall in the city until such license fee as is required by law and the
ordinances of the city is paid in full. Such license shall be issued by the
city clerk at the rate of ten dollars per day or fifty dollars per year. No
license for any public dance hall shall be granted for the maintenance,
operation or conducting of any dance hall within the city without first
obtaining approval from the chief of police. (Prior code § 7-3-18)
5.44.030   Hours of operation.
   It is unlawful for any person operating, conducting or maintaining a public
dance hall, to permit dancing in such dance hall after two hours after midnight
of the date of the dance. (Ord. 371 (part), 1933: prior code § 7-3-16 (part))
5.44.040   Officer of law to be present.
   A.   It shall further be unlawful for any person operating or maintaining a
public dance hall to permit dancing at any time without a uniformed policeman
or duly commissioned officer of the law wearing distinctive forms of dress
approved by the chief of police which by its appearance indicates that such
person is an officer of the law and as a part of said uniform, the officer will
at all times display an official badge indicating the commission under which he
works. Such officers may be on duty or off duty.
   B.   The chief of police may authorize by written authorization, persons
duly licensed under the Private Investigators Act to serve in place of the duly
commissioned officer of the law.
   C.   Failure to provide such uniformed policeman, duly commissioned officer
of the law, or person duly licensed under the Private Investigators Act with
approval from the chief of police, shall be grounds for revocation of license.
(Ord. 331,1984: prior code § 7-3-16 (part))
5.44.050   Minors-Guardian required.
   No person operating, conducting or maintaining any public dance hall shall
permit any person under the age of sixteen years to dance or be about the
premises while dancing is going on unless such minor is accompanied by one of
his parents or by his legal guardian. (Prior code § 7-3-17)
Chapter 5.48
TAXICABS
Sections:
   
5.48.010   Definitions.
   
5.48.020   Certificate of public convenience required.
   
5.48.030   Certificate-Application contents.
   
5.48.040   Application-Hearing- Notice.
   
5.48.050   Certificate issuance- Considerations.
   
5.48.060   Bond or insurance required.
   
5.48.070   License fee.
   
5.48.080   Certificates-Nontransferable.
   
5.48.090   Certificates-Suspension and revocation.
   
5.48.100   Taxi cab driver's license required.
   
5.48.110   Taxicab driver's license application.
   
5.48.120   Physician's certificate required.
   
5.48.130   State driver's license and knowledge of city required.
   
5.48.140   Police investigation of applicant.
   
5.48.150   Taxicab driver's license-Decision by city clerk.
   
5.48.160   Taxicab driver's license-Issuance-Renewal.
   
5.48.170   Display of driver's license.
   
5.48.180   Compliance with all laws mandatory.
   
5.48.190   Taxicab driver's license-Suspension and revocation-Notice.
   
5.48.200   Taxicab identification-Restrictions.
   
5.48.210   Standards of service.
   
5.48.220   Daily manifests required.
   
5.48.230   Solicitation-Restrictions.
   
5.48.240   Cruising.
   
5.48.250   Receiving and discharging passengers.
   
5.48.260   Refusal to serve prohibited.
   
5.48.270   Rates to be posted.
   
5.48.280   Payment-Receipt upon demand.
   
5.48.290   Refusal of passenger to pay fare.
   
5.48.300   Violation of chapter-Report to mayor.
5.48.010   Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   "Certificate" means a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
by the city commission authorizing the holder thereof to conduct a taxicab
business in the city.
   "Cruising" means the driving of a taxicab on the streets, alleys or public
places of the city in search of or soliciting prospective passengers for hire.
   "Driver's license" means the permission granted by the city clerk to a
person to drive a taxicab upon the streets of the city.
   "Holder" means a person to whom a certificate of public convenience and
necessity has been issued.
   "Manifest" means a daily record prepared by a taxicab driver of all trips
made by such driver showing time and place of origin, destination, number of
passengers and the amount of fare of each trip.
   "Rate card" means a card issued by the city commission for display in each
taxicab which contains the rate of fare then in force.
   "Taxicab" means a motor vehicle regularly engaged in the business of
carrying passengers for hire, having a seating capacity of rive persons or less
and not operated on a fixed route. (Prior code § 22-1-1)
5.48.020   Certificate of public convenience required.
   No person shall operate or permit a taxicab owned or controlled by him to be
operated as a vehicle for hire upon the streets of the city without having
first obtained a certificate of public convenience and necessity from the city
commission. (Prior code § 22-2-1)
5.48.030   Certificate-Application contents.
   An application for a certificate shall be filed with the city clerk upon
forms provided by the city and such application shall be verified under oath
and shall furnish the following information:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant;
   B.   The financial status of the applicant, including the amounts of ail
unpaid judgments against the applicant and the nature of the transaction or
acts giving rise to such judgments;
   C.   The experience of the applicant in the transportation of passengers;
   D.   Any facts which the applicant believes tend to prove that public
convenience and necessity require the granting of a certificate;
   E.   The number of vehicles to be operated or controlled by the applicant
and the location of proposed depots and terminals;
   F.   The color scheme or insignia to be used to designate the vehicle or
vehicles of the applicant;
   G.   Such further information as the city commission may require. (Prior
code § 22-2-2)
5.48.040   Application-Hearing- Notice.
   Upon the filing of an application, the city commission shall fix a time and
place for a public hearing thereon. Notice of such hearing shall be given to
the applicant and to all persons to whom certificates of public convenience and
necessity have been theretofore issued. Due notice shall also be given the
general public by posting a notice of such hearing in the city hall. Any
interested person may file with the city commission a memorandum in support of
or opposition to the issuance of a certificate. (Prior code § 22-2-3)
5.48.050   Certificate issuance- Considerations.
   A.   If the city commission finds that further taxicab service in the city
is required by the public convenience and necessity and that the applicant is
fit, willing and able to perform such public transportation and to conform to
the provisions of this chapter and the rules promulgated by the chief of
police, then the city commission shall issue a certificate stating the name and
address of the applicant, the number of vehicles authorized under such
certificate and the date of issuance. Otherwise, the application shall be
denied.
   B.   In making the findings as described in subsection A, the city
commission shall take into consideration the number of taxicabs already in
operation, whether existing transportation is adequate to meet the public need,
the probable effect of increased service on local traffic conditions and the
character, experience and responsibility of the applicant. (Prior code §§ 22-2-
4, 22-2-5)
5.48.060   Bond or insurance required.
   A.   No certificate of public convenience and necessity shall be issued or
continued in operation unless there is in full force and effect an indemnity
bond for each vehicle authorized in the amount of ten thousand dollars for
bodily injury to any one person, in the amount of twenty thousand dollars for
injuries to more than one person which are sustained in the same accident and
five thousand dollars for property damage resulting from any one accident. Such
bond shall inure to the benefit of any person who shall be injured or who shall
sustain damage to property proximately caused by the negligence of a holder,
his servants or agents. Such bond shall be filed in the office of the city
clerk and shall have as surety thereon a surety company authorized to do
business in the state.
   B.   The city commission may in its discretion allow the holder to file, in
lieu of bond, a liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state. Such policy shall conform to the
provisions of this chapter relating to bonds. (Prior code §§ 22-2-6, 22-2-7)
5.48.070   License fee.
   No certificate shall be issued or continued in operation unless the holder
thereof has paid an annual license fee of twenty-five dollars for the right to
engage in the taxicab business and ten dollars for each year for each vehicle
operated under a certificate of public convenience and necessity. Such license
fees shall be for the calendar year and shall be in addition to any other
license fees or charges established by proper authority and applicable to such
holder or the vehicle under his operation and control. (Prior code § 22-2-8)
5.48.080   Certificates-Nontransferable.
   No certificate of public convenience and necessity may be sold, assigned,
mortgaged or otherwise transferred without the consent of the city commission.
(Prior code § 22-2-9)
5.48.090   Certificates-Suspension and revocation.
   A certificate issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked or
suspended by the chief of police if the holder thereof has violated any of the
provisions of this chapter, discontinued operations for more than thirty days
or has violated any provisions of this code or the laws of the United States or
the state, the violations of which reflect unfavorably on the fitness of the
holder to offer public transportation. Prior to suspension or revocation, the
holder shall be given notice of the proposed action to be taken and shall have
an opportunity to be heard. (Prior code § 22-2-10)
5.48.100   Taxicab driver's license required.
   No person shall operate a taxicab for hire upon the streets of the city and
no person who owns or controls a taxicab shall permit it to be so driven and no
taxicab licensed by the city shall be so driven at any time for hire unless the
driver of such taxicab shall have first obtained and shall have then in force a
taxicab driver's license issued under the provisions of this chapter. (Prior
code § 22-3-1)
5.48.110   Taxicab driver's license application.
   An application for a taxicab driver's license shall be filed with the city
clerk on forms provided by the city and such application shall be verified
under oath and shall contain the following information:
   A.   The names and addresses of four residents of the city who have known
the applicant for a period of one year and who will vouch for the sobriety,
honesty and general good character of the applicant;
   B.   The experience of the applicant in the transportation of passengers;
   C.   The educational background of the applicant;
   D.   A concise history of his employment. (Prior code § 22-3-2)
5.48.120   Physician's certificate required.
   Each application shall be accompanied by a certificate from a reputable
physician of the city certifying that, in his opinion, the applicant is not
inflicted with any disease or deformity which might make him an unsafe or
unsatisfactory driver. At the time the application is filed the applicant shall
pay to the city clerk the sum of three dollars. (Prior code § 22-3-3)
5.48.130   State driver's license and knowledge of city required.
   Before any application is finally passed upon by the city clerk, the
applicant shall be required to pass a satisfactory examination as to his
knowledge of the city and show that he has a current motor vehicle operator's
permit issued by the state. (Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 22-
3-4)
5.48.140   Police investigation of applicant.
   The police department shall conduct an investigation of each applicant for a
taxicab driver's license and a report of such investigation and a copy of the
traffic and police record of the applicant, if any, shall be attached to the
application for the consideration of the city clerk. (Prior code § 22-3-6)
5.48.150   Taxicab driver's license- Decision by city clerk.
   The city clerk shall upon consideration of the application and the reports
and certificate required to be attached thereto approve or reject the
application. If the application is rejected, the applicant may request a
personal appearance before the city commission to offer evidence why his
application should be reconsidered. (Prior code § 22-3-5)
5.48.160   Taxicab driver's license- Issuance-Renewal.
   Upon approval of an application for a taxicab driver's license the city
clerk shall issue a license to the applicant which shall bear the name,
address, color, age, signature and photograph of the applicant. Such license
shall be in effect for the remainder of the calendar year. A license for every
calendar year thereafter shall issue upon the payment of three dollars unless
the license for the preceding year has been revoked. (Prior code § 22-3-7)
5.48.170   Display of driver's license.
   Every driver licensed under this chapter shall post his driver's license in
such a place as to be in full view of all passengers while such driver is
operating a taxicab. (Prior code § 22-3-8)
5.48.180   Compliance with all laws mandatory.
   Every driver licensed under this chapter shall comply with all city, state
and federal laws. Failure to do so will justify the chief of police suspending
or revoking a license. (Prior code § 22-3-10)
5.48.190   Taxicab driver's license- Suspension and revocation-Notice.
   The chief of police is given the authority to suspend any driver's license
issued under this chapter for a driver's failing or refusing to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, such suspension to last for a period of not more
than thirty days. The chief of police is also given authority to revoke any
driver's license for failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
However, a license may not be revoked unless the driver has received notice and
has had an opportunity to present evidence in his behalf. (Prior code § 22-3-9)
5.48.200   Taxicab identification- Restrictions.
   Each taxicab shall bear on the outside of each front door, in painted
letters not less than two inches nor more than six inches in height, the name
of the owner and, in addition, may bear an identifying design approved by the
city clerk. No vehicle covered by the terms of this chapter shall be licensed
whose color scheme, identifying design, monogram or insignia to be used thereon
shall, in the opinion of the city clerk, conflict with or imitate any color
scheme, identifying design, monogram or insignia used on a vehicle or vehicles
already operating under this chapter, in such a manner as to defraud the
public; provided further, that if, after the color scheme, identifying design,
monogram or insignia thereof is changed so as to be, in the opinion of the city
clerk, in conflict with or imitate any color scheme, identifying design,
monogram or insignia used by any other person, owner or operator, in such a
manner as to be misleading or tend to deceive the public, the license of or
certificate covering such taxicab or taxicabs shall be suspended or revoked.
(Prior code § 22-1-3)
5.48.210   Standards of service.
   All persons engaged in the taxicab business in the city operating under the
provisions of this chapter shall render an overall service to the public
desiring to use taxicabs. Holders of certificates of public convenience and
necessity shall maintain a central place of business and keep the same open
twenty-four hours a day for the purpose of receiving calls and dispatching
cabs. They shall answer all calls received by them for services within the city
as soon as they can do so and if such services cannot be rendered within a
reasonable time they shall then notify the prospective passengers how long it
will be before such call can be answered and give the reason therefor. Any
holder who shall refuse to accept a call anywhere within the city at any time
when such holder has available cabs or who shall fail or refuse to give overall
service, shall be deemed a violator of this chapter and the certificate granted
to such holder shall be revoked at the discretion of the city clerk. (Prior
code § 22-1-5)
5.48.220   Daily manifests required.
   Every driver shall maintain a daily manifest upon which are recorded all
trips made each day showing time and place of origin and destination of each
trip and amount of fare and all such completed manifests shall be returned to
the owner by the driver at the conclusion of his tour of duty. The forms for
each manifest shall be furnished to the driver by the owner and shall be of a
character approved by the city clerk. Every holder of a certificate of public
convenience and necessity shall retain and preserve all drivers' manifests in a
safe place for at least the calendar year next preceding the current calendar
year and such manifests shall be available to the proper city officers. (Prior
code § 22-1-6)
5.48.230   Solicitation-Restrictions.
   A.   No driver shall solicit passengers for a taxicab except when sitting in
the driver's compartment of such taxicab or while standing immediately adjacent
to the curb side thereof. The driver of any taxicab shall remain in the
driver's compartment or immediately adjacent to his vehicle at all times when
such vehicle is upon the public street, except that when necessary a driver may
be absent from his taxicab for not more than five consecutive minutes and that
nothing contained in this section shall be held to prohibit any driver from
alighting to the street or sidewalk for the purpose of assisting passengers
into or out of such vehicle.
   B.   No driver shall solicit patronage in a loud or annoying tone of voice
or by sign or in any manner annoy any person or obstruct the movement of any
persons or follow any person for the purpose of soliciting patronage.
   C.   No driver, owner or operator shall solicit passengers at the terminal
of any other common carrier nor at any intermediate points along any
established route of any other common carrier.
   D.   It is a violation of this chapter for any driver of a taxicab to
solicit business for any hotel or to attempt to divert patronage from one hotel
to another. Neither shall such driver engage in selling intoxicating liquors or
solicit business for any house of ill repute or use his vehicle for any purpose
other than the transporting of passengers. (Prior code §§ 22-4-1-22-4-4)
5.48.240   Cruising.
   No driver shall cruise in search of passengers except in such areas and at
such times as shall be designated by the chief of police. Such areas and times
shall only be designated when the chief of police finds that taxicab cruising
would not congest traffic or be dangerous to pedestrians and other vehicles.
(Prior code § 22-4-6)
5.48.250   Receiving and discharging passengers.
   Drivers of taxicabs shall not receive or discharge passengers in the roadway
but shall pull up to the right-hand sidewalk as nearly as possible, or in the
absence of a sidewalk, to the extreme right-hand side of the road and there
receive or discharge passengers, except upon one-way streets, where passengers
may be discharged at either the right-hand or left-hand sidewalk or side of the
roadway in the absence of a sidewalk. (Prior code § 22-4-5)
5.48.260   Refusal to serve prohibited.
   No driver shall refuse or neglect to convey any orderly person upon request,
unless previously engaged or unable or forbidden by the provisions of this
chapter to do so. (Prior code § 22-4-7)
5.48.270   Rates to be posted.
   Every taxicab operated under this chapter shall have a rate card setting
forth the authorized rates of fares displayed in such a place as to be in view
of all passengers. The authorized taxicab rate shall be determined by the city
commission as the need may arise, but in no case may a holder charge rates not
authorized by the city commission; and the violation of this section shall be
grounds for revoking such holder's certificate. (Prior code § 22-1-4)
5.48.280   Payment-Receipt upon demand.
   The driver of any taxicab shall upon demand by the passenger render to such
passenger a receipt for the amount charged, either by a mechanically printed
receipt or by a specially prepared receipt on which shall be the name of the
owner, license number or motor number, amount of meter reading or charges and
date of transaction. (Prior code § 22-1-8)
5.48.290   Refusal of passenger to pay fare.
   It is unlawful for any person to refuse to pay the legal fare of any of the
vehicles mentioned in this chapter after having hired the same, and it is
unlawful for any person to hire any vehicle as defined by this chapter with
intent to defraud the person from whom it is hired of the value of such
service. (Prior code § 22-1-9)
5.48.300   Violation of chapter-Report to mayor.
   The police department of the city is given the authority and is instructed
to watch and observe the conduct of holders and drivers operating under this
chapter. Upon discovering a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the
police department shall report the same to the mayor, who will order or take
appropriate action. (Prior code § 22-1-7)
Chapter 5.52
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE/MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
Sections:
   
5.52.010   Definitions.
   
5.52.020   RV/MH Parks - License to operate required.
   
5.52.030   RV/MH Parks - Application and issuance of license - Fees.
   
5.52.040   RV/MH Parks - Water, sanitary sewer, plumbing, and sanitation
regulations.
   
5.52.050   RV/MH Parks - Electrical requirements.
   
5.52.060   RV/MH - Natural gas connections.
   
5.52.070   RV/MH - Site regulations.
   
5.52.080   Inspection - Revocation of license.
   
5.52.090   Manufactured homes - Applicable HUD Code.
   
5.52.100   RV/MH Parks - Internal streets.
   
5.52.110   RV/MH Parks - Stormwater retention.
   
5.52.120   RV/MH Parks - Fire hydrants and protection.
   
5.52.130   RV/MH Parks - Management and tenant information.
   
5.52.140   RV/MH Parks - Compliance.
   
5.52.150   Violations of municipal code prohibited.
   
5.52.160   Violation - Penalty.
5.52.010   Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   “Manufactured home (MH)” means a structure constructed on or after June 15,
1976, according to the rules of the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD); built on a permanent chassis; designed for use as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when the structure is connected
to the required utilities; transportable in one or more sections; and in the
traveling mode, measures at least eighty body feet in width or at least forty
body feet in length or, when erected on site, includes at least three hundred-
twenty square feet; and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and
electrical system of the home. The term manufactured home does not include a
recreational vehicle. This definition includes the terms “single-wide” and
“double- wide” homes or housing units.
   "Recreational vehicle (RV)" means a vehicle which is built on a single
chassis; measures four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections; is self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and is designed primarily as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use and not for use as a permanent
dwelling. The term shall include any travel trailer, camp trailer, popup or
tent campers, house trailer, motor home or house car, and any pickup camper, on
or off the pickup, except a simple shell, on the pickup, having no cooking or
bath facilities. As used in this code, the term recreational vehicle is
synonymous with vacation travel trailer.
   "Recreational vehicle or manufactured home park (RV/MH Park)" means and
includes any tract or parcel of land maintained, offered or used or intended
for the use and occupancy of any recreational vehicle or manufactured home
except it shall not include the parking of trailers by the owner thereof on his
own land when the same is not used or occupied and shall not include trailers
not parked for the purpose of occupancy but for the purpose of display and
sale.
   "Recreational vehicle or manufactured home site (RV/MH Site)" means a
portion of level, adequately drained ground of definite size, clearly indicated
by corner markers, for the placing of a single recreational vehicle or
manufactured home and for the parking of personal vehicles as well as storage
and outdoor living space.
   "Recreational vehicle or manufactured home site width" means the horizontal
distance between the side site lines, measured at right angles to the lot depth
at a point midway between the front and rear lot lines.
   "Recreational vehicle pad" means a specifically prepared area of a
recreational vehicle site that is a minimum of fifteen feet wide and a minimum
of forty-five feet in length in developed areas of the city and sixty feet in
new development that is level and constructed of materials such as packed
caliche, base course gravel, or paving that support the weight of the RV and
associated vehicles. (Ord. 531 (part), 2015; Prior code § 23-1-1)
5.52.020   RV/MH Parks - License to operate required.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to construct or operate a RV/MH Park
within the city without first obtaining applicable state permits, a city RV/MH
Park license, and paying the RV/MH Park license fee.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to construct or operate a RV/MH Park
within the city without first obtaining a business license issued by the city
upon payment of the business license fee provided by this chapter.
   C.   RV/MH Park licenses granted under this chapter shall be valid only for
the term for which issued, which term shall be recited on the face of the
licenses issued pursuant to this chapter.
   D.   Renewal of RV/MH Park licenses are required. Prior to renewal approval,
the city may conduct a compliance inspection.
   E.   RV/MH Park licenses are non-transferable. (Ord. 531 (part), 2015; Prior
code § 23-4-1)
5.52.030   RV/MH Parks - Application and issuance of license - Fees.
   A.   Any person desiring to construct or operate a RV/MH Park within the
city shall make application to the city for a license. Such application shall
be accompanied by the following documentation.
      1.   A current property survey prepared by and stamped by a licensed
surveyor that contains a description of all monuments, both found and set,
which mark the boundary of the property, and a description of all control
monuments used in the survey.
      2.   A complete professionally prepared site plan of the proposed park,
which shall be drawn to scale and stamped by a licensed engineer. At minimum,
the plans must show the following:
         a.   Existing site conditions including property boundary; existing
streets, street right-of-way, easements, principal utility lines and storm
drainways on adjoining properties to service the area; existing utilities on
the property if any; location and extent of floodplain or flood hazard areas;
grade elevations and existing drainage; and permanent structures.
         b.   North arrow and scale of one inch equals one hundred feet or
less.
         c.   Total property area in square feet.
         d.   Proposed improvements including the property boundary, setbacks,
grade elevations, on-site drainage retention system, streets, permanent
structures, utilities, individual RV/MH sites indicating dimensions and
location of water, sewer, electrical tower, and gas (if any), amenities such as
clubhouse, laundry room, lavatories/showers, restrooms, recreational
facilities, playgrounds, open space, photovoltaic structures, additional
parking and storage areas.
   B.   Upon the filing of such application, such applicant shall pay to the
city the license fee for such RV/MH Park on an annual basis:
      1.   Initial license fee of one hundred fifty dollars.
      2.   Annual renewal license fee of one hundred dollars.
   C.   All licenses so issued shall expire on December 31st the year in which
issued.
   D.   Upon the filing of such application, the city shall make a thorough
inspection of the proposed location and the plans and specifications for such
RV/MH Park. If the park and plans are found to comply with all requirements of
this chapter and applicable ordinances and requirements, the city shall issue a
RV/MH Park license to the applicant for the remainder of the calendar year. The
license so issued shall be displayed by the applicant in the office of the RV/
MH Park or at some other prominent place in the park. (Ord. 531 (part), 2015;
Amended during 1992 codification; prior code § 23-4-2)
5.52.040   RV/MH Parks - Water, sanitary sewer, plumbing, and sanitation
regulations.
   A.   Every RV/MH Park shall furnish and have available an adequate supply of
municipal water, and all wastewater shall be discharged into the municipal
sewer system.
   B.   Each RV/MH Park site shall be equipped with an individual site-specific
water tap and an individual site-specific sewer hookup. Individual site
specific water and sewer lines shall be located a minimum of five feet apart.
   C.   RV/MH Parks water and sewer feeder lines that connect to public
infrastructure shall comply with state and municipal regulations.
   D.   RV/MH Parks are not required to provide toilet, sink, or shower
facilities with the provision that the park does not allow RVs or campers not
equipped with complete restroom facilities. RV/MH Parks that allow RVs or
campers that are not equipped with complete restroom facilities shall provide
on site not less than one full restroom for each sex equipped with toilet,
sink, and shower facilities per every twelve total spaces or fraction thereof.
   E.   The floors, fixtures, and surfaces in all on-site restrooms shall be
cleaned and disinfected daily.
   F.   All plumbing and electrical installations, alterations or repairs in
RV/MH Parks shall be done in full conformity with the ordinances of the city
and the laws and regulations of the state.
   G.   RV/MH Parks shall provide a designated area for trash disposal that is
accessible by trash collection vehicles. Trash disposal areas shall be kept
clean, free of weeds and debris, and maintained at all times. (Ord. 531 (part),
2015; Prior code § 23-4-7)
5.52.050   RV/MH Parks - Electrical requirements.
   A.   RV/MH Parks shall comply with the electrical code adopted by the city
and the state and shall be subject to an electrical inspection.
   B.   Each RV site shall be equipped with a thirty amp/fifty amp tower or
fifty amp tower. (Ord. 531 (part), 2015)
5.52.060   RV/MH Natural gas connections.
   Each occupied recreational vehicle or manufactured home if supplied with
natural gas, shall be supplied with gas by means approved by the State. (Ord.
531 (part), 2015)
5.52.070   RV/MH - Site regulations.
   A.   Every RV/MH Park shall require a minimum of forty thousand square feet.
   B.   RV/MH Park operators shall comply with the following minimum site
regulations at all times. RV/MH Park operators may exceed these requirements.
 
             RV                                                                     MH Less 18 MH Greater
                                                                                    Ft Wide    18 Ft Wide
                                                                                    40 feet    50 feet
                                                                                    wide by    wide by
                                                                                    100 feet   100 feet
                                                                                    deep.      deep.
             New Development: 30 feet wide by 60 feet deep.                         A minimum  A minimum
             Infill Development: 30 feet wide by 45 feet deep.                      distance   distance
             A minimum distance of 15 feet is required between the outer edges of   of 15 feet of 15 feet
Minimum Site RV Pads, from any permanent structure or building, and from MH. RV’s is         is
Requirement  are required to park within the boundaries of the individual RV pad so required   required
             that RVs (including slide outs and extensions) are a minimum of 15     from any   from any
             feet on all sides from any other RV, MH, or permanent structure on an  other MH,  other MH,
             adjacent site.                                                         RV, or     RV, or
                                                                                    permanent  permanent
                                                                                    structure  structure
                                                                                    or         or
                                                                                    building.  building.
                                                                                    Permanent  Permanent
Corner                                                                              material   material
Markers      Permanent material required and clearly visible.                       required   required
Required                                                                            and        and
                                                                                    clearly    clearly
                                                                                    visible.   visible.
             RV Pad footprint shall be developed on level ground with packed
RV Pad       caliche, base course gravel, or paving with delineated edge 15 feet               
             wide by required length.
                                                                                    2          2
                                                                                    designated designated
                                                                                    off-       off-
                                                                                    street     street
                                                                                    parking    parking
Parking      2 designated off-street parking spaces for personal vehicles that      spaces for spaces for
Requirements shall each be 9 feet wide by 20 feet deep.                             personal   personal
                                                                                    vehicles   vehicles
                                                                                    that shall that shall
                                                                                    each be 9  each be 9
                                                                                    feet wide  feet wide
                                                                                    by 20 feet by 20 feet
                                                                                    deep.      deep.
 
(Ord. 531 (part), 2015; Prior code §§ 23-4-3, 23-4-6)
 
5.52.080   Inspection - Revocation of license.
   The city may conduct periodic inspections of RV/MH Parks in the city to
ascertain whether or not the provisions of this chapter are in compliance. If
at any time it is found that the owner or operator of a RV/MH Park has violated
or permitted the violation upon his premises of any provisions of this chapter
or other applicable ordinances of the city or laws of the state, the city shall
have the power, upon notice, to suspend or revoke any license issued under this
chapter, and in such event, to order such RV/MH Park closed and RV or
manufactured homes situated therein removed. (Ord. 531 (part), 2015; Prior code
§ 23-4-8)
5.52.090   Manufactured Homes - Applicable HUD Code.
   All manufactured homes moved into the city shall meet the 1985 HUD Code. If
the manufactured home is older than 1985, the owner of the home must submit a
report from a certified HUD inspector that such home meets or exceeds the 1985
HUD Code. This requirement is prospective and does not apply to any previously
permitted manufactured home. (Ord. 531 (part), 2015)
5.52.100   RV/MH Parks - Internal streets.
   A.   Every RV/MH Park shall provide for a system of internal streets to
access each RV/MH site. The street plan shall be designed and stamped by a
licensed engineer. At minimum, streets must have a width of twenty feet.
      1.   Existing RV/MH parks that are licensed prior to December 31, 2014
may have internal streets constructed, at minimum, of compacted caliche and
must be properly maintained. In the event major reconstruction, as defined by
N.M.D.O.T., is performed internal streets must be constructed utilizing the
standards established in 5.52.100A.2.
      2.   RV/MH Parks licensed on or after January 1, 2015 are required to
have internal streets constructed to current city specifications, which
includes at minimum caliche that is no less than eight inches thick and
compacted to 95% A.S.T.M.
   B.   Individual curb cuts for sites or spaces are strictly prohibited.
   C.   Internal streets longer than one hundred fifty shall have an ingress
and egress or shall have a cul-de-sac, hammerhead, or "Y" turn around.
   D.   Construction and maintenance of RV/MH Park internal streets shall be
the sole responsibility of the owner/operator. (Ord. 531 (part), 2015)
5.52.110   RV/MH Parks - Stormwater retention.
   Every RV/MH Park shall provide a stormwater management plan that shows
drainage and retention areas, as approved and amended by the city. The
stormwater management plan shall be designed and stamped by a licensed
engineer. (Ord. 531 (part), 2015)
5.52.120   RV/MH Parks - Fire hydrants and protection.
   MH/RV Park owner/operator shall comply with the most current version of Fire
Code adopted by the city. (Ord. 531 (part), 2015)
5.52.130   RV/MH Parks - Management and tenant information.
   A.   RV/MH Park owner or manager contact information shall be provided on
site in a visible location such as on a sign or structure within the park.
Tenants shall be provided with management contact information.
   B.   Every RV/MH Park shall keep a register and written record of all
vehicles and units parked in the park, the name and address of the owner, RV or
manufactured homes and the number of occupants of each unit. The register shall
be provided to the city upon request. (Ord. 531 (part), 2015)
5.52.140   RV/MH Parks - Compliance.
   A.   All existing RV/MH Parks licensed prior to December 31, 2014 shall be
brought into compliance with the amendments adopted by this chapter no later
than January 1, 2020.
   B.   All existing RV/MH Parks licensed prior to December 31, 2014 that do
not comply with the 40,000 minimum square feet parcel requirement shall be
allowed to continue operation so long as other requirements in this chapter are
met.
   C.   Recreational vehicles licensed for a single lot outside a RV/MH Park as
of the date of adoption of this chapter shall be eligible for one renewal
period ending December 31, 2015. (Ord. 531 (part), 2015)
5.52.150   Violations of municipal code prohibited.
   A.   It is unlawful for any owner, manager, or owner representative of a RV/
MH Park to be in violation of any provisions of this chapter of the municipal
code or other applicable municipal, state, or federal codes.
   B.   The city has the right to suspend or revoke a RV/MH Park business
license and/or RV/MH Park permit for reasons of non-compliance with the code or
endangerment of human life or property, or for health and public safety
reasons. Such action by the city shall be the sole financial responsibility of
the property owner, manager, or property owner representative.
   C.   Upon suspension or revocation of a RV/MH Park business license and/or
RV/MH Park permit, the city shall issue in writing a cease and desist order to
the owner, manager, or owner representative. The cease and desist order shall
specify the amount of time allowed for either compliance with the code or the
amount of time allowed for all recreational vehicle and manufactured homes to
be removed from the property. (Ord. 531 (part), 2015; Amended during 1992
codification: prior code § 23-1-3)
5.52.160   Violation - Penalty.
   Anyone found guilty of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine of up to five hundred dollars or imprisonment of up to
ninety days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 531 (part), 2015;
Prior code § 23-2-1)
Chapter 5.56
SOLICITORS, TRANSIENT, AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND VENDORS
Section:
   
5.56.010   Definitions.
   
5.56.020   License required.
   
5.56.025   Solicitor license required.
   
5.56.030   Application-Contents.
   
5.56.040   Investigation-Issuance.
   
5.56.050   Bond required.
   
5.56.060   Nomination of city manager as lawful agent.
   
5.56.070   License-Issuance.
   
5.56.080   Recordkeeping.
   
5.56.090   Fees.
   
5.56.100   License-Nontransferability.
   
5.56.110   License-Expiration.
   
5.56.120   License-Posting required.
   
5.56.125   Prohibited acts.
   
5.56.130   Advertising restrictions-Sound devices prohibited.
   
5.56.140   License-Revocation.
   
5.56.150   Revocation-Hearing-Notice.
   
5.56.160   Appeals.
   
5.56.170   Exemptions.
   
5.56.175   Exceptions-Solicitors.
   
5.56.180   Enforcement.
   
5.56.190   Violation-Penalty.
5.56.010   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms are defined:
   "Group exhibit" means an association of five or more itinerant vendors under
the auspices of a promoter, which association is formed for the purpose of
simultaneously conducting the business of the itinerant vendors upon a common
site or premises.
   "Promoter" means the person responsible for conducting a group exhibit.
   “Solicitor” means a person who goes from door to door visiting single-family
or multi-family dwellings and businesses, or who is on the streets and parking
lots of the city for the purpose of taking or attempting to take orders for the
sale of goods, wares, merchandise, services, subscriptions, or personal
property of any nature. A solicitor may travel by foot, automobile, or any
other type of conveyance. Solicitors may not travel door-to-door by commercial
vehicle or semi-truck in any residential zone within the city.
   "Temporary" means any such business transacted or conducted in the city for
which definite arrangements have not been made for the hire, rental or lease of
premises for at least thirty days in or upon which such business is to be
operated or conducted.
   "Transient" means such business of any itinerant vendor as may be operated
or conducted by persons or by their agents or employees who have their
headquarters in places other than the city, or who move stocks of goods or
merchandise or samples thereof into the city with the purpose or intention of
removing them or the unsold portion thereof away from the city before the
expiration of thirty days.
   "Transient merchant," "itinerant merchant," or "itinerant vendor" means any
person, whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee and whether a resident
of the city or not, who engages in a temporary or transient business of
selling, offering for sale, delivering or offering to deliver goods, wares and
merchandise, or exhibiting the same for sale, or exhibiting the same for the
purpose of taking orders for the sale thereof within the city, and who, for the
purpose of taking orders for the sale thereof and who for the purpose of
carrying on such business or conducting such exhibits either hires, rents,
leases or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad box
car, or enclosure in the city, or any room or space therein, or any other place
whether enclosed or not including space upon any street, alley or other place
within the city for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares, merchandise,
either privately or at public auction. (Ord. 516, 2013; Ord. 314 Exh. A (part),
1982: prior code § 24-2-1)
5.56.020   License required.
   It is unlawful for a transient merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant
vendor to sell or offer for sale, exhibit for sale or exhibit for the purpose
of taking orders for the sale thereof, any goods or merchandise in the city,
without first obtaining a license therefor from the city. A person which falls
within the definition of an itinerant vendor, as defined in this chapter, shall
not be relieved from complying with the provisions of this chapter merely by
reason of associating temporarily with a local dealer, trader, merchant or
other person. (Ord. 314 Exh. A (part), 1982: prior code § 24-2-2)
5.56.025   Solicitor license required.
   All persons, before entering into or upon a residential or business premises
or the streets and parking lots within the city for the purpose of soliciting,
shall make application with the city clerk and furnish the following
information:
   A.   The name, local and permanent addresses, social security number,
driver’s license number, age, race, weight, color of hair and eyes and any
other distinguishing physical characteristics of the applicant.
   B.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of persons or the officers,
directors or registered agents for services of the organization, group,
association, partnership or corporation who is the employer of or entity
represented by the applicant.
   C.   The nature of goods, wares, merchandise, services, subscriptions, or
personal property for which solicitations will be made.
   D.   Two one-inch by two-inch photographs of the applicant, taken within
sixty days immediately prior to the date of the filing of the application,
showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinguishing
manner.
   E.   The fingerprints of the applicant which will be taken and kept on file
at the Lovington Police Department.
   F.   Completion of a statement as to whether or not the applicant has been
convicted by any crime, misdemeanor, or violation of any municipal ordinance in
the preceding five years, the nature of the offense and the punishment or
penalty assessed therefor. (Ord. 516, 2013)
5.56.030   Application-Contents.
   Applicants for a license under this chapter shall file a written sworn
application, no less than five nor more than thirty days prior to the time
desired, signed by the applicant if an individual, by all partners if a
partnership and by the president if a corporation, with the city clerk showing:
   A.   The name of the person having the management or supervision of the
applicant's business during the time that it is proposed that it will be
carried on in the city, the local address of the person while engaged in such
business, the permanent address of such person, the capacity in which such
person will act, that is whether as proprietor, agent or otherwise, the name
and address of the person for whose account the business will be carried on, if
any, and if a corporation, under the laws of what state the corporation in
incorporated;
   B.   The fingerprints of the person having the management or supervision of
the applicant's business or, in lieu thereof, at least three letters of
recommendation from reliable property owners in the county certifying as to the
applicant's good character and business responsibility or other evidence which
establishes to the satisfaction of the city manager the good character and
business responsibility of such person;
   C.   The place in the city where it is proposed that the applicant's
business be carried on and the length of time during which it is proposed that
such business shall be conducted as well as proof of ownership of the premises
for this purpose and if all is satisfactory to the city clerk;
   D.   The place, other than the permanent place of business of the applicant,
where the applicant within the six months next preceding the date of the
application conducted a transient business, stating the nature thereof and
giving the post office and street address of any building or office in which
such business was conducted;
   E.   A statement of the nature, character and quality of the goods, wares or
merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant in the city, the
invoice value and quality of such goods, wares and merchandise, whether they
are proposed to be sold from stock in possession or by sample, at auction, by
direct sale, where the goods or property proposed to be sold are manufactured
or produced and where such goods or products are located at the time such
application is filed;
   F.   A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done
or proposed to be done in order to attract customers and, if required by the
city clerk, copies of all such advertising, whether handbills, circulars,
newspaper advertising or otherwise, shall be attached to the application as
exhibits thereto;
   G.   Whether or not the person having the management or supervision of the
applicants business has been convicted of a crime, misdemeanor or the violation
of any municipal ordinance, the nature of such offense and the punishment
assessed therefor;
   H.   Credentials from the person for whom the applicant proposes to do
business authorizing the applicant to act as such representative;
   I.   Such other reasonable information as to the identity or character of
the person having the management or supervision of the applicant's business or
the method or plan of doing such business as the city clerk may deem proper to
fulfill the purpose of this chapter in the protection of the public good. (Ord.
516, 2013; Ord. 314 Exh. A (part), 1982: prior code § 24-2-3)
5.56.040   Investigation-Issuance.
   Upon receipt of the application, the city clerk shall cause an investigation
of the person's business responsibility or moral character to be made as he or
she deems necessary for the protection of the public good. If, as a result of
the investigation, the character and business reputation appear to be
satisfactory, the city clerk shall so certify in writing and a license shall be
issued by the city clerk. (Ord. 516, 2013; Ord. 314 Exh. A (part), 1982: prior
code § 24-2-5)
5.56.050   Bond required.
   Before any license, as provided by Section
5.56.020, shall be issued for engaging in a transient or itinerant business, as
defined in Section
5.56.010, in the city, the applicant shall file with the city manager, a bond
running to the city in the sum of five thousand dollars executed by the
applicant as principal and two sureties upon which service of process may be
made in the state, such bond to be approved by the city manager, conditioned
that the applicant shall comply fully with all the provisions of this code and
the statutes of the state regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares
and merchandise and will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for
any violation of this code or statutes or any of them together with all
judgments and costs that may be recovered against him by any person for damage
growing out of any misrepresentation or deception practiced on any person
transacting such business with such applicant, whether such misrepresentations
or deceptions were made or practiced by the owners or by their servants, agents
or employees, either at the time of making the sale or through any
advertisement of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated with reference
to the goods, wares and merchandise sold or any part thereof. Action on the
bond may be brought in the name of the city to the use of the aggrieved person.
Such bond must be approved by the city manager, both as to form and as to the
responsibility of the sureties thereon. (Ord. 314 Exh. A (part), 1982: prior
code § 24-2-7)
5.56.060   Nomination of city manager as lawful agent.
   Before any license, as provided in this chapter, shall be issued for
engaging in business as an itinerant merchant in the city, the applicant shall
file with the city manager an instrument nominating and appointing the city
manager or person performing the duties of such position, his true and lawful
agent with full power and authority to acknowledge service or notice of process
for and on behalf of the applicant in respect to any matters connected with or
arising out of the business transacted under the license and the bond given as
required by Section
5.56.050 or for the performance of the conditions of the bond or for any breach
thereof. Such instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that the
applicant for the license consents and agrees that service of any notice or
process may be made upon such agent and when so made shall be taken and held to
be as valid as if personally served upon the person applying for the license
under this chapter, according to the law of this or any other state, and
waiving all claim or right of error by reason of such acknowledgment of service
or manner of service. Immediately upon service of process upon the city
manager, as provided in this chapter, the city manager shall send to the
licensee at his last known address, by registered mail, a copy of such process.
(Amended during 1992 codification: Ord. 314 Exh. A (part), 1982: prior code §
24-2-15)
5.56.070   License-Issuance.
   The city clerk shall issue to any applicant a license authorizing him to
sell and exhibit for sale his goods and merchandise if such applicant has fully
complied with all of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 314 Exh. A (part),
1982: prior code § 24-2-4)
5.56.080   Recordkeeping.
   A.   The city clerk shall keep a full record in his or her office of all
licenses issued. Such record shall contain the number of the license, the date
the license is issued, the nature of the business authorized to be carried on,
the amount of the license fee paid, the expiration date of such license, the
place where such business may be carried on under such license and the name of
the person authorized to carry on such business.
   B.   The city clerk shall deposit the record of fingerprints of the
licensee, together with the license number, with the chief of police. The chief
of police shall report to the city clerk any complaints against any person
licensed under the provisions of this chapter and any convictions for a
violation of this chapter. The city clerk shall keep a record of all such
licenses and of such complaints and violations. (Ord. 516, 2013; Ord. 314 Exh.
A (part), 1982: prior code §§ 24-2-6, 24-2-17)
5.56.090   Fees.
   Licensees under this chapter shall pay a fee of five hundred dollars which
sum shall be compensation to the city for the administration, enforcement and
other services required by this chapter. (Ord. 467 (part), 2005: Ord. 314 Exh.
A (part), 1982: prior code § 24-2-9)
5.56.100   License-Nontransferability.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable. (Ord. 467
(part), 2005: Ord. 314 Exh. A (part), 1982: prior code § 24-2-10)
5.56.110   License-Expiration.
   A license issued under this chapter shall continue and be in force for a
period not to exceed seven consecutive days for the sale of goods or
merchandise between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., which license shall
expire at 8:00 p.m. on the seventh day. The fee required shall not be prorated
or refunded. (Ord. 508, 2013; Ord. 314 Exh. A (part), 1982: prior code § 24-2-
14)
5.56.120   Licenses-Posting required.
   A.   Transient or itinerant merchants and vendors issued a license under
this chapter shall have their license prominently displayed in a conspicuous
place on the premises where all sales exhibits are being conducted and shall
remain so displayed so long as all merchandise is being sold in exhibit.
Separate license shall be obtained for each place of business and shall be
prominently displayed in each business location.
   B.   Solicitors issued a license under this chapter shall carry his or her
license with him or her at all times while engaged in soliciting and shall
display the same to any person who demands to see such license while he or she
is so engaged. (Ord. 516, 2013; Ord. 314 Exh. A (part), 1982: prior code § 24-
2-8)
5.56.125   Prohibited acts.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Enter into or upon a residential or business premises or the streets
and parking lots within the city under false pretenses to sell any goods,
wares, merchandise or services, or to solicit for any purpose;
   B.   Remain in or on any residential or business premises after having been
requested to leave by the owner or occupant thereof;
   C.   Enter upon an residential or business premises to solicit, when the
owner or occupant has displayed a “No Soliciting” or “No Solicitors” sign on
such premises;
   D.   Engage in the practice of soliciting in the city without a license or
operating as a transient or itinerant merchant or vendor without a license
required by this chapter; and
   E.   Use or possess an altered, forged or fictitious solicitor or transient
or itinerant merchant or vendor license. (Ord. 516, 2013)
5.56.130   Advertising restrictions- Sound devices prohibited.
   No licensee under this chapter nor anyone in his behalf shall shout, make an
outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell or use any other sound device including any
loud speaking radio or amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys, parks
or other public places of the city or upon any private premises in the city
where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom capable of
being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys or parks or other public
places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares or
merchandise which such licensee proposes to sell. (Ord. 314 Exh. A (part),
1982: prior code § 24-2-16)
5.56.140   License-Revocation.
   The licenses issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing for any of the following:
   A.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license;
   B.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection with
the selling of goods, wares or merchandise;
   C.   Any violation of this chapter;
   D.   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude;
   E.   Conducting the business licensed under this chapter in any unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety and general welfare of the public.
(Ord. 516, 2013; Ord. 314 Exh. A (part), 1982: prior code § 24-2-11)
5.56.150   Revocation-Hearing- Notice.
   Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting forth
specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee at his
last known address at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Ord. 314 Exh. A (part), 1982: prior code § 24-2-12)
5.56.160   Appeals.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the city clerk in regard to the
denial of the application for a license as provided in Section
5.56.040 or in connection with the revocation of a license as provided for in
Section
5.56.140, shall have the right to appeal to the city commission. Such appeal
shall be taken by filing with the commission within fourteen days after notice
of the decision by the city clerk has been mailed to such person's last known
address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for the appeal. The city
commission shall set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice
of such hearing shall be given to such person in the same manner as provided in
Section
5.56.150 for notice of hearing on revocation. The order of the city commission
on such appeal shall be final. (Ord. 516, 2013; Amended during 1992
codification: Ord. 314 Exh. A (part), 1982: prior code § 24-2-13)
5.56.170   Exemptions.
   The chapter shall not be applicable to:
   A.   Ordinary commercial travelers who sell or exhibit for sale goods or
merchandise to parties engaged in the business of buying, selling or utilizing
such goods or merchandise;
   B.   Vendors of farm produce, poultry, stock or agricultural products in
their natural state, including Christmas trees;
   C.   Sale of goods or merchandise donated by the owners thereof, the
proceeds of which are to be applied to any charitable or philanthropic purpose;
   D.   Sale of arts or crafts by the artist or craftsman who created the same;
and
   E.   Garage sales conducted at a residence by the permanent owner or
occupant thereof. (Ord. 314 Exh. A (part), 1982: prior code § 24-2-18)
5.56.175   Exceptions-Solicitors.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to solicitors:
   A.   Who visit any residence or business at the request or invitation of the
owner or occupant thereof;
   B.   Who are unpaid members of any civic or charitable organization who have
an approved means of identification provided by such organization or who upon
request can provide identification of the relationship with the civic or
charitable organization;
   C.   Who are route delivery persons who make deliveries at least once per
week to regular customers and whose solicitation is incidental only to their
regular deliveries and permanent local business entities who periodic
solicitations are incidental to their regular business activities. (Ord. 516,
2013)
5.56.180   Enforcement.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the city to examine all
places of business and persons in their respective territories subject to the
provisions of this chapter to determine if this chapter has been complied with
and to enforce the provisions of this chapter against any person found to be
violating such provisions. (Ord. 314 Exh. A (part), 1982: prior code § 24-2-19)
5.56.190   Violation-Penalty.
   Anyone found guilty of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine of up to five hundred dollars or imprisonment of up to
ninety days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 508, 2013; Ord. 314
Exh. A (part), 1982: prior code § 24-2-20)
Chapter 5.60
REGULATIONS FOR RATES CHARGED TO CABLE TELEVISION SUBSCRIBERS
Sections:
   
5.60.010   Definitions.
   
5.60.020   Initial review of basic cable rates.
   
5.60.030   Review of request for increase in basic cable rates.
   
5.60.040   Cable operator information.
   
5.60.050   Automatic rate adjustments.
   
5.60.060   Enforcement.
5.60.010   Definitions.
   "Basic cable rates" means the monthly charges for a subscription to the
basic service tier and the associated equipment.
   "Basic service tier" means a separately available service tier to which
subscription is required for access to any other tier of service, including as
a minimum, but not limited to, all must-carry signals, all PEG channels, and
all domestic television signals other than superstations.
   "Benchmark" means a per channel rate of charge for cable service and
associated equipment which the FCC has determined is reasonable.
   "Cable Act of 1992" means the Cable Television Consumer Protection and
Competition Act of 1992.
   "Cable operator" means any person or group of persons:
   A.   Who provide cable service over a cable system and directly through one
or more affiliates owns a significant interest in such a cable system; or
   B.   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any arrangement,
the management and operation of such a cable system.
   "Channel" means a unit of cable service identified and selected by a channel
number or similar designation.
   "Costs of service showing" means a filing in which the cable operator
attempts to show that the benchmark rate or the price cap is not sufficient to
allow the cable operator to fully recover the costs of providing the basic
service tier and to continue to attract capital.
   "FCC" means the Federal Communications Commission.
   "Initial basic cable rates" means the rates that the cable operator is
charging for the basic service tier, including charges for associated
equipment, at the time the city notifies the cable operator of the city's
qualification and intent to regulate basic cable rates.
   "Must-carry signal" means the signal of any local broadcast station (except
super-stations which is required to be carried on the basic service tier).
   "PEG channel" means the channel capacity designated for public, educational,
or governmental use, and facilities and equipment for the use of that channel
capacity.
   "Price cap" means the ceiling set by the FCC on future increases in basic
cable rates regulated by the city, based on a formula using the GNP fixed
weight price index, reflecting general increases in the cost of doing business
and changes in overall inflation.
   "Reasonable rate standard" means a per channel rate that is, or below, the
bench-mark or price cap level.
   "Superstation" means any nonlocal broadcast signal secondarily transmitted
by satellite. (Ord. 381 § 1, 1994)
5.60.020   Initial review of basic cable rates.
   A.   Notice. Upon the adoption of this chapter and the certification of the
city by the FCC, the city shall immediately notify all cable operators in the
city, by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the city intends to
regulate subscriber rates charged for the basic service tier and associated
equipment as authorized by the Cable Act of 1992.
   B.   Cable Operator Response. Within thirty days of receiving notice from
the city, a cable operator shall file with the city, its current rates for the
basic service tier and associated equipment and any supporting material
concerning the reasonableness of its rates.
   C.   Expedited Determination and Public Hearing.
      1.   If the city council is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator's rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment are
within the FCC's reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable
benchmark, the city council shall:
         a.   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         b.   Act to approve the rates within thirty days from the date the
cable operator filed its basic cable rates with the city.
      2.   If the city council takes no action within thirty days from the date
the cable operator filed its basic cable rates with the city, the proposed
rates will continue in effect.
   D.   Extended Review Period.
      1.   If the city council is unable to determine whether the rates in
issue are within the FCC's reasonable rate standard based on the material
before it, or if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the city
council shall, within thirty days from the date the cable operator filed its
basic cable rates with the city and by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke
the following additional periods of time, as applicable, to make a final
determination:
         a.   Ninety days if the city council needs more time to ensure that a
rate is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard; or
         b.   One hundred fifty days if the cable operator has submitted a
cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate above the applicable
benchmark.
      2.   If the city council has not made a decision within ninety or one
hundred fifty day period, the city council shall issue a brief written or order
at the end of the period requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account
of all amounts received by reason of the proposed rate and on whose behalf the
amounts are paid.
   E.   Public Hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the proposed rate, the city council shall hold at least one public
hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   F.   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to the
proposed initial basic rate may request the city secretary to record the
objection during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing
anytime before the decision resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to
be made part of the record, the objector must provide the city secretary with
the objector's name and address.
   G.   Benchmark Analysis. If a cable operator submits its current basic cable
rate schedule as being in compliance with the FCC's reasonable rate standard,
the city council shall review the rates using the benchmark analysis in
accordance with the standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on the city
council's findings, the initial basic cable rates shall be established as
follows:
      1.   If the current basic cable rates are below the benchmark, those
rates shall become the initial basic cable rates and the cable operator's rates
will be capped at that level.
      2.   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, the rates
shall be the greater of the cable operator's per channel rate on September 30,
1992, reduced by ten percent, or the applicable benchmark, adjusted for
inflation and any change in the number of channels occurring between September
30, 1992 and the initial date of regulation.
      3.   If the current basic cable rates exceed the bendirrjark, but die
cable operator's per channel rate was below the benchmark on September 30,
1992, the initial basic cable rate shall be the benchmark, adjusted for
inflation.
   H.   Cost-of-Service Showings. If a cable operator does not wish to reduce
the rates to the permitted level, the cable operator shall have the or^rtunity
to submit a cost-of-service showing in an attempt to justify initial basic
cable rates above the FCC's reasonable rate standard. The city council will
review a cost-of-service submission pursuant to FCC standards for cost-of-
service review. The city council may approve initial basic cable rates above
the benchmark if the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a
cost-of-service determination resulting in rates below the benchmark or below
the cable operator's September 30,1992 rates minus ten percent, will prescribe
the cable operator's new rates.
   I.   Decision.
      1.   By Formal Resolution. After completion of its review of the cable
operator's proposed rates, the city council shall adopt its decision by formal
resolution. The decision shall include one of the following:
         a.   If the proposal is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard or
is justified by a cost-of-service analysis, the city council shall approve the
initial basic cable rates proposed by the cable operator; or
         b.   If the proposal is not within the FCC's reasonable rate standard
and the cost-of-service analysis, if any, does not justify the proposed rates,
the city council shall establish initial basic cable rates that are within the
FCC's resonable rate standard or that are justified by a cost-of-service
analysis.
      2.   Rollbacks and Refunds. If the city council determines that the
initial basic cable rates as submitted exceed the reasonable rate standard or
that the cable opreator's cost-of-service showing justifies lower rates, the
city council may order the rates reduced in accordance with subsection G or H
of this section, as applicable. In addition, the city council may order the
cable operator to pay to subscribers, refunds of the excessive portion of the
rates with interest (computed at applicable rates published by the Internal
Revenue Service for tax refunds and additional tax payments), retroactive to
September 1, 1993. The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will
be in accordance with FCC regulations as directed in the city council's
decision resolution.
      3.   Statement of Reasons for Decision and Public Notice. If rates
proposed by a cable operator are disapproved in whole or in part, or if there
were objections made by other parties to the proposed rates, the resolution
must state the reasons for the decision and the city council must give public
notice of its decision. Public notice will be given by advertisement once in
the official newspaper of the city.
   J.   Appeal. The city council's decision concerning rates for the basic
service tier or associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance
with applicable federal regulations. (Ord. 381 § 2, 1994)
5.60.030   Review of request for increase in basic cable rates.
   A.   Notice. A cable operator in the city who wishes to increase the rates
for the basic service tier or associated equipment shall file a request with
the city and notify all subscribers at least thirty days before the cable
operator desires the increase to take effect. This notice may not be given more
often than annually and not until at least one year after the determination of
the initial basic cable rates.
   B.   Expedited Determination and Public Hearing.
      1.   If the city council is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator's rate increase request for basic cable service is within the
FCC's reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable price cap, the
city council shall:
         a.   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         b.   Act to approve the rate increase within thirty days from the date
the cable operator filed its request with the city.
      2.   If the city council takes no action within thirty days from the date
the cable operator files its request with the city, the proposed rates will go
into effect.
   C.   Extended Review Period.
      1.   If the city council is unable to determine whether the rate increase
is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard based on the material before it or
if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the city council
shall, by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the following additional
periods of time, as applicable, to make a final determination:
         a.   Ninety days if the city council needs more time to ensure that
the requested increase is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard as
determined by the applicable price cap; and
         b.   One hundred fifty days if the cable operator has submitted a
cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate increase above the applicable
price cap.
      2.   The proposed rate increase is tolled during the extended review
period.
      3.   If the city council has not made a decision within the ninety or one
hundred fifty day period, the city council shall issue a brief written order at
the end of the period requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of
all amounts received by reason of the proposed rate increase and on whose
behalf the amounts are paid.
   D.   Public Hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the requested rate increase, the city council shall hold at least one
public hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   D.   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to the
proposed rate increase may request the city secretary to record the objection
during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing anytime before
the decision resolution is adopted, hi order for an objection to be made part
of the record, the objector must provide the city secretary with the objector's
name and address.
   E.   Delayed Determination. If the city council is unable to make a final
determination concerning a requested rate increase within the extended time
period, the cable operator may put the increase into effect, subject to
subsequent refund if the city council later issues a decision disapproving any
portion of the increase.
   F.   Price Cap Analysis. If a cable operator presents its request for a rate
increase as being in compliance with the FCC's price cap, the city council
shall review the rate using the price cap analysis in accordance with the
standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on the city council's fmdings, the
basic cable rates shall be established as follows:
      1.   If the proposed basic cable rate increase is within the price cap
established by the FCC, the proposed rates shall become the new basic cable
rates.
      2.   If the proposed basic cable rate increase exceeds the price cap
established by the FCC, the city council shall disapprove the proposed rate
increase and order an increase that is in compliance with the price cap.
   H.   Cost-of-Service Showings. If a cable operator submits a cost-of-service
showing in an attempt to justify a rate increase above the price cap, the city
council will review the submission pursuant the FCC standards for cost-of-
service review. The city council may approve a rate increase above the price
cap if the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a cost-of-
service determination resulting in a rate below the price cap or below the
cable operator's then current rate will prescribe the cable operator's new
rate.
   I.   Decision. The city council's decision concerning the requested rate
increase, shall be adopted by formal resolution. If a rate increase proposed by
a cable operator is disapproved in whole or in part, or if objections were made
by other parties to the proposed rate increase, the resolution must state the
reasons for the decisioa Objections may be made at the public hearing by a
person requesting the city secretary to record the objection or may be
submitted in writing at anytime before the decision resolution is adopted.
   J.   Refunds.
      1.   The city council may order refunds of subscribers' rate payments
with interest if:
         a.   The city council was unable to make a decision within the
extended time period as described in subsection C of this section; and
         b.   The cable operator implemented the rate increase at the end of
the extended review period; and
         c.   The city council determines that the rate increase as submitted
exceeds the applicable price cap or that the cable operator failed to justify
the rate increase by a cost-of-service showing, and the city council
disapproves any portion of the rate increase.
      2.   The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with FCC regulations as directed in the city council's decision
resolution.
   K.   Appeal. The city council's decision concerning rates for the basic
service tier or associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance
with applicable federal regulations. (Ord. 381 § 3, 1994)
5.60.040   Cable operator information.
   A.   City May Require.
      1.   In those cases when the cable operator has submitted initial rates
or proposed an increase that exceeds the reasonable rate standard, the city
council may require the cable operator to produce information in addition to
that submitted, including proprietary information, if needed to make a rate
determination. In these cases, a cable operator may request the information be
kept confidential in accordance with this section.
      2.   In cases where initial or proposed rates comply with the reasonable
rate standard, the city council may request additional irrformation only in
order to document that the cable operator's rates are in accord with the
standard.
   B.   Request for Confidentiality.
      1.   A cable operator submitting information to the city council may
request in writing that the information not be made routinely available for
public inspection. A copy of the request shall be attached to and cover all of
the information and all copies of the information to which it applies.
      2.   If feasible, the irrformation to which the request applies shall be
physically separated from any information to which the request does not apply.
If this is not feasible, the portion of the information to which the request
applies shall be identified.
      3.   Each request shall contain a statement of the reasons for
withholding inspection and a statement of the facts upon which those reasons
are based.
      4.   Casual requests which do not comply with the requirements of this
subsection, shall not be considered.
   C.   City Council Action. Requests which comply with the requirements of
subsection B of this section will be acted upon by the city council. The city
council will grant the request if the cable operator presents by a
preponderance of the evidence, a case for nondisclosure consistent with
applicable federal regulations. If the request is granted, the ruling will be
placed in a public file in lieu of the information withheld from public
inspection. If the request does not present a case for nondisclosure and the
city council denies the request, the city council shall take one of the
following actions:
      1.   If the information has been submitted voluntarily without any
direction from the city, the cable operator may request that the city return
the information without considering it. Ordinarily, the city will comply with
this request. Only in the unusual instance that the public interest so
requires, will the information be made available for public inspection.
      2.   If the information was required to be submitted by the city council,
the information will be made available for public inspection.
   D.   Appeal. If the city council denies the request for confidentiality, the
cable operator may seek review of that decision from the FCC within five
working days of the city council's decision, and the release of the information
will be stayed pending review. (Ord. 381 § 4, 1994)
5.60.050   Automatic rate adjustments.
   A.   Annual Inflation Adjustment. In accordance with FCC regulations, the
cable operator may adjust its capped base per channel rate for the basic
service tier annually by the final GNP-PI index.
   B.   Other External Costs.
      1.   The FCC regulations also allow the-cable operator to increase its
rate for the basic service tier automatically to reflect certain external cost
factors to the extent that the increase in cost of those factors exceeds the
GNP-PI. These factors include retransmission consent fees, programming costs,
state and local taxes applicable to the provision of cable television service,
and costs of franchise requirements. The total cost of an increase in a
franchise fee may be automatically added to the base per channel rate, without
regard to its relation to the GNP-PI.
      2.   For all categories of external costs other than retransmission
consent and franchise fees, the starting date for measuring changes in external
costs for which the basic service per channel rate may be adjusted will be the
date on which the basic service tier becomes subject to regulation or February
28, 1994, whichever occurs first. The permitted per channel charge may not be
adjusted for costs of retransmission consent fees or changes in those fees
incurred before October 6, 1994.
   C.   Notification and Review. The cable operator shall notify the city at
least thirty days in advance of a rate increase based on automatic adjustment
items. The city shall review the increase to determine whether the item or
items qualify as automatic adjustments. If the city makes no objection within
thirty days of receiving notice of the increase, the increase may go into
effect. (Ord. 381 § 5, 1994)
5.60.060   Enforcement.
   A.   Refunds. The city may order the cable operator to refund to subscribers
a portion of previously paid rates under the following circumstances:
      1.   A portion of the previously paid rates have been determined to be in
excess of the permitted tier charge or above the actual cost of equipment; or
      2.   The cable operator has failed to comply with a valid rate order
issued by the city.
   B.   Fines. If the cable operator fails to comply with a rate decision or
refund order, the cable operator shall be subject to a fine of five hundred
dollars for each day the cable operator fails to comply. (Ord. 381 § 6, 1994)
Title 6
ANIMALS
   Chapters:
      
6.04   General Provisions
      
6.08   Dogs
      
6.12   Cats
      
6.16   Livestock and Fowl
      
6.20   Rabies Control
      
6.24   Cruelty to Animals
Chapter 6.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sections:
   
6.04.010   Definitions.
   
6.04.020   Allowing animals to become a nuisance unlawful.
   
6.04.030   Keeping carcasses prohibited.
   
6.04.040   Keeping wild or vicious animals prohibited.
   
6.04.050   Animal bites—Report of attending physician or adult.
   
6.04.060   Violation—Penalties.
6.04.010   Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the meaning respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   "Animal" means any living creature, domestic or wild, including but not
limited to dogs and cats.
   "Animal establishment" means any pet shop, grooming shop, auction,
performing animal exhibition, kennel, or anima! shelter operated by other than
a government agency or veterinary medical facility.
   "At large" means any dog when he is off the property of his owner and not
under the control of a competent person.
   "Bite" or "bitten" means an actual puncture or tear of the skin inflicted by
the teeth of an animal.
   "Dog officer" means the person or persons employed by the city as its
enforcement officer for this chapter.
   "Exposed to rabies" means an animal has been bitten by any animal known or
believed to be infected with rabies.
   "Inoculations, vaccination, vaccination for rabies" means the inoculation of
a dog with a vaccine approved by the state Department of Public Health for use
in the prevention of rabies.
   "Kennel" means any person who:
      1.   Keeps or maintains five or more dogs and/or cats or combination of
eight or more cats and dogs of any age for more than thirty days within any
sixty-day period of time; or
      2.   Engages in the business of breeding, buying, selling or boarding
dogs and/or cats, or other animals; or
      3.   Engages in the training of dogs for any purpose, including guard or
sentry purposes.
   "Owner" means a person, association, partnership or corporation owning,
keeping or harboring animals.
   "Person" means an individual, partnership, company or corporation, or any
association or institution commonly recognized by law as a unit, or agent or
employee of any of the above described.
   Person Legally Authorized To Vaccinate Dogs. Dogs and other animals shall be
vaccinated for rabies only by a licensed graduate veterinarian.
   "Pet shop" means any person, as defined in this section, engaged in the
business of buying or selling, at retail, dogs or cats for profit-making
purposes.
   "Pound" means an animal shelter or other establishment designated by the
city administrative authority for the purpose of impounding and caring for
animals held under the authority of this chapter.
   “Restraint” An animal shall be deemed to be under restraint if on the
premises of his owner and unable to run at large because of restrictions of its
activities by means of an adequate fence, leash, chain or muzzle, or if
accompanied by a responsible person and under that persons direct control.
   "Spayed female dog" means a female dog which has been operated upon by a
licensed veterinarian to prevent conception, as attested to by a signed
certificate that the operation has been performed.
   "Vicious animal" means any dog or cat or other animal that constitutes a
physical threat to humans or other domestic animals. (Ord. 332 (part), 1985:
prior code §§ 10-1-7*, 10-3-1)
* Editor's Note: Ords. 327 and 332 both added prior code sections numbered 10-
1-7.
6.04.020   Allowing animals to become a nuisance unlawful.
   It is unlawful for the owner or person having custody of any dog or other
animal, either wilfully or through failure to exercise due care or control, to
permit any animal to become a nuisance through:
   A.   Continuous, frequently recurring, or persistent howling, barking,
whining, or other noise or disturbance; or
   B.   Molesting, attacking or interfering with persons in the public right-
of-way; or
   C.   Chasing vehicles or attacking or fighting with other domestic animals;
or
   D.   Animals kept or maintained in such a manner or in such number as to:
      1.   Disturb by noxious or offensive odor, or
      2.   Damage, soil, defile or defecate on private property other than the
owner's, or upon public walks and recreation areas, or
      3.   Cause unsanitary, dangerous or offensive conditions upon owner's
property;
   E.   Or otherwise disturb the comfort or repose or endanger the health and
welfare of any of the inhabitants of, or visitors to, the affected area of the
city. (Ord. 332 (part), 1985: prior code § 10-1-6)
6.04.030   Keeping carcasses prohibited.
   It is unlawful for anyone to keep the carcass of any dead animal within the
city. (Prior code § 10-1-5)
6.04.040   Keeping wild or vicious animals prohibited.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to keep, or permit to be kept on his
premises, any wild animal or any vicious animal, for any purpose whatsoever,
including for display and for exhibition purposes, whether gratuitous or for a
fee when he knows, or should have known, that such animal may attack and injure
humans or attack and injure other domestic animals.
   B.   It shall be the duty of any person who is the owner or keeper of a
vicious animal, to immediately cause such vicious animal to be killed, or to
surrender the animal to the dog officer to be killed and failure to do so is
unlawful.
   C.   In the event the court determines the animal to be vicious, regardless
of whether the owner or person having custody of the vicious animal is found in
violation of this section and whether any fine or imprisonment be imposed on
the owner or person having custody of the vicious animal, the court shall order
the dog officer to destroy the vicious animal. It shall be the duty of the dog
officer to capture the vicious animal wherever found, including upon owner's
premises, and promptly destroy the animal. (Ord. 336 (part), 1985: Ord. 332
(part), 1985: prior code § 10-1-8)
6.04.050   Animal bites—Report of attending physician or adult.
   A.   Every physician shall, within twelve hours after his first professional
attendance upon any person bitten by a dog, cat or other animal, report to the
state Health Department and to the city clerk the name, age, sex and address of
the person bitten and the type and location of the bite. If possible the
physician shall also report the address where the bite occurred, the name and
address of the owner of the dog and the description and immunization status of
the dog.
   B.   The parent or guardian of a child bitten by a dog, cat or other animal,
where no physician attends such child, shall within twelve hours after first
having knowledge that the child was bitten, report to the state Health
Department and to the city clerk the name, age, sex and address of the child so
bitten and the type and location of the bite. If possible the parent or
guardian shall also report the address where the bite occurred, the name and
address of the owner of the dog and the description and immunization status of
the dog.
   C.   If an adult is bitten by a dog, cat or other animal and no physician
attends him, the adult or, if he is incapacitated, the person caring for him,
shall report to the state health department and to the city clerk the name,
age, sex and the address of the adult bitten and the type and location of the
bite. If possible the adult shall also report the address where the bite
occurred, the name and address of the owner of the dog and the description and
immunization status of the dog. The report shall be made within twelve hours
after the adult was bitten, or if he is incapacitated, the report shall be made
within twelve hours after the person caring for him shall first have knowledge
that the adult was bitten. (Prior code §§ 10-3-13—10-3-15)
6.04.060   Violation—Penalties.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not less than twenty-five
dollars nor more than three hundred dollars. If any violation is continuing,
each day's violation shall be deemed a separate violation. (Ord. 336 (part),
1985: Ord. 332 (part), 1985: prior code § 10-3-46)
Chapter 6.08
DOGS
Sections:
   
6.08.010   Vaccination required annually.
   
6.08.020   Vaccination certificates and tags.
   
6.08.030   Vaccinations—Duties of person performing.
   
6.08.040   Tags.
   
6.08.050   Replacement of lost tags.
   
6.08.060   Change of ownership— Transfer of registration.
   
6.08.070   Official registry of all inoculated dogs.
   
6.08.080   Rabies symptoms and procedures listed on certificate.
   
6.08.090   Imported dogs—Requirements.
   
6.08.100   Exceptions to vaccination requirements.
   
6.08.110   Kennels—Licenses required—Regulations.
   
6.08.120   Pound facilities.
   
6.08.130   Impoundment—Emergency facilities.
   
6.08.140   Impoundment—Care of dogs.
   
6.08.150   Impoundment—Notification of owner.
   
6.08.160   Impoundment—Time period.
   
6.08.170   Release of impounded dogs—Proof of ownership.
   
6.08.180   Release of impounded dogs—Vaccination required.
   
6.08.190   Sale of unclaimed dogs.
   
6.08.200   Disposition of unclaimed dogs.
   
6.08.210   Unlawful disposition of impounded dogs.
   
6.08.220   Disposition of repeat offenders.
   
6.08.230   Running at large prohibited.
   
6.08.236   Tying, tethering and fencing.
   
6.08.240   Confinement of certain dogs required.
   
6.08.250   Liability for damage.
   
6.08.260   Abandonment prohibited.
   
6.08.270   Dogs deemed vicious.
   
6.08.280   Concealing or removing a dog known to have bitten person.
   
6.08.290   Seeing-eye dogs.
   
6.08.300   Violations—Interfering with enforcement officer.
6.08.010   Vaccination required annually.
   It shall be the duty of every person who owns or harbors any dog or dogs
three months of age or over in the city to have such dog or dogs inoculated
annually, if the vaccine is licensed only for one-year use, or triannually, if
the vaccine is licensed for three-year use, and shall present evidence of such
vaccination each year when applying for a license for such animal. (Ord. 455,
2004; amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 10-3-2)
6.08.020   Vaccination certificates and tags.
   A.   The city shall prepare certificates in triplicate form, together with
corresponding tags, for distribution to persons legally authorized to vaccinate
dogs, with space for the following information and for such other information
as the city may require to be filled in by person legally authorized to
vaccinate dogs:
      1.   The name and address of the owner or harborer of the inoculated dog;
      2.   The date of the inoculation;
      3.   The year and series number of the dog tag;
      4.   The breed, age, color and sex of the inoculated dog;
      5.   The type and brand name of rabies vaccine used.
   B.   The tag shall be made of durable material suitable to be attached to
the collar or harness of the inoculated dog. Such tag shall bear the name "City
of Lovington" and shall state the year for which issued and the series number
of the certificate and tag. The tag shall be a distinctive color and shape each
year so that the city dog officer can readily ascertain that a dog bearing the
tag is legally registered. Such tags and certificates shall be prepared and
distributed by the city to persons legally authorized to vaccinate dogs for a
fee of one dollar for each tag, of which such person shall retain twenty-five
cents for his services in issuing such tags. This fee shall in turn be
collected from the owner by the person administering the vaccination and shall
be exclusive of the fee charged for the vaccine and its application. (Prior
code § 10-3-3)
6.08.030   Vaccinations—Duties of person performing.
   It shall be the duty of each person legally authorized to perform
vaccination on dogs when inoculating any dog to fill out in triplicate the
certificate obtained from the city with the information required by Section
6.08.020 and immediately present one copy to the owner or harborer of the
inoculated dog and to mail one copy to the office of the city clerk within five
days from the date of the inoculation. The remaining copy of the certificate
shall be retained by the person performing the vaccination. At the time of the
inoculation of any dog, the person performing the vaccination shall also
deliver to the owner or harborer of such dog the tag obtained from the city as
evidence of such inoculation. (Prior code § 10-3-4)
6.08.040   Tags.
   A.   Every owner or harborer of a dog shall attach the tag evidencing
registration and inoculation with anti-rabies vaccine to the collar or harness
of the inoculated dog, and such collar or harness shall be worn by the dog at
all times. Only those persons who own or harbor a dog duly registered and
vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be permitted
to possess the certificates and tags provided in this chapter.
   B.   No person may affix a tag evidencing vaccination as provided in this
chapter to the collar or harness of any dog except the tag issued for that dog
at the time of vaccination. No tag or similar insignia shall be worn by
unvaccinated dogs which are not clearly distinguishable from the official
vaccination tag.
   C.   The copy of the registration vaccination certificate shall be retained
by the owner or harborer of the inoculated dog for inspection by the authorized
representatives of the city. (Prior code§ 10-3-5)
6.08.050   Replacement of lost tags.
   In the event a vaccination-registration tag is lost or stolen, the owner of
the dog may procure a duplicate tag from the police department on the payment
of the sum of one dollar. (Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 10-3-
8)
6.08.060   Change of ownership—Transfer of registration.
   A.   If there is a change of ownership of a dog during the registration
year, the new owner may have the current registration transferred to his name
upon the payment of a transfer fee of $10.
   B.   No person shall use for any dog a certificate or a vaccination-
registration tag issued for another dog. (Ord. 502, 2011)
6.08.070   Official registry of all inoculated dogs.
   The police department shall file and register copies of certificates
received as provided in Section
6.08.020 and retain and file the same as the official registry of all dogs
inoculated with anti-rabies vaccine in the city. Such vaccination-registration
shall be valid for the period of the current calendar year and January and
February of the following year. (Amended during 1992 codification: prior code §
10-3-6)
6.08.080   Rabies symptoms and procedures listed on certificate.
   Every certificate issued to the owner of a dog shall have a description of
the symptoms of rabies printed thereon and the procedures to follow if the
owner suspects that his dog has rabies. (Prior code § 10-3-7)
6.08.090   Imported dogs-Requirements.
   All dogs which are brought into the city shall be in compliance with the
laws and rules and regulations of the state regarding the handling of the
animal and shall have been vaccinated not less than thirty days nor more than
twelve months prior to importation. A metal tag denoting vaccination shall be
firmly affixed to the collar or harness of the dog and shall be evidence of
compliance with this section. If the imported dog remains in the city more than
thirty days, the dog shall be registered in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   Any legally acceptable certificate of vaccination by a licensed
veterinarian, issued by a legally authorized person to the owner of the dog in
any municipality, county or state, shall be exchanged for a current
vaccination-registration tag of the city. (Prior code § 10-3-10)
6.08.100   Exceptions to vaccination requirements.
   The vaccination-registration requirements of this chapter shall not apply to
any dog belonging to a nonresident of the city and kept within the city for no
longer than thirty days; provided, such dog shall at all times while in the
city be kept within a building or vehicle or be under restraint by the owner.
(Prior code § 10-3-11)
6.08.110   Kennels—Licenses required—Regulations.
   A.   Any person who keeps or operates or proposes to establish a kennel
shall apply to the city clerk for a license entitling him to keep or operate
such establishment.
   B.   The application shall describe the premises where the establishment is
located or is proposed to be located, and the purpose or purposes for which it
is to be maintained.
   C.   All kennels shall in addition to the other requirements of this chapter
comply with the minimum standards by the dog officer or other person designated
by city administrative authority. Failure to meet the standards shall be
grounds for denial of a permit or revocation of a permit.
   D.   Every person owning or operating a kennel who does not individually
register each dog therein shall be exempt from any individual dog vaccination-
registration requirements, as provided in this chapter, if the dogs so kenneled
are kept under proper confinement on the premises, and if such dogs are taken
at large, they must be on a leash and under the control of a person who can
reasonably be expected to retain such dogs in his custody and under his
control.
   E.   Hospitals, clinics and other premises operated by licensed
veterinarians for the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the
provisions of this section.
   F.   No person, group of persons, or business entity within the city may
own, keep or harbor more than five dogs, more than five cats, or more than a
total of eight dogs or cats in any combination more than three months in age or
older without obtaining a kennel license and complying with these provisions
with respect to establishing and operating a kennel.
   G.   Whether or not fees are charged to the public, persons operating a
kennel must obtain a nontransferable kennel license, which shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in the kennel. A kennel license shall expire on December 31st
of each year and shall be renewed by February 1st of the following year. No
kennel license may be issued without an inspection certificate issued by the
city manager or his or her designated agent. The annual kennel license fee
shall be five dollars. (Amended during 1992 codification: Ord. 332 (part),
1985: prior code § 10-3-12)
6.08.120   Pound facilities.
   It shall be the duty of the city to maintain or provide for the maintenance
of a municipal dog pound for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing the
provisions of this chapter. Such a municipal pound shall include at least the
following services and facilities:
   A.   Adequate pickup and impounding of all stray and ownerless dogs, and
dogs otherwise in violation of the provisions of this chapter;
   B.   Groupholding facilities for stray, ownerless and unvaccinated dogs
impounded for violation of the provisions of this chapter;
   C.   Individual isolation facilities for sick, biting, rabid and suspected
rabid animals;
   D.   Facilities for the humane destruction of all unwanted and unclaimed
animals. (Prior code § 10-3-27)
6.08.130   Impoundment—Emergency facilities.
   All dogs impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall be housed and
cared for at the municipal dog pound; provided, however, that during an
emergency period when pound facilities are inadequate, the dog officer is
authorized to make provisions for additional housing and care elsewhere. (Prior
code § 10-3-35)
6.08.140   Impoundment—Care of dogs.
   All dogs impounded shall be properly housed, fed, watered and cared for and
it shall be the duty of the city to make provision for all necessary
facilities, food, water, vehicles and other equipment required to carry out the
provisions of this chapter. (Prior code § 10-3-28)
6.08.150   Impoundment—Notification of owner.
   Upon the impounding of any dog, it shall be the duty of the city dog officer
or his authorized representatives to notify the owner of the dog impounded if
the owner is known. If the owner is not known, there shall be posted at once in
the municipal dog pound and police bulletin board at the city hall a notice
containing a description of the dog impounded. (Prior code § 10-3-29)
6.08.160   Impoundment—Time period.
   All dogs impounded shall be kept for a period of three days unless sooner
redeemed by their respective owners, and a fraction of a day shall be computed
as being a full day for the purposes of this section. (Prior code § 10-3-30)
6.08.170   Release of impounded dogs—Proof of ownership.
   It is the duty of the dog officer or his authorized representative to
release any dog from the municipal dog pound upon receipt of satisfactory proof
of ownership thereof, upon payment of a pound service fee of $15 for each day
that the dog has been impounded, and upon presentation of proof of vaccination
for rabies and proper registration of the dog in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 502, 2011)
6.08.180   Release of impounded dogs—Vaccination required.
   It shall be the duty of the city to provide access to facilities for rabies
vaccination and registration of impounded dogs at the municipal dog pound or at
such other places as may be used for the care and shelter of impounded dogs so
that all impounded dogs may be vaccinated against rabies prior to the release
of the dogs by the city dog officer. (Prior code § 10-3-34)
6.08.190   Sale of unclaimed dogs.
   After notice has been given and after three days of impounding has expired,
then such dog may be released to any person upon payment of a pound service fee
of $25 and upon presentation of written proof of vaccination-registration of
the dog in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Dogs released from
the pound must be spayed or neutered. (Ord. 502, 2011)
6.08.200   Disposition of unclaimed dogs.
   Unclaimed and unadopted dogs shall be humanely destroyed by the dog officer
or his duly authorized representatives. (Prior code § 10-3-33)
6.08.210   Unlawful disposition of impounded dogs.
   It is unlawful for any person to release any dog impounded in the city dog
pound. It is unlawful for the city poundkeeper to make any disposition of any
dog impounded by him except through redemption, sale or destruction of such dog
as provided in this chapter. (Prior code § 10-3-42)
6.08.220   Disposition of repeat offenders.
   Upon the impounding of any dog in the city dog pound for the fifth time
within any fiscal year of the city, the owner thereof shall forfeit all rights
to such dog and it shall be subject to the disposition provided in this chapter
for dogs impounded and not redeemed within seventy-two hours. (Prior code § 10-
3-41)
6.08.230   Running at large prohibited.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person owning, harboring or having the custody,
control or possession of any dog to cause or permit such dog to:
      1.   Be in or upon any street, alley or other public place, or in or upon
any unenclosed premises unless such dog is continuously controlled by a
competent person;
      2.   Commit any damage or nuisance upon the property of any other person
or upon a public street, alley or other public place.
   B.   When dogs are found running at large and their ownership can be
ascertained by the dog officer, such dogs need not be impounded, but the dog
officer in his discretion can take the dogs to their owners and may cite such
offending owners for violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   When dogs are found running at large and their ownership cannot be
ascertained by the dog officer, such dogs are to be impounded in the city pound
and dealt with according to Sections
6.08.130 through
6.08.190. (Prior code § 10-3-36)
6.08.236   Tying, tethering and fencing.
   No dog(s) shall be tied or tethered on anyone’s property. Any person owning
a dog must have a fenced area for said dog that will be sufficient to contain
the animal. (Ord. 502, 2011)
6.08.240   Confinement of certain dogs required.
   The owner shall confine within a building or secure enclosure every fierce,
dangerous or vicious dog and not take such dog out of such building or secure
enclosure unless such dog is securely muzzled and restrained.
   Every female dog in heat shall be kept confined in a building or secure
enclosure or in a veterinary hospital or boarding kennel in such manner that
such female dog cannot come in contact with another animal, except for breeding
purposes. It is mandatory for the dog officer to cite into court the owner of
any female dog who permits such dog to be at large while in season. (Prior code
§ 10-3-37)
6.08.250   Liability for damage.
   If any dog shall do any damage to either the body or property of any person,
the owner or keeper or, if the owner or keeper be a minor, the parent or
guardian of such minor, shall be liable for such damage unless the damage was
occasioned to the body or property of a person who, at the time the damage was
sustained, was committing a trespass or other tort or was teasing, tormenting
or abusing such dog. (Prior code § 10-3-38)
6.08.260   Abandonment prohibited.
   Any person who wilfully abandons his dog within the city is guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Prior code § 10-3-39)
6.08.270   Dogs deemed vicious.
   Every dog shall be deemed fierce, dangerous and vicious that shall run
after, chase, bite or attempt to bite any person. (Prior code § 10-3-44)
6.08.280   Concealing or removing a dog known to have bitten person.
   It is unlawful for any person, the owner or custodian of a dog which has
bitten a person, to remove such dog from the city prior to the termination of
the period of two weeks after such dog has bitten a person. It is unlawful for
any person to conceal the whereabouts of a dog which has bitten a person from
the officers of the city authorized to take such dog into custody as provided
in this chapter. (Prior code § 10-3-43)
6.08.290   Seeing-eye dogs.
   A dog trained to aid or assist the blind, when accompanied by a blind
person, shall be permitted in any public building and hotel or any public
conveyance in the city. (Prior code § 10-3-45)
6.08.300   Violations—Interfering with enforcement officer.
   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or prevent
the dog officer or his duly authorized representatives in the discharge of
their duties as prescribed in this chapter, or to violate any of the provisions
of this chapter. (Prior code § 10-3-40)
Chapter 6.12
CATS
Sections:
   
6.12.010   Licenses.
   
6.12.020   Vaccination required annually.
   
6.12.030   Running at large prohibited.
   
6.12.040   Abating a nuisance.
   
6.12.050   Impoundment.
   
6.12.060   Enforcement.
   
6.12.070   Violation—Owner liable.
6.12.010   Licenses.
   A.   No person shall own, keep, harbor or permit any cat within the city
limits unless such cat has been licensed by the city as provided in this
chapter.
   B.   The owner or person keeping or maintaining any cat in the city shall
pay an annual license fee to the city for each cat. All cat licenses shall be
issued for one year, ending on the 31 st day of December of each year. Persons
applying for a license from January 1st through June 30th of each year shall
pay a fee of two dollars and fifty cents for the license.
   C.   With each cat license issued, the city clerk or the person issuing such
license shall deliver to the owner a metallic stamp with the number of the
license to be worn by the cat for which it is issued at all times attached to a
collar or harness upon the animal. (Prior code § 10-4-1)
6.12.020   Vaccination required annually.
   It shall be the duty of every person who owns or harbors any cat or cats
three months of age or over in the city to have such cat or cats inoculated
annually, if the vaccine is licensed only for one-year use, or triannually, if
the vaccine is licensed for three-year use, and shall present evidence of such
vaccination each year when applying for a license for such animal. (Ord.
454,2004; amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 10-4-3)
6.12.030   Running at large prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any owner, possessor or keeper of any cat in the city to
permit the same to run at large within the city. (Prior code § 10-4-2)
6.12.040   Abating a nuisance.
   Upon complaint of any person residing upon premises adjacent to or in the
vicinity of any premises where any cat is maintained which cat is creating a
nuisance by excessive noise, it shall be the duty of the owner, keeper or
possessor of such cat to confine the same, within an enclosure sufficient to
abate such noise and nuisance. (Prior code § 10-4-4)
6.12.050   Impoundment.
   Cats not licensed and/or not vaccinated for rabies and cats running at large
may be caught and impounded in the dog and cat pound provided by the city and,
if not redeemed by the owner within seventy-two hours, such dogs and cats may
be destroyed by the city poundman or the humane officer. In order to redeem any
cat impounded under the provisions of this chapter the owner or person keeping
such cat must appear within seventy-two hours, pay the cost of the cat license,
if the animal is not licensed, furnish satisfactory evidence of vaccination or
pay to have the cat vaccinated, if the animal has not been vaccinated for
rabies, pay the impoundment fee of five dollars and the costs of care and
feeding in the amount of three dollars a day. (Prior code § 10-4-5)
6.12.060   Enforcement.
   For the purpose of enforcing this chapter, the city poundman and any police
officer of the city with valid consent, a search warrant or adequate
justification to proceed without a warrant is authorized to enter upon any
premises in which a cat is kept or harbored. Such authorized officers may
require the owner or person keeping or harboring any cat to exhibit to such
officers the license and vaccination certificate for such cat. The poundman and
any police officer of the city may impound any cat not licensed or vaccinated
and any cat running at large. (Amended during 1992 codification: prior code §
10-4-6)
6.12.070   Violation—Owner liable.
   In prosecutions for violations of this chapter it shall not be necessary in
order to obtain a conviction to prove notice or knowledge on the part of the
owner, possessor or keeper of the animal in question that such animal was in
violation of the provisions of this chapter. It is the purpose and intent of
this section to impose strict liability upon the owner, possessor or keeper of
such animal to see that all provisions of this chapter are complied with.
(Prior code § 10-4-7)
Chapter 6.16
LIVESTOCK AND FOWL
Sections:
   
6.16.010   Definitions
   
6.16.020   Keeping livestock and fowl prohibited.
   
6.16.030   Keeping livestock prohibited— Exemptions.
   
6.16.040   Pigpens prohibited.
   
6.16.050   Declaring nuisances.
6.16.010   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter:
   "Fowl" means any and all turkeys, geese, guineas, chickens, birds and all
other fowl, domestic and wild, male and female, singular and plural, except
pets confined in the residence proper.
   "Livestock" means and includes all cattle, sheep, swine, horses, mules,
asses and goats and all other domesticated and undomesticated animals including
rabbits, with the exception of dogs and cats. (Ord. 327 (part), 1984: prior
code §§ 10-1-9, 10-2-1)
6.16.020   Keeping livestock and fowl prohibited.
   The keeping, confining or maintaining of livestock or fowl within the city
limits without prior authority to do so is declared a nuisance and unlawful.
(Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 10-1-7*)
* Editor's Note: Ords. 327 and 332 both added sections numbered 10-1-7.
6.16.030   Keeping livestock prohibited—Exemptions.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person owning any real estate within the city to
permit any livestock to be or remain on such property for a period of more than
twenty-four hours and it is likewise unlawful for any person owning, leasing or
having possession of any real estate within the city to possess, keep, maintain
or permit any livestock to remain upon any such real estate owned, leased or
possessed by such person for a period of more than twenty-four hours.
   B.   Except as provided in Section
6.16.040, there shall be excepted from the application of the provisions of
this section the property owned, leased or possessed by any person under the
following conditions and circumstances:
      1.   That the premises upon which such livestock is kept and maintained
is more than three hundred feet from the nearest premises occupied for
residential or commercial purposes by any other person residing within the city
or if such livestock is maintained on pasture or other grazing land where the
major portion of the acreage of such grazing tract be located more than three
hundred feet from the nearest occupied premises;
      2.   That the premises upon which such livestock are kept or maintained
are securely fenced so that such livestock will not escape therefrom;
      3.   That the premises is kept and maintained in a clean and wholesome
manner as not to endanger the health of the inhabitants of the city and become
noxious, offensive or a nuisance;
      4.   That Chinese or Vietnamese miniature potbellied pigs may be kept as
pets, but only on the following conditions:
         a.   Potbellied pigs shall be annually licensed and shall pay the
annual license fee required for cats and dogs within the city.
         b.   No household shall have more than two potbellied pigs at any
given time.
         c.   No breeding shall occur for sale, resale or for any other
purposes.
         d.   No sale or resale of the potbellied pigs shall occur.
         e.   The pigs shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
         f.   The pigs shall be kept indoors or in a well fenced area.
         g.   Each potbellied pig be registered with the potbellied pig
registry or other appropriate registry.
   C.   In the event the city commission, by resolution, either upon its own
motion or petition filed by any interested person, determines that any of the
above conditions have not been fully complied with at all times, it shall
thereafter be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or possess any
livestock upon such premises and the decision of the city commission shall be
final. (Ord. 385, 1994; Ord. 382, 1994; prior code § 10-2-2)
6.16.040   Pigpens prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to maintain any pigpens within the city.
(Prior code § 10-2-3)
6.16.050   Declaring nuisances.
   The city commission determines whether the keeping, possessing or
maintaining of any livestock contrary to the provisions of this chapter is and
shall constitute a nuisance and such nuisance may be abated summarily or by any
of the remedies provided by law for the abatement of nuisances. (Prior code §
10-2-4)
Chapter 6.20
RABIES CONTROL
Sections:
   
6.20.010   Veterinarian's duty to report.
   
6.20.020   Animal bitten by rabid animal—Duty to report.
   
6.20.030   Confinement of animals suspected of exposure.
   
6.20.040   Confinement of animal which has bitten person.
   
6.20.050   Examination of confined animals by agent of city.
   
6.20.060   Examination of animals suspected of infection by veterinarian.
   
6.20.070   Release of confined animals.
   
6.20.080   Quarantine order.
   
6.20.090   Quarantine-Duration— Modification— Restrictions.
   
6.20.100   Quarantine—Authority to kill dogs at large.
   
6.20.110   Quarantine—Exception for seeing-eye dogs.
6.20.010   Veterinarian's duty to report.
   It shall be the duty of every licensed veterinarian in the city to report to
the state Health Department and to the city clerk his diagnosis of any animal
observed by him as a rabies suspect. (Prior code § 10-3-16)
6.20.020   Animal bitten by rabid animal—Duty to report.
   Whenever a dog, cat or other animal is affected by rabies or suspected of
being affected by rabies or has been bitten by an animal known or suspected to
be affected by rabies, the owner of the animal or any person having knowledge
thereof shall forthwith notify the state health department and the city clerk,
giving a description of the animal and stating precisely where the animal may
be found. (Prior code § 10-3-17)
6.20.030   Confinement of animals suspected of exposure.
   The city within its jurisdiction shall serve a notice in writing upon the
owner or person in charge of a dog, cat or other animal known or suspected to
have been bitten by an animal known or suspected of being affected by rabies,
requiring the owner or person in charge of the animal to kill it or confine it
for a period of not less than six months. Any dog that has been vaccinated by
some person legally authorized to do so at least one month before being bitten
but not more than one year before shall be confined for ninety days. At the end
of the respective periods of confinement such dogs shall be released if
examined and declared free of rabies by a licensed graduate veterinarian or by
the city dog officer if no veterinarian is available. (Prior code § 10-3-18)
6.20.040   Confinement of animal which has bitten person.
   The city within it jurisdiction shall serve notice upon the owner of or
person in charge of a dog, cat or other animal which has bitten a person so as
to cause an abrasion of the skin, to confine the animal at the expense of the
owner or person in charge of it at the city dog pound or at a veterinary
hospital within Lea County, for at least ten days after the animal has attacked
or bitten a person. If the owner of or person in charge of a dog or cat or
other animal which has bitten a person so as to cause an abrasion of the skin
produces a valid and unexpired certificate of vaccination for the animal issued
under Section 77-1-3, N.M.S.A, 1978 Comp., as amended, evidencing vaccination
at least three weeks prior to the bite, then the owner of or person in charge
of such animal shall be permitted to keep the animal at his own premises for
the required period of ten days if the district health officer has declared the
city a rabies-free area. No animal may be released from confinement except by a
person designated by the district health officer. (Amended during 1992
codification: Ord. 265, 1977: prior code § 10-3-19)
6.20.050   Examination of confined animals by agent of city.
   The dog officer or the duly authorized agent of the city within its
jurisdiction shall be permitted by the owner or person in charge of a dog, cat
or other animal which has bitten a person, to examine the animal at any time,
and daily if desired, within a period of ten days after the animal has bitten a
person to determine whether the animal shows signs of rabies. (Prior code § 10-
3-20)
6.20.060   Examination of animals suspected of infection by veterinarian.
   If the animal under observation shows any signs which might be an indication
of an infection with rabies the animal shall be examined by a licensed
veterinarian. If the animal is diagnosed as being rabid or suspected by the
veterinarian as being rabid, it shall be allowed to die and shall not be
killed. Upon the death of the animal the dog officer shall immediately send the
head of the animal, under suitable refrigeration, to the state Department of
Public Health laboratory in Albuquerque for pathological examination and shall
notify the state health department and the city clerk of the diagnosis made of
the suspected animal. (Prior code § 10-3-21)
6.20.070   Release of confined animals.
   An animal confined for observation under order of the city shall not be
released until a certificate of release has been issued by the city dog
officer. (Prior code § 10-3-22)
6.20.080   Quarantine order.
   Whenever the city or any officer thereof has reason to believe or has been
notified by the state Department of Public Health that there is danger that
rabies exists and may spread within its jurisdiction, it shall publish a notice
in the official newspaper or newspapers of the city that all persons within its
jurisdiction owning or having charge of any dog be required to confine such
dog. Other animals may be included in the order whenever, in the opinion of the
officials of the city, this is thought to be necessary. (Prior code § 10-3-23)
6.20.090   Quarantine—Duration— Modification— Restrictions.
   A.   When such a quarantine is established, it shall be for a minimum of one
hundred twenty days after the occurrence of the last known case of rabies in
the quarantine area.
   B.   Following issuance of the quarantine order the city may authorize
modification of the quarantine order with such provisions as may be deemed
adequate or necessary for the control of the disease in the area found to be
involved.
   C.   No animal subject to a quarantine order or a modified quarantine order
shall be removed from the quarantine area during the duration of the quarantine
without the written permission of the city. (Prior code § 10-3-24)
6.20.100   Quarantine—Authority to kill dogs at large.
   When a quarantine order has been issued and dogs continue to run at large,
uncontrolled by owners or persons responsible for their control, any law
enforcement officer shall have the right, after reasonable effort has been made
on the part of the dog officer or his agents to apprehend and impound such dogs
running at large, to kill such dogs and properly dispose of their bodies.
(Prior code § 10-3-25)
6.20.110   Quarantine—Exception for seeing-eye dogs.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter a guide dog serving a
blind master shall not be quarantined, in the absence of evidence that he has
been exposed to rabies, unless his master fails to:
   A.   Keep him safely confined to the premises of his master, or under proper
restraint;
   B.   Keep him available for examination at all reasonable times. (Prior code
§ 10-3-26)
Chapter 6.24
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Sections:
   
6.24.010   Failure to provide food and shelter—Carrying animal in cruel manner.
   
6.24.020   Abandonment.
   
6.24.030   Poisoning.
   
6.24.040   Diseased or crippled animals.
6.24.010   Failure to provide food and shelter—Carrying animal in cruel manner.
   No person shall fail, refuse or neglect to provide any animal in his charge
or custody as owner or otherwise with proper food, drink or shelter, nor shall
any person carry any animal in or upon any vehicle or otherwise in a cruel or
inhuman manner. (Prior code § 10-1-1)
6.24.020   Abandonment
   No person shall abandon any animal nor shall any person allow the same to be
loaded or driven nor shall any person keep or treat any animal in a cruel
manner. (Prior code § 10-1-2)
6.24.030   Poisoning.
   No person shall place, leave or expose, in any place accessible to birds,
fowl, domestic animals, dogs, cats, or other such animals, with the intent to
kill or harm such birds, fowl, or animals, any poisonous or deleterious
substance or ingredient, or any edible or any other substance or ingredient
which has been in any manner treated or prepared with any poisonous substance
or ingredient. (Prior code § 10-1-3)
6.24.040   Diseased or crippled animals.
   No person shall have, keep, or harbor any animal which is known or believed
by him to be infected with any dangerous or communicable disease or which is in
an incurable, painful, crippled condition or which is afflicted with any
painful disease which is believed by such person to be incurable, except as
provided in this chapter. (Prior code § 10-1-4)
Title 7
RESERVED
Title 8
HEALTH AND SAFETY
   Chapters:
      
8.04   Food and Food Products
      
8.08   Restaurants
      
8.12   Smoking
      
8.16   Garbage, Refuse, Weeds and Litter
      
8.20   Fireworks and Explosives
      
8.24   Ambulance Service
      
8.28   Nuisances
      
8.30   Oil and Gas Wells and Pipelines
      
8.32   Minimum Housing Standards
Chapter 8.04
FOOD AND FOOD PRODUCTS
Sections:
   
8.04.010   Milk and milk products.
   
8.04.020   Imported meat.
   
8.04.030   Violation—Penalties.
   
8.04.040   Sale of fruits and vegetables.
   
8.04.050   Sale of impure food prohibited.
8.04.010   Milk and milk products.
   A.   As used in this section, "Grade A pasteurized milk" and "Grade A
pasteurized milk products" mean milk or milk products made from milk having a
bacteria plate count not in excess of twenty thousand per milliliter or a
coliform count not exceeding ten per milliliter and which milk or milk products
are processed in compliance with the requirements for Grade A pasteurized milk
and milk products as promulgated by the New Mexico Department of Health and
Social Services' Regulations Governing the Grading and Grade Labeling of Milk
and Milk Products, adopted by the state Board of Public Health on February 12,
1956, and subsequent amendments thereto.
   B.   No person shall sell or offer for sale within the city any milk or milk
products except those qualifying as Grade A pasteurized milk or milk products.
(Ord. 355 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-301)
8.04.020   Imported meat.
   A.   As used in this section, "imported meat" means all fresh, frozen or
processed meat other than fish or poultry which originated in any state, nation
or country outside the continental United States of America with the exception
of Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.
   B.   No person shall sell, offer for sale, display for sale or advertise for
sale within the city any imported meat unless such meat shall be labeled as
imported meat, and shall have been slaughtered, processed and handled in
conformity with "The Wholesome Meat Act of 1967" as enforced by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture. (Ord. 355 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-351)
8.04.030   Violation—Penalties.
   Any person violating Sections
8.04.010 or
8.04.020 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined not exceeding three hundred dollars or by
imprisonment not exceeding ninety days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute
a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 355 (part),
1988: prior code § 4-5-352)
8.04.040   Sale of fruits and vegetables.
   All merchants and dealers in berries, fruits and vegetables and other
articles of human food that may ordinarily be eaten without cooking shall, at
ail times while such merchandise is on sale, keep such berries, vegetables and
food in a compartment or receptacle that is and may be kept absolutely free
from the common housefly. (Prior code § 7-3-10)
8.04.050   Sale of impure food prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to vend, sell or offer to sell any impure food
of any description within the city. (Prior code § 7-3-12)
Chapter 8.08
RESTAURANTS
Sections:
   
8.08.010   Definitions.
   
8.08.020   Permits required-Posting and revocation.
   
8.08.030   Business license prerequisite to permit.
   
8.08.040   Grading—Sanitary requirements.
   
8.08.050   Conformance with grade A or B standards required.
   
8.08.060   Public display of grade.
   
8.08.070   Inspections—Posted—Right to enter.
   
8.08.080   Condemnation of unwholesome food.
   
8.08.090   Regrading or reinstating permit.
   
8.08.100   Disease control.
   
8.08.110   Infection—Authority of health officer.
   
8.08.120   Construction or alteration—Conformance with grade A—Plans required.
   
8.08.130   Enforcement.
   
8.08.140   Violation—Penalties.
8.08.010   Definitions.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter:
   "Employee" means any person who handles food or drink during preparation or
serving, or who comes in contact with any eating or cooking utensils, or who is
employed in a room in which food or drink is prepared or served.
   "Food" means and includes all articles used for food, drink, confectionery
or condiment, whether simple, mixed or compound, and all substances or
ingredients used in the preparation thereof.
   "Health officer" means the city manager or his authorized representative.
   "Itinerant restaurant" means one operating for a temporary period in
connection with a fair, carnival, circus, public exhibition, or other similar
gathering.
   "Person" means and includes any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association.
   "Restaurant" means and includes any restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria,
short order café, luncheonette, tavern, sandwich stand, drug store and soda
fountain serving food, and all other eating or drinking establishments, as well
as kitchens or other places in which food or drink is prepared for sale
elsewhere.
   "Utensils" means and includes any kitchenware, tableware, glassware,
cutlery, utensils, containers, or other equipment with which food or drink
comes in contact during storage, preparation or serving. (Ord. 354 (part),
1988: prior code § 4-5-201)
8.08.020   Permits required—Posting and revocation.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to operate a restaurant in the city who
does not possess an unrevoked permit from the health officer.
   B.   Such permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place. Only persons who
comply with the requirements of this chapter shall be entitled to receive and
retain such a permit.
   C.   A person conducting an itinerant restaurant shall also be required to
secure a permit.
   D.   Such a permit may be temporarily suspended by the health officer upon
the violation by the holder of any of the terms of this chapter or revoked
after an opportunity for a hearing by the health officer upon serious or
repeated violation. (Ord. 354 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-202)
8.08.030   Business license prerequisite to permit.
   Every applicant for a permit to operate a restaurant or itinerant restaurant
shall be required to obtain a business license. (Ord. 354 (part), 1988: prior
code § 4-5-203)
8.08.040   Grading—Sanitary requirements.
   The grading of all restaurants shall be based upon the following standards:
   A.   Grade A Restaurants. All grade A restaurants shall comply with all of
the following items of sanitation:
      1.   Floors. The floors of all rooms in which food or drink is stored,
prepared or served, or in which utensils are washed, shall be of such
construction as to be easily cleaned, shall be smooth and shall be kept clean
and in good repair.
      2.   Walls and Ceilings. Walls and ceilings of all rooms shall be kept
clean and in good repair. All walls and ceilings of rooms in which food or
drink is stored or prepared shall be finished in a material and color which
will not conceal the presence of dirt. The walls of all rooms in which food or
drink is prepared or utensils are washed shall have a smooth, washable surface
up to the level reached by splash or spray.
      3.   Doors, Windows and Other Openings. When flies are prevalent, all
openings into the outer air shall be effectively screened and doors shall be
self-closing, unless other effective means are provided to prevent the entrance
of flies.
      4.   Lighting. All rooms in which food or drink is stored or prepared, or
in which utensils are washed, shall be well lighted.
      5.   Ventilation. All rooms in which food or drink is stored, prepared or
served, or in which utensils are washed shall be well ventilated.
      6.   Toilet Facilities. Every restaurant shall be provided with adequate
and conveniently located toilet facilities for its employees, conforming with
the ordinances of the city. In restaurants hereafter constructed toilet rooms
shall not open directly into any room in which food, drink or utensils are
handled or stored. The doors of all toilet rooms shall be self-closing. Toilet
rooms shall be kept in a clean condition, in good repair, and well lighted and
ventilated.
      7.   Water Supply. Running water under pressure shall be easily
accessible to all rooms in which food is prepared or utensils are washed, and
the water supply shall be adequate and of a safe, sanitary quality.
      8.   Lavatory Facilities. Adequate and convenient hand-washing facilities
shall be provided, including hot and cold running water, soap and approved
sanitary towels. The use of a common towel is prohibited. No employee shall
resume work after using the toilet room without first washing his hands.
      9.   Construction of Utensils and Equipment. All multi-use utensils and
all show and display cases or windows, counters, shelves, tables, refrigerating
equipment, sinks and other equipment or utensils used in connection with the
operation of a restaurant shall be so constructed as to be easily cleaned and
shall be kept in good repair. Utensils containing or plated with cadmium or
lead shall not be used; provided, that solder containing lead may be used for
jointing.
      10.   Cleaning and Bactericidal Treatment of Utensils and Equipment. All
equipment, including display cases or windows, counters, shelves, tables,
refrigerators, stoves, hoods and sinks shall be kept clean and free from dust,
dirt, insects and other contaminating material. All cloths used by waiters,
chefs and other employees shall be clean. Single-service containers shall be
used only once. All multi-use eating and drinking utensils shall be thoroughly
cleaned and effectively subjected to an approved bactericidal process after
each usage. All multi-use utensils used in the preparation or serving of food
and drink shall be thoroughly cleaned and effectively subjected to an approved
bactericidal process immediately following the day's operation. Drying cloths,
if used, shall be clean and shall be used for no other purpose. No article,
polish or other substance containing any cyanide preparation or other poisonous
material shall be used for the cleansing or polishing of utensils.
      11.   Storage and Handling of Utensils and Equipment. After bactericidal
treatment, utensils shall be stored in a clean, dry place protected from flies,
dust and other contamination, and shall be handled in such a manner as to
prevent contamination as far as practicable. Single-service utensils shall be
purchased only in sanitary containers, shall be stored therein in a clean, dry
place until used, and shall be handled in a sanitary manner.
      12.   Disposal of Wastes. All wastes shall be properly disposed of, and
all garbage and trash shall be kept in suitable receptacles, in such manner as
not to become a nuisance.
      13.   Refrigeration. All readily perishable food and drink shall be kept
at or below fifty degree Fahrenheit except when being prepared or served. Waste
water from refrigeration equipment shall be properly disposed of.
      14.   Wholesomeness of Food and Drink. All food and drink shall be clean,
wholesome, free from spoilage, and so prepared as to be safe for human
consumption. All milk, fluid milk products, ice cream and other frozen desserts
served shall be from approved sources. Milk and fluid milk products shall be
served in the individual original containers in which they were received from
the distributor. This requirement shall not apply to cream, which may be served
from the original bottle or from a dispenser approved for such service. All
shellfish shall be from approved sources and, if shucked, shall be kept until
used in the containers in which they were placed at the shucking plant.
Oysters, clams or other shellfish, if served on the shell, must be served in
the original shell, but the use of crab shells in any manner whatsoever in the
preparation or serving of food is prohibited.
      15.   Storage, Display and Serving of Food and Drink. All food and drink
shall be so stored, displayed and served as to be protected from dust, flies,
vermin, depredation and pollution by rodents, unnecessary handling, droplet
infection, overhead leakage and other contamination. No animals or fowls shall
be kept or allowed in any room in which food or drink is prepared or stored.
All means necessary for the elimination of flies, roaches and rodents shall be
used.
      16.   Cleanliness of Employees. All employees shall wear clean outer
garments and shall keep their hands clean at all times while engaged in
handling food, drink, utensils or equipment. Employees shall not expectorate or
use tobacco in any form in rooms in which food is prepared.
      17.   Miscellaneous. The premises of all restaurants shall be kept clean
and free of litter or rubbish. None of the operations connected with a
restaurant shall be conducted in any room used as living or sleeping quarters.
Adequate lockers or dressing rooms shall be provided for employees clothing and
shall be kept clean. Soiled linens, coats and aprons shall be kept in
containers provided for this purpose.
   B.   Grade B Restaurants. Grade B restaurants means those which fail to
comply with paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 5 and 12 of subsection A, but which conform
with all other items of sanitation required for Grade A restaurants.
   C.   Grade C Restaurants. Grade C restaurants means those which fail to
comply with either the grade A or the grade B requirements.
   D.   Itinerant Restaurants. Itinerant restaurants shall be constructed and
operated in an approved manner. (Ord. 354 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-207)
8.08.050   Conformance with grade A or B standards required.
   No restaurant shall be operated within the city or its police jurisdiction,
unless it conforms with the grade A or grade B, or approved itinerant
restaurant requirements of this chapter; provided, that when any restaurant
fails to qualify for any of these grades the health officer is authorized to
suspend the permit or in lieu thereof to degrade the restaurant and permit its
operation during a temporary period not exceeding thirty days. (Ord. 354
(part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-208)
8.08.060   Public display of grade.
   Every restaurant shall display at all times in a place designated by the
health officer a notice approved by the health officer stating the grade of the
establishment. (Ord. 354 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-204)
8.08.070   Inspections—Posted— Right to enter.
   A.   At least once every three months the health officer shall inspect every
restaurant located within the city. In case the health officer discovers the
violation of any item of sanitation required for the grade then held, he shall
make a second inspection after the lapse of such time as he deems necessary for
the defect to be remedied, and the second inspection shall be used in
determining compliance with the grade requirements of this chapter. Any
violation of the same item of this chapter on such second inspection shall call
for immediate degrading or suspension of permit.
   B.   One copy of the inspection report shall be posted by the health officer
upon an inside wall of the restaurant, and the inspection report shall not be
defaced or removed by any person except the health officer. Another copy of the
inspection report shall be filed with the records of the Health Department.
   C.   The person operating the restaurant shall upon request of the health
officer permit access to all parts of the establishment and shall permit
copying any or all records of food purchased. (Ord. 354 (part), 1988: prior
code § 4-5-206)
8.08.080   Condemnation of unwholesome food.
   Samples of food, drink and other substances may be taken and examined by the
health officer as often as may be necessary for the detection of
unwholesomeness or adulteration. The health officer may condemn and forbid the
sale of, or cause to be removed or destroyed, any food or drink which is
unwholesome or adulterated. (Ord. 354 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-205)
8.08.090   Re grading or reinstating permit
   Any restaurant, the grade of which has been lowered and all grade displays
have been changed accordingly, or the permit of which has been suspended, may
at any time make application for regrading or the reinstatement of the permit.
Within one week after the receipt of a satisfactory application, accompanied by
a statement signed by the applicant to the effect that the violated provision
or provisions of this chapter have been conformed with, the health officer
shall make a reinspection and thereafter as many additional reinspections as he
may deem necessary to assure himself that the applicant is again complying with
the higher grade requirements and, in case the findings indicate compliance,
shall award the higher grade or reinstate the permit. (Ord. 354 (part), 1988:
prior code § 4-5-209)
8.08.100   Disease control.
   A.   Every person connected with a restaurant or about to be employed, whose
work brings him in contact with the handling of food, drink, utensils or
equipment, shall be given a physical examination which shall include an X-ray
examination of the chest and serological test by the Health Department or a
licensed physician. If the person is examined by a licensed physician outside
of the Health Department, he shall produce for the exarnination of the health
officer, and for the filing as records of the Department of Health, his chest
X-ray, the serological test, and other results of such physical examination. If
the person passes the above examination, the health officer shall issue a
certificate of health. The health officer may re-examine, or may cause to be
re-examined, any employee at least once every calendar year, and additionally
at any time he deems necessary. Such persons shall furnish such information,
submit to such physical examination and submit such laboratory specimens as the
health officer may require for the purpose of determining freedom from disease.
   B.   No restaurant shall employ any person unless he has been examined by
the Department of Health or a licensed physician, and issued a health
certificate in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   C.   No person who is affected with any disease in a communicable form, or
is a carrier of any disease, shall work in any restaurant, and no restaurant
shall employ any such person or any person suspected of being infected with any
disease in a communicable form or of being a carrier of such disease. If the
restaurant manager suspects that any employee has contracted any disease in a
communicable form or has become a carrier of such disease, he shall notify the
health officer immediately.
   D.   Hand-washing signs shall be posted in each toilet room used by
employees. (Ord. 354 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-210)
8.08.110   Infection—Authority of health officer.
   When suspicion arises as to the possibility of transmission of infection
from any restaurant employee, the health officer is authorized to require any
or all of the following measures:
   A.   The immediate exclusion of the employee from all restaurants;
   B.   The immediate closing of the restaurant concerned until no further
danger of disease outbreak exists in the opinion of the health officer;
   C.   Adequate medical examinations of the employee and of his associates,
with such laboratory examinations as may be indicated. (Ord. 354 (part), 1988:
prior code § 4-5-211)
8.08.120   Construction or alteration—Conformance with grade A—Plans required.
   All restaurants which are hereafter constructed, reconstructed, or
extensively altered, shall conform in their constructions to the requirements
of this chapter for Grade A restaurants. Properly prepared plans for all
restaurants which are hereafter constructed, reconstructed, or extensively
altered, shall be submitted to the public health officer for approval before
work is begun. (Ord. 354 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-212)
8.08.130   Enforcement.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the health officer in accordance with the
interpretations thereof contained in the current edition of the U. S. Public
Health Service Code Regulating Eating and Drinking Establishments, a certified
copy of which shall be on file at the city clerk's office; provided, however,
that should any provision, item, or part thereof fail to meet the minimum
requirements of state law, the requirements of the state law shall apply to
that provision, item or part thereof so affected. (Ord. 354 (part), 1988: prior
code § 4-5-213)
8.08.140   Violation—Penalties.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not
exceeding three hundred dollars or by imprisonment not exceeding ninety days,
or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 354 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-214)
Chapter 8.12
SMOKING
Sections:
   
8.12.010   Definitions
   
8.12.020   Smoking permitted in designated areas only.
   
8.12.030   Smoking-permitted areas.
   
8.12.040   Signs posted.
   
8.12.050   Enforcement.
   
8.12.060   Violation-Penalties
8.12.010   Definitions.
   As used in this chapter:
   "Employer" means the city or a lessee of a building or a portion of a
building owned by the city.
   "Place of employment" means any enclosed indoor area owned by, or under the
control of, the city which employees normally frequent during the course of
employment and that the public normally frequents, including, but not limited
to work areas, employees' lounges and conference rooms, public areas and public
meeting places.
   "Public meeting" means any meeting required by law to be an open meeting.
   "Public place" means any enclosed indoor area in a building owned by the
city, but leased to third parties or in a building used by the city.
   "Smoke" or "smoking" means the carrying of or holding of a lighted pipe,
cigar or cigarette of any kind or any other lighted smoking equipment or the
lighting or emitting or exhaling of the smoke of a pipe, cigar or cigarette of
any kind.
   "Smoking-permitted area" means that portion of a public place in which
smoking may be permitted. (Ord. 374 (part), 1933: Ord. 339 (part), 1985: prior
code § 7-6-1)
8.12.020   Smoking permitted in designated areas only. It is unlawful for any
person to smoke at a public place or at a public meeting:
   A.   At all areas posted with "no smoking" signs;
   B.   In elevators regardless of capacity;
   C.   In any and all areas designated as a nonsmoking area; and
   D.   In all areas not specifically authorized for smoking. (Ord. 374 (part),
1993: Ord. 339 (part), 1985: prior code § 7-6-2)
8.12.030   Smoking-permitted areas.
   Smoking-permitted areas in public places are areas designated as smoking-
permitted areas by the city manager or his designee, for the pubUc at large, or
for employees, and may include fully enclosed offices or rooms occupied
exclusively by smokers but visited by nonsmokers. (Ord. 374 (part), 1993: Ord.
339 (part), 1985: prior code § 7-6-3)
8.12.040   Signs posted.
   The city manager or his designee may designate by appropriate signs, a
contiguous area or areas as a smoking-permitted area, but said area shall not
exceed fifty percent of a public place. (Ord. 374 (part), 1993: Ord. 339
(part), 1985: prior code § 7-6-4)
8.12.050   Enforcement.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the city manager or his
designee. (Ord. 339 (pan), 1985: prior code § 7-6-6)
8.12.060   Violation—Penalties.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than ten dollars nor more than twenty-five dollars for each offense. (Ord. 339
(part), 1985: prior code § 7-6-5)
Chapter 8.16
GARBAGE, REFUSE, WEEDS AND LITTER
Sections:
Article I. General Provisions
   
8.16.010   Definitions.
   
8.16.020   Burning not permitted.
   
8.16.030   Violation—Penalties.
Article II. Garbage Collection
   
8.16.040   Refuse containers—Use required.
   
8.16.050   Containers—Provided by service provider or landlord.
   
8.16.060   Preventing trash from scattering.
   
8.16.070   Maintaining sanitary conditions.
   
8.16.080   Materials prohibited in litter containers—Yard waste.
   
8.16.090   Authorization to use containers.
   
8.16.100   Placing container in right-of-way prohibited.
   
8.16.110   Collection—Fee schedule—Deposits due and payable—Automatic price
adjustments.
   
8.16.120   Delinquent accounts— Penalties.
Article III. Weeds and Grass
   
8.16.130   Property owner responsible for weed and grass control.
   
8.16.131   Notice to owner, lessee or occupant.
   
8.16.132   Removal of weeds or grass by city—Lien.
   
8.16.133   Approved methods of weed control.
Article IV. Litter
   
8.16.140   Littering prohibited
   
8.16.150   Gutters and sidewalks— Responsibility of merchants.
   
8.16.160   Shopping centers and other public places.
   
8.16.170   Lakes, parks and vacant lots.
   
8.16.180   Litter or dirt from trucks.
   
8.16.190   Litter thrown from vehicles.
   
8.16.200   Litter from airplanes.
   
8.16.210   Handbills.
   
8.16.220   Posting notices prohibited.
   
8.16.230   Private property—Duty of owner.
   
8.16.240   Private property— Notice to abate—Lien.
   
8.16.250   Enforcement—Sanitary officer—Police.
Article I. General Provisions
8.16.010   Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meaning given in this section. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words used in the plural number include the singular number, and words
used in the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is
always mandatory and not merely directory.
   "Aircraft" means any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or
designated for navigation or for flight in the air. The word "aircraft" shall
include helicopters and lighter than air dirigibles and balloons.
   "Authorized private receptacle" is a litter storage and collection
receptacle as required and authorized in the city.
   "City" means the city of Lovington.
   "Commercial handbill" means any printed or written matter, any sample or
device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other
printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature
which:
      1.   Advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity, or thing;
or
      2.   Directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      3.   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit; but the terms of this clause
shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is taken up
for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, when either of the same is held,
given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of information which
is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good morals, public
peace, safety and good order; provided, that nothing contained in this clause
shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place of any
meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, without a
license, where such license is or may be required by any law of this state, or
under any ordinance of this city; or which, while containing reading matter
other than advertising matter, is predominantly and essentially an
advertisement, and is distributed or circulated for advertising purposes, or
for the private benefit and gain of any person so engaged as advertiser or
distributor.
   "Garbage" means putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   "Litter" means "garbage," "refuse," and "rubbish," as defined in this
section and all other waste material which, if thrown or deposited as
prohibited by this chapter, tends to create a danger to public health, safety
and welfare.
   "Newspaper" means any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general
law, any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United
States, in accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper
filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and,
in addition thereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine
regularly published with not less than four issues per year and sold to the
public.
   "Noncommercial handbill" means any printed or written matter, any sample, or
device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper,
booklet, or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any
matter of literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a commercial
handbill or newspaper.
   "Park" means a park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or
any other public area in the city, owned or used by the city and devoted to
active or passive recreation.
   "Person" means any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind.
   "Private premises" means any dwelling, house, building, or other structure,
designed or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes,
whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and
shall include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or
mail box belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building, or other
structure.
   "Public place" means any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or
other public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   "Refuse" means all putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned automobiles, and solid market and industrial wastes.
   "Rubbish" means nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible
and noncombusdble wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   "Shopping centers" means a group of buildings in which goods and/or services
are sold or rented, the buildings being arranged as a group or unit with a
common offstreet parking area or areas available or provided for customers or
patrons. The various buildings and parking lot or lots are usually owned or
managed by one person but not necessarily owned or managed by one person.
   "Vehicle" means every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior code
§ 4-5-2)
8.16.020   Burning not permitted.
   It is unlawful for any person to burn refuse of any nature whatsoever, grass
cuttings, leaves, lawns, weeds, sheds, buildings or structures, trees or
shrubbery on any of the public streets or alleys or highways or on any lot
within the city which shall pollute the atmosphere of the city in any manner
whatsoever without first obtaining and meeting the conditions of an approved
burn permit from the bureau of fire prevention. Nothing in this section shall
be construed to prohibit outdoor cooking or barbecuing or fireplace burning.
(Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior code § 4-5-26)
8.16.030   Violation—Penalties.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less
than twenty dollars for the first offense and not less than thirty dollars for
subsequent offenses. Each day such violation is committed, or each day the
violation is permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punished as such. (Ord. 345, 1987: Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior code §
4-5-31)
Article II. Garbage collection
8.16.040   Refuse containers—Use required.
   All garbage, litter, refuse, waste and undesirable matter created,
accumulated or produced shall be deposited in containers of service provider
authorized by the city and of appropriate size and design. Said containers
shall be located at places required or authorized by the city. Such containers
shall be located and maintained in such manner as to foreclose prohibited
matter from escaping from the container by wind, collision or by tipping over.
(Ord. 368 (part), 1992: Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior code § 4-5-3)
8.16.050   Containers—Provided by service provider or landlord.
   Every landlord or other person in possession, charge or control of any place
in or from which garbage, litter, refuse, waste or other undesirable matter is
created, accumulated or produced shall dispose of such matter as required by
this chapter and provide and maintain proper receptacles readily accessible to
potential users and the trash collectors. The service providers will provide
basic trash containers, but in the event the containers are not adequate to
hold the trash accumulated, it is the landlord's, or other person's, duty to
provide additional collectors and containers acceptable to the city. The
additional containers shall be capable of properly holding all litter
reasonably anticipated or expected to accumulate in the surrounding areas
between scheduled collections. (Ord. 368 (part), 1992: Ord. 342 (part), 1987:
prior code § 4-5-4)
8.16.060   Preventing trash from scattering.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property. (Ord. 368 (part), 1992: Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior
code § 4-5-5)
8.16.070   Maintaining sanitary conditions.
   Every person shall maintain the area around the containers serving his
property in a sanitary condition and free from litter. (Ord. 368 (part), 1992:
Ord. 352 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-4.1)
8.16.080   Materials prohibited in litter containers—Yard waste.
   A.   Rocks, bricks, plastic, concrete and dirt, and similar solid materials,
shall not be deposited in containers used for litter. Human waste, animal waste
and matters more appropriately disposed of through the city sewage system,
shall not be disposed of in containers used for litter.
   B.   Grass clippings, lumber debris, tree branches, fruits, vegetables or
other plant materials shall not be disposed of in containers used for litter.
Such materials shall be placed in boxes or plastic bags sufficient to contain
the clippings and/or such manners required from time to time by the city. (Ord.
368 (part), 1992: Ord. 352 (part), 1988: prior code §§ 4-5-3.1, 4-5-3.2)
8.16.090   Authorization to use containers.
   It is unlawful for a person, whether resident of the city or nonresidents to
deposit garbage, refuse, or litter in service provider containers unless said
person has proper authorization to use the container. (Ord. 368 (part), 1992:
Ord. 352 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-5.2)
8.16.100   Placing container in right-of-way prohibited.
   No receptacle or container shall be placed, kept, stored or located within
the right-of-way of an alley or street unless specifically authorized by the
city. (Ord. 368 (part), 1992: Ord. 352 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-5.1)
8.16.110   Collection—Fee schedule— Deposits due and payable— Automatic price
adjustments.
   There is assessed against every person owning, operating or controlling any
house, residence, apartment, tenant house or other establishment, garbage
collection fees payable to the city with automatic price adjustments to conform
to increases or other changes in costs from its contract service provider as
measured by C.P.I, as of December 15th of each year.
   A.   Residence within the municipality, a fee of twenty-three dollars and
forty-eight cents per month for one poly cart or a fee of thirty dollars and
twenty-three cents per month for two polycarts. This is an increase of eight
and five- hundredths percent from existing rates.
   B.   Residence outside the city limits but within the extraterritorial zone
one mile in width around the city; a fee of twenty-seven dollars and thirty-
three cents per month for one polycart or a fee of thirty-four dollars and
eleven cents per month for two polycarts. This is an increase of eight and
five-hundredths percent from existing rates.
   C.   Residential/commercial establishments within the municipality a fee of
thirty-seven dollars and fifty-eight cents per month for one polycart or a fee
of forty-four dollars and forty- seven cents per month for two polycarts. This
is an increase of eight and five hundredths percent from existing rates.
   D.   If the resident has garbage in the excess of two containers’ capacity,
an additional cart may be acquired for an additional six dollars and seventy-
six cents per month.
   E.   Commercial establishments using polycarts, a fee of thirty-seven
dollars and fifty-six cents per month for one polycart and seventy-three
dollars and fifty-five cents per month for two polycarts. This is an increase
of eight and five hundredths percent from existing rates.
   F.   Commercial establishments using dumpsters picked up weekly, a fee of
seventy-four dollars and eighty-two cents per month for a two-yard dumpster;
one hundred eleven dollars and sixty- eight cents per month for a three-yard
dumpster; one hundred forty-five dollars and eighty-four cents per month for a
four-yard dumpster; two hundred thirteen dollars and seventy-two cents per
month for a six-yard dumpster; or two hundred eighty-three dollars and ten
cents per month for an eight-yard dumpster. This is an increase of eight and
five-hundredths percent from existing rates.
   G.   Commercial establishments using dumpsters picked up two times per week,
a fee of one hundred forty-nine dollars and sixty-four cents per month for a
two-yard dumpster; a fee of two hundred twenty-three dollars and thirty-seven
cents per month for a three-yard dumpster; a fee of two hundred ninety-one
dollars and sixty-six cents per month for a four-yard dumpster; a fee of four
hundred twenty-seven dollars and forty-six cents per month for a six-yard
dumpster; or a fee of five hundred sixty-six dollars and nineteen cents per
month for an eight-yard dumpster. This is an increase of eight and five-
hundredths percent from existing rates.
   H.   The rates set forth in subsections A through G above shall be
automatically adjusted to conform to periodic adjustments of the Consumer Price
Index as of August 15th of each year. Waste management’s increase started May
1, 2008.
   I.   Owners or agents in charge of rental property shall be responsible for
the payment of the charges assessed in this section and such property shall be
subject to the lien provided for in this chapter.
   J.   Upon passage, the ordinance codified in this chapter shall take effect
December 16, 2008. (Ord. 488, 2008; Ord. 481, 2007: Ord. 474, 2006: Ord. 464,
2005: Ord. 458, 2005: Ord. 448, 2003:Ord. 437, 2001: Ord. 429, 2000: Ord. 428,
2000; Ord. 412, 1997; Ord. 390 (part), 1994: Ord. 389 (part), 1994: Ord. 368
(part), 1992: Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior code §§ 4-5-27, 4-5-28)
8.16.120   Delinquent accounts— Penalties.
   Service shall be from the fifteenth of one month to the fifteenth of the
following month. All fees provided for in this chapter shall become due on the
fifteenth of the month and shall become delinquent on the tenth of the month
following the due date. The delinquent amount shall incur a penalty of five
percent of the delinquent amount. (Ord. 390 (part), 1994: Ord. 389 (part),
1994: Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior code § 4-5-29)
Article III. Weeds and Grass
8.16.130   Property owner responsible for weed and grass control.
   Any owner, lessee or occupant or agent, servant, representative or employee
of an owner, lessee or occupant having control of any lot within the city who
shall allow or maintain on any such lot any growth of weeds or grass to a
height of over ten inches shall be deemed maintaining a nuisance. This includes
the area located between the property line and the middle of the alley adjacent
to the property, and the area located between the property line and the curb,
the area of any curbs or sidewalks located on the property, and the area
located ten feet outside the property line where there is no curb. Sidewalks,
curbs, and gutters shall be kept clear of any grass or weeds regardless of
height, dirt, or debris.
(Ord. 548, 2016; Ord. 505, 2012; Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior code § 4-5-25)
8.16.131   Notice to owner, lessee or occupant.
   If the provisions of Section
8.16.130 are not complied with, the city manager or his or her authorized
representative, shall notify the owner, lessee or occupant, or person having
charge or control of any occupied or unoccupied lot or tract of land, of the
non-compliance with the provisions of this chapter by the issuance of a ten-day
written warning. In the event such owner, lessee or occupant, or any person
having charge or control of such lot or tract of land, cannot be determined or
the owner shall be a nonresident of the city, such notice may be served by
posting a copy of the written notice upon the premises, with a copy mailed by
certified letter to the last known address of the owner. A citation may be
issued for violations remaining after the expiration of the warning of the
period. In the event that weeds or grass exceed fifteen (15) inches in height,
a citation of the violation may be immediately issued. The same owner, lessee
or occupant, or any person having charge or control of a lot or tract of land
that repeats the same violation may be immediately issued a citation for the
non-compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 548, 2016; Ord. 505, 2012)
8.16.132   Removal of weeds or grass by city—Lien.
   In those cases where the owner, lessee or occupant, or person having charge
or control of any occupied or unoccupied lot or tract of land, is a nonresident
of the city or cannot be determined, and compliance in its entirety with the
provisions set forth in the notice has not occurred within ten days, the City
Manager may cause such weeds or grass to be cut. Lots or tracts of land having
been either tractor or manually push-mowed shall have all weeds or grass
exceeding the applicable ordinance height shredded during the mowing process.
Any weeds or grass that are not sufficiently shredded during the mowing process
will be removed, preventing any harborage for insects and rodents and
preventing any of the weeds or grass from becoming windblown or creating a fire
or traffic hazard. If the owner, lessee or occupant, or a person having charge
or control of any such lot or tract of land, is notified in writing as provided
and fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter in its entirety with
ten days, the City Manager may cause such weeds or grass to be cut and/or the
cuttings or any accumulation of weeds or grass removed. In any event, should it
appear to be a matter of public necessity for health or safety reasons, the
City Manager may give notice that the weeds or grass must be cut or removed
immediately, in which event, should there no noncompliance, the City Manager is
authorized to cause such weeds or grass to be city and/or the cutting or any
accumulation of weeds or grass removed immediately. The actual cost of the
cutting or removal of weeds or grass, plus any other penalties or costs allowed
by law in connection therewith, under any of the circumstances herein set out,
shall be billed to the owner of record, who shall have fifteen days to submit
payment in full. Failure to remit shall cause a lien to be placed upon the
property from which such weeds or grass were removed in the manner prescribed
by law. (Ord. 505, 2012)
8.16.133   Approved methods of weed control.
   The approved methods of controlling weeds shall be mowing, cutting, digging,
chemical treatment or other methods designed to remove the weeds but not
disturb other vegetation or unnecessarily disturb the soil. The scraping and
tillage of lots and tracts of land is prohibited, unless permission of the City
Manager is first obtained; except that scraping and tillage as part of normal
construction activities or as ground preparation for agriculture or landscaping
activities shall be allowed. The City Manager may allow scraping and tillage of
lots or tracts of land when this will not detract or violate the clear intent
and purpose of this chapter. (Ord. 505, 2012)
Article IV. Litter
8.16.140   Littering prohibited.
   No person shall throw or permit to remain or deposit litter, garbage,
refuse, manure, wastewater, slops or other unsightly or unwholesome things in
or upon any street, sidewalk, alley, parking lot or other public place within
the city except in public receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for
collection, or in official city dumps. (Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior code § 4-
5-6)
8.16.150   Gutters and sidewalks— Responsibility of merchants.
   A.   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other
public place within the city the accumulation of litter or accumulated dirt
from any building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway.
   B.   Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front
of their premises free of litter and accumulated dirt.
   C.   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the city the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway.
   D.   Persons owning or occupying places of business within the city shall
keep the sidewalks in front of, or adjacent to, their premises, including
public and private parking lots, free of litter. If the amount of litter in
such areas amount to a nuisance due to odors or eyesore characteristics, the
designated representative of the city manager shall notify the person in charge
to provide adequate approved litter receptacles located so as to be convenient
to the patrons of the place of business and/or to parking areas. The person in
charge of the business shall be responsible for emptying the containers as
often as is necessary to prevent their becoming a nuisance. (Ord. 342(part),
1987: prior code §§ 4-5-7, 4-5-8)
8.16.160   Shopping centers and other public places.
   A.   Shopping centers operated for public use shall contain receptacles to
be located along pedestrian travel routes normally taken by persons using the
facility. The number and placement of receptacles shall be determined by the
operator or group responsible for the operation of the facility; except that no
less than one receptacle shall be placed at each shopping center.
   B.   The following places shall also be required to have receptacles:
      1.   Parks;
      2.   Campgrounds;
      3.   Drive-in restaurants;
      4.   Quick service refreshment stands;
      5.   Construction sites;
      6.   Gasoline service stations;
      7.   Sidewalks in business districts;
      8.   Public buildings, including schools;
      9.   Sporting events, fairgrounds, carnivals and other similar events
where the public is invited. (Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior code § 4-5-9)
8.16.170   Lakes, parks and vacant lots.
   A.   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any fountain, pond, lake,
stream, or any other body of water in a park or elsewhere within the city.
   B.   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the city
except in public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the
park or upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not
provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided in
this chapter.
   C.   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by such person or not. (Ord. 342 (part),
1987: prior code §§ 4-5-12, 4-5-13, 4-5-22)
8.16.180   Litter or dirt from trucks.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city
unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or
other public place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck
within the city, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any
street, alley or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or
foreign matter of any kind. (Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior code § 4-5-10)
8.16.190   Litter thrown from vehicles.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city, or upon private
property. (Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior code § 4-5-11)
8.16.200   Litter from airplanes.
   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the city
any litter, handbill or any other object. (Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior code §
4-5-24)
8.16.210   Handbills.
   A.   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the city.
Nor shall any person hand out or distribute or sell any commercial handbill in
any public place; provided, however, that it is not unlawful on any sidewalk,
street, or other public place within the city for any person to hand out or
distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any noncommercial handbill
to any person willing to accept it.
   B.   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any vehicle; provided, however, that it is not unlawful in
any public place for a person to hand out or distribute without charge to the
receiver there of, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is
willing to accept it.
   C.   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously
uninhabited or vacant.
   D.   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill upon any private premises, if requested by anyone
thereon not to do so, or if there is placed on the premises in a conspicuous
position near the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words: "No Trespassing",
"No Peddlers or Agents", "No Advertisement," or any similar notice, indicating
in any matter that the occupants of the premises do not desire to be molested
or have their right of privacy disturbed, or to have any such handbills left
upon such premises.
   E.   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except
by handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant,
or other person then present in or upon such private premises. Mailboxes may
not be so used when so prohibited by federal postal law or regulations. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to the distribution of mail by
the United States, nor to newspapers (as defined in this chapter) except that
newspapers shall be placed on private property in such a manner as to prevent
their being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place or upon private property. (Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior code
§§ 4-5-14—4-5-18)
8.16.220   Posting notices prohibited.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or device,
calculated to attract the attention of the public, to any lamppost, public
utility pole or shade tree, or upon any public structure or building, except as
may be authorized or required by law. (Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior code § 4-5-
19)
8.16.230   Private property—Duty of owner.
   A.   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by such person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other
public place or upon any private property.
   B.   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all
times maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, that this
section shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private
receptacles for collection. (Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior code §§ 4-5-20, 4-5-
21)
8.16.240   Private property—Notice to abate—Lien.
   A.   The city manager is authorized and empowered to notify the owner of any
open or vacant private property within the city, or the agent of such owner, to
properly dispose of Utter located on such owner's property which is dangerous
to public health, safety or welfare. Such notice shall be by registered mail,
addressed to the owner at his last known address.
   B.   Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner or agent so notified,
to properly dispose of litter dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare
within seven days after receipt of written notice provided for in subsection A,
or within ten days after the date of such notice in the event the same is
returned to the city because of its inability to make delivery thereof, the
city manager is authorized and empowered to dispose of the litter and charge
owners for city services, or pay for the disposing of such litter and seek
reimbursement from owner.
   C.   When the city has affected the removal of such dangerous litter or has
paid for its removal, the actual cost of the removal, plus accrued interest at
the rate of twelve percent per year from the date of the completion of the work
shall be charged to the owner by the city.
   D.   Where the full amount due the city is not paid by such owner within
thirty days after the disposal of such litter, the city manager shall cause to
be recorded in the records of Lea County, a sworn statement showing the cost
and expense incurred for the work, the date the work was done and the location
of the property on which the work was done. The recordation of such sworn
statement shall constitute a lien and privilege on the property, and shall
remain in full force and effect for the amount due in principal and interest,
plus costs of court, if any, for collection, until final payment has been made.
Such costs and expenses shall be collected in the manner fixed by law. Sworn
statements recorded in accordance with the provisions of this section shall be
prima facie evidence that all legal formalities have been complied with and
that the work has been done properly and satisfactorily, and shall be full
notice to every person concerned that the amount of the statement, plus
interest, constitutes a charge against the property designated or described in
the statement and that the same is due and collectible as provided by law.
(Ord. 342 (part), 1987: prior code § 4-5-23)
8.16.250   Enforcement—Sanitary officer—Police.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit or permit to remain any
slops or wastewater, refuse or rubbish, manure or other unwholesome thing in or
upon any of the streets or alleys, or on any of the lots or block in the city.
It shall be the duty of the sanitary officer to inspect the city every seven
days or more often if necessary and all the lots, blocks, streets and alleys
within the city; and if a bad sanitary condition exists anywhere upon the
property or in front of the business house or residence of any person, he shall
give notice of the same to the party occupying the premises or the user or
owner thereof or his agent, in the event the same is unoccupied, of such
condition and require the occupant or owner or agent to remove such condition.
If not so removed, he shall file a complaint against the person so notified for
maintaining a nuisance. A like duty as imposed upon the sanitary officer is
also imposed upon the city policemen whenever they shall observe or their
attention is called to a condition existing described in this section. (Ord.
342 (part), 1987: prior code § 4-5-30)
Chapter 8.20
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES*
Sections:
Article I. Fireworks in General
   
8.20.010   Title.
   
8.20.020   Definitions.
   
8.20.030   Permit required.
   
8.20.040   Possession, sale or use of unauthorized fireworks unlawful.
   
8.20.050   Permissible fireworks.
   
8.20.055   Times authorized for use of fireworks.
   
8.20.060   Retail sales or storage of fireworks—Regulated activities.
   
8.20.070   Public display of fireworks.
   
8.20.080   Penalty—Criminal.
   
8.20.090   Penalty—Civil.
Article II. Fireworks in Periods of Drought
   
8.20.100   Short title.
   
8.20.110   Purpose.
   
8.20.120   Jurisdiction.
   
8.20.130   Liberal construction.
   
8.20.140   Enforcement.
   
8.20.150   Sale and use of certain fireworks prohibited.
   
8.20.160   Sale and use of certain fireworks prohibited.
   
8.20.170   Restrictions on use of certain fireworks.
   
8.20.180   Use of fireworks in wildlands prohibited.
   
8.20.190   Display fireworks.
Article III. Explosives
   
8.20.200   Explosives.
* Prior code history: Prior code Section 7-1-18.
Article I. Fireworks in General
8.20.010   Title.
   The ordinance codified in this article shall be known and cited as the
Lovington fireworks ordinance. (Ord. 425 § 1, 2000)
8.20.020   Definitions.
   "Aerial device" means a fireworks device that upon ignition propels itself
or an insert a significant distance into the air, but does not include a
firework that produces a shower of sparks. Aerial device includes aerial shell
kit-reloadable tubes, aerial spinners, helicopters, mines, missile-type
rockets, multiple-tube devices, Roman candles, shells, stick-type rockets, or
other aerial devices as defined in the current version New Mexico Fireworks
Licensing and Safety Act.
   "City commission" is the Lovington, New Mexico, city commission.
   "Common fireworks" means any fireworks device suitable for use by the public
that complies with the construction, performance, composition and labeling
requirements promulgated by the United States Consumer Product Safety
Commission in Title 16, C.F.R., and that is classified as a Class C explosive
by the United States Department of Transportation.
   "Display distributor" means any person, firm or corporation selling special
fireworks.
   "Distributor" means any person, firm or corporation selling fireworks to
wholesalers and retailers for resale.
   "Fire chief" is the chief of the Lovington fire department.
   "Firework" means any composition or device for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation. Fireworks
are further classified in this chapter as common fireworks and special
fireworks, as defined by the United States Department of Transportation, C.F.R.
Title 49, Transportation, Parts 173.88(d) and 173.100(f).
   "Ground audible device" means a fireworks device intended to function on the
ground that produces an audible effect, including chasers and firecrackers as
specified in the current version of the New Mexico Fireworks Licensing and
Safety Act.
   "Lovington" is the city of Lovington, New Mexico.
   "Manufacturer" means any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
manufacture of fireworks.
   "Permissible fireworks" means fireworks that are legal for sale and use in
New Mexico and in Lovington by the general public under the provisions of the
Lovington fireworks ordinance. These fireworks must comply with the latest
construction, performance, composition and labeling requirements established by
the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission and the United States
Department of Transportation.
   "Retailer" means any person, firm or corporation purchasing fireworks for
resale to consumers.
   "Special fireworks" means fireworks devices primarily intended for
commercial displays which are designed to produce visible or audible effects by
combustion, deflagration or detonation, including salutescontaining more than
one hundred thirty milligrams (two grains) of explosive composition, aerial
shells containing more than forty grams of chemical composition exclusive of
lift charge, and other exhibition display items that exceed the limits
contained in the Lovington fireworks ordinance for common fireworks.
   "Specialty retailer" means any person, firm or corporation purchasing
fireworks for year-round resale in permanent retail stores.
   "Wholesaler" means any person, firm or corporation purchasing fireworks for
resale to retailers.
   "Wildlands" means lands within the city that are covered, wholly or in part,
by timber, brush, or native grass.
(Ord. 573 (part), 2019; Ord. 478 (part), 2006; Ord. 425 § 2, 2000)
8.20.030   Permit required.
   A.   No person may sell, hold for sale, import, distribute, or offer for
sale, as a manufacturer, distributor, wholesaler or retailer, any firework in
the city, unless such person has first obtained the appropriate permit from the
State of New Mexico and the Lovington fire chief.
   B.   The fire chief or designee(s) shall enforce the Lovington fireworks
ordinance. All retailers shall be required to purchase a retail fireworks
permit for each retail location. Permit applications shall be obtained from the
city clerk and submitted for approval to the office of the fire chief. Upon
receipt of an approved application, the city clerk shall issue a permit.
   C.   An applicant for a permit under the Lovington fireworks ordinance shall
pay to the city clerk a fee of twenty-five dollars which shall not be
refundable or transferable.
(Ord. 573 (part), 2019; Ord. 425 § 3, 2000)
8.20.040   Possession, sale or use of unauthorized fireworks unlawful.
   No individual, firm, partnership, corpora-tion or association shall possess
for retail sale, sell or offer for sale at retail, or use or possess any
fireworks other than permissible fire-works in Lovington.
(Ord. 573 (part), 2019; Ord. 425 § 4, 2000)
8.20.050   Permissible fireworks.
   Permissible fireworks for sale to the general public shall mean common
fireworks legal for sale and use in New Mexico under the provisions of the
Fireworks Licensing and Safety Act in Chapter 60, Article 2C NMSA, 2006 Repl.
Pamph., as amended.
(Ord. 478 (part), 2006; Ord. 425 § 5, 2000)
8.20.055   Times authorized for use of fireworks.
   It is illegal to use fireworks within the city limits except under the
following conditions:
   A.   Fireworks shall only be used at times and places and on those holidays
authorized by this chapter or by state law; and
   B.   Fireworks shall be used only on the following holidays, between the
hours of seven a.m. and eleven p.m.:
      1.   Independence Day, July 4;
      2.   Chinese New Year;
      3.   September 16; and
      4.   May 5.
   C.   Fireworks shall be used only between the hours of seven a.m. on
December 31st and one a.m. on January 1st for the New Year celebration.
   D.   Fireworks shall be used only during times of sale as allowed in the New
Mexico Fireworks Safety and Licensing Act, as amended, between the hours of
seven a.m. and nine p.m.
   E.   Fireworks shall be used only on days with special events or at other
times in which the use of fireworks are preapproved by the fire chief.
   F.   Fireworks shall be used only in non-restricted areas. Restricted areas
shall include areas in proximity of:
      1.   Churches;
      2.   Hospitals;
      3.   Nursing homes;
      4.   Wildland areas;
      5.   Government properties;
      6.   Manufacturing or storage areas having a high risk for fire; and
      7.   Other areas in proximity to areas or facilities declared as fire
hazardous.
(Ord. 573 (part), 2019; Ord. 436, 2001; Ord. 432,2001)
8.20.060   Retail sales or storage of fireworks—Regulated activities.
   A.   No fireworks may be sold at retail without a retail permit. The permit
shall be at the location where the retail sale takes place.
   B.   It is unlawful to offer for sale or to sell any fireworks to children
under the age of sixteen years or to any intoxicated person.
   C.   At all places where fireworks are stored, sold or displayed, the words
"NO SMOKING" shall be posted in letters at least four inches in height. Smoking
is prohibited within twenty-five feet of any fireworks stock.
   D.   No fireworks shall be stored, kept, sold or discharged within fifty
feet of any gasoline pump or gasoline bulk station or any building in which
gasoline or volatile liquids are sold in quantities in excess of one gallon,
except in stores where cleaners, paints and oils are handled in sealed
containers only.
   E.   A sales clerk who is at least sixteen years of age shall be on duty to
serve consumers at the time of purchase or deliveiy. All fireworks sold and
shipped to consumers within Lovington shall be sold and shipped only by an
individual firm, partnership or corporation holding the proper state fireworks
license or permit.
   F.   No fireworks shall be discharged within one hundred fifty feet of any
fireworks retail sales location.
   G.   No person shall ignite any fireworks within a motor vehicle or throw
fireworks from a motor vehicle, nor shall any person place or throw any ignited
article of fireworks into or at a motor vehicle or at or near any person or
group of people.
   H.   Any fireworks devices that are readily accessible to handling by
consumers or purchasers in a retail sales location shall have their exposed
fuses protected in a manner to protect against accidental ignition by a spark,
cigarette ash or other ignition source. If the fuse is a thread-wrapped safety
fuse which has been coated with a nonflammable coating, only the outside end of
the safety fuse shall be covered. If the fuse is not a safety fuse, then the
entire fuse shall be covered.
   I.   Fireworks may be sold at retail between June 20th and July 6th of each
year, six days preceding and including New Year's Day, and three days preceding
Chinese New Year, the sixteenth of September, and Cinco de Mayo of each year.
(Ord. 573 (part), 2019; Ord. 478 (part), 2006; Ord. 425 § 6, 2000)
8.20.070   Public display of fireworks.
   A.   Any public display of fireworks shall require the individual,
association, partnership, corporation, or organization desiring to have such a
display to secure a written permit from the office of the fire chief. The
fireworks for such display shall be purchased from a distributor or display
distributor licensed by the state fire marshal and the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco and Firearms at the United States Department of the Treasury.
   B.   The fire chief may adopt reasonable rules and regulations for the use
of special fireworks in public displays.
(Ord. 573 (part), 2019; Ord. 425 § 7, 2000)
8.20.080   Penalty—Criminal.
   Any individual, firm, partnership or corporation that violates any provision
of the Lovington fireworks ordinance shall, upon conviction, be punished by a
fine of not more than five hundred dollars or by imprisonment for not more than
ninety days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 425 § 8, 2000)
8.20.090   Penalty—Civil.
   A.   If a person is found guilty of violating any of the provisions of the
Lovington fireworks ordinance, that person's permit may be revoked or suspended
by the fire chief, his or her deputies or designee.
   B.   No individual, firm, corporation or partnership shall possess any
fireworks for sale within Lovington, other than those authorized in the
Lovington fireworks ordinance. The fire chief or designee may at reasonable
hours enter and inspect the premises of permittee to determine compliance with
the Lovington fireworks ordinance. If any retailer has in his or her possession
any fireworks in violation of said ordinance, his or her permit shall be
revoked and all such fireworks seized and kept to be used as evidence. If any
person has in his or her possession any fireworks in violation of said
ordinance, a warrant may be issued for the seizure of said fireworks and said
fireworks shall be safely kept to be used as evidence. Upon conviction of the
offender, said unauthorized fireworks shall be destroyed, but if the offender
is discharged, the permissible fireworks shall be returned to the person in
whose possession they were found.
(Ord. 573 (part), 2019; Ord. 425 § 9, 2000)
Article II. Fireworks in Periods of Drought
8.20.100   Short title.
   The ordinance codified in this article may be referred to as the fireworks
control ordinance. (Ord. 426 § 1, 2000)
8.20.110   Purpose.
   Tins article is intended to preserve and to protect the general health,
safety and welfare of the city during periods of extreme or severe drought as
proclaimed by the governing body. (Ord. 426 § 2, 2000)
8.20.120   Jurisdiction.
   The Fireworks Licensing and Safety Act, NMSA 1978 Section 60-2C-7 through
60-2C-11, as amended, authorizes governing bodies of municipalities to limit
and restrict the sale and use of fireworks within the municipal boundaries of
the municipality in times of extreme or severe drought. The ordinance codified
in this article is enacted pursuant to authority granted to the governing body
by NMSA 1978 Section 60-2C-8.1.
(Ord. 573 (part), 2019; Ord. 426 § 3, 2000)
8.20.130   Liberal construction.
   This article, being necessary to secure the public health, safety,
convenience and welfare, shall be liberally construed to affect its purpose.
(Ord. 26 § 4, 2000)
8.20.140   Enforcement.
   This article is enforceable only if the governing body issues a proclamation
declaring a condition of extreme or severe drought following the procedures
established in NMSA 1978 Section 60-6C-8.1 and is only enforceable during the
period of time in which the proclamation is in force and effect. Any
dissolution or suspension of a proclamation serves to stay enforceability of
this article and shall not operate as a repeal or suspension of the ordinance
codified in this article.
   The ordinance codified in this article is in addition to and complimentary
with any ordinance concerning aerial devices and ground audible devices adopted
in accordance with NMSA 1978 Section 60-2C-7, and shall not be construed as a
limitation of the terms of any ordinance concerning aerial devices and ground
audible devices adopted pursuant to NMSA 1978 Section 60-2C-7. (Ord. 426 § 5,
2000)
8.20.150   Sale and use of certain fireworks prohibited.
   The sale and use within the municipal boundaries of the city of missile-type
rockets, helicopter, aerial spinners and stick-type rockets is prohibited (Ord.
426 § 7, 2000)
8.20.160   Sale and use of certain fireworks prohibited.
   The sale and use within the municipal boundaries of the city of ground
audible devices is prohibited. (Ord. 426 § 8, 2000)
8.20.170   Restrictions on use of certain fireworks.
   The use of any other permitted fireworks not listed in Sections
8.20.150 and
8.20.160 is hereby restricted to areas within the municipal boundaries that are
paved or barren or that have a readily accessible source of water for use by
the homeowner or general public. (Ord. 426 § 9, 2000)
8.20.180   Use of fireworks in wildlands prohibited.
   The governing body, having consulted with the state forester, declares that
the use of all fireworks in areas designated by the governing body as
"wildlands" (i.e., lands covered wholly or in part by timber, brush or native
grass) is prohibited.
(Ord. 573 (part), 2019; Ord. 426 § 10, 2000)
8.20.190   Display fireworks.
   The sale or use of means devices primarily intended for commercial displays
that are designed to produce visible or audible effects by combustion,
deflagration or detonation, including salutes containing more than one hundred
thirty milligrams of explosive composition; aerial shells containing more than
forty grams of chemical composition exclusive of lift charge; and other
exhibition display items that exceed the limits for permissible fireworks
within the municipal boundaries of the city is prohibited. (Ord. 426 § 11,
2000)
Article III. Explosives
8.20.200   Explosives.
   No person shall bring into or keep within the city any nitroglycerine,
dynamite or other high explosives, except by consent of the fire chief who may,
in his or her discretion, require adequate bond to insure the proper handling
thereof.
(Ord. 573 (part), 2019; prior code § 7-1-28)
Chapter 8.24
AMBULANCE SERVICE
Sections:
   
8.24.010   Established.
   
8.24.020   Administration—City manager.
   
8.24.030   Rates.
   
8.24.040   Equipment.
   
8.24.050   Operators—Qualifications.
   
8.24.060   Boundaries.
   
8.24.070   Personal action against officer of city.
   
8.24.080   Nonliability when.
8.24.010   Established.
   Under the authority of Section 5-1-1, N.M.S.A., 1978, it is declared that an
emergency exists within the city and that the public health, safety and welfare
of the citizens of Lovington requires the establishment and maintenance of
ambulance service within the city and the surrounding area of the city, as
there is no established ambulance service operating within the city. (Amended
during 1992 codification: prior code § 25-1-1)
8.24.020   Administration—City manager.
   The governing body of the city shall have all the powers enumerated in
Section 5-1-1, N.M.S.A., 1978, in addition to all future enactments and
directives by the New Mexico Legislature and supervisory departments of the
state of New Mexico relating to municipal ambulance service. The city manager
shall direct the ambulance service, in accordance with the other provisions of
this code, the laws of the state of New Mexico, the directives of the
supervisory departments of the state of New Mexico and the governing body of
the city. (Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 25-1-2)
8.24.030   Rates.
   The rates and charges established by the state Corporation Commission in its
New Mexico ambulance tariff rates are adopted and shall be charged by the city
for such ambulance services, all in accordance with 5-1-1, N.M.S.A., 1978.
Future rates fixed by the state Corporation Commission shall be adjusted by the
city accordingly, to ensure conformity at all times. Any person who utilizes
the ambulance service, whether such person requests same or not, by reason of
emergency, shall pay for the service as set forth in this chapter. (Amended
during 1992 codification: prior code § 25-1-3)
8.24.040   Equipment.
   The equipment utilized in the operation of the ambulance service shall be
provided by the city and be under the immediate supervision of the city
manager. The equipment shall be in accordance with the specifications and
requirements of the supervisory departments of the state of New Mexico. The
city may lease ambulances and equipment necessary for the operation of the
ambulance service. (Prior code § 25-1-4)
8.24.050 Operators—Qualifications.
   The operators of the ambulance shall be employees of the city and under the
immediate supervision of the city manager. The operators shall be educationally
qualified at all times, in accordance with the supervisory departments of the
state of New Mexico. (Prior code § 25-1-5)
8.24.060   Boundaries.
   In the course of its operations, the ambulance service may transport sick or
injured persons to a place of treatment, within or without the corporate limits
of the city and proceed to the scene of a disaster beyond its corporate limits
when requested. (Prior code § 25-1-6)
8.24.070   Personal action against officer of city.
   No personal action shall be maintained in any court of this state against
any member or officer of the city for any tort or action done, or attempted to
be done, when done by the authority of the city or in execution of its orders
under this chapter. (Prior code § 25-1-7)
8.24.080   Nonliability when.
   If the city is unable to perform the requested services as provided for in
this code, due to mechanical failure of equipment, road conditions (ice, snow,
sleet, etc.) or other acts of God, and beyond the control of the city, then the
city shall not be held liable for such nonperformance. (Prior code § 25-1-8)
Chapter 8.28
NUISANCES
Sections:
   
8.28.010   Maintaining a health menace.
   
8.28.020   Discharging sewage to premises of another.
   
8.28.030   Pollution of water.
   
8.28.040   Escape of noxious gases.
   
8.28.050   Notice to abate.
   
8.28.060   Filing of complaint.
   
8.28.070   Violation—Penalties.
   
8.28.080   Removal of nuisance by city—Lien.
8.28.010   Maintaining a health menace.
   The owner or occupier of land or buildings shall not cause or knowingly
permit the property to become or remain in a condition constituting a menace to
health or safety by the accumulation of filth, sewage, garbage, refuse, trash,
standing or stagnant water, litter, rubbish, ruins, weeds, brush, dead animals
or any waste matter whatsoever. (Ord. 353 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-101)
8.28.020   Discharging sewage to premises of another.
   No person shall allow or cause sewage, garbage, filth, refuse or liquid
waste to be discharged or to penetrate or drain from premises occupied by him
into or upon the premises of another. (Ord. 353 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-
104)
8.28.030   Pollution of water.
   No person shall allow or cause the pollution of water used for irrigation or
domestic purposes or the discharge into any moving water of sewage, garbage,
refuse, filth or other hazardous or poisonous matter. (Ord. 353 (part), 1988:
prior code § 4-5-105)
8.28.040   Escape of noxious gases.
   No person shall cause or permit the escape of noxious fumes, gas, smoke or
odor from premises owned or occupied by him to premises owned or occupied by
another, or to any place where the same shall be offensive or constitute a
danger to the general public. (Ord. 353 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-106)
8.28.050   Notice to abate.
   If the provisions of Section
8.28.010 are not complied with, the City Manager or his or her authorized
representative may whenever they or he or she determines a nuisance exists and
is then, or likely to become, detrimental to the public health or comfort of
any person, shall notify the owner, lessee, occupant, or person having charge
or control of any occupied or unoccupied lot or tract of land, of the non-
compliance with the provisions of this chapter by the issuance of a ten-day
written warning, requesting such person to abate or commence abatement of such
condition. (Ord. 510, 2013; Ord. 353 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-102)
8.28.060   Filing of complaint.
   If a request for abatement of a nuisance is not complied with as set forth
in Section
8.28.050, the city manager or his representative shall file a complaint in the
municipal court. However, the notice required in Section
8.28.050 is not mandatory and a complaint may be signed without such notice
being first given when an immediate abatement of the nuisance is necessary for
the protection of health or safety. (Ord. 353 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-
103)
8.28.070   Violation—Penalties.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not
exceeding three hundred dollars or by imprisonment not to exceed ninety days or
by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day such violation is committed, or
permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such. (Ord. 353 (part), 1988: prior code § 4-5-107)
8.28.080   Removal of nuisance by city—Lien.
   In those cases where the owner, lessee, occupant, or person having charge or
control of any occupied or unoccupied lot or tract of land, is a non-resident
of the city or cannot be determined, and compliance in its entirety with the
provisions set forth in the notice to abate or commence abatement has not
occurred within ten days, the City Manager may cause such nuisance to be
abated. In any event, should it appear to be a matter of public necessity for
health and safety reasons, the City Manager may give notice that the nuisance
be abated immediately, in which event, should there be no compliance, and the
City Manager is authorized to cause such nuisance to be removed immediately.
The actual cost of the abatement, plus any other penalties or costs allowed by
law in connection therewith, under any of the circumstances herein set out,
shall be billed to the owner of record, who shall have fifteen days to submit
payment in full. Failure to remit payment shall cause a lien to be placed upon
the property from which such nuisance was abated. The lien shall be foreclosed
in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 510, 2013)
Chapter 8.30
OIL AND GAS WELLS AND PIPELINES
Sections:
Article I. In General
   
8.30.010   Definitions.
   
8.30.020   Penalties.
Article II. Permits
   
8.30.050   Required.
   
8.30.060   Application and fee.
   
8.30.070   Issuance or refusal to issue.
   
8.30.080   Termination.
   
8.30.090   Hearing required in all permit refusals—Suspensions or revocations.
   
8.30.100   Modification of drilling program.
   
8.30.110   Supplemental permit for deep drilling.
   
8.30.120   Bond and issuance.
Article III. Regulations and Standards
   
8.30.150   Streets and alleys—Use.
   
8.30.160   Same—Obstructions— Permits.
   
8.30.170   Proximity of well, tanks or pipelines to buildings.
   
8.30.180   Operation and equipment.
   
8.30.190   Derrick and rig types.
   
8.30.200   Tests, inspections and fees.
   
8.30.210   Practices and standards.
   
8.30.220   Cleanliness and sanitation.
   
8.30.230   Surface equipment, storage tanks and separators.
   
8.30.240   Fences with locking gates required.
   
8.30.250   Requirements for flaring fire prevention.
   
8.30.260   Attorney's fee.
   
8.30.270   Changing agents for service of process.
   
8.30.280   Directional drilling.
   
8.30.290   Proximity of pipelines to water well and requirements for
construction.
Article IV. Operations Concerning Water Facilities Fields
   
8.30.300   Permit required.
   
8.30.310   Maintenance of facilities.
   
8.30.320   Reporting of spills and leaks.
   
8.30.330   Reporting requirements.
   
8.30.340   Leakage surveys.
   
8.30.350   Definitions.
   
8.30.360   Material Safety Data Sheets.
   
8.30.370   Disposal wells.
   
8.30.380   Preventing waste.
   
8.30.390   Drilling mud pits.
   
8.30.400   Well records, service company records.
   
8.30.410   Oil, brine, or associated oil or gas field waste; storage.
   
8.30.420   Well sites and surface facilities.
   
8.30.430      Prevention of pollution, contamination, or danger.
   
8.30.440   Monitoring of injection and disposal wells.
   
8.30.450   Well sites and surface facilities; flammable and combustible
material.
   
8.30.460   Secondary containment requirements and construction standards.
   
8.30.470   Restoration of well site; filling and leveling of cellars, pits, and
excavations.
   
8.30.480   Safety measures.
   
8.30.490   Use of pits to collect waste oil and tank bottoms prohibited;
conveying, storing, or disposing of waste oil and tank bottoms.
   
8.30.500   Cleanup and disposal of losses.
   
8.30.510   Enforcement.
Article I. In General
8.30.010   Definitions.
   All technical or oil and gas industry words or phrases used in this chapter
and not specifically defined shall have that meaning customarily attributable
thereto by prudent operators in the oil and gas industry. The following words,
terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
   "Drilling district*' means a tract of land comprising a spacing unit or
proration unit as determined by the State Oil Conservation Commission.
   "Gathering lines" means all pipelines operated as an incident to the
development and operation of wells.
   "Oil and gas inspector" means the enforcement officer of the city or his
designee.
   "Permittee" means the person to whom is issued a permit or certificate for
the drilling, operating and producing of a well or for the construction and
operation of a gas pipeline under the provisions of this chapter, and his
heirs, legal representatives, successors and assigns.
   "Residence" means a building used as a home or dwelling place.
   "Right-of-way" means, and is expressly limited to, all public rights-of-way
or streets or other public property within the city.
   "Street" means any street, highway, sidewalk, alley, avenue, recessed
parking area or other public rights-of-way, including the entire right-of-way.
   "Trunkline" pipelines means common carrier pipelines and other main
pipelines not included in the definition of gathering lines, expressly
including their rights-of-way as defined and established by instruments of
record in the office of the county clerk of this county. The term "pipeline"
whenever and wherever used herein, except as a part of the preceding
definition, means trunkline pipelines, gathering lines and discharge lines.
   "Well" means any hole or bore to any sand, horizon, formation, strata or
depth for the purpose of producing any oil, gas, liquid hydrocarbon, brine
water, sulphur water or for use as an injection well for secondary recovery of
any of the foregoing products. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.020   Penalties.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or fail to comply
with any provision of this chapter, irrespective of whether or not the verbiage
of each section hereof contains the specific language that such violation or
failure to comply is unlawful and is an offense. Any person who shall violate
any of the provisions of this chapter, or any of the provisions of a permit
issued pursuant hereto, or who shall fail to comply with the terms hereof,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
Article II. Permits
8.30.050   Required.
   A.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person acting either for himself
or acting as agent, employee, independent contractor or servant for any person
to knowingly drill any well or to install any water or gas repressurizing or
injection facility or to construct and operate a gas pipeline within the
corporate limits of the city without a permit having first been issued by the
authority of the city council in accordance with the terms of this section.
   B.   When a permit has been issued for the drilling of a well, such permit
shall constitute sufficient authority for drilling, operation, production,
gathering of production, maintenance, repair, reworking, testing plugging and
abandonment of the well, and for the construction and gathering lines and
discharge by the permittee and its employees, agent and contractors; provided,
however, that a new or supplemental permit shall be obtained before such well
may be deepened below the geological formation in which it was originally
completed and before it may be used for repressurizing or injection of water or
gas.
   C.   When a permit has been issued for the installation of any trunkline
pipeline, water or gas repressurization or injection facility, such permit
shall constitute sufficient authority for the construction, operation,
maintenance of pipelines and for conversion of existing wells to injection
wells and the repair and abandonment of such facility, and for all facilities
reasonably necessary or convenient in connection therewith, including gathering
lines, by permittee and its employees, agents and contractors.
   D.   No permit shall authorize the drilling of more than one well or more
than one water or gas repressurizing or injection facility. No permit shall
authorize the construction and operation of more than the one pipeline
described in the permit. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.060   Application and fee.
   A.   Every application for a permit to drill a well or to install a water or
gas repressurizing or injection facility or trunkline pipeline, and the
reentering and deepening to a deeper formation of a well, shall be in writing,
signed by the applicant or some person duly authorized to sign on his behalf;
and it shall be filed with the city administrator and accompanied by a filing
fee of two thousand five hundred dollars in cash, cashier's check or certified
check made payable to the city.
   B.   A separate application shall be required for each well, trunkline
pipeline and each water or gas repressurizing or injection facility. The
application shall include full information, including the following:
      1.   The date of the application;
      2.   The name of the applicant;
      3.   The address of the applicant;
      4.   If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the registered agent.
Any other applicant must name a local attorney who shall be the applicant's
agent for service of process;
      5.   Proposed site of the trunkline pipeline, the well (including
proposed location of gathering lines), or water or gas repressurizing or
injection facility, including:
         a.   Name of the lease owner,
         b.   Accurate description of the well location, together with a legal
description of all the acreage dedicated to the well; or a legal description of
the easement to be used by the gas pipeline,
         c.   Location with respect to property lines, right-of-way boundaries,
and the surface contours,
         d.   Ground elevation at well site;
      6.   Type of derrick, if any, to be used;
      7.   The proposed depth of the well or pipeline;
      8.   Detailed explanation of operating pressures of all pipelines and
facilities;
      9.   Location of compressor, compressor control or safety devices with
explanation of operating characteristics of each;
      10.   The name of the person to be notified in case of an emergency;
      11.   Proposed hole size, casing program, mud program and cementing
program;
      12.   The application to install any pipeline with pressures in excess of
two hundred fifty psi should include specifications of the safety provisions
and equipment;
      13.   Sweet and sour production estimates;
      14.   Any special or specific hazards.
   C.   Each application shall have a current certified financial statement of
the applicant attached as an exhibit. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.070   Issuance or refusal to issue.
   A.   The city within thirty days after the filing of the application for a
permit shall determine whether or not the application complies in all respects
with the provisions of this chapter. The city council shall disapprove any
application where it appears that the drilling of a well or the maintenance of
a gas pipeline will, even after full compliance with the safety requirements of
this chapter, constitute a hazard to life and property within the city. If the
application complies with the provisions of this chapter, and if the
application is approved, the city council shall issue a permit for the drilling
of the well, or the installation of the facilities applied for. Each permit
shall:
      1.   By reference have incorporated therein all the provisions of this
chapter with the same force and effect as if this chapter were copied verbatim
in such permit;
      2.   Specify the location of the proposed well, trunkline pipeline or
injection facility with particularity to lot number, block number, name of
addition or subdivision section line or other available correct legal
description;
      3.   Contain and specify that the term of the permit shall be for a
period of one year from the date of the permit and so long thereafter as oil
and gas is produced or until such time as the permittee has permanently
abandoned the operation of such well or facility for which the permit was
issued;
      4.   Contain and specify such other terms and provisions as may be
necessary in a particular case to accomplish the purpose of this chapter;
      5.   Specify the hole size, casing program, mud program, cementing
program and total depth to which the well, if any, will be drilled;
      6.   Contain and specify that no actual operations shall be commenced
until the permittee shall file and have approved an indemnity bond in the
designated principal amount as so determined by the city council or has
complied with the bond and insurance provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Such permit in triplicate originals, shall be signed by the city
administrator, and prior to delivery to permittee shall be signed by the
permittee (with one original to be retained by the city and the others by the
permittee); and when so signed, it shall constitute the permittee's drilling
and installation license, as well as the contractual obligation of the
permittee to comply with the terms of such permit, bond and of this chapter.
   C.   If the permit is refused, or if the applicant notifies the city council
in writing that he does not elect to accept the permit as tendered or if the
bond of the applicant be not approved, or if the applicant notifies the city
council in writing that he wishes to withdraw his application, then upon the
happening of such an event, the cash deposit provided for and filed with the
application, shall be returned to the applicant; except that there shall be
retained therefrom by the city two hundred fifty dollars. (Ord. 415 Exh. A
(part), 1998)
8.30.080   Termination.
   In the event of a failure of a permittee to comply with any provision of
this chapter, the city oil and gas inspector shall issue in writing a notice to
the permittee of the nature of the noncompliance and stating a reasonable time
necessary to gain compliance. After lapse of such reasonable time, if
compliance has not been made, the council may suspend the permit for a period
of time or cancel the permit. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.090   Hearing required in all permit refusals— Suspensions or revocations.
   No application, permit or certificate shall be refused, revoked or suspended
without due cause having been shown for such refusal, revocation or suspension,
and in no event until such notice of such hearing to be held at any regular
meeting of the city council. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.100   Modification of drilling program.
   If, after a permit has been issued as provided in Section
8.30.060 and drilling operations have commenced, the operator finds it
necessary to either perform remedial work, pull or alter casing, alter cement
program, etc., the permittee shall fde with the oil and gas inspector a
duplicate copy of the Form C-103 report filed with the New Mexico Oil
Conservation Commission. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.110   Supplemental permit for deep drilling.
   A.   Once any well has either been completed as a producer or abandoned as a
dry hole, it shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to drill such well
to a deeper geological formation than that reached in the prior drilling
operations unless the permittee, as to such well, first obtains a supplemental
permit after filing a supplemental application with the city council
specifying:
      1.   The condition of the well and the casing therein;
      2.   The depth to which it is proposed that such well will be deepened;
      3.   The proposed casing and cementing programs to be used in connection
with the proposed deepening operation.
   B.   In the event the council is satisfied that such well may be deepened
with the same degree of safety as existed in the original well, a supplemental
permit may be
issued, without an additional filing fee to the permittee, authorizing the
deepening and operation of the well to such specified depth as applied for. In
any deeper drilling or any deeper completion of any chapter production
operations, the permittee shall comply with all provisions contained in this
chapter and applicable to drilling, completion, operation and production of a
well. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.120   Bond and issuance.
   A.   In the event a permit is issued by the city council under the terms of
this chapter for the drilling of a well, or installation of a trunkline
pipeline or installation of a water flooding project or gas injection project,
no actual operations shall be commenced unless the permittee shall file with
the city administrator a bond and certificate of insurance as follows:
      1.   A bond in the principal sum of twenty-five thousand dollars or such
amount as may be determined by the city council and the bond shall be executed
by a reliable company authorized to do business in the state, as surety, and
the applicant as principal, running to the city for benefit of the city and all
persons concerned, under the condition that the permittee shall comply with the
terms and conditions of the trunkline pipelines, water flooding project or gas
injection project. In addition to the bond, permittee shall obtain policy or
policies of commercial general liability in policy limits of five million
dollars, naming the city as additional insured and waiving all rights of
subrogation against the city.
      2.   Such bond shall become effective on or before the date it is fded
with the city administrator and remain in force and effect for at least a
period of six months subsequent to the expiration of the term of the permit
issued; and in addition, the bond will be conditioned that the permittee will
promptly pay all legally imposed fines, penalties, attorney's fees and other
assessments imposed upon permittee by reason of his breach of any of the terms,
provisions and conditions of this chapter and that the permittee will promptly
restore the streets and sidewalks and other public property of the city, which
may be disturbed or damaged in the operations, and will after abandonment, or
completion, grade, level and restore such property to the same surface
conditions, as nearly as possible, as existed when operations were first
commenced, and that the permittee will indemnify and hold the city harmless
from any and all liability growing out of or attributable to the granting of
such permit. If at any time the city council shall, after a hearing thereon,
deem any permittee's bond to be insufficient for any reason, it may require the
permittee to file a new bond.
      3.   If, after the completion of a producing well, the permittee has
complied with all the provisions of this chapter, he may apply to the city
council to have the bond reduced on each well unit the well is plugged. During
reworking operations, the amount of the bond shall be increased to the original
amount.
   B.   In addition to the bond, required in subsection A of this section, the
drilling contractor shall obtain policy or policies of commercial general
liability, including explosion, collapse, underground and pollution hazards at
policy limits of five million dollars underwritten in class codes 98157 or
98158 whichever is applicable. Pulling unit, work over rigs or other servicing
contractors shall obtain commercial general liability coverages including the
explosion, collapse, underground and pollution hazards at policy limits of one
million dollars in appropriate class codes respective to city limits. All
coverages of any contractor shall name the city as an additional insured, and
waive all rights of subrogation against the city.
   C.   The permittee shall file with the city administrator a certificate of
such insurance together with a full and complete copy of the policy. The
insurance policy shall not be canceled without written notice to the city
administrator at least fifteen days prior to the effective date of such
cancellation. If such insurance policy is canceled, the permit granted shall
terminate, and the permittee's right to operate under such permit shall cease
until permittee files additional insurance. If after the completion of a well,
or other project, the permittee has complied with all provisions of this
chapter, such as removing any derrick, completion of the pipeline, clearing of
the premises, etc., he may apply to the city council to have such insurance
policy reduced. During reworking operations, the amount of the insurance
coverage shall be increased to the original amount. (Ord. 418 (part), 1998;
Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
Article III. Regulations and Standards
8.30.150   Streets and alleys—Use.
   A.   No permittee shall make any excavations for any purpose or construct
any pipelines for conveyance of fuel, water or minerals on, under or through
the streets or alleys or other land of the city without an express easement or
right-of-way license from the city, at a reasonable price to be agreed upon,
and then only in strict compliance with this code and the specifications
established by the city engineer.
   B.   The digging up, excavating, tunnelling, undermining, breaking up or
damaging of any street, or leaving upon any street any earth or other material
or obstruction, shall not be permitted unless such persons shall fust have
obtained written permission from the city engineer, and then only in compliance
with specifications established by him. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.160   Same—Obstructions— Permits.
   No well shall be drilled and no permit shall be issued for any well to be
drilled at any location which is within any of the streets or alleys of the
city or streets or alleys shown by the master plan of the city, and no street
or alley shall be blocked or encumbered or closed in any drilling or production
operation except by written permission of the city traffic committee, and then
not more than twenty-four hours. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.170   Proximity of well, tanks or pipelines to buildings.
   A.   No well shall be drilled, and no permit shall be issued for any well to
be drilled at any location or storage tank to be located nearer than three
hundred feet (greater or lesser distance to be established at time of
permitting) to any residence, hospital, school or commercial building located
within the city, unless such residence or building is owned or controlled by
the permittee. Provided, however, that the council may in exceptional cases, in
considering any application for a permit, require a greater distance, depending
on the circumstances and so specify in the permit.
   B.   No high pressure gas injection well or a compressor used in conjunction
therewith shall be located nearer than three hundred feet to any residential or
commercial building located within the city unless such residence or building
is owned or controlled by the permittee. Provided however, that the council
may, in exceptional cases, in considering any application for a permit, require
a greater or lesser distance (to be established at the time of permitting),
depending on the circumstances and so specify in the permits.
   C.   No pipeline shall be placed within forty feet of any existing
residential, commercial or industrial structure. No residential, commercial or
industrial structure, other than structures necessary to operate the pipeline,
shall be erected or moved to a location nearer than forty feet to any pipeline
transporting gas when the pipeline operating pressure is greater than two
hundred fifty psi, unless a greater distance is recommended by the applicable
code. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.180   Operation and equipment.
   A.   All drilling and operations at any well performed by a permittee shall
be conducted in accordance with the practices of a reasonable and prudent
operator in the county. Each permittee under this section shall observe and
follow the regulations of the state oil conservation commission. Blowout
preventer equipment, choke equipment, drilling fluid characteristics, drilling
fluid monitors and the conduct of drilling procedures shall be such as are
necessary to prevent the blowout of any well. In addition to all other
applicable rules, regulations and accepted good operating practices, drilling
shall be in accordance with the following safety requirements:
      1.   Accumulators shall maintain a pressure capacity reserve at all times
to provide for repeated operation of hydraulic preventers.
      2.   A drill string safety valve in the open position shall be maintained
on the rig floor at all times while drilling operations are being conducted.
There shall be a kelly cock valve on a swivel with one extra on the floor.
      3.   Blowout prevention drills shall be conducted as necessary to insure
that each drilling crew is properly trained to carry out emergency duties as
per IDCA requirements.
      4.   When coming out of the hole with drill pipe, the annulus shall be
filled with mud before the mud level drops below one hundred fifty feet from
the drilling nipple. The volume of mud required to fill the hole shall be
watched, and any time there is an indication of swabbing, or influx or
formation fluid, proper blowout prevention precautions must be taken. The mud
shall not be circulated and conditioned except on or near bottom unless well
conditions prevent running the pipe to bottom.
   B.   The following additional blowout equipment specifications shall be
included:
      1.   For intermediate hole (from surface casing point to intermediate
casing point):
         a.   Dual hydraulic blowout preventer of three thousand psi working
pressure will be yellow jacketed by independent tester with standard
accessories including choke manifold and properly secured venting flow fine;
         b.   Hydril preventer shall have working pressure of three thousand
psi or equivalent thereof.
      2.   For production hole (from intermediate casing point to total depth):
         a.   One thousand five hundred series dual hydraulic blowout preventer
(refer to subsection (B)(1)(a) of this section).
         b.   Hydril preventer shall have a working pressure of five thousand
psi or equivalent thereof will be yellow jacketed by independent tester.
         c.   Rotating head below twelve thousand feet or before cWUing into a
producing Atoka sand or Morrow sand.
         d.   Hydraulically operated choke valve.
         e.   Adequate choke manifold and flow line properly secured and vented
vertically.
         f.   Mud system degasser for entrained gas below twelve thousand feet
or before drilling into a producing Atoka sand or Morrow sand.
         g.   Mud gas separator below twelve thousand feet or before drilling
into producing Atoka sand or Morrow sand.
         h.   Mud systems monitoring equipment, with derrick floor indicators
and visual and audio alarms, shall be installed. Monitoring equipment shall
consist of the following:
            i.   A recording pit level indicator to determine pit volume gains
and losses.
            ii.   Mud volume measuring devices for accurately determiiiing mud
volume necessary to fill the hole on trips.
            iii.   A flow sensor on the flow-line to warn of any abnormal mud
returns from the well.
            iv.   A contingency plan must be in place for sour gas wells to
measure potential gas releases
   C.   In addition to power actuation equipment, blowout preventers and
pressure operated valves are to be furnished with manual closing equipment.
Minimum requirement is three thousand psi working pressure (refer to subsection
(B)(1)(a) of this section).
   D.   A copy of these requirements shall be posted on the rig floor or in the
doghouse during the drilling of the well. (Ord. 422, 2000: Ord. 415 Exh. A
(part), 1998)
8.30.190   Derrick and rig types.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to use or operate in connection
with the drilling or reworking of any well within the corporate limits of the
city, any wooden derrick or any steam-powered rig, or any engine unless it is
equipped with adequate mufflers. The drilling rig or derrick shall be removed
from the premises within thirty days from the date of completion of the well,
and thereafter, when necessary, such completed well shall be served by portable
rigs, which shall be removed when well is abandoned and plugged or completed as
a producer and enclosed as herein provided, the permittee shall keep a watchman
on duty on the premises at all times when other workmen of permittee are not on
such premises. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.200   Tests, inspections and fees.
   A.   Before commencing drilling operations, permittee must deliver to the
city administrator of the city an inspection fee of two thousand five hundred
dollars in cash, cashier's check or certified check made payable to the city.
This fee is to offset the anticipated normal costs of inspections. The
inspector must be present on the well site whenever blowout equipment is tested
and he must witness all drill stem tests. In the event unusual conditions arise
in the drilling operations, the permittee shall be required to pay all the
additional inspector's fees and costs. Permittee's bond shall be liable for
such additional expenses.
   B.   The enforcement officer, with the approval of the council, shall
appoint a qualified person to inspect drilling operations and equipment.
   C.   It is unlawful and an offense for any permittee to continue or proceed
with drilling operations unless such permittee has satisfactorily passed all of
the tests required in this chapter or by the Oil Conservation Commission.
   D.   After setting the intermediate casing string, or after setting
protection casing string at approximately four thousand two hundred feet and
before drilling out of intermediate formation, the blowout preventers and
related control equipment shall be pressure tested to rate working pressures by
an independent service company. Any equipment failing to test satisfactorily
shall be repaired or replaced. The oil and gas inspector must be notified in
sufficient time for a representative to witness the tests and shall be
furnished a copy of the pressure test report; in addition, the pipe rams shall
be tested each time the drill pipe is out of the hole.
   E.   Drill stem test flow line shall be pressure tested at the time of
blowout preventer testing, if applicable. They shall be adequately secured and
vertically vented when flaring is required. Gas flared on drill, stem test,
completion or any work over shall be restricted to a flow rate of three million
cubic feet of gas per day. The oil and gas inspector shall be notified prior to
flaring of any gas. Permittee may be required to conduct flaring into
nonresidential areas by laying lines for such purposes. No wet string shall be
pulled until daylight.
   F.   All pipelines constructed shall be tested prior to being placed in
operation. Valves shall be installed on all pipeline at such locations and
spacing to safely and adequately control the operation of the line and against
failure or rupture. The types and locations of all valves shall be indicated on
a plan layout, and approved by the oil and gas inspector. (Ord. 418 (part),
1998; Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.210   Practices and standards.
   A.   The following drilling practice requirements shall apply:
      1.   Storage and circulation of all drilling fluids shall be confined to
steel tanks or lined mud pits. All sump pits and reserve pits shall also be
lined pits or tanks in order to protect the groundwater.
      2.   All cuttings and fluids removed from circulating pits shall be
confined to lined pits or tanks at the discretion of the authority and be
removed from the location upon completion of the well.
      3.   The location shall be constructed with an adequate concrete lined
cellar. Provisions shall be made to permit "jetting" the cellar during drilling
operations.
      4.   Sufficient mud weight to obtain a hydrostatic pressure of at least
five hundred pounds psi or greater than expected pressure must be acquired
prior to drilling below twelve thousand feet or below the strawn formation.
      5.   No well shall be drilled below the base of the strawn or twelve
thousand feet until the oil and gas inspector authorizes further drilling,
unless the original permit was granted for a depth greater than the base of the
strawn or twelve thousand feet.
      6.   Sufficient weight material, lost circulation material and all other
necessary chemicals shall be stored on the location as to permit rebuilding the
mud system in case of lost circulation or other unanticipated mud losses.
      7.   After reaching a depth below the base of the strawn formation or
twelve thousand feet, all well drilling permittees shall have two tool pushers
employed and assigned to the rig in order that one tool pusher shall be on duty
at all times during drilling operations.
   B.   Internal combustion engines or electrical equipment may be used in the
drilling operations of the well, and if an internal combustion engine is used
mufflers shall be installed on engines so as to reduce noise to a minimum, all
of such installations to be done in a manner satisfactory to the oil and gas
inspector. For production purposes, only electric power may be used, except
that whenever electric power is unavailable, impractical or it becomes
economically more feasible for an internal combustion engine to be used, then
such an engine may be used for production purposes upon the issuance of a
permit therefor by the oil and gas inspector. Drilling operations must be
conducted in such a manner that percolating of groundwater will not be
adversely affected including the prevention of vertical movement of percolating
water.
   C.   All oil and gas drilling and production operation shall be conducted in
such a manner as to minimize, so far as practicable, dust, noise, vibration or
noxious odors, and shall be in accordance with the best accepted practices
incident to drilling for and the production of oil, gas and other hydrocarbon
substances. Proven technological improvements in drilling and production
methods shall be adopted as they may become, from time to time, available, if
capable of reducing factors of nuisance and annoyance. There shall be no
venting of gas into the open air except in cases of emergency. In such cases,
the permittee shall immediately notify the police department.
   D.   Except in cases of emergency, no materials, equipment, tools or pipe
used for production operations shall be delivered to or removed from the site
except between the hours of seven a.m. and eight p.m. on any day.
   E.   Adequate firefighting apparatus and supplies as approved by the fire
department shall be maintained on the drilling site at all times during
drilling and production operations. No refining process or any process for the
extractions of products from natural gas shall be carried on at the drill site
for the separation of liquids from natural gas. Any such separator shall serve
only one well.
   F.   The well site shall not be used for the storage of pipe, equipment or
materials except during the drilling or servicing of the well or the production
facilities allowed on the site.
   G.   No refinery, dehydrating or absorption plant of any kind shall be
constructed, established or maintained on the premises at any time. This shall
not be deemed to exclude a simple gas separation process.
   H.   All operations relative to the design, installation, maintenance and
operation of pipelines shall conform to the requirements of this chapter, the
applicable codes and the standards of performance of the reasonable and prudent
operators of the trades involved.
   I.   Pipeline location markers shall be approved, as to type and location,
by the oil and gas inspector and the removal of any pipeline marker without the
express permission of the oil and gas inspector shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
   J.   Pipelines crossing certain thoroughfares, designated by the oil and gas
inspector, shall be eased and vented in accordance with accepted practice of
the pipeline industry. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.220   Cleanliness and sanitation.
   A.   The premises shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. The
permittee shall take reasonable precaution to prevent any mud, wastewater, oil,
slush or other waste matters from flowing into the alleys, streets, lots or
leases within the corporate limits of the city. Suitable and adequate toilet
facilities shall be made available in a clean and sanitary condition at all
times during drilling operations.
   B.   A permittee's premises shall be kept clear of high grass, weeds and
combustible trash within a radius of one hundred feet around an oil tank, tanks
or producing wells. All waste shall be disposed of in such a manner as to
comply with the air and water pollution control regulations of the state and
this code.
   C.   If a drilling operation results in a dry hole, the permittee shall
clean up the location and restore it to its original condition within one
hundred eighty days of the completion of drilling operations. If the well
becomes a producer, the permittee shall, within one hundred eighty days of
completion, clean up the location and as soon thereafter be responsible for the
mowing and maintenance of the grounds. Whenever a completed well is plugged and
abandoned, the permittee shall, within one hundred eighty days, clean up and
restore the location to the condition it was in immediately before the well was
plugged. The oil and gas inspector may allow permittee to landscape with gravel
and desert flora rather than grass lawns. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.230   Surface equipment, storage tanks and separators.
   A.   Completed gas or flowing oil wells shall be equipped with high-low
valves or automatic shut-in equipment in the event of any malfunction
downstream from the well head.
   B.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to use, construct or
operate in connection with any producing well within the city limits, any crude
oil or condensate storage tanks, except to the extent of tanks for three days
top allowable storage of crude oil or condensate not to exceed one thousand
five hundred barrels capacity for each well connected thereto and so
constructed and maintained as to be vapor tight and properly vented. A
permittee may use, construct and operate a steel conventional separator, vapor
recovery unit and such other approved tanks and appurtenances as are necessary
for treating oil with each of such facilities, to be so constructed and
maintained as to be vapor tight. Each oil/gas separator shall be equipped with
a regulation pressure relief safety valve and bursting head. All such tanks
shall be placed above ground, and the tanks shall be placed upon a suitable
earth or concrete pad.
   C.   The use of a central tank battery is permitted so long as not more than
four tanks as specified are used for each well connected to the battery.
   D.   The tank shall be enclosed within a conventional type fire wall
constructed of compacted earth; sufficient water shall be used during the fire
wall construction to assure adequate compaction.
   E.   The fire wall enclosing the tanks shall have a minimum capacity equal
to one and one-third times the volume of the tanks enclosed.
   F.   The top or crown of the fire wall shall have a normal height of three
feet above normal ground elevation. The location of the tank site shall be
approved by the oil and gas inspector. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.240   Fences with locking gates required.
   A.   During drilling operations and cleanup operations, the permittee shall
erect and maintain a fence designed to keep children and animals safely outside
the drilling location as instructed by the zoning authority.
   B.   Any person who completes any well as a producer shall, prior to
marketing the well product, have the obligation to enclose such well, together
with its surface facilities, by a substantial fence six feet high and properly
built and thereafter maintained so as to ordinarily keep persons and animals
out of the enclosure. Alt gates thereto are to be kept locked when the
permittee or his employees are not within the enclosure.
   C.   The compressor unit or pump station and injection well location shall
be enclosed on all sides by a minimum six-foot chain link fence which shall
have a minimum of two gates or exit ways, remotely located, on the site and
adequately marked, and the gates shall be kept locked at all times when the
permittee or his employees are not within the enclosure. (Ord. 415 Exh. A
(part), 1998)
8.30.250   Requirements for flaring fire prevention.
   A.   Any permittee engaged in the drilling or operation of an oil or gas
well or the operation limits of the city shall take reasonable precautions to
prevent gas from escaping into the air, and shall not flare or burn gas from a
torch or any similar means within the corporate limits of the city: provided,
gas may be burned for a limited time when necessary to complete any oil or gas
well upon the original completion or upon the recompletion of workover jobs
upon oil or gas wells, so long as the same does not constitute a fire hazard to
the property of others within the vicinity of such oil or gas well. No more
than the rate of three million cubic feet of gas shall be flared or burned
under this exception. No gas shall be flared or burned after seven p.m. and
before seven a.m. unless absolutely necessary for safe operation of the well
and after notification of the oil and gas inspector. The public must be
notified before flaring.
   B.   Emergency firefighting apparatus and supplies, subject to the approval
by the fire department of the city, shall be maintained on the drill site at
all times during the drilling operations, and on the site of each compressor
used for gas injection operations. A pre-fire plan must be in place.
   C.   The permittee shall place a sign at each well location or site to
identify the well. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.260   Attorney's fee.
   The issuance of a permit pursuant to Section
8.30.070 constitutes a contract between the city and the permittee that the
permittee shall be liable and must pay the reasonable attorney's fees and costs
incurred by the city in a successful enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.270   Changing agents for service of process.
   A.   The agent for service of process required in Section
8.30.060 of this chapter shall remain the corporate permittee's agent until
another is designated according to state law. All noncorporate permittees may
be served with process by service being made upon the agent designated in the
application as required by Section
8.30.060. Such agent shall remain the noncorporate permittee's agent until
another local attorney is designated by the noncorporate permittee and the city
administrator is so notified in writing.
   B.   It is the city's intention that all permittees shall at all times be
subject to legal process, by service upon some readily identifiable person
within the city, or in the case of corporate permittees, within the state.
Failure to have an agent for service of process constitutes a revocation of any
permit issued under this chapter. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.280   Directional drilling.
   The city council realizes that, because of the restrictions of this chapter,
some mineral sections may be developed unless the permittee utilizes
directional drilling methods. Population density and surface improvements may
make the risks of normal drilling too high. Therefore, the use of directional
drilling is to be encouraged. Directionally drilled wells are subject to all
the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 415 Exh. A (part), 1998)
8.30.290   Proximity of pipelines to water well and requirements for
construction.
   Any pipeline installed within the water facilities field of the City of
Lovington, New Mexico, which pipeline will be used to transport oil, gas,
produced water, brine water or any other liquid associated with the exploration
or production of oil, gas and other minerals shall be constructed to pass at
least three hundred (300) feet from any water well within the confines of the
water facilities field of the City of Lovington, New Mexico.
   The provisions of
Chapter 8.30, Oil and Gas Wells and Pipelines, in as much as said provisions
are deemed applicable in the sole discretion of the city commission, shall
govern all pipeline construction, all drilling operations, and construction or
placement of any other facility for the exploration, production, storage or
transportation of oil, gas, produced water, brine water or any other liquids
associated with the exploration or production of oil, gas and other minerals
within the confines of the water facilities field of the City of Lovington, New
Mexico.
   The water facilities field, which is the subject of this ordinance, is
described as follows:
   TRACT I   
   Lots 3 and 4, E1/2SW1/4, SEl/4, NE1/4, SE1/4NW1/4 of Section 31, Township 16
South, Range 37 East, LESS AND EXCEPTING THEREFROM the following described
parcels of land:
   Beginning at a points. 89°50'E. 178.0 feet from the southwest corner of
Section 31, Township 16 South, Range 37 East, N.M.P.M., thence S. 89°50' E.
1,000.0 feet, thence north 566.28 feet, thence N. 89°50' W. 1,000.0 feet,
thence south 566.28 feet to the point of beginning and containing 13.00 acres,
more or less, according to plat of original survey prepared by John W. West,
AND, beginning at a point S. 89°50' E. 2,636.8 feet and N. 39°46' W. 385.0 feet
from the southwest corner of Section 31, Township 16 South, Range 37 East,
N.M.P.M.. Thence N. 39°46' W. 480.0 feet, thence S. 50°14' W. 100.0 feet,
thence S. 39°46' E. 480.0 feet, thence N. 50°41'E. 100.0 feet to the point of
beginning, and containing 1.10 acres, more or less, according to plat of
original survey prepared by John W. West.
   TRACT II
   S1/2SE1/4 of Section 26, E1/2 of Section 35, Township 16 South, Range 36
East; Lots 1,2, 3 & 4, S1/2W1/2, S1/2 of Section 1, Lots 1 & 2, S1/2NE1/4, SE1/
4 of Section 2, Township 17 South, Range 36 East, N.M.P.M., AND SE1/4, S1/2SW1/
4 of Section 25, and All of Section 36, Township 16 South, Range 36 East, LESS
AND EXCEPTING THEREFROM the following described parcels of land:
   Commencing at the lA comer on the east boundary of Section 36, Township 16
South, Range 36 East, thence north along the east boundary of said Section 36 a
distance of 645 feet to point of intersection with the south right-of-way fence
of Texas and New Mexico Railroad, thence in a northwesterly direction along
said right-of-way fence a distance of 1892 feet to the southeast corner of this
tract and true place of beginning, thence in a southwesterly direction at a
ninety (90) degree angle to said right-of-way fence 990 feet to the southwest
corner, thence in a northwesterly direction parallel to said right-of-way fence
1320 feet to the northwest corner, thence in a northeasterly direction at a
ninety (90) degree angle to said right-of-way fence 990 feet to the right-of-
way fence and northeast corner, thence in a southeasterly direction along the
right-of-way fence 1320 feet to the southeast corner of this tract and true
place of beginning, containing 30.00 acres, more or less, lying in the N1/2NE1/
4, NE1/4NW1/4 of Section 36, Township 16 South, Range 36 East, and in the SW1/
4SE1/4 of Section 25, Township 16 South, Range 36 East, N.M.P.M., Lea County,
New Mexico, as originally described in plat of Survey prepared by R. S. Blymn.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct any pipeline not in
compliance with this section. It shall be a separate offense for each day that
a pipeline constructed in violation of this ordinance remains out of
compliance, and upon conviction thereof, the offender shall be subject to a
maximum fine of five hundred dollars for each violation. (Ord. 449 (part),
2003; Ord. 446, 2003)
Article IV. Operations Concerning Water Facilities Fields
8.30.300   Permit required.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commence any drilling operation, any
re-entry or workover, or any other construction, operation, or activity within
the confines of the water facilities field without first having been issued a
permit from the city commission pursuant to the applicable provisions of
Chapter 8.30 of the Lovington Municipal Code. Provided, however, no permits
shall be required for routine daily operations, or maintenance activities,
which do not disturb the surface of the field. Any operations commenced without
issuance of a permit shall be considered an offense punishable by a maximum
fine of five hundred dollars per day for each day that such operation exists
without first having obtained the required permit.
   A.   The application for a permit required under this section shall be filed
with the city engineer.
   B.   The application for a permit shall include full information including
the following:
      1.   The date of the application;
      2.   The name of the applicant;
      3.   The address of the applicant;
      4.   The type of activity for which the permit is sought;
      5.   The site of the proposed activity, including the following
information:
         i.   Name of lease holder;
         ii.   Location where the proposed activity is to be performed
described by quarter, section, township and range;
      6.   The name of the person who will act as liaison between the permittee
and the city engineer; and
      7.   Any special or specified hazards associated with the activity for
which the permit is sought.
   C.   In the event an emergency arises during the time that the city offices
are closed, which emergency requires immediate action, the operator may begin
the necessary activity without a permit, provided, however, on the next day
that the city offices are open, the operator advises the city engineer of the
emergency and submits a permit request at that time pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 449 (part), 2003)
8.30.310   Maintenance of facilities.
   All facilities constructed within the confines of the water facilities
field, including without limitation, pipelines, tank batteries, pumping
stations, compressors, drilling operations, well heads and other operations,
shall be maintained using a prudent operator standard consistent with
reasonable business practices within the oil and gas industry. (Ord. 449
(part), 2003)
8.30.320   Reporting of spills and leaks.
   A.   Pursuant to the provisions of Section
8.30.330, any person operating a facility shall report any and all leaks or
spills occurring within the confines of the water facilities field to the city
engineer immediately upon discovery, but in any event, such leak or spill shall
be reported not more than fifteen days from the occurrence.
   B.   Any such leak or spill shall be remediated in a manner acceptable to
the city engineer. Any such leak or spill shall be remediated as soon as is
reasonably practicable, but in no event shall remediation operations be
commenced later than thirty days from the date the occurrence is first
discovered and reported. The city engineer may, upon showing of good cause,
grant an extension to the thirty day requirement referenced in this section.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to report a leak or spill
under this chapter. It shall be unlawful to fail to take action to remediate
any spill or leak as required by this section. If remediation operations are
not commenced within thirty days from the date such spill or leak is first
discovered and reported, it shall be a separate offense for each day after said
thirty days until the remediation operation is commenced, and upon conviction
thereof the offender shall be subject to a maximum fine of five hundred dollars
per day for each day after said thirty days until the remediation operation is
commenced; provided, however, if the city engineer has granted an extension, no
offense will occur until the expiration of any such extension.
   D.   Any operator, or employee, servant, agent or representative of an
operator, who has knowledge of a spill or leak, and fails to report same to the
city engineer within the times specified herein shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to a fine of five hundred dollars or ninety days in
jail or both. (Ord. 449 (part), 2003)
8.30.330   Reporting requirements.
   A.   An accident report is required for each leak or spill in a facility
subject to this chapter in which there is a release ofliquid resulting in any
of the following:
      1.   Explosion or fire not intentionally set by the operator;
      2.   Release of five gallons or more of liquid, except that no report is
required for a release of less than five barrels resulting from a maintenance
activity if the release is:
         a.   Not otherwise reportable under this chapter;
         b.   Confined to company property or right of way; and
         c.   Cleaned up promptly.
      3.   Death of any person;
      4.   Personal injury necessitating hospitalization;
      5.   Estimated property damage, including cost of clean-up and recovery,
value of lost product, and damage to the property of operator or others, or
both, exceeding five thousand dollars.
   B.   An operator shall provide all of the following minimum information, to
the extent known, when reporting any leak or spill:
      1.   The name of the individual reporting the leak or spill;
      2.   The name of the operator who has sustained the leak or spill;
      3.   The date and time of the spill or leak;
      4.   The date and time the leak or spill was discovered;
      5.   The date and time cleanup or remediation was commenced;
      6.   The location of the leak or spill, including all of the following
information:
         a.   Facility, well name or lease name;
         b.   Quarter quarter quarter section;
         c.   Section number, township and range;
      7.   Identification of the material leaked or spilled, including any
applicable MSDS information;
      8.   The volume of the leak or spill;
      9.   The volume of the leak or spill which was recovered including
records from the operator who recovered the spilled or leaked material;
      10.   The remediation or cleanup measures taken;
      11.   The cause of the leak or spill; and
      12.   The distance from the leak or spill to the nearest city water well.
(Ord. 449 (part), 2003)
8.30.340   Leakage surveys.
   A.   Each operator must conduct a leakage survey of any facility within the
confines of the water facilities field using practices and equipment consistent
with a prudent operator standard at intervals not exceeding fifteen months, but
at least once each calendar year. The results of each such survey shall be
filed with the city engineer within thirty days of the completion of the
survey.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to fail to provide an annual survey report to the
city engineer within thirty days from the date the survey was performed, or
should have been performed, and each day of failure thereafter shall be
considered a separate offense, and upon conviction thereof the offender shall
be subject to a maximum fine of five hundred dollars per day that the report
remains unfiled. (Ord. 449 (part), 2003)
8.30.350   Definitions.
   The following definitions shall apply to any activity within the confines of
the water facilities field:
   "Brine" means all nonpotable water resulting, obtained, or produced from the
exploration, drilling, or production of oil or gas, or both.
   "Central production facility" means production equipment which has been
consolidated at a central location that provides for the commingling of oil or
gas production, or both, from two or more prorated wells or production units.
   "City engineer" means that individual designated by ordinance, statute or
the city commission as the city engineer together with any individual
authorized to act on behalf of the city engineer.
   "Drilling operations" means all of the physical and mechanical aspects of
constructing a well for the exploration or production of oil or gas, or both,
for injection of fluids associated with the production of oil or gas, or both,
or the storage of natural hydrocarbons or liquified petroleum gas derived from
oil or gas, and includes all of the following:
      1.   Moving drilling equipment onto the drill site;
      2.   Penetration of the ground by the drill bit and drilling of the well
bore;
      3.   Casing and sealing of the well bore;
      4.   Constructions of well sites and access roads; or
      5.   Workovers and recompletions. "Facility" means any operation
conducted within the confines of the water facilities field, including without
limitation, pipelines, drilling operations, re-entry or workovers, tanks,
holding facilities, treatment facilities, pumping and compressor stations, and
any other facility used in the exploration for and production of oil and gas.
   "Operation of oil and gas well" means the process of producing oil or gas,
or both, or the storage of natural hydrocarbons or liquified petroleum gas,
including all of the following:
      1.   Production, pumping, and flowing;
      2.   Processing;
      3.   Gathering;
      4.   Compressing;
      5.   Treating;
      6.   Transporting;
      7.   Conditioning;
      8.   Brine removal and disposal;
      9.   Separating;
      10.   Storing;
      11.   Injecting;
      12.   Testing;
      13.   Reporting;
      14.   Maintenance and use of surface facilities; and
      15.   Secondary recovery. "Operations" means any activity conducted
within the confines of the water facilities field and includes "drilling
operations" and "operation of oil and gas wells".
   "Operator" means any person who conducts operations.
   "Permit" means a permit issued to an operator by the city commission for
operations within the water facilities field.
   "Person" means any individual, firm, joint venture, partnership,
corporation, association, cooperative association, a joint stock association,
and including any trustee, receiver, assignee, or personal representative
thereof.
   "Pipe" means any pipe or tubing used in the movement or transportation of
gases, petroleum products, brine water and any other substance, and includes
pipe-type holders.
   "Pipeline" means all parts of those physical facilities through which
substances move in the water facilities field, including pipe, valves, and
other appurtenances attached to pipe, compressor units, metering stations,
regulator stations, delivery stations, holders, and fabricated assemblies.
   "Surface facility" means a facility used in the injection of fluids or in
the production, processing, or treatment of oil or gas, or both, including any
of the following:
      1.   Pumping equipment;
      2.   Fluid disposal equipment;
      3.   Facility piping.
      4.   Load outs;
      5.   Separators;
      6.   Storage tanks;
      7.   Treatment equipment; or
      8.   Compressors.
   "Waste," in addition to its ordinary meaning, includes all of the following:
      1.   The definition of waste promulgated by the New Mexico Oil
Conservation Division as found at 19 NMAC 15.A(83) as amended from time to
time;
      2.   Damage to underground fresh or mineral waters, natural brines, or
other mineral deposits from operations for the discovery, development, and
production and handling of oil and gas;
      3.   The unnecessary damage to or destruction of the surface, soils,
animals, property, or other environmental values from or by oil and gas
operations;
      4.   The unnecessary endangerment of public health, safety, or welfare
from or by oil and gas operations;
   "Water facilities field" means the area described in Section
8.30.290 of this chapter, together with any other real property which may be
designated as such by the city commission from time to time. (Ord. 449 (part),
2003)
8.30.360   Material Safety Data Sheets.
   Any operator conducting operations within the confines of the water
facilities field shall file with the city engineer Material Safety Data Sheets
(MSDS) for any and all substances used, produced, transported and otherwise
present in operations conducted in the water facilities field. (Ord. 449
(part), 2003)
8.30.370   Disposal wells.
   From and after the effective date of this ordinance, no person shall drill a
disposal well, or convert an existing well into a disposal well, add any
additional hookups to existing disposal wells, or construct any disposal
facility within the confines of the water facilities field. (Ord. 449 (part),
2003)
8.30.380   Preventing waste.
   Every person who conducts operations within the confines of the water
facilities field shall use every reasonable precaution to prevent waste. (Ord.
449 (part), 2003)
8.30.390   Drilling mud pits.
   Any person who conducts operations in the water facilities field shall use a
closed system. All cuttings and fluids will be removed from the site and
properly disposed of. (Ord. 449 (part), 2003)
8.30.400   Well records, service company records.
   A.   A person who drills, deepens, changes well status, or completes a well
after the effective date of this ordinance, shall keep and preserve at the
well, during drilling, deepening, changes in well status, or completion
operations, accurate records recording all geologic strata penetrated, casing
and cement used, and other information as may be requested by the city engineer
in connection with the drilling of the well.
   B.   When requested by the city engineer, an operator of a well shall file a
copy of service company records, including records of all the following:
      1.   Mudding, cementing, and squeeze operations;
      2.   Acidizing;
      3.   Perforating;
      4.   Fracturing.
      5.   Shooting;
      6.   Temperature surveys;
      7.   Bond logs;
      8.   Caliper surveys; and
      9.   Wireline borehole and strata evaluation logs.
   The city engineer may request the records directly from the service company.
   C.   An operator of a well shall make all such records and information
available to the city engineer at all times. An operator shall protect the
records from damage or destruction due to a preventable cause. All well data
provided to the city engineer, as required by these rules, shall be held
confidential commencing with the receipt of a written request from the
operator, and shall remain confidential to the extent allowed by law for ninety
days after drilling completion. Information on volumes, concentrations, and
times of releases, spills, or leaks of gas, brine, crude oil, oil or gas field
waste, or products and chemicals used in association with oil and gas
exploration, production, disposal, or development is not subject to
confidentiality. (Ord. 449 (part), 2003)
8.30.410   Oil, brine, or associated oil or gas field waste; storage.
   An operator shall not retain oil, brine, or associated oil or gas field
waste in earthen reservoirs or open receptacles. (Ord. 449 (part), 2003)
8.30.420   Well sites and surface facilities.
   A person shall use every reasonable precaution to stop and prevent waste.
All wells, surface facilities, gathering lines, and flow lines shall be
constructed and operated so that the materials contained in the facilities do
not cause waste. An oil and gas operation shall not be commenced or continued
at a location where it is likely that a substance may escape in a quantity
sufficient to pollute the air, soil, surface waters, or ground waters, or to
cause unnecessary endangerment of public health, safety, or welfare until the
operator has complied with the methods and means to prevent pollution or
eliminate the unnecessary endangerment of public health, safety, or welfare as
specified by the city engineer. (Ord. 449 (part), 2003)
8.30.430   Prevention of pollution, contamination, or danger.
   The storage, transportation, or disposal of brine, crude oil, or oil or gas
field waste that results in, or that the city engineer determines may result
in, pollution is prohibited. All operators shall ensure that wastes and brine
are stored, transported and disposed of in a manner acceptable to the city
engineer and consistent with all applicable state and federal laws and
regulations. (Ord. 449 (part), 2003)
8.30.440   Monitoring of injection and disposal wells.
   A.   The operator of a brine disposal well shall, on a weekly basis, monitor
and record the injection pressure, injection rate, and cumulative volume of
fluids injected. The operator shall report this data monthly to the city
engineer unless the city engineer informs the operators in writing that said
reports may be submitted on a less frequent basis. The data shall be submitted
in a form approved by the city engineer.
   B.   Operators of brine disposal injection wells shall file an annual
monitoring report summarizing the data of the monitoring required in subsection
(A) of this section, on or before March 1 of the year for the previous calendar
year.
   C.   The operator of a secondary recovery injection well shall, on a monthly
basis, monitor and record the injection pressure, injection rate, and
cumulative volume of the fluid injected. An operator of a secondary recovery
injection well may conduct the monitoring and recording, required by this
section, on a field or project basis by manifold monitoring, rather than on an
individual well basis, if more than one secondary recovery injection well
operates with a single manifold, and if the operator demonstrates that manifold
monitoring is comparable to individual well monitoring. The operator shall
report the data annually to the city engineer in a form approved by the city
engineer, on or before March 1 of each year for the previous calendar year.
   D.   The operators of an injection well shall not operate an injection well
unless the annual report is filed by March 1 for the previous year, and
injection may not continue after failure to file on March 1 until the required
report is submitted and written approval for resumed injection is received from
the city engineer.
   E.   All injection well records shall be retained by the operator for a
period of three years.
   F.   An operator of an injection well shall verbally notify the city
engineer, of any pressure test failure, significant pressure changes, or other
evidence of a leak in an injection well, within twenty-four hours of the test
failure, pressure change or evidence of a leak. If there is evidence that an
injection well is not, or may not be, directing the injected fluid into the
permitted injection strata, the operator shall immediately cease injection.
   G.   An operator shall submit written notice of the pressure test failure or
other evidence of a leak to the city engineer, within five days of the
occurrence. If injection has ceased pursuant to subsection (F) above, an
operator shall not resume injection until the operator has tested or repaired
the well, or both.
   H.   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to permit the
drilling of a brine disposal well, or conversion of an existing well into a
brine disposal well, after December 15, 2003.
   I.   Failure to file any of the reports required by this section shall be an
offense. Operation of a well contrary to the terms of this section shall be an
offense. For each day that a well is operated in violation of any of the terms
of this section it shall be a separate offense punishable by a maximum fine of
five hundred dollars per day. (Ord. 449 (part), 2003)
8.30.450   Well sites and surface facilities; flammable and combustible
material.
   An operator of a well or other facility shall insure that the area around
the well and surface facilities is kept clear of flammable and combustible
material stored within a radius of seventy-five feet, or as approved by the
city engineer, using the well or dike wall as the point of measurement. The
city engineer, if conditions warrant, may also require construction of a fire
line around the outer edge of the cleared area. An operator shall ensure that
the disposal of material resulting from the clearing operations is consistent
with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations. (Ord. 449 (part),
2003)
8.30.460   Secondary containment requirements and construction standards.
   A.   All wellheads and pump jacks installed after December 15,2003 and
surface facilities constructed after December 15, 2003, shall provide for
secondary containment pursuant to the requirements of this section. The city
engineer may require surface facilities for hydrocarbon, gas, brine injection,
or brine handling constructed before December 15, 2003 to be upgraded to meet
the requirements of this section if the facility is substantially
reconstructed.
   B.   An operator shall submit secondary containment plans to the city
engineer for approval before construction of the facility. The secondary
containment plans shall consist of a plot plan of the proposed facility and
cross sections showing construction details of the sidewalls and floor or
floors of all secondary containment areas, including the proposed overall
dimensions of the facility. The city engineer shall approve or disapprove the
secondary containment plans within thirty days of receipt of the plans.
   C.   An operator shall comply with all of the following minimum construction
standards to meet the secondary containment requirements of this rule:
      1.   An operator shall be required to prepare a hydrogeological
investigation of the facility area to establish local background groundwater
quality. The hydrogeo logical investigation shall include all of the following:
         a.   Water quality sampling pursuant to the parameters established in
the New Mexico Water Quality Control Act;
         b.   A determination of the direction of-groundwater flow and depth to
the groundwater in the uppermost aquifer;
         c.   A chemical analysis showing the concentrations of benzene, ethyl
benzene, toluene, and xylene; and
         d.   A geologic description of earth materials, both horizontally and
vertically, in the immediate vicinity of the proposed facility.
      2.   Each facility shall be required to have one of the following
monitoring systems to detect leakage from hydrocarbon or brine storage
secondary containment areas:
         a.   A minimum of one groundwater monitoring well downgradient which
is in close proximity to all hydrocarbon or brine storage secondary containment
areas; or
         b.   Tertiary containment underlying the secondary containment, which
shall be constructed and sealed in a manner to capture any hydrocarbons or
brine that may leak or seep through the secondary containment. A layer of
permeable material and a monitoring tube shall be placed between the secondary
and tertiary containment to allow monitoring to determine the presence of any
leakage or seepage through the secondary containment.
      3.   A vessel that contains hydrocarbons or brine, or both, shall be
elevated and placed on impervious pads or constructed so that any leakage can
be easily detected. A vessel that is to be used on-site for thirty days or less
shall, at a minimum, be placed on leak-resistant material.
      4.   A hydrocarbon and brine storage vessel, including oil heating and
treating equipment, shall be located in a secondary containment area and the
containment volume shall be in compliance with the following minimum
requirements, as applicable:
         a.   Containment areas shall be constructed to contain one hundred
fifty percent of the largest storage vessel.
         b.   Precipitation shall be taken into consideration in the design of
the secondary containment area.
      5.   The sidewalls and floor of the secondary containment and spill
containment areas shall be constructed and sealed in a manner to prevent the
seepage of hydrocarbons or brine, or both, into the surrounding soils, surface
waters, or groundwater.
      6.   A hydrocarbon and brine storage vessel shall not be erected,
enclosed, or maintained closer that two hundred feet from any drilling
producing well.
      7.   Oil heating or treating equipment shall not be erected, enclosed, or
maintained closer than seventy-five feet from any drilling or producing well or
oil storage tank or tank battery.
      8.   Dikes shall be maintained and the enclosure kept free of all of the
following:
         a.   Oil;
         b.   Emulsions;
         c.   Tank bottoms;
         d.   Brine;
         e.   Water;
         f.   Vegetation;
         g.   Debris; and
         h.   Any flammable or combustible material.
      9.   The hydrocarbon and brine truck loading and unloading areas located
outside of hydrocarbon or brine storage secondary containment areas shall have
a spill containment capacity equal to double the volume of the hoses used to
connect the truck to the tanks, but not less than a capacity of five barrels.
The spill containment shall be constructed and sealed in a manner that prevents
the seepage of hydrocarbons or brine, or both, into the surrounding soils,
surface waters, or groundwater.
      10.   Brine disposal well truck unloading areas and commercial brine
truck loading and unloading areas located outside of hydrocarbon or brine
storage secondary containment areas shall be constructed and sealed in a manner
that prevents the seepage of hydrocarbons or brine, or both, into the
surrounding soils, surface waters, or groundwater. In addition, a ramp shall be
constructed to contain the unloading vehicle, its hoses, and connections within
the ramp area. The ramp area shall contain a sump and be connected to a
secondary containment area so that any spillage drains into the sump and into
the secondary containment area. The spill containment ramp and sump shall have
a combined capacity ofnot less than twenty barrels.
      11.   Sumps shall be constructed of materials impervious to hydrocarbons
and brines and resistant to damage and deterioration during use. Sumps shall be
connected to the ramp area and the secondary containment area in a manner that
prevents leakage.
      12.   Surface facilities for hydrocarbon and brine handling shall be
constructed to meet all of the following minimum requirements:
         a.   All transfer and injection pumps shall have leak containment;
         b.   All brine and hydrocarbon flow lines to a facility are considered
part of that facility and are subject to the following requirements:
            i.   All flow lines shall be pressure tested pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph (c)(i), (ii), (iii), (v), and (vii) of this
subdivision; and
            ii.   An operator may elect to not perform the pressure testing of
the flow lines, except flow lines that transport brine only, if the operator
performs visual inspection of the entire flow line corridor every three months,
and reports the results of the inspections to the city engineer annually by
January 31 st of each year for the previous calendar year.
         c.   All buried facility piping for the transport of liquids shall be
pressure-tested pursuant to the following provision, as applicable:
            i.   Piping made of noncorrodible or corrosion-protected material
shall be pressure-tested every three years;
            ii.   All piping other than piping specified in subparagraph (i) of
this paragraph shall be pressure-tested every twelve months;
            iii.   If buried piping is excavated for repair or relocation, then
the disturbed portion shall be pressure-tested immediately pursuant to
subparagraphs (iv) and (v) of this paragraph;
            iv.   The pressure test shall be one hundred percent of the normal
oil and gas separator operating pressure. The pressure shall be stabilized at
ninety percent of test pressure, at a minimum, and shall hold for a period of
fifteen minutes;
            v.   An operator shall provide certification to the city engineer,
within thirty days of a pressure test, that a pressure test was conducted and
the facility piping passed the pressure test. If a facility's piping does not
pass the pressure test, the city engineer shall be notified by the operator
within forty-eight hours after the test. If the pressure test indicated that
the facility's piping leaked, then the piping shall be repaired and tested
before putting the piping back in service. After the repair of the piping, the
operator shall report the repair to the city engineer and provide certification
that the piping has been retested and is not leaking;
            vi.   Single-phase gas lines are not subject to the pressure test
requirements if the lines are protected by a liquid phase trap; and
            vii.   The city engineer may approve or require other pressure
testing or leak detection methods in place of the pressure testing required in
this paragraph.
         d.   At production or injection well facilities, all piping shall be
routed above the ground and kept within the secondary containment area where
practical. Piping that cannot be routed above the ground shall have its
location marked with posts or with other location-identifying markers approved
by the city engineer so that the buried piping can be easily located.
         e.   Brine injection wells shall have a working check valve on the
flow line at or near the wellhead to avoid backflow.
         f.   All hydrocarbon and brine loading and unloading facility transfer
lines that are not in use shall be secured to prevent spillage. A shutoff valve
shall be installed at the truck connect point and at the storage vessels. At
connect points, impermeable drip containment vessels shall be used and shall be
an adequate size to contain all spillage and precipitation to avoid overflow.
      13.   Wellheads, flare pits, vents, and flare stacks shall have secondary
containment and spill containment areas constructed in a manner to prevent the
seepage of hydrocarbons or brine, or both, into the surrounding soils, surface
waters, or groundwater. Secondary containment at the wellhead shall be
constructed in a manner to capture any leakage of liquid that may occur. In
addition, if the wellhead is provided with a pump jack or is converted to a
pump jack equipped with a gasoline or diesel-powered engine, then the engine
shall also have secondary containment that is sufficient to prevent the seepage
of any machine oils or fuels into the surrounding soils, surface waters, or
groundwater.
   D.   Upon completion of the construction of the facility, but before its
use, an operator shall certify to the city engineer, that the secondary
containment area was constructed according to the approved plan. An operator
shall ensure that an approved spill or loss response and remedial action plan
is also on file with the city engineer before a facility is used.
   E.   Before any significant modification of the secondary containment area
occurs, an operator of a well shall notify the city engineer and receive
approval before making the modification. The city engineer shall approve or
deny the request within ten days of receipt of the request.
   F.   An operator of a well shall perform inspections at the facility at a
frequency that is sufficient to ensure that the throughput of fluids in the
system does not exceed the primary and secondary containment capacity between
inspections. The operator shall perform at least one inspection per week.
   G.   The city engineer shall require the installation of an automatic
facility shutdown system if the facility has a throughput of liquids in a
twenty-four-hour period that exceeds the containment volume of secondary
containment area. The automatic shutdown system shall be designed to prevent
liquids from overflowing the secondary containment area. A facility shall be
exempt from the requirement of an automatic shutdown system if the facility has
staff present twenty-four hours per day and is equipped with alarm systems on
the tank or the tanks of the tank battery.
   H.   The monitoring system required by subsection 8.30.460(C)(2) shall be
kept in a functional condition so that water samples can be collected and water
level measurements can be taken every six months. The water samples shall be
tested for specific conductance as an indicator of dissolved solids,
concentrations of chloride, and chemical analysis pursuant to subsection (C)(1)
(c) of this section, except the chemical analysis provided by subsection (C)(1)
(c) of this section shall not be required at monitoring systems at surface
facilities where liquid hydrocarbons are not handled. The results of the sample
analysis shall be provided to the city engineer as soon as the results are
available. If the samples taken by the operator show substantial increases
above background water quality, then the operator shall, at a minimum, increase
monitoring. If the samples confirm that hydrocarbons are present at levels
above background, then the operator shall immediately take remedial action in
the form of containment and removal.
   I.   An operator shall provide a right of entry to the facility for
monitoring at all times to the city engineer.
   J.   Failure to comply with any of the provisions of this section shall be
an offense. For each day that a facility is operated in violation of this
section, it shall be a separate offense punishable by a maximum fine of five
hundred dollars per day. (Ord. 449 (part), 2003)
8.30.470   Restoration of well site; filling and leveling of cellars, pits, and
excavations.
   An operator of a well shall fill and level the cellar and all pits and
excavations, remove or eliminate debris, minimize erosion, and restore the well
site as nearly as practicable to the original land contour or to a condition
approved by the city engineer as soon as practical after the completion of
plugging to the surface, but not more than six months after the completion of
plugging to the surface. (Ord. 449 (part), 2003)
8.30.480   Safety Measures.
   If hazards to life or property, or both, exist, then an operator of a well
shall post safety signs in conspicuous places around the well or surface
facility. The city engineer may require the installation of fences, gates, or
other safety measures. (Ord. 449 (part), 2003)
8.30.490   Use of pits to collect waste oil and tank bottoms prohibited;
conveying, storing, or disposing of waste oil and tank bottoms.
   An operator of a well shall not use earthen pits to collect waste oil and
tank bottoms. An operator shall not convey, store, or dispose of waste oil and
tank bottoms in a manner that causes waste. (Ord. 449 (part), 2003)
8.30.500   Cleanup and disposal of losses.
   An operator shall clean up and dispose of, in a manner consistent with this
chapter and all applicable state and federal laws and regulations, losses of
oil, gas or brine from wells, flow lines, and associated surface facilities.
(Ord. 449 (part), 2003)
8.30.510   Enforcement.
   The city shall have the right to enforce the provisions of
Chapter 8.30 through both its civil or criminal jurisdiction in both the
Municipal Court of the City of Lovington or the District Courts of the State of
New Mexico. In the event of a violation of this chapter, the appropriate
authorities of the city, in addition to other available remedies, may institute
injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent,
enjoin or remedy such violation. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
for each day during or on which a violation of this chapter occurs or continues
to occur. (Ord. 449 (part), 2003)
Chapter 8.32
MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Sections:
   
8.32.010   Short title.
   
8.32.020   Definitions.
   
8.32.030   Sanitation facilities.
   
8.32.040   Ventilation, light and heating.
   
8.32.050   Penalties.
8.32.010   Short title.
   The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known and may be cited as
the "Minimum Housing Standards Ordinance of the City of Lovington." (Ord. 420
(part), 1998)
8.32.020   Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
      1.   "Approved" is approved by the building inspector.
      2.   "Basement" is a portion of any dwelling located partly underground
but having less than half its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average
grade of the adjoining ground.
      3.   "Building code" is the building code of this city.
      4.   "Building inspector" is the building inspector of this city.
      5.   "Cellar" is a portion of any dwelling having half or more than half
of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining
ground.
      6.   "City" is the city of Lovington.
      7.   "Dwelling" is a building or structure, except temporary housing,
which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used for living or sleeping by
human occupants.
      8.   "Dwelling unit" is a room or group of rooms located within a
dwelling and forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or
intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
      9.   "Habitable room" is aroom or enclosed floor space used or intended
to be used for living, sleeping or eating purposes, excluding bathroom, water
closet compartments, laundries, foyers, pantries, communicating corridors,
stairways, closets, basement recreation rooms and storage spaces.
      10.   "Multifamily dwelling" is any dwelling or part thereof containing
three or more dwelling units.
      11.   "Occupant" is any person including an owner or operator living and
sleeping in a dwelling unit or rooming unit,
      12.   "Openable area" is the part of a window or door which is available
for unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
      13.   "Operator" is any person who, alone, jointly or severally with
others, holds legal or equitable title to any dwelling, rooming house, dwelling
unit or rooming unit.
      14.   "Owner" is any person who, alone, jointly or severally with others,
holds legal or equitable title to any dwelling, rooming house, dwelling unit,
rooming unit.
      15.   "Person" is any person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
      16.   "Plumbing" is water heating facilities, water pipes, garbage
disposal units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed clothes-washing
machines, catch basins, drains, vents, and other similar supplied fixtures,
together with all connections to water or sewer lines.
      17.   "Plumbing code" is the plumbing code of this city.
      18.   "Premises" is a lot, plot or parcel of land including the buildings
and structures thereon.
      19.   "Rooming house" is any dwelling, or that part thereof containing
one or more rooming units, in which space is let to three or more persons.
      20.   "Rooming unit" is any room or group of rooms forming a single
habitable unit used or intended to be used for living or sleeping, but not for
cooking or other eating purposes.
      21.   "Supplied" is installed, furnished or provided by the owner or
operator at his expense.
      22.   "Two-family dwelling" is any dwelling containing two dwelling
units.
      23.   "Yard" is all ground, lawn, court, walk, driveway or other open
space constituting part of the same premises as a dwelling. (Ord. 420 (part),
1998)
8.32.030   Sanitation facilities.
   No person shall occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling, rooming
house, dwelling unit or rooming unit which is not equipped for and does not
have water, electricity, gas, sewer, garbage service and which does not comply
with the following minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities:
   A.   Dwelling Units. Every dwelling unit shall contain within its walls:
      1.   Lavatory Facilities. A room, separate from the habitable rooms,
which affords privacy and which is equipped with a flush water closet;
      2.   Basins. A lavatory basin located in the same room as, or adjacent
to, the flush water closet;
      3.   Bathtub or Shower. A room, separate from the habitable rooms, which
affords privacy to a person in the room and which is equipped with a bathtub or
shower;
      4.   Kitchen Sink. A kitchen sink;
   B.   Water Line Connections. Every kitchen sink, lavatory, basin and bathtub
or shower required by this chapter shall be properly connected with both hot
and cold water lines.
   All plumbing fixtures required by this section shall be properly connected
to an approved water system and to an approved sewerage system.
   C.   Rubbish Collection. Every dwelling shall have approved common garbage
and rubbish storage and disposal facilities. (Ord. 420 (part), 1998)
8.32.040   Ventilation, tight and heating.
   No person shall occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling, rooming
house, dwelling unit, or rooming unit which does not comply with the following
minimum standards for ventilation, light and heating:
   A.   Windows and Openable Space.
      1.   Habitable Rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
which can easily be opened directly to the outdoors,
      2.   Bathrooms. Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall have a
minimum openable area of at least six square feet or some other device approved
by the building inspector as affording adequate ventilation;
   B.   Lighting. Every dwelling within the corporate limits shall be supplied
with electricity;
   C.   Heating. Every dwelling shall have heating facilities which are capable
of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathroom and water closet
compartments within its walls to a temperature of at least seventy degrees F.
Portable heating equipment employing a flame and heating equipment using
gasoline or kerosene are prohibited;
   D.   Cellars. No cellar shall be used for living purposes;
   E.   Basements. No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
      1.   The floors and walls are substantially watertight,
      2.   The total window area, total openable area and ceiling height are in
accordance with this chapter,
      3.   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is entirely
above the grade of the ground. (Ord. 420 (part), 1998)
8.32.050   Penalties.
   Any person, violating any of the provision of this ordinance shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount
not exceeding three hundred dollars or be imprisoned for a period not exceeding
ninety days or be both so fined and imprisoned. Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 420 (part), 1998)
Title 9
PUBLIC PEACE, MORALS AND WELFARE
   Chapters:
      
9.04   Offenses By or Against Public Officers and Government
      
9.08   Offenses Against the Person
      
9.12   Offenses Against Public Decency
      
9.16   Offenses Against Public Peace
      
9.20   Offenses Relating to Property
      
9.24   Offenses By or Against Minors
      9.28   Weapons
      
9.32   Fair Housing
Chapter 9.04
OFFENSES BY OR AGAINST PUBLIC OFFICERS AND GOVERNMENT
Sections:
   
9.04.010   False alarms.
   
9.04.020   Filing false reports.
   
9.04.030   Impersonating an officer.
   
9.04.040   Insignia of law enforcement agencies- Unauthorized use prohibited.
   
9.04.050   Interfering with officer- Resisting arrest.
   
9.04.060   Concealing true identity.
   
9.04.070   Escaping from custody-Assisting escape.
   
9.04.080   Health hazards-Failure to comply-Abatement
9.04.010   False alarms.
   It is unlawful for any person to make, turn in or give a false alarm of fire
or of need for police or ambulance assistance, or to interfere wilh the proper
functioning of an alarm system, or to aid or abet the commission of such an
act. (Prior code § 7-1-20)
9.04.020   Filing false reports.
   It is unlawful for any person to maliciously make or file with the police
department any false, misleading or unfounded report or statement concerning
the commission or alleged commission of any crime. (Prior code § 7-1-21)
9.04.030   Impersonating an officer.
   It is unlawful for any person other than a duly commissioned police officer
to wear or carry the uniform, apparel, badge, identification card or other
insignia of office, the same, similar or a colorable imitation of that adopted
and worn or carried by duly commissioned police officers unless acting in the
course of regular business and with the permission of the city, or, without
authority, to exercise or attempt to exercise the functions of, or pretend to
be, a peace officer or judge. (Prior code § 7-1-23)
9.04.040   Insignia of law enforcement agencies- Unauthorized use prohibited.
   It is unlawful to display on any vehicle or sign the words "police," "police
department," "fire department" or words or insignia of similar import without
the authority of the city manager; provided, that nothing contained in this
section shall apply to any state or county vehicle. (Prior code § 7-1-24)
9.04.050   Interfering with officer- Resisting arrest.
   A.   It is unlawful to resist, abuse, molest, hinder, obstruct or refuse to
obey or assist when called upon to do so, any police officer, fireman or judge
while in the discharge of his duty.
   B.   It is unlawful to knowingly resist or oppose any officer of this state
in the lawful discharge of his duties. (Prior code §§ 7-1-22, 7-1-29)
9.04.060   Concealing true identity.
   It is unlawful for any person to conceal one's true name or identity, or to
disguise one's self with intent to obstruct the due execution of the law or
with intent to intimidate, hinder or interrupt any public officer or any other
person in a legal performance of his duty or the exercise of his rights under
the laws of the United States, the state of New Mexico, or the city of
Lovington. (Prior code § 7-1-30)
9.04.070   Escaping from custody-Assisting escape.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, while a prisoner of the city or
otherwise in the custody of or confined by the city, to escape or attempt to
escape or to assist other prisoners to escape or attempt to escape from such
custody or confinement.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to assist, attempt to assist or offer to
assist any person in custody of or confined under the authority of the city to
escape from jail, place of confinement or custody. (Prior code § 7-1-25)
9.04.080   Health hazards-Failure to comply-Abatement
   A.   Any person who shall conceal, secrete or hide upon his premises any
source of filth prejudicial to the public health or any source of filth or
cause of sickness or shall fail or refuse to make known to the proper
authorities the existence of any contagious disease immediately after (he same
becomes known to him or shall violate any of the provisions of this section in
any manner, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   If the owners or occupants do not comply with the order of the health
officer, such officer may summon sufficient assistance and remove such source
of filth and cause of sickness and if admittance to the premises is refused,
the health officer or any person interested shall make complaint before the
municipal judge of the city stating the facts of the case and the municipal
judge shall thereupon issue a warrant to the health officer commanding him to
take sufficient aid and, between the hours of sunrise and sunset, to proceed to
such place and remove such nuisance, source of filth or cause of sickness.
(Prior code § 7-3-9)
Chapter 9.08
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
Sections:
   
9.08.010   Assault and battery.
9.08.010   Assault and battery.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to commit a battery upon the person of
another, nor shall any person by any unlawful act, threat or menacing conduct
cause another person to believe he is in danger of receiving an immediate
battery, nor shall any person, by the use of insulting language toward another,
impugn his honor, delicacy or reputation.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to beat, strike, wound, inflict violence
or apply force to the person of another, nor shall a person intentionally touch
or apply force to the person of another in a rude, insolent, angry or hostile
manner except in connection with an exhibition duly authorized and licensed
under law, or in lawful self-defense, or in the line of duty as a duly
authorized police officer as circumstances warrant. (Prior code §§ 7-1-1, 7-1-
2)
Chapter 9.12
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY
Sections:
   
9.12.010   Lewd or immoral acts- Prostitution.
   
9.12.020   Prohibited publications.
   
9.12.030   Window peeping.
   
9.12.040   Unlawful cohabitation.
   
9.12.050   Gambling-General.
   
9.12.060   Gambling-Lotteries.
   
9.12.070   Frequenting or protecting illegal establishments.
   
9.12.080   Possession of marijuana.
   
9.12.090   Possession of paraphernalia.
   
9.12.100   Food establishments-Contagious disease control.
   
9.12.110   Curing hides prohibited.
9.12.010   Lewd or immoral acts- Prostitution.
   The following acts are lewd, immoral or obscene and their commission is
unlawful:
   A.   Frequenting, loitering or being employed other than as a bartender or
waitress in any establishment where alcoholic beverages are sold, and engaging
in the practice of or for the purpose of soliciting others lo purchase
alcoholic beverages;
   B.   Owning or operating any establishment where alcoholic beverages are
sold and knowingly permitting the presence in such establishment of any person
who violates the provisions of Section
9.24.100;
   C.   Uttering any abusive or obscene language whether addressed to or in the
hearing of another person or making any obscene gesture to, at or about any
person;
   D.   Hiring, using or employing any other person to manufacture, promote,
distribute or possess any known obscene publication;
   E.   Knowingly engaging in or offering to engage in sexual intercourse for
hire;
   F.   Entering or remaining in a house of prostitution with intent to engage
in sexual intercourse with a prostitute;
   G.   Knowingly hiring a prostitute to engage in sexual intercourse;
   H.   Knowingly establishing, owning, maintaining or managing a house of
prostitution or participating in the establishment, ownership, maintenance or
management thereof;
   I.   Knowingly permitting any place to be used as a house of prostitution;
   J.   Procuring a prostitute for a house of prostitution;
   K.   Inducing another to become a prostitute;
   L.   Living wholly or partly upon the earnings of prostitution;
   M.   Knowingly soliciting a patron for a prostitute or for a house of
prostitution;
   N.   Knowingly procuring a prostitute for a patron;
   O.   Knowingly procuring transportation for, paying for the transportation
of, or transporting a person within the city with the intention of aiding that
person to engage in prostitution;
   P.   Knowingly being employed by a house of prostitution or performing any
function which constitutes promoting prostitution;
   Q.   Knowingly and indecently exposing the private parts or sexual organs of
a person to public view. (Prior code § 7-3-1)
9.12.020   Prohibited publications.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, attempt to sell,
accept, give away, keep in his possession with intent to sell or give away or
in any way furnish or attempt to furnish any person any illustrated comic book
magazine, film or other publication which, read as a whole, is of an obscene
nature.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, attempt to sell,
accept, give away, keep in his possession with intent to sell or give away or
in any way furnish or attempt to furnish to any child under the age of eighteen
years any comic book, magazine or other publication which, read as a whole, is
concerned with accounts of crime and which, by use of drawings, depicts the
following crimes: Administering poison and injurious potions, aggravated
assault, arson, assault to attempt burglary, assault to maim or disfigure,
assault with intent to commit rape, assault with intent to commit robbery,
assault with intent to commit murder, burglary, false imprisonment, kidnapping
and abduction, maiming and disfiguring, malicious mischief, murder, rape,
robbery, theft or conspiracy in any of the foregoing offenses.
   C.   It is the intent of this section to include publications where the text
is not prominently featured but rather is inserted in the picture usually
within lines that indicate the words spoken by the characters,
   D.   This section does not apply to accounts of crime printed in the
ordinary news media nor to the drawings or photographs used to illustrate such
accounts nor to the legitimate illustrated historical accounts of crimes.
   E.   If any publication prohibited by this section shall be displayed in any
newsstand, bookstore, market or other establishment, where such publication
maybe seen by any child under the age of eighteen years visiting such
establishment, such display shall be prima facie evidence that the person in
charge of such establishment intended to sell, offer for sale, or attempt to
furnish such publication in violation of this section. (Prior code § 7-3-2)
9.12.030   Window peeping.
   It is unlawful for any person to enter upon any private property and look,
peer or peep into or be found loitering around or within the view of any
window, door or other means of viewing into any occupied building other than
his own household. (Prior code § 7-3-3)
9.12.040   Unlawful cohabitation.
   It is unlawful for persons who are not married to each other to cohabitate
together as man and wife. (Prior code § 7-3-6)
9.12.050   Gambling-General.
   A.   Engaging In Gambling Prohibited. It is unlawful to play at, run or
operate any game or games of chance, keno, fargo, monte, passfore, passmonte,
twenty-one, roulette, chuck-a-luck, hazard, fan tan, poker, stud poker, red and
black, high and low, craps, black jack or any other game of chance played with
dice, cards, punch boards, slot machines or any other gaming device for money
or anything of value in the city.
   B.   Operating Gambling Establishment Prohibited.
      1.   The business of gambling or the establishment of a gambling place
within one mile of the city is declared to be an offensive or unwholesome
business or establishment and is prohibited. Any person who engages in or
establishes any gambling game by whatever name or by whatever device within the
area above specified is deemed guilty of a violation of this section.
      2.   Any person who is the owner or possessor of any game mentioned in
the subsection A or any person engaged in operating any such game or knowingly
supplying any such game with cards or dice or other devices or who is in actual
possession and control as owner, lessee or otherwise of the premises upon which
any such game is run or operated or who shall knowingly lease premises so to be
used or who, having leased such premises, knowingly permits the same so to be
used, shall be guilty of a violation of this section.
      3.   Any person or the members of an organization or club who manages,
controls or banks any such game as enumerated in this section or who takes or
receives any money or thing of value or anything representing value for
himself, themselves, or such organization or club or for any other person for
such game to buy drinks, cards or for expenses of the game or for running such
game or for any other like or similar person, shall be deemed an operator of
the game.
   C.   Complaint, Warrant, Arrest.
      1.   Upon filing with the municipal judge of an affidavit in writing made
by any citizen that gambling, as prohibited by this section, is being conducted
in any building, room, premises or place, describing the same sufficiently for
identification, it shall be the duty of the municipal judge to immediately
issue a warrant commanding the police to whom such warrant is addressed to
enter and search such building, room, premises or place. In the event such
place is being used for purposes prohibited by this section, he shall arrest,
without a warrant, the parties therein or making their escape therefrom who
would be subject to arrest with a warrant, and take possession of any gambling
paraphernalia, devices or equipment found therein and shall hold the same until
the owner or possessor of such paraphernalia, devices or equipment shall be
deprived of possession thereof by law.
      2.   All money on any table, in any machine or paraphernalia of any kind
or description used for gambling purposes or in connection therewith, shall be
subject to seizure by any officer of the police department. Such money, tables,
machines, or other gambling paraphernalia of any kind or description used for
gambling purposes shall, by the order of the municipal judge, be destroyed and
demolished.
      3.   It shall be the duty of such officer to take the person or persons
so arrested before the municipal judge and lodge the proper complaint against
each person so arrested.
   D.   Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the police department of the city
to enforce the provisions of the foregoing section by appropriate raids,
seizure of gambling paraphernalia and bringing to trial ail offenders of the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the city attorney to
investigate and prosecute vigorously ail violations of this section. (Prior
code §§ 17-1-1-17-1-7)
9.12.060   Gambling-Lotteries.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to make a bet, enter or remain in a
gambling place with intent to make a bet, participate in a lottery or play a
gambling device or to conduct a lottery or possess facilities with intent to
conduct a lottery.
   B.   It is unlawful to participate in the earnings of or to operate a
gambling place; or to receive, record, forward or possess facilities with the
intent to receive or forward bets or offers to bet or become a custodian of
anything of value bet or offered to be bet; or to conduct a lottery or possess
facilities with the intent to conduct a lottery where both the consideration
and the prize are money; or to set up for use for the purpose of gambling, or
operate any gambling device or collect the profits therefrom.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any property owned or
occupied by him or under his control to be used as a gambling place or to
knowingly permit a gambling device to be set up for the purpose of gambling in
a place under his control.
   D.   It is unlawful to manufacture, commercially transfer or possess with
the intent to commercially transfer any device which he knows evidences,
purports to evidence or is designed to evidence a gambling purpose or any
device which he knows is designed exclusively as a subassembly or essential
part of such device including, but not limited to gambling machines, numbers,
jars, punch boards or roulette wheels. Proof of possession of any device
designed exclusively for gambling purposes other than in a gambling place and
not set up for use is prima facie evidence of possession with intent to
transfer commercially.
   E.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to any sale or
drawing of any prize at any fair held in the city for the benefit of any
church, public library or religious society if such benefit shall be expended
in this city for the benefit of such church, public library, religious society
or charitable purposes. A lottery may be operated for the benefit of the
organization or charitable purpose only when the entire proceeds of the lottery
go into the organization for charitable purposes and no part of such proceeds
go to any individual member or employee thereof.
   F.   Nothing in this section shall be held to prohibit any motion picture
theater from offering prizes of cash or merchandise for advertising purposes in
connection with such business whether or not any consideration other than
monetary in excess of the regular price of admission is exacted for
participation in drawings for prizes.
   G.   Nothing is this section shall be construed to apply to any lottery
operated by an organization exempt from the state income tax and not subject to
the provisions of subsection E of this section; provided, that:
      1.   No more than two lotteries shall be operated in any year by such an
organization;
      2.   All the gross proceeds less the reasonable cost of prizes of any
lottery operated by such organization shall be expended in the city for the
benefit of the organization or public purposes; and
      3.   No part of the proceeds of any lottery shall go to any individual
member or employee of any organization except as payment for the purchase of
prizes at no more than the reasonable retail price. (Amended during 1992
codification: prior code § 7-3-4)
9.12.070   Frequenting or protecting illegal establishments.
   It is unlawful to be found in any place where gambling or prostitution is
being conducted with knowledge of such activity or to give or attempt to give
any signal intended to give warning of the approach of any police officer to
any person in or about any place where any illegal activity is being conducted.
(Prior code § 7-3-5)
9.12.080   Possession of marijuana.
   A.   "Marijuana" means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa L., whether
growing or not, the seeds thereof, and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant or its seeds. It does not
include the mature stalks of the plant, hashish, tetrahydrocannabinols
extracted or isolated from marijuana, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or
cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of the mature stalks, fiber, oil or cake, or
the sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person intentionally to possess marijuana unless
it was obtained pursuant to a valid prescription or order of a practitioner
while acting in the course of his professional practice, or except as otherwise
authorized by law.
   C.   Any person who is guilty of violating this section with respect to one
ounce or less of marijuana shall be punished for the first offense by a fine of
not less than fifty dollars nor more lhan one hundred dollars and by
imprisonment for not more than fifteen days and for the second and subsequent
offenses shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of
not less than one hundred dollars nor more than three hundred dollars or by
imprisonment for not more than ninety days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
   D.   Any person convicted of violation of this section, commonly referred to
as "possession of marijuana," shall be assessed, in addition to all other fees
or fines, a fee of seventy-five dollars. Municipal court shall collect the fee
and dispose of the proceeds in accordance with the requirements of Section 31-
12-8 N.M.S.A., 1978. (Ord. 360, 1990; prior code §§ 7-1-31, 7-1-31.1)
9.12.090   Possession of paraphernalia.
   A.   Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings ascribed:
      1.   "Controlled substance" means a drug, substance or immediate
precursor listed in Schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act of
the state or regulations adopted thereto (Section 30316 to 303110 N.M.S.A.,
1978). A copy of the Controlled Substances Act will be kept on file in the
office of the city clerk for public inspection or copying upon payment of a
reasonable fee.
      2.   "Deliver" means the actual, constructive or attempted transfer from
one person to another of paraphernalia as defined in this section.
      3.   "Marijuana" means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa L., whether
growing or not, the seeds thereof and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant or its seeds. Such term does
not include the mature stalks of the plant, hashish, tetrahydrocannabinols
extracted or isolated from marijuana, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or
cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of the mature stalks, fiber, oil or cake, or
the sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination.
      4.   "Paraphernalia" means all equipment, products and materials of any
kind which are used, intended for use, or designed for use, in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling,
or otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance.
   It includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      2.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled
substances;
      3.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
      4.   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
      5.   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      6.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
      7.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining,
marijuana;
      8.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
      9.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances;
      10.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
      11.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into
the human body;
      12.   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
         a.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads,
         b.   Water pipes,
         c.   Carburetion tubes and devices,
         d.   Smoking and carburetion masks,
         e.   Roach clips: meaning objects used to hold burning material, such
as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand,
         f.   Miniature cocaine spoons, and cocaine vials,
         g.   Chamber pipes,
         h.   Carburetor pipes,
         i.   Electric pipes,
         j.   Air-driven pipes, k. Chillums, 1. Bongs,
         m.   Ice pipes or chillers.
   In determining whether an object is paraphernalia, a court or other
authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant factors,
the following:
      1.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      2.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of
the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
      3.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of laws relating to controlled substances;
      4.   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
      5.   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the object;
      6.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows, or
should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
laws relating to controlled substances; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone
in control of the object, as to a direct violation of this section shall not
prevent a finding that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as
paraphernalia;
      7.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      8.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      9.   National and local advertising concerning its use;
      10.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      11.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      12.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      13.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community;
      14.   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   "Paraphernalia" does not include hypodermic syringes or needles in the
possession of a person who is required to give himself or herself injections of
medicine prescribed by a physician while the person is under the care of such
physician, or in the possession of a licensed physician, dentist, veterinarian,
nurse, dealer in surgical and medical instruments and supplies, pharmacist or
employee of a hospital, sanitorium or institution where such items are used for
medical purposes by licensed medical professionals, or in the possession of an
owner of livestock to be used for administering medical attention to such
livestock.
   B.   Prohibited Acts.
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to
use, paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into
the human body a controlled substance.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to
deliver, or manufacture with intent to deliver, drug paraphernalia, knowing, or
under circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be used to
plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert,
produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain,
conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication any advertisement knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that the purpose of the
advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of objects designed
or intended for use as paraphernalia.
   C.   Violation-Penalties.
      1.   Any person found guilty of violating this section shall be punished
by a fine of up to three hundred dollars, or a jail sentence of not more than
ninety days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
      2.   Paraphernalia, as defined in this section, shall be subject to
summary forfeiture and shall be destroyed as provided by law in the same manner
as controlled substances. (Ord. 340 § 1, 1986: prior code § 7-1-32)
9.12.100   Food establishments-Contagious disease control.
   No person who is affected with tuberculosis or arty venereal infections,
contagious or other communicable disease shall work or be employed in any
restaurant, hotel, barbershop, beauty parlor, soda fountain, bottling works,
stand where cold drinks or other drinks are sold, grocery store, fruit stand,
butcher shop or any place where food is handled or sold, in any capacity where
such person shall come in contact with such business or the public patronizing
the same. Any person knowingly employing such diseased persons or any person so
diseased who shall enter into such employment shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Prior code § 7-3-8)
9.12.110   Curing hides prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person within the city or within one mile thereof to
keep, cure, dry or expose any green hides, except by the use of proper
disinfectant compounds and the proper observance of all sanitary conditions.
(Prior code § 7-3-11)
Chapter 9.16
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
   
9.16.010   Disturbing the peace.
   
9.16.020   Unlawful noise.
   
9.16.030   Disorderly conduct.
   
9.16.040   Unlawful assembly.
   
9.16.050   Riots and unlawful congregation.
   
9.16.060   Obstructing public ways.
   
9.16.070   Playing in public streets prohibited.
   
9.16.080   Public intoxication.
   
9.16.090   Drinking in public-Open containers.
   
9.16.100   Throwing stones.
9.16.010   Disturbing the peace.
   It is unlawful for any person to disturb or aid in disturbing the peace of
others by violent, tumultuous, offensive, obstreperous conduct, and no person
shall knowingly permit such conduct upon any property owned by him or under his
control or supervision. (Prior code § 7-1-5)
9.16.020   Unlawful noise.
   It is unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made, any
loud or unusual noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others. Unlawful noises include but
shall not be limited to the following:
   A.   Horns and Signal Devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling device
of any automobile, motorcycle, truck or other vehicle on any street or public
place except as a danger warning, the creation by means of any such signaling
devices of any unreasonable, loud, or harsh sound, the sounding of such devices
for any unnecessary and unreasonable period of time other than by accident or
mechanical, electrical or other difficulty or failure, and the use of any such
signaling device where traffic is held up.
   B.   Radios and Phonographs. The use or operation of any radio, phonograph
or other sound producing machine in such a manner as to disturb the peace and
quiet of neighbors.
   C.   Loudspeakers and Amplifiers Used for Advertising. The use or operation
of, or permitting to be played, used, or operated any radio, receiver set,
musical instrument, phonograph, tape recorder, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or
other machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound which is
cast upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or
attracting the attention of the public in any residential area except with the
proper permit elsewhere prescribed.
   D.   Yelling or Shouting. Yelling, shouting or creating other loud noises
which annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office,
dwelling, hotel or residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
   E.   Animals. The keeping of any animals which, by causing frequent or loud
continuous noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any persons of the
vicinity.
   F.   Schools, Courts, Churches, Hospitals. The creating of any excessive
noise on any street adjacent to any hospital, school, institution of learning,
church or court which interferes with the working of such institution, or which
disturbs or annoys patients in a hospital.
   G.   Pounding. The pounding or hammering on any metal object or thing except
inside a building or in connection with the construction or erection of a
building. (Prior code § 7-1-6)
9.16.030   Disorderly conduct.
   A person is guilty of disorderly conduct if, with a purpose to cause public
danger, alarm, disorder or nuisance he wilfully:
   A.   Creates a disturbance of the public order by an act of violence or by
any act likely to produce violence;
   B.   Engages in fighting, or in violent, threatening or tumultuous behavior;
   C.   Makes an unreasonably loud noise;
   D.   Engages in violent, abusive, indecent, threatening, obscene, or profane
language, conduct, or gestures whether addressed to or in the hearing of
another person;
   E.   Causes likelihood of harm or serious inconvenience by failing to obey a
lawful order of dispersal by a police officer, where three or more persons are
committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity;
   F.   Damages, befouls or disturbs public property or property of another so
as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive condition;
   G.   Commits a trespass on residential property or on public property.
Trespass for the purpose of this section shall mean:
      1.   Entering upon, or refusing to leave, any residential property of
another, either where such properly has been posted with "No Trespassing" signs
or where immediately prior to such entry, or subsequent thereto, notice is
given by the owner or occupant, orally or in writing, that such entry, or
continued presence, is prohibited, 2. Entering upon, or refusing to leave, any
public property in violation of regulations promulgated by the official charged
with the security, care or maintenance of the property and approved by the
governing body of the public agency owning property, where such regulations
have been conspicuously posted or where immediately prior to such entry, or
subsequent thereto, such regulations are made known by the official charged
with the security, care or maintenance of the property, his agent or a police
officer;
   H.   Makes a telephone call with intent to annoy another, whether or not
conversation ensues;
   I.   Solicits a sale of merchandise or service by use of the telephone when
such solicitation has not been invited by the person solicited, or conducts a
sales campaign or promotion over the telephone without consent of the person
called;
   J.   Hinders, annoys, or molests persons passing along any street, sidewalk,
crosswalk or other public way, or loiters, sits or stands around the entrance
of any church, theater, public building, or other place of public assemblage in
any manner so as to unreasonably obstruct such entrance, or places or erects
upon any public way an obstruction of any type except temporary barriers or
warning signs placed for the purpose of safeguarding the public against any
hazard;
   K.   Assembles together with two or more persons with intent to do any
unlawful act with force or violence against the person or property of another,
and who makes any overt act to carry out such unlawful purpose;
   L.   Disturbs, threatens or in any insolent manner intentionally touches any
house or vehicle occupied by any person. (Prior code § 7-1-7)
9.16.040   Unlawful assembly.
   It is unlawful for three or more persons to assemble with intent to do any
unlawful act by force or violence against the person or property of another or
to make any overt act to carry out such unlawful purpose. (Prior code § 7-1-10)
9.16.050   Riots and unlawful congregation.
   Any person who shall aid, countenance or assist in making any riot,
disturbance, or any improper diversion or who shall fight in any public place
in the city or who shall be guilty of any indecent or immoral or insulting
conduct, language or behavior in the streets or other public places in the city
and all persons who shall collect in bodies or crowds in the city for unlawful
purposes or the annoyance or disturbance of the citizens shall, upon conviction
of such offense, be punishable as provided in this code. (Prior code § 7-1-26)
9.16.060   Obstructing public ways.
   It is unlawful to hinder, annoy or molest persons passing along any street,
sidewalk, crosswalk or other public way, or to loiter sit or stand around the
entrance of any church, theater, public building, or other place of public
assemblage in any manner so as to unreasonably obstruct such entrance or to
place or erect upon any public way an obstruction of any type except temporary
barriers or warning signs placed for the purpose of safeguarding the public
against any hazard. (Prior code § 7-1-12)
9.16.070   Playing in public streets prohibited.
   No person or persons shall be allowed or permitted to play ball or any kind
of game whatever or to throw snowballs, stones, rocks or any kind of missile
whatsoever in or upon any public street in the city. (Prior code § 7-1-27)
9.16.080   Public intoxication.
   It is unlawful for any person to be in an intoxicated condition in any
public place whether as a result of the use of alcoholic beverages, narcotics,
drugs, fumes, stimulants, depressants, glues or cements. (Prior code § 7-1-8)
9.16.090   Drinking in public-Open containers.
   A.   It is unlawful to consume alcoholic beverages in or on any street,
road, sidewalk, park or on any public place or upon private property open to
the public except in those establishments having a license to dispense
alcoholic beverages.
   B.   It is also unlawful for any person to possess an open container of an
alcoholic beverage while in a motor vehicle operating upon a public roadway or
by anyone on a street, road, sidewalk or park, public place or private property
open to the public within the city. (Ord. 341, 1986: prior code § 7-1-9)
9.16.100   Throwing stones.
   It is unlawful for any person to shoot, sling or throw any stone, rock or
other propellant, missile or substance in any manner as to be reasonably likely
to cause injury to any person or property. (Prior code § 7-1-16)
Chapter 9.20
OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
Sections:
   
9.20.010   Trespassing unlawful.
   
9.20.020   Prowling.
   
9.20.030   Possession of burglary tools.
   
9.20.040   Petty theft, embezzlement, fraud.
   
9.20.050   Receiving stolen property.
   
9.20.060   Shoplifting.
   
9.20.070   Issuing worthless checks.
   
9.20.080   Creating a public nuisance.
   
9.20.090   Defacing public or private property.
   
9.20.100   Misuse of library property.
   
9.20.110   Littering-Posting handbills.
   
9.20.120   Public property-Removing or destroying soil or flora.
   
9.20.130   Outdoor lighting.
   
9.20.140   Offensive conditions-Nauseous discharges.
   
9.20.150   Unlawful refuse disposal.
   
9.20.160   Junked automobiles.
   
9.20.170   Theft of automobile tires,
   
9.20.180   Barricades-Removal unlawful.
   
9.20.190   Barbed wire fences.
   
9.20.200   Tents, tent cities.
   
9.20.210   Hotels and roominghouses- Registration.
9.20.010   Trespassing unlawful.
   It is unlawful, with malicious intent, to enter or remain upon the property
of another knowing that consent to enter or remain has been denied or withdrawn
by the owner or occupant thereof. (Prior code § 7-1-3)
9.20.020   Prowling.
   It is unlawful to lurk, lie in wait or be concealed upon the property of
another without physical or lawful business with the owner or occupant thereof.
(Prior code § 7-1-4)
9.20.030   Possession of burglary tools.
   It is unlawful to possess any lock pick, skeleton key or key to be used with
a bit or bits, jimmy, sledge hammer, pry bar, cold chisel, dynamite,
nitroglycerine, blasting caps, or any other burglary instrument or instruments
commonly used by burglars unless such possession is for a lawful purpose.
(Prior code § 7-1-17)
9.20.040   Petty theft, embezzlement, fraud.
   It is unlawful for any person to steal, convert, embezzle or acquire by
fraud the property of another including any money, goods, chattels, bank notes,
bonds, promissory notes, bills of exchange, other bills, orders, certificates
or any books of account for or concerning money due or to become due and to be
delivered. If the property stolen, converted, embezzled or acquired by fraud
exceeds two hundred fifty dollars, the matter shall be referred to the district
attorney. (Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 7-2-5)
9.20.050   Receiving stolen property.
   It is unlawful to buy, procure, receive or conceal anything of value knowing
the same to have been stolen, converted, embezzled or acquired by fraud. (Prior
code § 7-2-6)
9.20.060   Shoplifting.
   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully take possession of or conceal any
merchandise offered for sale with the intention of converting it without paying
for it or to wilfully alter any label, price tag or marking upon any
merchandise, or transfer any merchandise from one container to another with the
intention of depriving the merchant of all or part of the value of the
merchandise. (Prior code § 7-2-7)
9.20.070   Issuing worthless checks.
   It is unlawful to issue in exchange for anything of value with intent to
defraud any check, draft, or order for the payment of money in the amount of
one dollar to twenty-five dollars upon any bank or other depository knowing at
the time of such issue that insufficient funds or credit exists with the bank
or other depository for the payment in full by such check, draft or order. Any
person convicted of issuing worthless checks shall be imprisoned for not more
than thirty days or fined not more than one hundred dollars or receive both
such imprisonment and fine. (Prior code § 7-2-8)
9.20.080   Creating a public nuisance.
   It is unlawful to create, perform or maintain a public nuisance on public or
private properly within the city. A public nuisance consists of knowingly
creating, performing or maintaining anything affecting any number of citizens
without lawful authority which is either: (1) injurious to public health,
safety, morals or welfare; or (2) interferes with the exercise and enjoyment of
public rights, including the right to use public property. (Prior code § 7-2-
13)
9.20.090   Defacing public or private property.
   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully, maliciously or wantonly destroy,
injure, remove, tamper with or deface real property or improvements thereto or
personal property, either public or private or located within the confines of
Chaparral Park. (Prior code § 7-2-1)
9.20.100   Misuse of library property.
   It is unlawful for any person to carry away without authority, misuse, cut,
write upon, injure, deface, tear or destroy any book, periodical, map,
newspaper or any other property devoted to public library use. (Prior code § 7-
2-2)
9.20.110   Littering-Posting handbills.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to throw or permit to be deposited or
scattered upon any sidewalk, alley, street or public property or upon the
private property of another, any rubbish, waste, trash or other disposed
material of any kind.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to distribute, place or post in or upon
public property any showcard, poster, brochure, circular, handbill or other
advertising device, or to distribute, place or post in or upon private
property, including utility poles, any such matter without the express consent
of the owner. (Prior code §§ 7-2-3, 7-2-4)
9.20.120   Public property-Removing or destroying soil or flora.
   A.   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to move, distribute or take
away any earth, stone or other material from any public street, way, alley,
park or public ground.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to injure or remove grass, flowers,
shrubs, bulbs or any other property growing in or upon any of the parks or
public squares of the city or to take or interfere in any way with property
thereon or to destroy or injure in any manner any property upon such public
squares or parks. (Prior code §§ 7-2-9, 7-2-12)
9.20.130   Outdoor lighting.
   A.   No security light, floodlight, recreational light or other lights shall
be so located, installed, operated or maintained as to annoy, disturb, injure
or endanger the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others or otherwise
interfere with the enjoyment of their respective property rights by adjacent
property owners or occupiers.
   B.   Light used to illuminate any back yard, alley, side yard, front yard or
adjoining lot for recreational purposes, security purposes or other purposes
shall be so placed and so arranged or shaded as to reflect light away from the
adjoining residential properties.
   C.   This section shall not prohibit neighboring property owners from
joining in the installation and/or use of such security or recreational lights
or other lights installed or maintained for their mutual and joint benefit.
(Ord. 298, 1979: prior code § 7-1-6.1)
9.20.140   Offensive conditions- Nauseous discharges.
   A.   If any person shall permit any ground, building, ditch or other
premises within the city, owned or occupied by them, or of which they shall be
the agent having charge of the same, to become or be offensive, nauseous,
hurtful or dangerous to the neighborhood or travelers by reason of stagnant
water, dead animals or from any cause or causes, he shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   B.   If any person shall allow to flow from any house, shop, factory,
stable, slaughterhouse or any place, any foul or nauseous liquid or substance
of any kind whatsoever into or upon any adjacent ground or lot or into any
street, alley or ditch within the city as to be offensive, dangerous, nauseous
or hurtful, and any person who shall deposit in any such place any filth,
litter or refuse or any carcass or thing so as to be offensive, dangerous,
nauseous or hurtful to any portion of the inhabitants of the city, he shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, (Prior code § 7-3-7)
9.20.150   Unlawful refuse disposal.
   It is unlawful to dispose of or store refuse on public or private property
within the city. Refuse means any article or substance which is commonly
discarded as waste or which, if discarded on the ground, will create or
contribute to an unsanitary, offensive or unsightly condition. Refuse includes,
but is not limited to the following items or classes of items: waste foods;
waste paper and paper products; petroleum and/or petroleum products; cans,
bottles or other containers; junked household furnishings and equipment; junked
parts or bodies of automobiles and other metallic junk or scrap; portions or
carcasses of dead animals; and collections of ashes, dirt, yard trimmings or
other rubbish. (Prior code § 7-2-14)
9.20.160   Junked automobiles.
   A.   The presence of a dismantled, partially dismantled, or inoperable
vehicle or parts thereof on any occupied or unoccupied land within the city
limits in violation of the terms of this section is a public nuisance.
   B.   As used in this section the following terms have the following
meanings:
      1.   "Dismantled or partially dismantled vehicle" means any motor vehicle
from which some part or parts which are ordinarily a component thereof have
been removed or are missing.
      2.   "Inoperable motor vehicle" means any motor vehicle which by reason
of dismantling, disrepair or other cause is incapable of being propelled under
its own power.
      3.   "Motor vehicle" means any wheeled vehicle which is self-propelled or
intended to be self-propelled.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to store on, place
on, or permit to be stored or placed on, or allowed to remain on any occupied
or unoccupied land within the city limits a dismantled, partially dismantled or
inoperable motor vehicle or any parts of a motor vehicle except in zones where
such activity is within the contemplated purposes of a duly licensed business
under the provisions of the zoning code, unless such articles shall be kept in
a wholly enclosed garage or structure.
   D.   Exception-Permit.
      1.   An owner or tenant may store, permit to be stored or allow to remain
upon his premises any dismantled, partially dismantled or inoperable motor
vehicle or parts thereof for a period not to exceed forty-eight hours if such
motor vehicle is registered in his name; and provided further, that any such
owner or tenant may in the event of hardship, secure a permit from the city to
extend such period of forty-eight hours for an additional period not to exceed
one week.
      2.   Upon application by the registered owner of a motor vehicle covered
by this section, and upon the proof of hardship, the code enforcement officer
is authorized to issue the permit provided by this subsection and shall require
the payment of one dollar for each permit issued.
   E.   This section shall be construed as being supplementary to any sections
of the health or zoning codes relating to rubbish, litter, garbage, refuse,
trash or junk and shall not be construed to permit the parking or placing of a
dismantled, partially dismantled or inoperable motor vehicle on any street.
(Prior code § 7-2-10)
9.20.170   Theft of automobile tires.
   It is unlawful for any person who, within the city, shall steal any
pneumatic rubber automobile tire or intentionally, wilfully, wantonly or
maliciously damage or injure any such tire. The theft, damage or injury to each
such tire by any person shall constitute a separate offense. (Prior code § 7-2-
9.20.180
9.20.180   Barricades-Removal unlawful.
   It is unlawful to remove, destroy or interfere with any barrier, guard or
light placed before or in any dangerous place near the streets, sidewalks or
other public ways of the city for the purpose of warning or protecting
travelers from injury or danger, provided that removal after the danger has
ceased and temporary removal to allow the passage of a vehicle with immediate
subsequent replacement shall not be considered unlawful. (Prior code § 7-1-13)
9.20.190   Barbed wire fences.
   It is unlawful to erect or construct any barbed wire fence in the city
within five feet of the inside line of any sidewalk or space left for a
sidewalk upon the streets of the city. (Prior code § 7-1-19)
9.20.200   Tents, tent cities.
   A.   No tents, canvas or paper structures or buildings partly of boards and
tenting or other like camping material when erected for tent cities,
sanitariums or health resort purposes shall be constructed or allowed within
the city unless by permission first granted by the city commission in regular
session.
   B.   Any owner, agent or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of land who
shall permit any person to constaict, erect or use tents upon his property
within the city in violation of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   C.   Any person erecting any such tent or tent structure prohibited by any
ordinance of the city shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Prior code §§
23-5-1, 23-5-2)
9.20.210   Hotels and roominghouses- Registration.
   A.   Any person, either as manager or landlord, keeping a hotel,
roominghouse or place of lodging of a similar kind shall keep a book for the
registration of the names of persons rooming or lodging in such hotel, rooming
house or lodginghouse, and shall require each person so lodging or rooming in
such hotel, roominghouse or lodginghouse to register his or her correct name
and place of residence therein before he shall be assigned to or given a room
in such building.
   B.   Any person keeping such hotel, roominghouse or lodginghouse who shall
fail, neglect or refuse to keep such register publicly displayed, for public
inspection at any time, and who shall fail, neglect or refuse to require any
person rooming, lodging or living in such hotel, roominghouse or lodginghouse
to register his or her name and place of residence upon such register under the
proper date shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Prior code § 7-3-13)
Chapter 9.24
OFFENSES BY OR AGAINST MINORS
Sections:
   
9.24.010   Definitions.
   
9.24.020   Abandonment-Child abuse.
   
9.24.030   Enticement of child.
   
9.24.040   Abandonment of objects dangerous to children.
   
9.24.050   Curfew-Definitions.
   
9.24.051   Curfew-Offenses.
   
9.24.052   Curfew-Defenses.
   
9.24.053   Curfew-Enforcement.
   
9.24.054   Curfew-Penalties.
   
9.24.060   Purchasing or possession of alcoholic beverages unlawful.
   
9.24.070   False identification.
   
9.24.080   Procuring services of others for unlawful purchases.
   
9.24.090   Unlawful assistance to minors.
   
9.24.100   Allowing minors in certain establishments prohibited.
   
9.24.110   Tattooing prohibited.
   
9.24.120   Sale or possession of model glue, aerosol spray and other substances
prohibited.
   
9.24.130   Railroad cars-Prohibited acts.
   
9.24.140   Parental responsibility.
   
9.24.150   Mandatory school attendance.
   
9.24.151   Mandatory school attendance-Unlawful to interfere.
   
9.24.152   Mandatory school attendance-Penalty for violation.
   
9.24.153   Mandatory school attendance-Violators identified.
   
9.24.154   Mandatory school attendance-New Mexico Compulsory School Attendance
Law.
   
9.24.155   Mandatory school attendance-Provisions not exclusive.
9.24.010   Definitions.
   "Minor" means a child or other person under eighteen years of age, unless
specifically defined or designated otherwise.
   "Child" means a person under eighteen years of age, unless specifically
defined or designated otherwise. For purposes of Sections
9.24.060 and
9.24.090, "minor" shall mean a person under twenty-one years of age.
   "Parent" means a natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
   "Guardian" means any person other than a parent who has legal guardianship
of a minor.
   "Custodian" means any person over twenty-one years of age into whose custody
the subject minor under the age of twenty-one years has been placed for a time
by the court.
   "Public place" means any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground
or place to which the general public has access and the right to resort for
business, entertainment or other lawful purpose. A public place shall include
but not be limited to any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, cafe,
theater, drugstore, pool room, shopping center and any other place devoted to
amusement or entertainment of the general public. (Ord. 330 (part), 1984: prior
code § 7-4-1)
9.24.020   Abandonment-Child abuse.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person in the city to abandon or abuse a child.
   B.   As used in this section:
   "Abandonment of a child" consists of the parent, guardian or custodian of a
child intentionally leaving or abandoning the child under circumstances whereby
the child may or does suffer neglect.
   "Abuse of a child" consists of a person knowingly, intentionally or
negligently, and without justifiable cause, causing or permitting a child to
be:
      1.   Placed in a situation that may endanger the child's life or health;
      2.   Tortured, cruelly confined or cruelly punished; or
      3.   Exposed to the inclemency of the weather.
   "Neglect" means that a child is without proper parental care and control or
subsistence, education, medical or other care or control necessary for his well
being, because of the faults or habits of his parents, guardian or custodian or
their neglect or refusal, when able to do so, to provide them. (Ord. 330
(part), 1984: prior code § 7-4-2)
9.24.030   Enticement of child.
   It is unlawful to entice, persuade or attempt to persuade a child under the
age of sixteen years to enter any vehicle, building, room or secluded place
with intent to commit prostitution, criminal sexual penetration, criminal
sexual contact of a minor or indecent exposure, or having possession of a child
under the age of sixteen years in any vehicle, building, room or secluded place
with intent to commit any of the above described. (Ord. 330 (part), 1984: prior
code § 7-4-3)
9.24.040   Abandonment of objects dangerous to children.
   A.   It is unlawful to abandon, discard or keep in any place accessible to
children any refrigerator, icebox, freezer, airtight container, cabinet or
similar container of a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more which is
no longer in use without sealing or removing the doors or other entrances so as
to make it impossible for any child to be imprisoned therein, or being the
owner, lessee or operator of any premises to permit such articles to remain
upon such premises in a condition wherein a child may be imprisoned therein.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to abandon, expose, leave in any place
accessible to children or permit to remain upon premises under his control any
plastic bag without first tearing the same sufficiently to render it no longer
dangerous to a child. (Ord. 330 (part), 1984: prior code § 7-4-9)
9.24.050   Curfew-Definitions.
   The following terms, phrases, words and their derivations, shall have the
meanings prescribed.
   "Curfew hours" means the following periods:
      1.   From eleven p.m., on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday until six a.m. of the following day; and
      2.   From two a.m., on any Saturday or Sunday until six a.m.
   "Emergency" means an unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not
limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   "Establishment" means any private-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
   "Guardian" means:
      1.   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   "Minor" means any person under eighteen years of age.
   "Operator" means any individual, firm, association, partnership or
corporation operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term
includes the members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
   "Parent" means a person who is:
      1.   A natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent of another person;
or
      2.   At least eighteen years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   "Public place" means any place to which the public or a substantial group of
the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways,
and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
   "Remain" means to:
      1.   Linger or stay; or
      2.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
   "Serious bodily injury" means bodily injury that creates a substantial risk
of death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted
loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ. (Ord. 393
(part), 1995: Ord. 330 (part), 1984: prior code § 7-4-7(a))
9.24.051   Curfew-Offenses.
   A.   A minor commits an offense if he remains in any public place or on the
premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
   B.   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if (s)he knowingly
permits, or by inadequate or insufficient supervision control, allows the minor
to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within
the city in violation of the ordinance codified in this chapter during curfew
hours.
   C.   The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if (s)he knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours. (Ord. 393 (part), 1995)
9.24.052   Curfew-Defenses.
   A.   It is a defense to prosecution under Section
9.24.051 that the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
      7.   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      8.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      9.   Married or had been married or has disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with Chapter 26 of the New Mexico Human Rights Act.
   B.   It is a defense to prosecution under Section
9.24.051(C) that the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly
notified the police department that a minor was present on the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave. (Ord. 393 (part), 1995)
9.24.053   Curfew-Enforcement.
   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police officer
shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the public place.
The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this section
unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that,
based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in Section
9.24.052 is present. (Ord. 393 (part), 1995)
9.24.054   Curfew-Penalties.
   A person who violates a provision of the ordinance codified in this chapter
is guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of a day during which the
violation is committed, continued or permitted. Each offense, upon conviction,
is punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars, or by
imprisonment for not more than ninety days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 393 (part), 1995)
9.24.060   Purchasing or possession of alcoholic beverages unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one years to buy,
receive, possess or permit himself to be served with any alcoholic liquor
unless accompanied by a consenting parent, guardian or legal custodian who is
actually physically and personally present at the time the alcoholic liquor is
bought, received, possessed, served or delivered to him. (Ord. 400, 1996: Ord.
330 (part), 1984: prior code § 7-4-11)
9.24.070   False identification.
   It is unlawful for any minor to make false statements or to furnish, present
or exhibit any fictitious or false registration card, identification card or
other instruments, or to furnish, present or exhibit any document issued to
another person, for the purpose of gaining admission to prohibited places or
for the purpose of procuring the sale, gift or delivery of prohibited articles
including but not limited to alcoholic beverages or for the purpose of
consummating any transaction within the city or for the purposes of deceiving
or misleading any person as to his or her true age. (Ord. 401, 1996: Ord. 330
(part), 1984: prior code § 7-4-7 (b))
9.24.080   Procuring services of others for unlawful purchases.
   It is unlawful for any minor to engage or authorize the services of any
other person to procure for such minor any articles which the minor is
prohibited by law to purchase. (Ord. 330 (part), 1984: prior code § 7-4-7 (c))
9.24.090   Unlawful assistance to minors.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly buy, procure or obtain from or
for, sell or serve to, any minor person under the age of twenty-one years, any
alcoholic beverages, or to induce any person to buy, procure, obtain, sell,
serve or deliver any alcoholic beverages to a minor, or by actual or
constructive misrepresentation of any facts calculated to cause, or by the
concealment of any facts which are calculated to cause, any other person
selling, serving or delivering such alcoholic beverages to sell to a minor, or
to another person for ultimate delivery to a minor. (Ord. 330 (part), 1984:
prior code § 7-4-4)
9.24.100   Allowing minors in certain establishments prohibited,
   A.   It is unlawful for the owner or operator of any establishment serving
alcoholic beverages to permit any person under the age of twenty-one years to
attend, work in, frequent or loiter in or about such premises unless such
person is accompanied by his parent or guardian.
   B.   It is unlawful for the owner or operator of any pool room or billiard
parlor open to the general public, or where membership is required, to permit
any person under the age of eighteen years to attend, frequent or loiter in or
about such premises unless such person is accompanied by his parent or
guardian. (Ord. 330 (part), 1984: prior code § 7-4-6)
9.24.110   Tattooing prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to tattoo any minor. (Ord. 330 (part), 1984:
prior code § 7-4-5)
9.24.120   Sale or possession of model glue, aerosol spray and other substances
prohibited.
   A.   "Model glue" means any aerosol spray, aerosol spray paint, glue or
cement of the type commonly used in the building of model airplanes or for
miscellaneous household repairs, or any similar substances containing hexane,
benzene, toluol, toluene, xylene, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, ethylene
dichloride, acetone, cyclohecanone, methyl ethyl ketone, methylisobutyl ketone,
amyl acetate, butyl acetate, ethyl acetate, tricresyl phosphate, butyl alcohol,
ethyl alcohol, ispropyl alcohol, methylcellosolve acetate, trichloroethane, or
ether, or other solvent or chemical having the property of releasing toxic
vapors. This definition shall also include aerosol spray products, gas,
gasoline, or other solvents and petroleum products.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to intentionally smell, sniff or inhale
the fumes or vapors of any model glue, aerosol spray product, or other chemical
substance for the purpose of causing a condition of, or inducing symptoms of,
intoxication, elation, euphoria, dizziness, excitement, irrational behavior,
exhilaration, stupefaction, or dulling of the senses or the central nervous
system, or for the purpose of changing, distorting or disturbing the audio,
visual or mental processes in any manner; however, this section shall not apply
to the inhalation of any anesthesia for legitimate medical or dental purposes.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to intentionally possess, buy, sell,
transfer possession or receive possession of any model glue for the purpose of
violating or aiding another to violate any provision of this section.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen years to
possess or buy any model glue, aerosol spray paint, except when under the
supervision of a parent or legal custodian.
   E.   It is unlawful for any person to sell or deliver, give, or transfer
possession of any model glue to any person under eighteen years of age. (Ord.
402, 1996: amended during 1992 codification; Ord. 330 (part), 1984: Ord. 286,
1979: prior code § 7-4-10)
9.24.130   Railroad cars-Prohibited acts.
   A.   It is unlawful for any minor, not in the regular employ of any railroad
company, to get upon freight or other cars in the city for the purpose of
breaking or riding the same or for any other purpose except as a passenger
coming or going from the station to the city.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen years to catch
hold of any of the cars of any railroad company within the city while the same
are in motion or to ride on the steps of such cars, hang on the rods or run
along the sides of such cars when they are in motion, near enough to be in
danger of being caught by the wheels thereof in case such child should fall or
stumble. (Ord. 330 (part), 1984: prior code §§ 7-4-12, 7-4-13)
9.24.140   Parental responsibility.
   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or custodian of a minor to knowingly
permit such minor to violate any of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 330
(part), 1984: prior code § 7-4-8)
9.24.150   Mandatory school attendance.
   No person under the age of eighteen years and subject to the compulsory
school attendance law shall be upon or about public streets, public places of
amusement and entertainment within the city during the hours when said person
is required by state law to be in attendance at either a public or private
school, a home school or a state institution. (Ord. 396 (part), 1995)
9.24.151   Mandatory school attendance-Unlawful to interfere.
   It is unlawful for a person to encourage or assist anyone subject to the
compulsory school attendance law to fail or refuse to attend or return to
school unless said absence is excused by an appropriate school official or such
absence is excused by the ordinance codified in this chapter or otherwise
recognized by state law. (Ord. 396 (part), 1995)
9.24.152   Mandatory school attendance-Penalty for violation.
   Parent(s) or legal guardian of school children who violate the ordinance
codified in this chapter will be given a warning on the first violation, a
fifty dollar fine on the second violation, and a one hundred dollar fine on
each subsequent violation. (Ord. 396 (part), 1995)
9.24.153   Mandatory school attendance-Violators identified.
   Students who violate the ordinance codified in this chapter requiring
mandatory school attendance will be identified to the proper school officials
and to the student's parent or legal guardian. (Ord. 396 (part), 1995)
9.24.154   Mandatory school attendance-New Mexico Compulsory School Attendance
Law.
   The ordinance codified in this chapter does not amend, modify or replace the
New Mexico Compulsory School Attendance Law, Section 22-12-1 through 22-12-
7 N.M.S.A. 1978. (Ord. 396 (part), 1995)
9.24.155   Mandatory school attendance-Provisions not exclusive.
   The ordinance codified in this chapter does not modify or replace any
truancy supervision by the school districts, private schools or any other
school recognized by law. (Ord. 396 (part), 1995)
Chapter 9.28
WEAPONS
 
9.28.010   Deadly weapons.
   It is unlawful to anywhere carry a concealed, loaded firearm or other weapon
capable of producing death or great bodily harm including, but not restricted
to, any types of daggers, brass knuckles, switchblade knives, bowie knives,
poniards, butcher knives, dirk knives, chains, can openers, ice picks, and all
such weapons with which dangerous cuts or punctures can be inflicted, including
any kind of sharp pointed canes, also slingshots, bludgeons or any other weapon
with which dangerous wounds can be inflicted, except in a person's residence or
on real property belonging to him as owner, lessee, tenant or licensee or in a
private automobile or other private means of conveyance for lawful protection
of one's person or property while traveling or for other lawful purposes.
(Prior code § 7-1-14 (a))
9.28.020   Discharge of firearms.
   It is unlawful to discharge within the city limits any pistol, revolver,
rifle or shotgun which may be used for the explosion of cartridges, or any gas
operated gun or any device for propelling missiles, or any slingshot or missile
propelling device, or any bow made for the purpose of throwing or projecting
missiles of any kind by any means whatsoever, whether any instrument is called
by any name set forth above or by any other name; provided, that this section
has no application in cases involving the discharge of a firearm for lawful
purposes. (Prior code § 7-1-14 (b))
9.28.030   Air and BB guns.
   It is unlawful for anyone to shoot any air rifle, air gun or BB gun. Parents
who permit the violation of this section shall be deemed guilty of a violation
of Section
9.24.140. (Prior code § 7-1-14 (c))
9.28.040   Exception for peace officers.
   The provisions set forth in Sections
9.28.010 through
9.28.030 shall not be construed to forbid police officers from carrying,
wearing or discharging such weapons as shall be necessary in the proper
discharge of their duties. (Prior code § 7-1-14 (d))
9.28.050   Negligence-Endangerment of others.
   It is unlawful to endanger the safety of another or his property by using a
firearm or other deadly weapon in a negligent manner or to carry a firearm
while under the influence of any intoxicant or narcotic, or to sell, loan or
furnish any deadly weapon to persons under the influence of any intoxicant or
narcotic or to any incompetent person. (Prior code § 7-1-14 (e))
9.28.060   Prohibited weapons.
   It is unlawful to manufacture, cause to be manufactured, possess, display,
offer, sell, lend, give away, or purchase any brass or metal knuckles, bludgeon
or any knife which has a blade which opens automatically by hand pressure
applied to a button, spring or other device or any knife having a blade which
opens, falls or is ejected into position by the force of gravity or by any
outward or centrifugal thrust or movement. (Prior code § 7-1-14(f))
9.28.070   Sale to minors prohibited.
   It is unlawful to give, sell, trade, barter or exchange for anything of
value any deadly weapon, air rifle, air gun or BB gun, or ammunition for any
firearm to an{'}'}' person under the age of eighteen years; provided, that this
section shall not be construed to prevent any parent or legal guardian from
purchasing firearms or ammunition for his child or ward. (Prior code § 7-1-14
(g))
9.28.080   Violation-Forfeiture of weapon.
   Every person convicted of the violation of this code shall forfeit to the
city any weapons involved in the violation. (Prior code § 7-1-14(h))
9.28.090   Disposition of forfeited weapons.
   Every police officer upon making an arrest and taking a weapon used in the
violation of any section of the municipal code shall deliver the same to the
chief of police to be held by him until judgment is entered for the offense and
upon the finding of guilt the weapon shall be disposed of as provided in
Section 14-56-2 N.M.S.A., 1978. (Amended during 1992 codification: prior code §
7-1-14 (i))
9.28.100   Duty of physicians to report wounds.
   It is unlawful for any physician, surgeon or other practitioner of the
healing arts licensed by the state to fail to immediately report to the city
police department his treatment of any person in the city for a wound inflicted
by a deadly weapon of any kind. (Prior code § 7-1-15)
Chapter 9.32
FAIR HOUSING
Sections:
   
9.32.010   Policy.
   
9.32.020   Definitions.
   
9.32.030   Unlawful practice.
   
9.32.040   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing.
   
9.32.050   Discrimination in the financing of housing.
   
9.32.060   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services.
   
9.32.070   Exemption.
   
9.32.080   Administration.
   
9.32.090   Education and conciliation.
   
9.32.100   Enforcement.
   
9.32.110   Investigations-Subpoenas-Giving of evidence.
   
9.32.120   Enforcement by private persons.
   
9.32.130   Interference, coercion or intimidation.
   
9.32.140   Separability of provisions.
   
9.32.150   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing.
9.32.010   Policy.
   It is the policy of the city of Lovington to provide, within constitutional
limitations, for a fair housing policy throughout the city. (Ord. 468 § 1,2006)
9.32.020   Definitions.
   "Discriminatory housing practice" means an act that is unlawful under
Sections
9.32.040,
9.32.050 or
9.32.060 of this chapter.
   "Dwelling" means any building, structure, or portion thereof which is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families, and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion
thereof.
   "Family" means and includes a single individual.
   "Person" means and includes one or more individuals, corporations,
partnership, associations, labor, organizations, legal representatives, mutual
companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   "To rent" means and includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to
grant for a consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 468 § 2, 2006)
9.32.030   Unlawful practice.
   Subject to the provisions of subsection B of this section and Section
9.32.070 of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in this section shall apply to:
   A.   All dwellings except as exempted by subsection B of this section.
   B.   Nothing in Section
9.32.040 of this chapter shall apply to:
      1.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family
houses simultaneously; provided further, that in the case of the sale of any
such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such
house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such
house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this subsection shall apply
only with respect to one such sale within any twenty-four month period;
provided further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any
interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental or, more than three such single-family houses at anyone
time; provided further, that the sale or rental of any such single-family house
shall be accepted from the application of this title only if such house is sold
or rented: (a) without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesman,
or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
tenting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent,
salesman, or person; and (b) without the publication, posting or mailing, after
notice of any advertisement or written notice in violation of Section
9.32.040(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the
use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary (c) perfect or transfer the title; or
      2.   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   C.   For the purpose of subsection B of this section, a person shall be
deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      1.   He has, within the preceding twelve months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      2.   He has, within the preceding twelve months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence in providing sales or
rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      3.   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy
by, or occupied by, five or more families. (Ord. 468 § 3, 2006)
9.32.040   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing.
   A.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, national origin, sexual orientation or gender identity.
   B.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, national origin, sexual orientation or gender
identity.
   C.   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
and notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination.
   D.   To represent to any person because of race, color, sex, handicap,
familial status, religion, national origin, sexual orientation or gender
identity that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale, or rental
when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   E.   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color-, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, national origin, sexual orientation or gender
identity. (Ord. 468 § 4, 2006)
9.32.050   Discrimination in the financing of housing.
   It should be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in making of commercial real estate loans, to deny
a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefore for the
purpose of purchasing, construction, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status,
national origin, sexual orientation or gender identity. Such person or any
person associated with him in connection with such loan or other financial
assistance or the purposes of such loan or other financial assistance, or of
the present of prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the
dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other financial
assistance is to be made or given; provided, that nothing contained in this
section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exception contained in
Section
9.32.030(B) of this chapter. (Ord. 468 § 5,2006)
9.32.060   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the terms or conditions
of such access, membership, or participation, because of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, national origin, sexual orientation or gender
identity. (Ord. 468 § 6,2006)
9.32.070   Exemption.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
person of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons of the
same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in
such religion is restricted on account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, national origin, sexual orientation or gender identity. Nor
shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the
public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members. (Ord. 468 §
7,2006)
9.32.080   Administration.
   A.   The authority and responsibility for administering this act shall be in
the city manager of the city of Lovington.
   B.   The city manager may delegate any of these functions, duties, and
powers to employees of the city or to boards of such employees, including
function, duties, and powers with respect to investigating, conciliating,
hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting, or otherwise acting as
to any work, business, or matter under this chapter. The city manager shall by
rule prescribe such rights of appeal from the decisions of his hearing
examiners to other hearing examiners or to other officers in the city, to
boards of officers or to himself, as shall be appropriate and in accordance
with law.
   C.   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the city manager to further such purposes. (Ord. 468 § 8, 2006)
9.32.090   Education and conciliation.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the city manager shall
endeavor to work out programs of voluntary compliance and of enforcement. (Ord.
468 § 9, 2006)
9.32.100   Enforcement.
   A.   Any person who claims to have been injured by discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter "person
aggrieved") may file a complaint with the city manager. Complaints shall be in
writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as the city
manager requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the city manager shall
furnish a copy of the same to the person or persons who allegedly committed or
about to commit the alleged discriminatory housing practice. Within thirty days
after receiving a complaint, or within thirty days after the expiration of any
period of reference under subsection C of this section, the city manager shall
investigate the complaint and give notice in writing to the person aggrieved
whether he intends to resolve it. If the city manager decides to resolve the
complaint, he shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged
discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of conference,
conciliation, and persuasion. Nothing said or in the course of such informal
endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding
under this chapter without the written consent of the persons concerned.
   B.   A complaint under subsection A of this section shall be filed within
one hundred and eighty days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice
occurred. Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which
the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may
be reasonably and fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer
to the complaint against him and with the leave of the city manager, which
shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend
his answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   C.   If within thirty days after a complaint is filed with the city manager,
the city manager has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this
chapter, the person aggrieved may, within thirty days thereafter, file a
complaint with the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
   D.   If the city manager has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance
within thirty days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within thirty
days hereafter commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint.
If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is
about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such
practice or order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   E.   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of proof
shall be on the complainant.
   F.   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the city
manager shall immediately terminate ail efforts to obtain voluntary compliance.
(Ord. 468 § 10, 2006)
9.32.110   Investigations-Subpoenas-Giving of evidence.
   A.   In conducting an investigation the city manager shall have access at
all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals, and other
evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record, and copy such
materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such persons as
are reasonably necessary to the furtherance of the investigation; provided,
however, that the city manager first complies with the provisions of the Fourth
Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The city manager may
issue a subpoena to compel his access to or the production of such materials,
or the appearance of such persons, and may issue interrogatories to a
respondent, to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as would
apply if a subpoena or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a civil
action in the United States district court for the district in which the
investigation is taking place. The city manager may administer oaths.
   B.   Upon written application to the city manager, a respondent shall be
entitled to the issuance of a subpoena by and the name of the city manager to
the same extent and subject to the same limitations as a subpoena is issued by
the city manager himself. Subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall
show on the face the name and address of such respondent and shall state that
they were issued at his request.
   C.   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the city manager shall be entitled to
the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings in United
States district courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a subpoena issued
at the request of a respondent shall be paid by him.
   D.   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the city manager to revoke or modify the subpoena. The city
manager shall grant the petition if he finds that the subpoena requires
appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it requires
production of evidence which does not relate to any matter under investigation,
that it does not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be
produced, that compliance would be unduly onerous, or the other good reason.
   E.   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the city manager or
other person at whose request it was issued may petition for its enforcement in
the municipal or state court for the district in which the person to whom the
subpoena was addressed resided, was served, or transacts business.
   F.   Any person who wilfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other evidence,
if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order of the
city manager shall be fined not more than one thousand dollars or imprisoned
not more than one year, or both. Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead
the city manager, shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement
of fact in any report, account, record, or other document submitted to the city
manager pursuant to his subpoena or other order, or shall wilfully neglect or
fall to make or cause to be made full, hue, and correct entries in such
reports, accounts, records, or other documents, or shall wilfully mutilate,
alter, or by any other means falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined
not more than one thousand dollars or imprisoned not more than one year, or
both.
   G.   The city attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the city
manager participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this chapter. (Ord.
468 § 11,2006)
9.32.120   Enforcement by private persons.
   A.   The rights granted by Sections
9.32.030,
9.32.040,
9.32.050 and
9.32.060 of this chapter may be enforced by civil actions in state or local
courts of general jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within one
hundred and eighty days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice
occurred; provided, however, that the court shall continue such civil case
brought pursuant to this section or Section
9.32.100(D) of this chapter from time to time before bringing it to trial if
the court believes that the conciliation efforts of the city manager are likely
to result in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice
complained of in the complaint made to the city manager and which practice
forms the basis for the action in court; and provided, however, that any sale,
encumbrance, or rental consummated prior to the issuance of any court order
issued under the authority of this chapter, and involving a bona fide
purchaser, encumbrancer, or tenant without actual notice of the existence of
the filing of a complaint or civil action under the provision of this chapter
shall not be affected.
   B.   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than one thousand dollars
punitive damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney's fees in
the case of a prevailing plaintiff; provided, that the said plaintiff in the
opinion of the court is not financially able to assume said attorney's fees.
(Ord. 468 § 12, 2006)
9.32.130   Interference, coercion or intimidation.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by Sections
9.32.030,
9.32.040,
9.32.050 or
9.32.060 of this chapter. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action. (Ord. 468 § 13, 2006)
9.32.140   Separability of provisions.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to
other circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 468 § 14,2006)
9.32.150   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing.
   Whoever, whether or not action under color of law, by force or threat of
force wilfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   A.   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, national origin, sexual orientation or gender identity and
because he is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
or contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or
occupation of any dwelling, or applying for or participation in any service,
organization, or facility relating to the business in selling or renting
dwellings; or renting dwellings; or
   B.   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      1.   Participation, without discrimination because of color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, national origin, sexual orientation or gender
identity, or in activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
subsection A of this section; or
   C.   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, national origin, sexual orientation or gender
identity in any of the activities, services, organization or facilities
described in subsection A of this section, or participation lawfully in speech
or peaceful assembly opposing and denial of the opportunity to so participate:
   Shall be fined not more than one thousand dollars, or imprisoned not more
than one year, or both; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than ten thousand dollars, or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and
if death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for
life. (Ord. 468 § 15,2006)
Title 10
VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
   Chapters:
      
10.04   Uniform Traffic Code
Chapter 10.04
UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE
Sections:
   
10.04.010      Adoption.
   
10.04.020      Penalty assessment program.
   
10.04.030      Penalty assessment misdemeanors; option; effect.
   
10.04.040      Failure to pay penalty assessment.
10.04.010   Adoption.
   The 2010 compilation of the New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance, comprised
of sections 12-1-1 through 12-13-6 inclusive, and all changes through July 1,
2019, are herewith adopted by reference, pursuant to Section 3-17-6 NMSA, 1978.
(Ord. 574 (part), 2019; Ord. 563 (part), 2018; Ord. 556, 2017; Ord. 543, 2016;
Ord. 539, 2015; Ord. 529, 2014; Ord. 518, 2013; Ord. 500, 2010; Ord. 362 § 1,
1990)
10.04.020   Penalty assessment program.
   A.   As used in the Uniform Traffic Ordinance, a penalty assessment program
is hereby adopted.
   B.   A "penalty assessment misdemeanor" means violation of any of the
following listed sections of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance for which, except as
provided in subsection E of this section, the listed penalty assessment is
established:
Common Name of Offense Section Violated Penalty Assessment
Common Name of Offense                                                           Section   Penalty
                                                                                 Violated  Assessment
Obedience to officers                                                            12-3-2    $50.00
Use of coaster wagons and similar devices                                        12-3-6    $45.00
Obedience to required traffic control device                                     12-5-3    $45.00
Red light                                                                        12-5-6    $45.00
Pedestrian control signals                                                       12-5-7    $45.00
Flashing Signals                                                                 12-5-8    $45.00
Lane control signals                                                             12-5-9    $45,00
Display of unauthorized signs, signals or markings                               12-5-10   $45.00
Interference with official traffic control devices or railroad signals           12-5-11   $45.00
Traffic lanes                                                                    12-5-14   $45.00
Basic (speeding) rule                                                            12-6-1.1  $50.00
Speed limits                                                                     12-6-1.2
   (1)   Up to and including 10 miles per hour above the speed limit                 $45.00
   (2)   From 11 and up to and including 15 miles per hour above the speed limit     $60.00
   (3)   From 15 and up to and including 20 miles per hour above the speed limit     $95.00
   (4)   From 21 and up to and including 25 miles per hour above the speed limit     $130.00
   (5)   From 26 and up to and including 30 miles per hour above the speed limit     $155.00
   (6)   From 31 and up to and Including 35 miles per hour above the speed limit     $180.00
Minimum speed regulation                                                         12-6-1.5  $45.00
Special speed limitations                                                        12-6-1.7  $45.00
                                                                                 12-6-2.1
Improper passing                                                                 through   $45.00
                                                                                 12-6-2.7
Obedience to signs designating one-way streets and alleys                        12-6-2.9  $45.00
Rotary traffic islands                                                           12-6-2.10 $45.00
Driving on streets laned for traffic                                             12-6-2.12 $45.00
Following too closely                                                            12-6-2.13 $45.00
Driving on divided streets                                                       12-6-2.14 $45.00
                                                                                 12-6-2.15
Controlled access violation                                                      through   $45.00
                                                                                 12-6-2.16
                                                                                 12-6-4.1
Failure to yield                                                                 through   $45.00
                                                                                 12-6-4.2
Vehicles entering stop or yield intersections                                    12-6-4.3  $45.00
                                                                                 12-6-5.1
Improper turning                                                                 through   $45.00
                                                                                 12-6-5.6
Starting parked vehicle                                                          12-6-5.7  $45.00
Turning and stopping movements and required signals                              12-6-5.8  $45.00
                                                                                 12-6-5.9
Signals by hand and arm or signal device                                         through   $45.00
                                                                                 12-6-5.10
                                                                                 12-6-6.1
Parking violations                                                               through   $25.00
                                                                                 12-6-6.14
Emerging from alley, building, driveway or private road                          12-6-7.1  $45.00
Stop when traffic obstructed                                                     12-6-7.2  $45.00
Stopping for school bus                                                          12-6-7.3  $150.00
Operation of vehicle on approach of emergency vehicle                            12-6-7.4A $80.00
                                                                                 12-6-7.5
Railroad grade crossing violations                                               through   $45.00
                                                                                 12-6-7.8
Stopping, standing or parking in passenger curb loading zone                     12-6-8.3  $25.00
Stopping, standing or parking in freight curb loading zone                       12-6-8.4  $25.00
Stopping, standing and parking of busses and taxicabs                            12-6-9.3  $25.00
Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands                                         12-6-9.4  $25.00
Operation without oversize-overweight permit                                     12-6-11.1 $80.00
No slow-moving vehicle emblem or flashing amber light                            12-6-11.2 $25.00
Operators and chauffeurs must be licensed                                        12-6-12.5 $70.00
                                                                                 A, B, C
Unattended motor vehicle                                                         12-6-12.8 $45.00
Limitations on backing                                                           12-6-12.9 $45.00
Obstruction to driver's view or driving mechanism                                12-6-12.1 $45.00
                                                                                 0
Restriction on use of television in motor vehicles                               12-6-12.1 $45.00
                                                                                 1
Coasting prohibited                                                              12-6-12.1 $45.00
                                                                                 2
Following fire apparatus prohibited                                              12-6-12.1 $115.00
                                                                                 3
Crossing fire hose prohibited                                                    12-6-12.1 $115.00
                                                                                 4
Driving through safety zones prohibited                                          12-6-12.1 $45.00
                                                                                 5
Vehicles shall be driven only on streets, private roads, and driveways           12-6-12.1 $45.00
                                                                                 6
Driving on sidewalk and private property                                         12-6-12.1 $45.00
                                                                                 7
Prohibited activities while driving                                              12-6-12.1 $80.00
                                                                                 8
Processions                                                                      12-6-12.2 $45.00
                                                                                 0
Offenses by persons owning or controlling vehicles                               12-6-12.2 $70.00
                                                                                 2
Permitting unauthorized persons to drive                                         12-6-12.2 $70.00
                                                                                 3
Unlawful riding                                                                  12-6-13.2 $45.00
Unhitched trailer on street                                                      12-6-13.3 $45.00
Littering                                                                        12-6-13.1 $300.00
                                                                                 5
Trains and buses not to obstruct streets                                         12-6-13.6 $45.00
Boarding or alighting from vehicles                                              12-6-13.7 $45.00
Improper opening of doors                                                        12-6-13.8 $25.00
Occupied moving house trailer                                                    12-6-13.9 $25.00
Animals on street                                                                12-6-13.1 $25.00
                                                                                 0
Driving on steep grades                                                          12-6-13.1 $45.00
                                                                                 1
Child restraint                                                                  12-6-13.1 $45.00
                                                                                 2
Seat belts                                                                       12-6-13.1 $45.00
                                                                                 3
Open container (first offense)                                                   12-6-13.1 $45.00
                                                                                 4
                                                                                 12-6-14.2
Pedestrian obedience to traffic control devices and regulations                  through   $45.00
                                                                                 12-6-14.7
Drivers to exercise due care                                                     12-6-14.8 $100.00
Electric personal assistive mobility devices                                     12-6-16   $10.00
Prohibited use of electronic device while driving (first offense)                12-6-18   $80.00
Prohibited use of electronic device while driving (second and subsequent         12-6-18   $130.00
offense)
Operating motorcycles on streets laned for traffic                               12-7-2    $45.00
Clinging to other vehicles                                                       12-7-3    $45.00
Riding on motorcycles                                                            12-7-4    $45.00
Eye protective devices or windshields                                            12-7-5    $45.00
Mandatory use of protective helmets                                              12-7-6    $300.00
Footrests and handlebars                                                         12-7-7    $45.00
Motorcycle maneuverability                                                       12-7-8    $45.00
Off-highway motor vehicles - registration; plate requirement                     12-7-9.1  $25.00
                                                                                 12-7-9.2
Operation of off-highway motor vehicles on streets or highways                   A, B, C,  $210.00
                                                                                 D
Operation of off-highway motor vehicles on streets or highways                   12-7-9.2  $60.00
                                                                                 E
Driving of off-highway motor vehicles adjacent to streets                        12-7-9.3  $20.00
Operation of off-highway motor vehicles on private lands                         12-7-9.4  $20.00
Off-highway motor vehicle safety permit; requirements, issuance                  12-7-9.8  $60.00
Operating and equipment - safety requirements                                    12-7-9,9  $210.00
                                                                                 A (1, 12)
                                                                                 12-7-9.9
Operating and equipment - safety requirements                                    A (3, 4,  $110.00
                                                                                 5, 6, 9)
                                                                                 B, C, D
Operating and equipment - safety requirements                                    12-7-9.9  $60.00
                                                                                 A (7)
                                                                                 12-7-9.9
Operating and equipment - safety requirements                                    A (8,11), $20.00
                                                                                 E
Mopeds - standards                                                               12-7-10   $45.00
                                                                                 12-8-
Operation of bicycles                                                            3 through $25.00
                                                                                 12-8-12
Handicap parking                                                                 12-9-9    $500.00
                                                                                 12-10-1.1
                                                                                 through
                                                                                 12-10-
Improper equipment                                                               1.51,     $45.00
                                                                                 excluding
                                                                                 12-10-
                                                                                 1.12.1
Sun screening material on windshields and windows                                12-10-    $75.00
                                                                                 1.12.1
Restrictions upon use of streets by certain vehicles                             12-10-3.1 $45.00
Minimum vehicle size                                                             12-10-3.2 $45.00
Projecting loads on passenger vehicles                                           12-10-3.3 $50.00
Special projecting load limits                                                   12-10-3.4 $45.00
Trailers and towed vehicles                                                      12-10-3.5 $45.00
Width of vehicles                                                                12-10-3.6 $45.00
Height and length of vehicles and loads                                          12-10-3.7 $45.00
Display of current valid registration plate                                      12-10-4   $60.00
Vehicle subject to registration                                                           $50.00
Driving while license administratively suspended                                          $25.00
 
   C.   The term "penalty assessment misdemeanor" does not include any
violation which has caused or contributed to the cause of an accident resulting
in injury or death to any person.
   D.   When an alleged violator of a penalty assessment misdemeanor elects to
accept a notice to appear in lieu of a notice of penalty assessment, no fine
imposed upon later conviction shall exceed the penalty assessment established
for the particular penalty assessment misdemeanor, and no probation imposed
upon a suspended or deferred sentence shall exceed ninety days.
   E.   The penalty assessment for speeding in violation of Section 12-6-1.2(A)
(4), regarding speeding in a construction or safety zone posted as a double
fine zone, shall be twice the penalty assessment for speeding for the
equivalent miles per hour over the speed limit set out under the adopted
penalty assessment program contained herein.
   F.   In addition to the penalty assessment established for each penalty
assessment misdemeanor pursuant to this section, there shall be assessed the
following fees for each penalty assessment misdemeanor: a twenty-dollar
corrections fee; a six-dollar court automation fee; and a three-dollar judicial
education fee.
(Ord. 574 (part), 2019; Ord. 563 (part), 2018)
10.04.030   Penalty assessment misdemeanors; option; effect.
   A.   Unless a warning notice is given, at the time of making an arrest for
any penalty assessment misdemeanor, the arresting officer shall offer the
alleged violator the option of accepting a penalty assessment. The violator's
signature on the penalty assessment notice constitutes an acknowledgment of
guilt of the offense stated in the notice, and payment of the prescribed
penalty assessment is a complete satisfaction of the violation.
   B.   Payment of any penalty assessment must be made by mail or in person to
the Lovington Municipal Court, 213 S. Love Street, Lovington, New Mexico 88260.
Payment of any penalty assessment must be made within thirty days from the date
of arrest. Payments of penalty assessments are timely if postmarked within
thirty days from the date of arrest. Payments made by mail must be made by
money order or certified check. Payments made in person may be made using cash,
money order, or certified check.
   C.   No record of any penalty assessment payment is admissible as evidence
in any court in any civil action.
(Ord. 563 (part), 2018)
10.04.040   Failure to pay penalty assessment.
   A.   If a penalty assessment is not paid within thirty days from the date of
arrest, the violator shall be prosecuted for the violation charged on the
penalty assessment notice in a manner as if the penalty assessment notice had
not been issued. Upon conviction in such prosecution, the court shall impose
penalties as provided by the New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance (Section 12-
12-1.1), or other law relating to motor vehicles for the particular offense
charged, and the scheduled penalty assessments shall not apply.
   B.   In addition to the prosecution provided for in subsection A of this
section, it is a misdemeanor for any person who has elected to pay a penalty
assessment to fail to do so within thirty days from the date of arrest.
   C.   The Lovington Municipal Court shall notify the Motor Vehicle Division
of the State of New Mexico when a person fails to pay a penalty assessment
within the required period of time. The Motor Vehicle Division shall report the
notice upon the driver's record and shall not renew the person's license to
drive until the Lovington Municipal Court notifies the Motor Vehicle Division
that the penalty assessment, or its equivalent, as well as any additional
penalties imposed, are properly disposed of.
(Ord. 563 (part), 2018)
Title 11
RESERVED
Title 12
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
   Chapters:
      
12.04   Street and Sidewalk Construction and Repair
      
12.08   Street and Sidewalk Use Regulations
      
12.12   Street Names and Building Numbers
      
12.16   Street Trees and Shrubs
      
12.20   Signs, Billboards and Overhanging Structures
      
12.24   Poles and Wires
      
12.28   Public Park Regulations
Chapter 12.04
STREET AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
Sections:
   
12.04.010   Permit required.
   
12.04.020   Application.
   
12.04.030   Bond required.
   
12.04.040   Conformance with specifications.
   
12.04.050   Sidewalk specifications- Inspection.
   
12.04.060   Construction by owner-Procedure- Conformance with specifications.
   
12.04.070   Removal of curb- Permit required.
   
12.04.080   Curb specifications.
   
12.04.090   Barricades required- Interference prohibited.
   
12.04.100   Injury to new pavement prohibited.
   
12.04.110   Maintenance of public ways.
   
12.04.120   Supervision of repair work.
   
12.04.130   Inspection of public ways for defects-Duty of building inspector.
   
12.04.140   Duty of city employees to report defects.
   
12.04.150   Defective sidewalks- Closed to traffic
   
12.04.160   Violation.
12.04.010   Permit required.
   It is unlawful to construct or lay any pavement on any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to repair the same, without having
first secured a permit therefor. (Prior code § 4-4-22)
12.04.020   Application.
   Applications for construction permits shall be made to the city manager and
shall state the location of the intended pavement or repair, the extent
thereof, and the person or firm who is to do the actual construction work. No
such permits shall be issued except where the work will conform to the
ordinances of the city. (Prior code § 4-4-23)
12.04.030   Bond required.
   Each applicant for a permit required by Section
12.04.010 shall file a bond in a sum equal to the estimated cost of the
proposed pavement or repair with surety to be approved by the street
supervisor, conditioned to indemnify the city for any loss or damage resulting
from the work undertaken or the manner of doing the same. (Prior code § 4-4-24)
12.04.040   Conformance with specifications.
   All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in conformity with
specifications laid down or approved from time to time by the commission, and a
copy of such specifications shall be dated and filed with the city manager.
(Prior code § 4-4-25)
12.04.050   Sidewalk specifications- Inspection.
   A.   All sidewalks constructed within the street or avenue right-of-way
shall require a special building permit if such construction is not covered by
a new construction building permit issued on such building.
   B.   The construction of such sidewalks shall be prescribed as follows:
      1.   Minimum width shall be forty-two inches unless in designated school
areas which shall be forty-eight inches. Minimum thickness shall be four inches
unless subject to vehicular traffic in which case the minimum thickness shall
be six inches.
      2.   Minimum gradient from sidewalk to top of curb shall be two percent.
      3.   All sidewalks abutting the back of a curb and gutter shall have an
expansion joint of one-half inch between building and slab or on property line
to minimize distortion of curb and gutter by expansion.
      4.   Break joints shall be provided and spaced the width of the sidewalk
and in no instance shall the spacing exceed ten feet.
      5.   The near side of residential sidewalks shall not exceed a distance
of two feet from the property line.
      6.   All sidewalks shall be finished with a brush or belt finish so that
a slick surface is not obtained.
      7.   One-half-inch expansion joints shall be spaced at intervals of not
more than thirty linear feet.
   C.   All such work shall be subject to inspection by the city engineer or
his representative and shall be paid by the owner, constructor or tenant at the
rate of five dollars per inspection.
   D.   All such work shall be subject to standard specifications on file in
the office of the city engineer. (Prior code § 4-4-15)
12.04.060   Construction by owner- Procedure-Conformance with specifications.
   A.   Whenever the owner of any frontage shall desire to build, rebuild, or
repair a sidewalk in the city without notice being given to other owners, such
person shall apply to the building inspector for permission therefor and the
building inspector, if such permission is granted, shall order the building,
rebuilding or repairing, and specify the grade, the material and other
particulars connected therewith, the same as if notice has been given.
   B.   Every person holding or owning property adjoining any street in the
city, who shall build, rebuild or repair any pavement or sidewalk adjoining
their property under the provisions of this chapter without complying with the
order requiring or permitting such building, rebuilding or repairing, may be
required by the mayor to alter the same as to conform to such order. In case of
neglect or refusal, the mayor shall report such to the city commission and the
city commission may direct the city clerk to give written notice to such person
to reconstruct such sidewalk within the space of one week after service of such
notice. Should such person continue to so neglect or refuse, he shall, upon
conviction before the municipal judge be punished in accordance with Section
1.16.010, and the city commission may cause such alterations to be made and the
expense thereof assessed and collected in the manner provided by this chapter.
(Prior code §§ 4-4-16, 4-4-17)
12.04.070   Removal of curb-Permit required.
   No existing curb and gutter shall be removed, chipped or cut without a
special permit from the city. All such work shall be subject to inspection by
the city engineer or his representative and shall be paid by the owner,
constructor or tenant at the rate of five dollars per inspection. All such work
shall be subject to standard specifications on file in the office of the city
engineer. (Prior code § 4-4-9)
12.04.080   Curb specifications.
   All curbing left lower at time of construction or broken out after
construction shall be protected as follows:
   A.   A special permit shall be obtained from the city for such construction.
   B.   All weather protection shall be provided to elevation of undisturbed
curb height and to a minimum distance of ten feet or the property line,
whichever is the least.
      1.   All weather protection shall be construed to mean compacted caliche
base with asphalt surface treatment, or six-inch concrete slab.
      2.   All concrete slabs shall be provided with expansion joint fillers of
one-half-inch not to be spaced greater than thirty linear feet apart.
   C.   All such work shall be subject to inspection by the city engineer or
his representative and shall be paid by the owner, constructor or tenant at the
rate of five dollars per inspection.
   D.   All such work shall be subject to standard specifications on file in
the office of the city engineer. (Prior code § 4-4-10)
12.04.090   Barricades required- Interference prohibited.
   A.   Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk or
other public place or making an excavation in the same, shall maintain suitable
barricades to prevent injury of any person or vehicle by reason of the work.
Such barricades shall be protected by a light at nighttime.
   B.   Any defect in any pavement shall be barricaded to prevent injury; and,
any person properly maintaining any opening or excavation while the same
remains open shall guard the same with proper barricades and lights.
   C.   It is unlawful to disturb or interfere with any barricade or lights
lawfully placed to protect or mark any new pavement or excavation or opening in
any public street, alley or sidewalk. (Prior code §§ 4-4-30, 4-4-31)
12.04.100   Injury to new pavement prohibited.
   It is unlawful to walk upon, drive any vehicle or animal upon, or injure any
newly laid street or sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by a warning
sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft or newly laid pavement.
(Prior code § 4-4-26)
12.04.110   Maintenance of public ways.
   All public streets, alley and sidewalk pavements shall be in good repair.
Such repair work, whether done by the city or by the abutting owner, shall be
under the supervision of the street supervisor. (Prior code § 4-4-27)
12.04.120   Supervision of repair work.
   All maintenance and repair of public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other
public ways shall be under the supervision of the street supervisor. He shall
be charged with the enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to such
public places, except traffic ordinances, and is authorized to enforce such
ordinance. (Prior code § 4-4-21)
12.04.130   Inspection of public ways for defects-Duty of building inspector.
   It shall be the duty of the building inspector of the city to inspect
sidewalks on public streets and avenues for the purpose of discovering defects
and required repairs. When any defects or required repairs are noted by the
building inspector on such sidewalks, it shall be the duty of the building
inspector to serve written notice on the owners of property abutting against
such defective sidewalk, the owner's agent or person occupying such property,
and ordering that the same be repaired within fifteen days thereafter. (Amended
during 1992 codification: prior code § 4-4-18)
12.04.140   Duty of city employees to report defects.
   It shall be the duty of every city officer and employee becoming cognizant
of any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk or any obstruction thereof, to
report the same to the street supervisor as soon as possible. (Prior code § 4-
4-28)
12.04.150   Defective sidewalks-Closed to traffic.
   Whenever in the discretion of the building inspector it becomes necessary to
prevent accidents or in the event of public necessity, it is lawful and it is
made the duty of the building inspector to extend ropes across the defective
sidewalk in such a manner as to prevent traffic from passing over such
defective sidewalk. It is unlawful for any person to remove or interfere with
such ropes without the consent of the building inspector. (Prior code § 4-4-19)
12.04.160   Violation.
   Failure, refusal or neglect on the part of the property owner, his agent or
any person held responsible under the provisions of this chapter to repair or
cause to be repaired such defective sidewalk, as required by the building
inspector, shall be considered a violation of this chapter; and it shall be the
duty of the building inspector to cause the arrest of such person by filing a
complaint sworn to before the municipal judge of the city. Each day's failure,
refusal or neglect to repair or cause to be repaired such defective sidewalk
shall be considered a separate offense. (Prior code § 4-4-20)
Chapter 12.08
STREET AND SIDEWALK USE REGULATIONS
Sections:
   
12.08.010   Obstructions prohibited.
   
12.08.020   Private use unlawful.
   
12.08.030   Unlawful deposits to sidewalks.
   
12.08.040   Unlawful deposits to streets.
   
12.08.050   Burning leaves and rubbish prohibited.
   
12.08.060   Stopping or parking of trucks, trailers, and other vehicles
prohibited in certain places.
   
12.08.070   Street games prohibited.
   
12.08.080   Encroachments prohibited.
   
12.08.090   Use of alleys for car maintenance prohibited.
   
12.08.100   Obstructing drains prohibited.
   
12.08.110   Poles and wires-Permission required.
   
12.08.120   Gasoline pumps prohibited.
   
12.08.130   Railroad track-Construction regulations.
   
12.08.140   Violation-Notice-Abatement.
   
12.08.150   Interfering with police officer.
12.08.010   Obstructions prohibited.
   A.   No person shall encumber or obstruct any street, avenue or alley within
the city with any article or thing whatever without permission first obtained
from the chief of police.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to cause, create or maintain any
obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way, except as may
be specified by ordinance or by the street supervisor. (Prior code §§ 4-4-2, 4-
4-29)
12.08.020   Private use unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person to use any street, sidewalk or other public
place as space for the display of goods or merchandise for sale; or, to write
or make any sign or advertisement on any such pavement. (Prior code § 4-4-32)
12.08.030   Unlawful deposits to sidewalks.
   A.   It is unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material which may
be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any glass or
other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals or property.
   B.   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks preparatory
to delivery; provided, mat the usable width of the sidewalk is not thereby
reduced to less than four feet; and, provided, that no such article shall
remain on such sidewalk for more than one-half hour. (Prior code § 4-4-46)
12.08.040   Unlawful deposits to streets.
   A.   It is unlawful to deposit on any street any material which may be
harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any glass, or other
articles which may do injury to any person, animal or property.
   B.   It is unlawful to sweep, deposit, pour, drain or spray water, benzine,
gasoline, naphtha, fuel oil or other liquid in any gutter, street, alley or
other public place within the city. (Prior code § 4-4-47)
12.08.050   Burning leaves and rubbish prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to burn any leaves, paper, rubbish or other
substances upon any of the paved public streets, sidewalks or alleys in the
city. (Prior code § 4-4-48)
12.08.060   Stopping or parking of trucks, trailers, and other vehicles
prohibited in certain places.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to park a tractor trailer rig, freight
trailer, bus, hazardous cargo, tank vehicle, semitrailer, recreational vehicle,
a vehicle with a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of more than
fifteen thousand pounds or other vehicle determined to be situated in a
location causing a safety hazard in any street, alley or public way within the
city which is not zoned as a commercial district or an industrial district,
except for temporary purposes of loading and unloading.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle designed to be pulled
by a self-propelled vehicle on any street, alley or public way when such
vehicle is detached from a self-propelled vehicle. (Ord. 523, 2014; Ord. 485,
2008: prior code § 4-4-4)
12.08.070   Street games prohibited.
   It is unlawful to play any games upon any street, alley or sidewalk or other
public place, where such games cause unnecessary noise or interfere with
traffic or pedestrians. (Prior code § 4-4-37)
12.08.080   Encroachments prohibited.
   It is unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property. (Prior code § 4-4-33)
12.08.090   Use of alleys for car maintenance prohibited.
   The use of any alley of the city for repairing or working upon automobiles
or other vehicles or for the purpose of supplying gas, oil or air to
automobiles or other motor vehicles is prohibited; and all persons are
prohibited from placing or maintaining in any of the alleys of the city
stations for the purpose of supplying gas, oil or air to automobiles and other
motor vehicles or from placing or maintaining in any alley building material or
any other obstruction of any kind. (Prior code § 4-4-6)
12.08.100   Obstructing drains prohibited.
   It is unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or property.
(Prior code § 4-4-34)
12.08.110   Poles and wires-Permission required.
   It is unlawful to erect any poles or wires or maintain any poles or wires
over any public place, street, alley or other public way without having first
secured permission from the city commission. (Prior code § 4-4-35)
12.08.120   Gasoline pumps prohibited.
   It is unlawful, to erect or maintain any gasoline pump on any public street
or sidewalk in the city. (Prior code § 4-4-36)
12.08.130   Railroad track-Construction regulations.
   All railroad companies running and operating their railroad tracks across
the streets of the city shall build, construct and maintain a roadway between
their several tracks, between the rails of their several tracks and across the
entire width of such streets between sidewalks. Such roadways to be and
constructed level with such railroad tracks and in such manner that such
railroad tracks will not make any obstruction to vehicles crossing the same.
(Prior code § 4-4-7)
12.08.140   Violation-Notice-Abatement.
   In case any lumber, timber, brick, rubbish, ashes, paper, filth, straw,
garbage, boxes, signs, awnings, goods or other property or things shall be
placed or remain in or upon any sidewalk or in that half of the street or
avenue adjoining any store, shop, building, or premises in violation of or
contrary to this chapter, the owner or occupant of such store, shop, building
or premises shall immediately remove the same. In case the chief of police or
any police officer shall find any such obstruction in or upon any sidewalk or
street, avenue or alley, contrary to this chapter, it shall be their duty to
notify, order and require the owner, occupant or person in charge of the
premises adjoining such street, avenue or sidewalk, where such obstruction or
thing may be, to remove the same forthwith. If any person shall refuse or
neglect to comply with such order, he shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a
nuisance and the chief of police or any police officer shall forthwith remove
such obstruction or thing from such street or sidewalk. (Prior code § 4-4-3)
12.08.150   Interfering with police officer.
   No person shall hinder, interfere with or prevent any officer named in this
chapter from performing any of the duties or powers given to or conferred on
him by this chapter. (Prior code § 4-4-5)
Chapter 12.12
STREET NAMES AND BUILDING NUMBERS
Sections:
   
12.12.010   Street signs-Requirements-Responsibility of city.
   
12.12.020   Building numbers-Conformance with master plan.
   
12.12.030   Building numbers-Owner's responsibility.
   
12.12.040   Defacing building numbers unlawful.
   
12.12.050   Violation.
12.12.010   Street signs-Requirements- Responsibility of city.
   The city engineer shall, at the expense of the city, cause good and
substantial signs bearing the names of the streets and avenues of the city
respectively, to be put up and maintained upon at least two of the corners at
each crossing of all streets and avenues. Such signs shall be so placed as to
be in plain view of persons passing either way upon any of such streets or
avenues. Where there are no buildings at or near such crossings or the streets
or avenues are not open or graded, the putting up of such signs may be
postponed until such time as it is deemed necessary or until it shall be
directed by a resolution of the city commission. (Prior code § 4-4-8)
12.12.020   Numbering-Conformance with master plan.
   All buildings fronting on streets, avenues or alleys in the city shall be
numbered in conformity with the master planning plat, a copy of which shall be
maintained at the office of the city clerk. (Prior code § 4-4-11)
12.12.030   Building numbers-Owner's responsibility.
   It is made the duty of every owner, occupant or agent of any building in the
city, required to be numbered by the provisions of this chapter to put on such
buildings now built, in a conspicuous place and next to the street on which it
fronts, the proper number or numbers thereof. Such number or numbers shall be
in figures not less than two inches in length and shall be placed on all
buildings within ten days after the completion or occupation thereof. (Prior
code § 4-4-12)
12.12.040   Defacing building numbers unlawful.
   No person shall purposely take down, deface or in any manner mar or injure
any sign or number put up under the provisions of this chapter. (Prior code §
4-4-13)
12.12.050   Violation.
   In case any owner, occupant or agent of any building in the city shall
refuse, fail or neglect to number such building within the time specified in
this chapter or shall number or attempt to number such building otherwise than
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, such person shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and the city engineer shall cause such building to be
correctly numbered at the expense of the city. (Prior code § 4-4-14)
Chapter 12.16
STREET TREES AND SHRUBS
Sections:
   
12.16.010   Planting-Permit required-Application.
   
12.16.020   Rock gardens prohibited in parkways.
   
12.16.030   Overhanging or dangerous trees.
   
12.16.040   Poles, wires and ropes-Restrictions.
   
12.16.050   Gas pipes-Restrictions.
   
12.16.060   Excavations-Avoiding tree roots.
12.16.010   Planting-Permit required-Application.
   A.   It is unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public street or
parkway or other public place without having secured a permit therefor.
   B.   Applications for the permit required by the subsection A of this
section shall be made to the city manager and referred by him to the street
supervisor before issuance.
   C.   All trees and shrubs planted shall be placed subject to the direction
and approval of the commission. (Prior code §§ 4-4-38-4-4-40)
12.16.020   Rock gardens prohibited in parkways.
   No rock gardens, boulders, benches or fences shall be built or maintained in
any parkway. (Prior code § 4-4-43)
12.16.030   Overhanging or dangerous trees.
   A.   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the city in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or
travel, or within ten feet of a street or seven feet of a sidewalk level, shall
be trimmed by the owner of the premises abutting or of the premises on which
such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
   B.   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across
any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which
such tree grows or stands.
   C.   The street supervisor may trim any such tree or shrub or remove any
such tree or branch thereof so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or
passage shall be done away with. (Prior code § 4-4-41)
12.16.040   Poles, wires and ropes-Restrictions.
   A.   It is unlawful to attach any wire or rope to any tree or shrub in any
public street, parkway or other public place without the permission of the
commission.
   B.   Any person or company which maintains poles and wires in the streets,
alleys or other public places shall, in the absence of provision in the
franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires and poles free from and away
from any trees and shrubs in such places as far as may be possible, and keep
all such trees and shrubs near such wires and poles properly trimmed, subject
to the supervision of the street supervisor, so that no injury shall be done
either to the poles or wires or to the shrubs and trees by their contact.
(Prior code § 4-4-42)
12.16.050   Gas pipes-Restrictions.
   Any person or company maintaining any gas pipe in the city shall keep such
pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done thereby to any trees or
shrubs. (Prior code § 4-4-44)
12.16.060   Excavations-Avoiding tree roots.
   In making excavations in streets or other public places, proper care shall
be taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub, wherever possible.
(Prior code § 4-4-45)
Chapter 12.20
SIGNS, BILLBOARDS AND OVER-HANGING STRUCTURES
Sections:
ARTICLE I. SIGNS
   
12.20.010   Definitions.
   
12.20.020   Permit-Required.
   
12.20.030   Permit-Application.
   
12.20.040   Permit-Bond required.
   
12.20.050   Electrical inspection required when.
   
12.20.060   Permit-Fee.
   
12.20.070   Permit-Revocation.
   
12.20.080   Annual inspection-Fee.
   
12.20.090   Hazardous or nonconforming signs-Abatement
   
12.20.100   Information required on signs.
   
12.20.110   Wind pressure and dead load requirements.
   
12.20.120   Obstructions of windows and exits prohibited.
   
12.20.130   Attachment to structures in public ways prohibited.
   
12.20.140   Interference with traffic prohibited.
   
12.20.150   Signs on street lines-Special requirements.
   
12.20.160   Goose neck reflectors and lights permitted when.
   
12.20.170   Spotlights prohibited when.
   
12.20.180   Obscene matter prohibited.
   
12.20.190   Maintenance of signs.
   
12.20.200   Removal of outdated signs.
   
12.20.210   Exemptions.
ARTICLE II. AWNINGS AND CANOPIES
   
12.20.220   Permits and inspection required.
   
12.20.230   Minimum height regulations.
   
12.20.240   Width regulations-Curb line.
   
12.20.250   Design requirements.
   
12.20.260   Approved materials.
   
12.20.270   Support and attachments- Requirements.
   
12.20.280   Advertising restrictions.
   
12.20.290   Awnings to be folded when not in use.
ARTICLE I.
SIGNS
12.20.010   Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section unless the context
indicates otherwise:
   "Awning" means any structure made of cloth or metal with a metal frame
attached to a building and projecting over a thoroughfare, when the same is so
erected as to permit its being raised to a position flat against the building
when not in use.
   "Billboard" means any board, fence, sign or structure erected for
advertising purposes or upon which any advertisement is shown or whereupon any
poster, bill printing, painting, device or other advertising matter of any kind
whatsoever may be placed, stuck, tacked, posted, printed, painted, pasted or
fastened. This definition shall not be held to include any board, sign or
surface used to display official notices issued by any court or public office
or posted by any public officer in the performance of a public duty or used to
display announcements of meetings, shows or performances to be held upon
premises whereon such billboards or bulletin boards are displayed or used to
advertise any business conducted on the premises where such billboard or
bulletin board is located; nor shall it be held to include a real estate sign
advertising for sale or rent the property upon which it stands.
   "Canopy" means any structure, other than an awning, made of cloth or metal
with metal frames attached to a building, projecting over a thoroughfare and
carried by a frame supported by the ground or sidewalk.
   "Erect" means to build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend or affix and
also the painting of wall signs.
   "Facing" or "Surface" means the surface of the sign upon, against or through
which the message is displayed or illustrated on the sign.
   "Ground sign" means any sign supported by uprights or braces placed upon the
ground and not attached to any building.
   "Horizontal projecting sign" means any projecting sign which is greater in
width than in height.
   "Illuminated sign" means any sign which has characters, letters, figures,
designs or outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes as a part
of the sign proper.
   "Incombustible material" means any material which will not ignite at or
below a temperature of twelve hundred degrees Fahrenheit and will not continue
to burn or glow at that temperature.
   "Marquee" means any hood or awning or permanent construction projecting from
the wall of a building above an entrance and extending over a thoroughfare.
   "Other advertising structure" means any marquee, canopy, awning or street
clock as further defined in this chapter.
   "Outdoor advertising" means advertising on any board, fence or structure or
the placing thereon of any poster, bill, printing, painting, device or any
advertising matter of any kind whatsoever and the pasting, posting, painting,
printing, nailing or tacking or otherwise fastening of any handbill, card,
banner, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind upon any property or
place.
   "Projecting sign" means any sign which is attached to a building or other
structure and extends beyond the line of such building or structure or beyond
the surface of that portion of the building or structure to which it is
attached. All projecting signs shall be illuminated signs.
   "Roof sign" means any sign erected, constructed and maintained wholly upon
or over the roof of any building with the principal support on the roof
structure.
   "Sign" means every sign, billboard, ground sign, wall sign, roof sign,
illuminated sign, projecting sign, temporary sign, marquee, awning, canopy and
street clock and any announcement, declaration, demonstration, display,
illustration or insignia used to advertise or promote the interests of any
person when the same is placed out of doors in view of the general public.
   "Structural trim" means the molding, battens, cappings, nailing strips,
latticing and platforms which are attached to the sign structure.
   "Temporary signs" means any sign, banner, pennant, valance or advertising
display constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wall board or
other light materials with or without frames, intended to be displayed for a
short period of time only.
   "Vertical projecting sign" means any projecting sign which is greater in
height than in width.
   "Wall sign" means all flat signs of solid face construction which are placed
against a building or other structure and attached to the exterior front, rear
or side wall of any building or other structure. (Prior code § 21-1-1)
12.20.020   Permit-Required.
   It is unlawful for any person to erect, repair, alter, relocate or maintain
within the city any sign or other advertising structure without first obtaining
an erection permit from the city manager and making payment of the fee required
by Section
12.20.060. All illuminated signs shall, in addition, be subject to the
provisions of
Chapter 15.08 of this code and the permit fees required thereunder. (Amended
during 1992 codification: prior code § 21-1-2)
12.20.030   Permit-Application.
   Application for erection permits shall be made upon blanks provided by the
building inspector and shall contain or have attached thereto the following
information:
   A.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
   B.   Location of building, structure or lot to which or upon which the sign
or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected;
   C.   Position of the sign or other advertising structure in relation to
nearby buildings or structures;
   D.   Two blueprints or ink drawings of the plans and specifications and
method of construction and attachment to the building or in the ground;
   E.   Copy of stress sheets and calculations showing the structure is
designed for dead load and wind pressure in any direction in the amount
required by this code and all other city regulations;
   F.   Name of persons erecting structure;
   G.   Written consent of the owner of the building, structure or land to
which or on which the structure is to be erected;
   H.   Any electrical permit required and issued for such sign;
   I.   Insurance policy or bond as required by Section
12.20.040;
   J.   Such other information as the building inspector shall require to show
full compliance with this code and all other city regulations. (Prior code §
21-1-3)
12.20.040   Permit-Bond required.
   Every applicant for a permit as required by Section
12.20.020 shall, before the permit is granted, file with the building inspector
a continuing bond in the penal sum of one thousand dollars executed by the
applicant and a surety company to be approved by the city attorney and
conditioned for the faithful observance of the provisions of this chapter and
of all sections and laws relating to signs and other advertising structures and
which shall indemnify and save harmless the city from any and all damages,
judgments, costs or expenses which the city may incur or suffer by reason of
the granting of such permit. A liability insurance policy issued by an
insurance company authorized to do business in the state, conforming to this
section, may be permitted in lieu of a bond. (Prior code § 21-1-4)
12.20.050   Electrical inspection required when.
   The application for a permit for erection of a sign or other advertising
structure in which electrical wiring and connections are to be used shall be
submitted to the building inspector. The building inspector shall examine the
plans and specifications respecting all wiring and connections to determine if
the same complies with
Chapter 15.08 of this code and he shall approve such permit if such plans and
specifications comply with
Chapter 15.08 or disapprove the application if noncompliance with such chapter
is found. Such action of the building inspector shall be taken prior to
submission of the application to the building inspector for final approval or
disapproval of the erection permit. (Prior code § 21-1-5)
12.20.060   Permit-Fee.
   Every applicant, before being granted a permit, as required by Section
12.20.020, shall pay to the building inspector the following annual permit fee
for each such sign or other advertising structure regulated by this chapter:
   A.   One dollar for all signs requiring a permit other than temporary signs;
   B.   One dollar for each sixty square feet or fraction thereof for temporary
signs;
   C.   One dollar for canopies;
   D.   One dollar for each ten square feet or fraction thereof of display
surface on marquees;
   E.   One dollar for street or wall clocks;
   F.   In no event shall the fee be less than one dollar. (Prior code § 21-1-
6)
12.20.070   Permit-Revocation.
   A.   All rights and privileges acquired under the provisions of this chapter
are mere licenses revocable at any time by the city commission and all such
permits shall contain this provision.
   B.   The building inspector is authorized and empowered to revoke any permit
issued by him upon failure of the holder thereof to comply with any provisions
of this chapter. (Prior code §§ 21-1-7, 21-1-8)
12.20.080   Annual inspection-Fee.
   A.   The building inspector shall inspect annually or at such other times as
he deems necessary, each sign or other advertising structure regulated by this
chapter for the purpose of ascertaining whether the same is secure or insecure
and whether it is in need of removal or repair.
   B.   To meet the expense of such inspection the permittee thereof shall pay
to the building inspector the sum of two cents multiplied by the number of
square feet of area for each unit so inspected; provided, that in no event
shall the inspection fee be less than one dollar. No inspection fee other than
the permit fee shall be charged during the calendar year in which the sign or
other advertising structure is erected. (Prior code § 21-1-9)
12.20.090   Hazardous or nonconforming signs- Abatement
   If the building inspector finds that any sign or other advertising structure
regulated by this chapter is unsafe or insecure or is a menace to the public or
has been constructed or erected or is being maintained in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, he shall give written notice to the permittee
thereof. If the permittee fails to remove or alter the structure so as to
comply with the standards set forth in this chapter within ten days after such
notice, such sign or other advertising structure may be removed or altered by
the building inspector at the expense of the permittee or owner of the property
upon which it is located and in compliance with this chapter. The building
inspector shall refuse to issue a permit to any permittee or owner who refuses
to pay costs so assessed. The building inspector may cause any sign or other
advertising structure which is an immediate peril to persons or property to be
removed summarily and without notice. (Prior code § 21-1-10)
12.20.100   Information required on signs.
   Every sign or other advertising structure hereafter erected shall have
painted in a conspicuous place thereon, in letters not less than one inch in
height, the date of erection, the permit number and the voltage of any
electrical apparatus used in connection therewith. (Prior code § 21-1-11)
12.20.110   Wind pressure and dead load requirements.
   All signs and other advertising structures shall be designed and constructed
to withstand a wind pressure of not less than forty pounds per square foot of
area and shall be constructed to receive dead loads as required in the building
code or other ordinances of this city. (Prior code § 21-1-13)
12.20.120   Obstructions of windows and exits prohibited.
   No sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent free
ingress to or egress from any door, window or fire escape. No sign of any kind
shall be attached to a stand pipe or fire escape. (Prior code § 21-1-16)
12.20.130   Attachment to structures in public ways prohibited.
   Signs attached to any structure, pole or standard resting on any of the
public streets, alleys, easements or other public ways or places are declared
to be a nuisance and shall be prohibited. (Prior code § 21-1-22)
12.20.140   Interference with traffic prohibited.
   No sign or other advertising structure as regulated by this chapter shall be
erected at the intersection of any streets in such a manner as to obstruct free
and clear vision or at any location where, by reason of the position, shape or
color, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of or be confused with any
authorized traffic sign, signal or device or which makes use of the words,
"STOP," "LOOK," "DRIVE-IN," "DANGER" or any other word, phrase, symbol or
character in such manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
(Prior code § 21-1-17)
12.20.150   Signs on street lines-Special requirements.
   All signs or other advertising structures which are constructed on street
lines or within five feet thereof shall have a smooth surface; and no nails,
tacks or wires shall be permitted to protrude therefrom, except electrical
reflectors and devices which may extend over the top and in front of the
advertising structures. (Prior code § 21-1-18)
12.20.160   Goose neck reflectors and lights permitted when.
   Goose neck reflectors and lights shall be permitted on ground signs, roof
signs and wall signs; provided, that the reflectors shall be provided with
proper glass lenses concentrating the illumination upon the area of the sign so
as to prevent glare upon the street or adjacent property. (Prior code § 21-1-
19)
12.20.170   Spotlights prohibited when.
   It is unlawful for any person to maintain any sign which extends over public
property which is wholly or partially illuminated by floodlights or spotlights.
(Prior code § 21-1-20)
12.20.180   Obscene matter prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to display upon any street or other
advertising structure any obscene, indecent or immoral matter. (Prior code §
21-1-21)
12.20.190   Maintenance of signs.
   The owner of any sign as regulated by this chapter shall be required to have
properly painted at least once every three years all parts and supports of such
sign, unless the same are galvanized or otherwise treated to prevent rust.
(Prior code § 21-1-12)
12.20.200   Removal of outdated signs.
   Any sign now or hereafter existing which no longer advertises a bona fide
business conducted or a product sold shall be taken down and removed by the
owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the building or structure
upon which such sign may be found within ten days after written notification
from the city manager and, upon failure to comply with such notice within the
time specified in such order, the city manager is authorized to cause removal
by the owner of the building or structure to which the sign is attached.
(Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 21-1-14)
12.20.210   Exemptions.
   The provisions and regulations of this chapter shall not apply to the
following signs; provided, that such signs shall be subject to the provisions
of Section
12.20.090:
   A.   Real estate signs not exceeding eight square feet in area which
advertise the sale, rental or lease of the premises upon which such signs are
located only;
   B.   Professional name plates not exceeding one square foot in area;
   C.   Signs painted on the exterior surface of a building or structure;
provided, that if such signs have raised borders, letters, characters,
decorations or lighting appliances, they shall be subject to all applicable
provisions of this chapter;
   D.   Bulletin boards not over eight square feet in area for public,
charitable or religious institutions when the same are located on the premises
of such institutions;
   E.   Signs denoting the architect, engineer or contractor when placed upon
work under construction and not exceeding sixteen square feet in area;
   F.   Occupational signs denoting only the name and profession of an occupant
in a commercial building, public institutional building or dwelling house and
not exceeding two square feet in area;
   G.   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection when
cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other
incombustible materials;
   H.   Traffic or other municipal signs, legal notices, railroad crossing
signs, danger and such temporary, emergency or nonadvertising signs as may be
approved by the city commission. (Prior code § 21-1-15)
ARTICLE II.
AWNINGS AND CANOPIES
12.20.220   Permits and inspection required.
   Permits for awnings and canopies shall be required. Awnings and canopies
shall be subject to annual inspection as required. (Prior code § 21-2-8)
12.20.230   Minimum height regulations.
   All awnings shall be constructed and erected so that the lowest portion
thereof shall be not less than eight feet above the level of the sidewalk or
public thoroughfare, while all canopies shall be constructed and erected so
that the lower portion thereof shall be not less than nine feet above the level
of the sidewalk or public thoroughfare. (Prior code § 21-2-2)
12.20.240   Width regulations-Curb line.
   No awning or canopy shall be permitted to extend beyond a point twelve
inches inside the curb line. There is no limitation on width of awnings;
however, full compliance with Section
12.20.110 is required. No canopy shall be permitted to exceed eight feet in
width. (Prior code § 21-2-3)
12.20.250   Design requirements.
   The framework of all canopies shall be designed by a structural engineer and
approved by the building inspector. All frames and supports shall be of metal
and designed to withstand a wind pressure. (Prior code § 21-2-5)
12.20.260   Approved materials.
   Awnings may be constructed of cloth or metal and canopies may be constructed
of cloth or metal hood; provided, that all frames and supports shall be of
metal. (Prior code § 21-2-1)
12.20.270   Support and attachments- Requirements.
   Every awning shall be securely attached to and supported by the building.
Posts or columns beyond the building line shall not be permitted for awnings.
No awning shall be attached to the wood jambs, frames or other wood members of
a building, frame buildings excepted, when such building is less than ten feet
from public property. (Prior code § 21-2-4)
12.20.280   Advertising restrictions.
   No advertising shall be placed on any awning or canopy; except, that the
name of the owner and the business, industry or pursuit conducted within the
premises may be painted or otherwise permanently placed in a space not
exceeding eight inches in height on the front and side portions thereof. (Prior
code § 21-2-6)
12.20.290   Awnings to be folded when not in use.
   Every awning shall be rolled or folded against the building wall except when
serving as a protection from sun, rain, snow or other inclement weather. (Prior
code § 21-2-7)
Chapter 12.24
POLES AND WIRES
Sections:
   
12.24.010   Proximity of poles to curb lines and trees.
   
12.24.020   Repair and maintenance of sidewalk.
   
12.24.030   Repair-Time limit
   
12.24.040   Attaching aerials prohibited.
   
12.24.050   Climbing on poles or towers prohibited.
   
12.24.060   Attaching wires to trees prohibited.
12.24.010   Proximity of poles to curb lines and trees.
   Any electric light company, telephone company or any person erecting or
placing poles in and about the streets of the city shall be required to place
the same so that the outside of such poles shall be sufficiently within the
outside edge of the curb line of the sidewalk in and upon such street as to
permit the building of a six-inch curbing between the outside of such poles and
the street of the city and no poles shall be erected immediately in front of a
doorway without permission of the city manager; provided, that wherever it is
impossible to erect such poles within the curbing of such street on account of
any awning, porch or balcony already erected, such person may be permitted to
erect his poles outside of the edge of such curbing, but as near as possible to
conform with the preceding requirements of this section. No pole shall be
erected within ten feet of any tree without permission of the city manager.
(Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 20-1-4)
12.24.020   Repair and maintenance of sidewalk.
   Any person who, for the placing of poles as described in the preceding
section, finds it necessary to make an excavation in any sidewalk already
constructed is required, after the placing of such poles, to fully repair such
sidewalk and restore the same to as good a condition as before the placing of
such poles and thereafter to keep the same in good repair around such poles.
(Prior code § 20-1-5)
12.24.030   Repair-Time limit
   Any person making any excavation, for the purposes set forth in this
chapter, upon any sidewalk of this city shall repair the same within thirty
days thereafter, unless special permission has been obtained in writing from
the city manager for a longer time. (Amended during 1992 codification: prior
code § 20-1-6)
12.24.040   Attaching aerials prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person in the city to install, place or maintain or
permit or suffer to be placed or maintained any outdoor aerial connected with
any radio or television receiving set, or which such person may be in
possession or control, upon any poles, crossarms, wires or any other part of
any overhead system belonging to any public utility company, including
telegraph, telephone, street railway and electric light, power, distribution
and transmission companies. (Prior code § 20-1-1)
12.24.050   Climbing on poles or towers prohibited.
   Any person who shall climb or attempt to climb upon any of the city electric
light poles or towers in the city, except employees of the city or persons duly
authorized and permitted by proper authorities shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Prior code § 20-1-2)
12.24.060   Attaching wires to trees prohibited.
   All persons using or operating electric, telephonic, telegraphic or other
wires in and through the city are prohibited from attaching or connecting their
wires to or with any limb or tree along or adjacent to any street within the
city. (Prior code § 20-1-3)
Chapter 12.28
PUBLIC PARK REGULATIONS
Sections:
   
12.28.010   Remaining in public parks overnight prohibited- Exceptions.
   
12.28.015   General rules-Parks facilities.
   
12.28.016   General rules-Chaparral Lake.
   
12.28.017   General rules-Aquatic facility.
   
12.28.018   General rules-Ballparks, athletic fields, recreation facilities.
   
12.28.020   Parking vehicles overnight prohibited.
   
12.28.030   Overnight occupancy of vehicles prohibited.
   
12.28.040   Tents prohibited-Exceptions.
   
12.28.050   Permission for overnight parking.
   
12.28.060   Signs required.
   
12.28.070   Violation-Penalty.
12.28.010   Remaining in public parks overnight prohibited- Exceptions.
   It is unlawful for any person to remain in, occupy, or use any public park
in the municipality between the hours of eleven p.m. and four a.m., unless
present in the furtherance or enforcement of this chapter or irrigation or
maintenance of park lands and facilities, or unless authorized by other
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 517, 2013; Ord. 309 § 1, 1981)
12.28.015   General rules-Parks facilities.
   A.   No peddling, soliciting or commercial enterprise is permitted in a
municipal park except by approval of the city.
   B.   Disorderly conduct, abusive language, noisy disturbances or disregard
of these rules and regulations will be grounds for immediate removal of person
(s) from the municipal park by the Police Department or as authorized by the
City Manager.
   C.   Park users are responsible for the conduct of and any damage to the
park or its equipment caused by their legal dependents or other minors in their
care at the time.
   D.   Children under eight years of age shall not be left unattended in any
park.
   E.   No person shall consume or have in their possession any intoxicating
beverage or other drug or narcotic prohibited by federal law.
      1.   The serving of alcohol within a Chaparral Park will require a
special dispenser or public celebration permit issued by the State of New
Mexico and approved by the City of Lovington. All rules, regulations and
policies of the State of New Mexico must be adhered to.
      2.   The serving of alcohol within a Chaparral Park by special dispenser
and public celebration permits will only be permitted for public events.
   F.   Air rifles, BB guns, firearms, bows and arrows, rockets, slingshots,
fireworks, or other guns and dangerous objects such as golf equipment may not
be possessed or used while in a municipal park.
   G.   Wading or swimming in fountains or ponds is prohibited.
   H.   Motor vehicles shall be operated and parked only in designated areas
that are specifically designed for motor vehicles or for parking.
   I.   Speed limits in municipal parks are ten miles per hour and must be
observed at all times.
   J.   Bicycles, roller skates, skateboards and other types of non-motorized
vehicles must be used safely, and in compliance with all posted rules.
   K.   No person shall ride or lead any horse or pony in any park without
approval by the city.
   L.   No animals are permitted in municipal parks unless they are on a leash,
except in designated off-leash areas, and shall be kept under supervision at
all times; and, are not allowed to run at large or to commit any nuisance.
   M.   All animal waste shall be picked up immediately by the owner and placed
in an appropriate waste disposal container.
   N.   Littering is strictly prohibited. No person shall bring non-park
generated trash into the park for the purpose of discarding of such.
   O.   Fires are permitted only in grills. No other open fires are permitted
on municipal properties without the permission of the city.
   P.   Inflatable structures are permitted only in designated areas and by
permit issued by the city.
   Q.   It is unlawful to deface, destroy, or cause harm or damage to
equipment, furniture, structures, trees, shrubbery, turf, signs, or wildlife.
   R.   The city, its representatives and its employees are not responsible for
accidents, injuries, or loss of property by fire, theft, wind, flood or other
natural acts which are beyond their control. All equipment furnished within
municipal parks is solely for the convenience of the user and is utilized at
the risk of the user.
   S.   Public events require a permit issued by the city. A permit application
and a one-hundred dollar deposit is required at least two weeks in advance. The
Parks Department will inspect the site after the event for damage to the turf,
facilities, equipment, and proper disposal of refuse. Deposits will be refunded
if the site is returned in good condition.
   T.   Shelter reservations require two weeks advance notice. The pavilion and
amphitheater located at Chaparral Park are the only shelters that may be
reserved.
(Ord. 550, 2016; Ord. 517, 2013)
12.28.016   General rules-Chaparral Lake.
   A.   State fishing license is required.
   B.   Trout validation stamp is required November 1 through March 31.
   C.   Unauthorized fish are not allowed to be placed in lake.
   D.   Passenger watercraft may be operated within Chaparral Lake at the
user’s own risk.
      1.   No person may operate a passenger watercraft propelled in whole or
in part with any type of motor. Watercraft may only be propelled by human power
employing the use of hand or foot operation.
      2.   Persons under 13 years of age shall not operate a passenger
watercraft.
      3.   Persons under 13 years of age shall wear a United States Coast Guard
approved life preserver at all times while occupying the watercraft.
      4.   Passenger watercraft must be operated at all times in a reasonable
and prudent manner so as not to endanger human life, human physical safety, or
property.
      5.   Users of passenger watercraft must comply with all United States
Coast Guard rules and regulations.
      6.   Passenger watercraft may not be utilized between sunset and the
following sunrise.
   E.   Wading or swimming in lake is prohibited.
   F.   No trout or throw lines.
(Ord. 550, 2016; Ord. 517, 2013)
12.28.017   General rules-Aquatic facility.
   A.   Animals other than seeing eye dogs or assistance animals, are not
allowed in the aquatic facility.
   B.   Any person having an infection or communicable disease is prohibited
from using the aquatic facility.
   C.   All children under the age of eight years of age must be accompanied by
a parent or responsible adult supervisor.
   D.   Persons having open blisters, cuts, and the like are advised to not use
the pool.
   E.   Running, pushing, boisterous or rough play, or excessive noise is
prohibited in the pool area, shower, or dressing rooms.
   F.   Spitting, spouting water, blowing nose, or discharging wastes in the
pool is strictly prohibited.
   G.   No glass containers or objects are allowed in or around the pool area.
   H.   No gum or tobacco products are allowed in the aquatic facility.
   I.   All infants are required to wear swim diapers.
   J.   Appropriate swim attire must be worn if swimming or entering the pool.
   K.   All individuals entering the pool must pay for entrance. (Ord. 517,
2013)
12.28.018   General rules-Ballparks, athletic fields, recreation facilities.
   A.   No peddling, soliciting or commercial enterprise is permitted in a
municipal ballpark, athletic field, or recreation facility except by approval
of the city.
   B.   Disorderly conduct, abusive language, noisy disturbances or disregard
of these rules and regulations will be grounds for immediate removal of person
(s) from the municipal ballpark, athletic field, or recreation facility by the
Police Department or as authorized by the City Manager.
   C.   Ballpark, athletic field, or recreation facility users are responsible
for the conduct of and any damage to the park or its equipment caused by their
legal dependents or other minors in their care at the time.
   D.   Children under eight years of age shall not be left unattended in any
ballpark, athletic field, or recreation facility.
   E.   No person shall consume or have in their possession any intoxicating
beverage or other drug or narcotic prohibited by federal law.
   F.   Air rifles, BB guns, firearms, bows and arrows, rockets, slingshots,
fireworks, or other guns and dangerous objects such as golf equipment may not
be possessed or used while in a municipal ballpark, athletic field, or
recreation facility.
   G.   Littering is strictly prohibited. No person shall bring non-site
generated trash into a municipal ballpark, athletic field, or recreation
facility for the purpose of discarding of such.
   H.   It is unlawful to deface, destroy, or cause harm or damage to
equipment, furniture, structures, trees, shrubbery, turf, signs, or wildlife.
   I.   The city, its representatives and its employees are not responsible for
accidents, injuries, or loss of property by fire, theft, wind, flood or other
natural acts which are beyond their control. All equipment furnished within
municipal ballparks, athletic fields, or recreation facilities is solely for
the convenience of the user and is utilized at the risk of the user. (Ord. 517,
2013)
12.28.020   Parking vehicles overnight prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle in any street, alley,
or public thoroughfare, or on any street, alley, or public thoroughfare
adjacent to any public park for purposes of camping or overnight occupancy.
(Ord. 309 § 2, 1981)
12.28.030   Overnight occupancy of vehicle prohibited.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to use or occupy a car, automobile,
truck, trailer, camper or similar type vehicle or structure upon any public
park, public parking area, street, alley, highway, or any public thoroughfare
within the municipality for purposes of camping or overnight occupancy.
   B.   "Camping" means temporary quarters for shelter, lodging, or sleeping.
   C.   "Overnight occupancy" includes all of the following conditions:
      1.   One or more persons are sleeping in the vehicle or structure;
      2.   The vehicle has remained parked at such location for more than four
hours;
      3.   No valid or legal purpose can be shown for such occupancy. (Ord. 309
§ 3, 1981)
12.28.040   Tents prohibited- Exceptions.
   It is unlawful for any person to set up tents or other temporary shelters on
public parks or public thoroughfares, except for special circumstances when
permission has been granted by the municipality. (Ord. 309 § 4, 1981)
12.28.050   Permission for overnight parking.
   The municipality may authorize, permit or allow members of the general
public, or any person to utilize public parks for overnight parking for periods
not to exceed forty-eight hours at any one time; however, use of such public
parks for periods longer than forty-eight hours shall be unlawful, whether the
vehicles or structures are occupied or not. (Ord. 309 § 5, 1981)
12.28.060   Signs required.
   No regulations in this chapter shall be effective unless signs giving notice
of prohibitions or limitations are erected and in place at the time of any
alleged offense. (Ord. 309 § 6, 1981)
12.28.070   Violation-Penalty.
   Anyone found guilty of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine of up to three hundred dollars or imprisonment of up to
ninety days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 517, 2013)
Title 13
PUBLIC SERVICES
   Chapters:
      
13.04   Water Service System
      
13.06   Regulations for Emergency Water Rationing
      
13.08   Sewer Service System
      
13.12   Rates, Billing and Collection
Chapter 13.04
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
Sections:
   
13.04.010   Water department—Established.
   
13.04.020   Water department—Administration.
   
13.04.030   Water department—Accounts.
   
13.04.040   Inspections.
   
13.04.050   Emergency control.
   
13.04.060   Metering water.
   
13.04.070   Placement of meter.
   
13.04.080   Wasting water prohibited—Penalty.
   
13.04.090   Impure water in wells prohibited.
   
13.04.100   Water service—Application.
   
13.04.110   Water service—Compliance with regulations.
   
13.04.120   Cost of water line extension.
   
13.04.130   Liability of city for service interruptions or water scarcities.
   
13.04.140   Liability of city for leakage or breakage.
   
13.04.150   Additional regulations not contained in chapter.
13.04.010   Water department-Established.
   There is created and established a water department of the city for the
purpose of the management, maintenance, care and operation of the water works
of the municipality. (Prior code § 4-3-1)
13.04.020   Water department-Administration.
   The city manager shall have the overall control and management of all things
pertaining to the municipal water works system, and shall perform all acts that
may be necessary for the prudent, efficient and economical management and
protection of the water works, subject to the approval and confirmation of the
commission. The commission may prescribe user service rates and other rules and
regulations as it may deem necessary. (Prior code § 4-3-2)
13.04.030   Water department-Accounts.
   The Finance Director shall keep a correct account of all receipts, make out
all bills for water rents and materials furnished to consumers, collect the
same, and deposit the proceeds so collected to the account of the water works
fund of the municipality, and in accordance with the direction of the city
manager.
(Ord. 553, 2017: prior code § 4-3-3)
13.04.040   Inspections.
   Whenever he deems it necessary for the protection of the public health or
safety, the city manager or his authorized representative may inspect the
premises of buildings of any water consumer for the purpose of examining the
condition of all pipes, motors, meters and water fixtures, or the manner in
which the water is used. He shall be vigilant to protect and remedy all abuses,
whether from waste or other improper use of water. (Prior code § 4-3-4)
13.04.050   Emergency control.
   The city manager is authorized to control, limit or cut off the constant
flow of water supplying an area or areas of the city as may be warranted and
reasonably calculated to maintain adequate water pressure in distribution
pipelines to fight, control or prevent the spread of fire or to control any
other emergency inimical to the public welfare, health and safety. (Prior code
§ 4-3-8)
13.04.060   Metering water.
   All water sold by the city shall be metered by meters which may be installed
either in a curb box or inside of the building. All water meters shall be owned
and kept in repair by the city. (Prior code § 4-3-6)
13.04.070   Placement of meter.
   The city meter shall be placed at the property line of the connector and a
residential or commercial connection from such city meter shall be installed at
the expense of the connector, in accordance with regulations of and subject to
the inspection of the city. (Prior code § 4-3-17)
13.04.080   Wasting water prohibited—Penalty.
   Consumers shall prevent unnecessary waste of water and keep all water
outlets closed when not in actual use. Hydrants, urinals, water closets,
bathtubs and other fixtures must not be left running for any purpose other than
the use for which they were intended. In addition to the penalty provided in
Section
1.16.010 for code violations, the water supply may be turned off where any such
waste occurs. (Prior code § 4-3-7)
13.04.090   Impure water in wells prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to maintain any unhealthy, impure or unclean
water in wells or cisterns. (Prior code § 4-3-22)
13.04.100   Water service— Application.
   Application for the use of water shall be made to the city manager by the
owner or agent of the property to be benefited, designating the location of the
property and stating the purpose for which the water may be required. (Prior
code § 4-3-5)
13.04.110   Water service— Compliance with regulations.
   All regulations contained in this chapter shall be considered a part of the
contract of every person taking water from the water works of the city, and
every person taking water shall be considered as having expressly consented to
be bound thereby. (Prior code § 4-3-21)
13.04.120   Cost of water line extension.
   The costs of water line extensions shall be the responsibility of the owner
of the lot requesting service.
(Ord. 553, 2017)
13.04.130   Liability of city for service interruptions or water scarcities.
   The city shall not be liable for damage occasioned by the unavoidable
scarcity of water or the failure to furnish water occasioned by the failure of
any apparatus of the city.
(Ord. 553, 2017)
13.04.140   Liability of city for leakage or breakage.
   The city will not be liable for any damage or injury by reason of the
leakage or breakage of any pipes, lines, meters, equipment, or service cocks
upon private property, except by its own negligence.
(Ord. 553, 2017)
13.04.150   Additional regulations not contained in chapter.
   All regulations not contained in this chapter regarding the use of and
policies of the city concerning water shall be established by municipal
resolutions.
(Ord. 553, 2017)
Chapter 13.06
REGULATIONS FOR EMERGENCY WATER RATIONING
Sections:
   
13.06.010   Emergency water restrictions.
   
13.06.020   Special assessments for violation of restrictions.
   
13.06.030   Appeal—Injunctive relief.
13.06.010   Emergency water restrictions.
   A.   In the event of emergency conditions affecting the availability of
domestic water through the city facilities at any time due to climatic
conditions, plant breakdown, capacity of the water treatment plant, or
otherwise, the city manager may declare a water emergency and establish further
restrictions or prohibitions for any exterior water application.
   B.   During periods of emergency water restrictions, no domestic water shall
be used for garden, lawn or other exterior watering or sprinkling application,
except upon the premises having an even street address on even days of the
month or having an odd street address on odd days of the month and only during
the hours of five-thirty p.m. and ten p.m.
   C.   No exterior watering shall be allowed on the thirty-first day of any
month having thirty-one days.
   D.   Such restrictions shall not apply to water used primarily in the course
and conduct of a recognized and ongoing business activity.
   E.   During emergency water restriction periods, the city manager may issue
a special permit allowing daily watering during the designated hours for
watering for a maximum of twenty-one days for new seed, or ten days for new
sod, or for a time determined appropriate for other exceptional requirements.
(Ord. 434 (part), 2001)
13.06.020   Special assessments for violation of restrictions.
   In the event of the violation of the watering restrictions, a notice of
special assessment setting forth with particularity the violations alleged,
shall be personally served upon the party in the name and at the address to
where the water services are provided or by serving a member of the household
over eighteen years of age or by notice by certified or registered mail. Such
special assessment for the first violation of emergency restrictions in any
calendar year shall be twenty-five dollars, a second violation fifty dollars,
and for a third or additional such violation one hundred dollars. Such special
assessments shall be included as an additional water usage charge on the next
water-billing cycle. (Ord. 434 (part), 2001)
13.06.030   Appeal—Injunctive relief.
   A.   The affected landowner or household member may file any appeal with the
city clerk, within seven days of receipt of any notice of special assessment
and a hearing shall be scheduled before the hearing officer designated by the
city manager to hear said appeal. The hearing officer shall conduct a hearing
within ten days of receipt of notice of appeal. The burden of proof shall be
upon the city to substantiate the violation of watering restrictions, and in
the event of finding such violation, the city may impose its special
assessment, or the city may suspend the special assessment for a first-time
violation upon adequate assurances of full future compliance with this chapter.
   B.   The decision of the hearing officer shall be subject to further appeal
to the city commission, within seven days, but the decision of the city
commission shall be final. Any special assessment that is not timely appealed,
or that is sustained upon final appeal, shall be included in the ensuing water-
billing cycle.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to otherwise restrict the
city from seeking judicial injunctive relief to secure compliance with the
restrictions set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 434 (part), 2001)
Chapter 13.08
SEWER SERVICE SYSTEM
Sections:
   
13.08.010   Definitions
   
13.08.020   Connection with public sewer—Required— Penalties,
   
13.08.030   Privies and cesspools prohibited.
   
13.08.040   Connections—Regulations.
   
13.08.050   Sanitary sewer line—Specifications.
   
13.08.060   Connections, pipes or drains—Permit required.
   
13.08.070   Connection permit— Application.
   
13.08.080   Connection charge.
   
13.08.090   Fees prerequisite to connection.
   
13.08.100   Permit—Issuance.
   
13.08.105   Cost of sewer line extension.
   
13.08.110   Abandonment of building connection— Permit required.
   
13.08.120   Discharge of unpolluted waters.
   
13.08.130   Prohibited wastes.
   
13.08.140   Wastes subject to review by city.
   
13.08.150   Wastes deemed hazardous.
   
13.08.160   Grease, oil and sand traps required when.
   
13.08.170   Maintenance of pretreatment facilities.
   
13.08.180   Control manholes.
   
13.08.190   Testing of wastes-Costs.
   
13.08.200   Testing—Standards and procedures.
   
13.08.210   Damaging public sewers prohibited.
   
13.08.220   Interference with city employees or property.
   
13.08.230   Unlawful deposit of wastes.
   
13.08.240   Additional regulations not contained in chapter.
13.08.010   Definitions.
   As used in this chapter:
   "C. O. D." (denoting chemical oxygen demand) is a measure of the oxygen-
consuming capacity of organic and inorganic matter present in wastewater as
milligrams per liter (mg/1)
   "Domestic sewage" means waterborne wastes normally discharging from the
sanitary conveniences of buildings (including apartment houses and hotels),
office buildings, factories and institutions, free from storm surface water and
industrial wastes. "Normal domestic sewage" means normal sewage for the city.
   "Garage" means solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of
food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   "Industrial liquid wastes" means all waterborne solids, liquids or gaseous
wastes resulting from any industrial manufacturing or food processing operation
or process, or from the development of any natural resource, or any mixture of
these with water or domestic sewage as distinct from normal domestic sewage.
Industrial processes shall include but are not limited to production or
refining of petroleum and petroleum products, processing of foods or beverages,
the production of fertilizer, keeping of livestock and operation of dairies,
manufacture of paper, production or dyeing of textiles, production of soap or
detergents or chemicals, cleaning of tanks, tank cars or barrels, plating of
metals, processing or reclamation of refuse, all kinds of manufacturing and
other similar operations, the washing of equipment or spaces used in industrial
operations and the disposal of waste products contained in Liquids from
laundries, hospitals, grocery stores, restaurants, and other public
establishments. Unless the sewage contains the waste substances above
described, industrial liquid waste shall not include wastewater resulting from
the operation of hotels, motels, schools or other retail establishments other
than those listed above, nor shall industrial liquid waste include wastewater
from the operation of vehicle service stations, wash racks or garages. Liquid
industrial waste shall not include any domestic sewage from industrial or
retail establishments.
   "Interference with any sewage treatment process" means any condition or
combination of conditions which causes degradation of the operational
efficiency of a sewage treatment process.
   "pH" means the logarithm (base ten) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration of a solution.
   "Public sewer" means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties
shall have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   "Sanitary sewer" or "sewerage system" means a public sewer which transports
sewage and to which stormwater, surface water and groundwater are not
intentionally admitted.
   "Settleable solids" means those solids which settle during a preselected
period of time as expressed in milliliters per liter of sample.
   "Sewage" means a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments.
   "Sewage treatment plant" or "sewage works" means any facilities, devices and
structures used for receiving and treating sewage from the sanitary sewer
system.
   "Standard methods" means the laboratory procedures set forth in the latest
edition, at the time of analysis, of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Sewage," as prepared, approved and published jointly by the American
Public Health Association and American Water Works Association and the Water
Pollution Control Federation.
   "Storm sewer" means a sewer which carries stormwaters, surface waters and
drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   "Trap" means a device for retaining sand, silt, grit, mineral material,
petroleum solvent, grease or oil by gravity differential separation from
wastewater and of a design and capacity approved by the city.
   "Unpolluted process water" means any water or waste containing none of the
following: emulsified grease or oil; acid or alkali; phenols, or other
substances imparting taste and odor to receiving water; toxic substances in
suspension, colloidal state or solution; and noxious or odorous gases. (Prior
code § 4-3-47 (2))
13.08.020   Connection with public sewer—Required— Penalties.
   A.   When the city makes available a sewer line within one hundred feet of
any lot or parcel of land located within the city, the owner shall make
application to and connect with the sewer system of the city; and upon the
owner's failure to do so within ninety days, the occupant thereof shall, within
ninety days, make application to and connect with the utility system of the
city. Upon connection with the utility system of the city all cesspools and pit
toilets shall be discontinued and filled.
   B.   Failing to abide by this section, the owner of any lot or parcel of
land and occupant thereof shall be subject to a fine of twenty-five dollars for
each offense for each thirty days in which this section has not been complied
with. As a separate and additional remedy, if the owner or occupant fails to
connect with such sewer system or fails to fill all cesspools and pit toilets,
the city commission by resolution may declare the premises a nuisance and
summarily abate such nuisance by padlocking the same or enjoining the occupancy
of such premises. Upon the premises being declared a nuisance, the city shall
no longer furnish water service to such premises and it is unlawful for any
utility to serve such premises and any utility or employee thereof thereafter
serving such premises shall be subject to a fine of twenty-five dollars for
each offense.
(Ord. 553, 2017: prior code § 4-3-26)
13.08.030   Privies and cesspools prohibited.
   Except where otherwise provided, no person shall maintain within the city
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended for
use for the disposal of sewage. Where a public sanitary sewer is not available
within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, the building
sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal plant system complying
with the provisions and recommendations of the New Mexico Department of Health
and Social Services. Such private sewage disposal system shall be constructed,
maintained and operated at all times in a sanitary manner. At such time as a
public sanitary sewer becomes available to the property served by a private
sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the public
sanitary sewer in accordance with the provisions of this section and any septic
tank, cesspool or similar sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and
filled with suitable material. (Prior code § 4-3-30)
13.08.040   Connections— Regulations.
   All connections shall be regulated by and conform to the latest edition of
"The Plumbing Code of the State of New Mexico."
(Ord. 553, 2017: prior code § 4-3-47 (16))
13.08.050   Sanitary sewer line— Specifications.
   All new sanitary sewer line design and construction shall conform to the
"Uniform Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction Projects," 1970
Interim Edition, and applicable provisions of ASTM C 440. Should a conflict
exist, the "Uniform Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction
Projects" shall prevail. (Prior code § 4-3-47 (17))
13.08.060   Connections, pipes or drains—Permit required.
   It is unlawful for any person to open, uncover or in any manner make
connection with any sewer main or line in the city, or to lay drain or sewer
pipes on any premises or in any street or alley in the city without first
obtaining a written permit therefor from the city manager or his authorized
representative. (Prior code § 4-3-31)
13.08.070   Connection permit-Application.
   The application for such permit shall be in writing and shall contain the
following information:
   A.   Name and address of applicant;
   B.   Name and address of owner of the premises where the connection is to be
made and where drain or line is to be laid;
   C.   Location of the proposed connection, drain or sewer pipes;
   D.   Statement as to the type of connection and type of materials to be
discharged into the sewer;
   E.   Statement as to whether the connection is to be made to the storm sewer
or the sanitary sewer. (Prior code § 4-3-32)
13.08.080   Connection charge.
   A charge of twenty-five dollars will be made for each sewer connection. The
connection shall be installed at the expense of the connector in accordance
with the regulations of this chapter and shall be subject to the inspection of
the city. However, no charge shall be made for an original sewer connection
where the contractor or builder makes the original installation of the main
sewer line. (Ord. 278, 1978: prior code § 4-3-24)
13.08.090   Fees prerequisite to connection.
   Before any person makes any sewer connection to, from or between any house,
institution or other building not now within the city and public sewer leading
into the city or any sewer owned, operated or controlled by the city, such
person shall comply with this chapter and pay the required fees. (Amended
during 1992 codification: prior code § 4-3-25)
13.08.100   Permit—Issuance.
   If the proposed connection does not violate any provision of this chapter
and does not violate any other ordinances of the city, the city manager or his
authorized representative shall issue a permit for such connection. Such permit
shall contain all information contained in the application and shall specify
the type and kind of grease and sand traps to be used. (Prior code § 4-3-33)
13.08.105   Cost of sewer line extension.
   The costs of sewer line extensions shall be the responsibility of the owner
of the lot requesting service.
(Ord. 553, 2017)
13.08.110   Abandonment of building connection—Permit required.
   No person shall abandon any building connection without first obtaining a
written permit therefor. Such building connection shall be effectively sealed
with a vitrified clay stopper inserted in the bell of the sewer extending to
the property line, which stopper shall be jointed as directed by the city
manager. (Prior code § 4-3-38)
13.08.120   Discharge of unpolluted waters.
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof run-off, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the governing body of the city. Industrial cooling waters or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the governing body
of the city to a storm sewer, or natural outlet. (Prior code § 4-3-47 (3, 4))
13.08.130   Prohibited wastes.
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described liquids or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but not limited
to cyanides in excess of two gm/1 as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
      3.   Any herbicides and pesticides;
      4.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works;
      5.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshing, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders;
      6.   Any amount of the following heavy metals: Antimony, Arsenic, Barium,
Beryllium, Bismuth, Boron, Cadmium, Cobalt, Chromium (Hexa), Chromium (Tri),
Copper, Iron, Lead, Manganese, Mercury, Molybdenum, Nickel, Rhenium, Selenium,
Silver, Strontium, Tellurium, Tin, Uranyl ion, or Zinc.
   B.   Dilution of toxic materials and heavy metals in lieu of removal is not
acceptable. (Prior code § 4-3-47 (5))
13.08.140   Wastes subject to review by city.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the governing body of the city, that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, or public property, or constitute
a nuisance. In forming an opinion as to acceptability of these wastes, the
governing body of the city will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The
substances which must be considered are:
   A.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit or sixty-five degrees Celsius;
   B.   Any water or waste containing fats, grease, wax, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred mg/1 or containing substances which
may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty-two and one
hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (zero and sixty-five degrees Celsius);
   C.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder larger than those normally manufactured and
sold for residential and noncommercial use will not be installed without
specific review and approval by the governing body of the city;
   D.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions cannot be discharged to the sewerage system
unless completely neutralized and approved by the governing body of the city
for discharge;
   E.   Any waters or wastes containing reducing substances of an organic or
inorganic nature, toxic or nontoxic, which exert an immediate chlorine demand
if the discharge of such agents will prevent the achievement of an adequate
chlorine residual in the effluent of the wastewater treatment facility;
   F.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits established by the
governing body of the city after treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the
requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of jurisdiction for
such discharge to the receiving waters;
   G.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the governing body of the city in
compliance with applicable state and federal regulations;
   H.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
   I.   Materials which exert or cause:
      1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids such as, but not
limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues, or of dissolved
solids such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate,
      2.   Excessive discoloration such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions,
      3.   Unusual chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirement in such
quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works,
      4.   Slugs or shocks constituting an unusual volume of flow or
concentration of wastes which will disturb the normal functioning of either the
sewage treatment plant and/or collection system;
   J.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment process employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent can not meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters. (Prior code § 4-3-47 (6))
13.08.150   Wastes deemed hazardous.
   A.   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in Section
13.08.140 of this chapter, and which in the judgment of the governing body of
the city may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the governing body of the city may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers; or
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge.
   B.   If the governing body of the city permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the governing body of
the city and the state, and subject to the requirements of all applicable
codes, ordinances and laws. (Prior code § 4-3-47 (7))
13.08.160   Grease, oil and sand traps required when.
   Grease, oil and sand traps shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
governing body of the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except, that such traps shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All traps shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the governing body of the city, and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
Grease and oil traps shall be installed in all new filling stations, garages,
restaurants and other new facilities wherein heavy discharge of grease and oil
is to be expected. (Prior code § 4-3-47 (9))
13.08.170   Maintenance of pretreatment facilities.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for
any water or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense. (Prior code § 4-3-47 (10))
13.08.180   Control manholes.
   When required by the governing body of the city, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying liquid industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and
safely located, constructed in such a manner as to prevent infiltration of
ground and surface waters, and should be constructed in accordance with plans
approved by the governing body of the city. The manhole shall be installed by
the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and
accessible at all times. (Prior code § 4-3-47 (11))
13.08.190   Testing of wastes—Costs.
   Testing of an industrial waste will be performed by the governing body of
the city. If ever the governing body of the city or the industry requires more
frequent tests, then those tests will be paid for by the party requesting the
analysis. (Prior code § 4-3-47 (8))
13.08.200   Testing—Standards and procedures.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater," published by the American
Public Health Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole
provided, or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. The control
manhole shall be located so that sampling of the industrial waste will be
performed before discharge into the public sewerage system. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb and property. (The particular analyses involved will be determined
whether a twenty-four-hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is
appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but
not always, COD and settleable solids analyses are obtained from twenty-four-
hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab
samples.) (Prior code § 4-3-47 (12))
13.08.210   Damaging public sewers prohibited.
   No person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break, damage or
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the city sanitary sewer system. (Prior code § 4-3-
42)
13.08.220   Interference with city employees or property.
   No person shall in any way interfere with the employees of the city in any
discharge of their duties either in the tapping of any sewer pipe, main or
lateral. No person shall dig up or cause to be dug up any street or alley in
the city for the purpose of connecting with the sewer system of the city,
without first obtaining a permit, and no person having a permit shall dig up
any portion of any street or alley of the city for the purpose of connecting
with the sewer system of the city and fail or neglect to place the street or
alley in its original condition. (Prior code § 4-3-39)
13.08.230   Unlawful deposit of wastes.
   No person shall deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner
upon public or private property within the city or within any area within the
jurisdiction of the city any human or animal excrement wastes. (Prior code § 4-
3-40)
13.08.240   Additional regulations not contained in chapter.
   All regulations not contained in this chapter regarding the use of and
policies of the city concerning sewer shall be established by municipal
resolutions.
(Ord. 553, 2017)
Chapter 13.12
RATES, BILLING AND COLLECTION
Sections:
Article I. General
   
13.12.010   Disposition of funds.
   
13.12.020   Rate adjustments.
   
13.12.030   Establishment defined.
   
13.12.040   Deposits required.
Article II. Water Rates
   
13.12.050   Residential water rates.
   
13.12.060   Commercial water rates.
   
13.12.065   Industrial water rates.
   
13.12.068   Industrial water rates II.
   
13.12.070   Connection charge—City main to city meter.
   
13.12.071   Transfer charges.
   
13.12.075   Rental property cleanup.
   
13.12.080   Failure of meter—Charges—Appeal.
   
13.12.085   Additional charges for testing meters, when found in proper
condition.
   
13.12.090   Charge for turning water on or off—after hours.
   
13.12.095   Customer water leaks.
   
13.12.100   Delinquent rents-Discontinuance of service.
   
13.12.105   Payment extensions.
   
13.12.110   Collection date—Late fee.
   
13.12.111   Tampering with public utilities.
Article III. Sewer Rates
   
13.12.120   Definitions.
   
13.12.130   Applicability of article.
   
13.12.140   Determination of use charges.
   
13.12.150   Disposition of revenues.
   
13.12.160   Use charge schedule.
   
13.12.170   Maximum charge.
   
13.12.180   Additional costs for discharge of pollutants.
   
13.12.190   Surcharge schedule.
   
13.12.200   User charge—Reviewed.
   
13.12.210   Billing—Delinquency.
   
13.12.220   Rate increases.
   
13.12.230   All services to be charged for.
   
13.12.240   Violation—Penalty.
Article IV. Garbage Rates
   
13.12.250   Residential garbage rates (in city limits).
   
13.12.260   Extraterritorial zone residential garbage rate.
   
13.12.270   Commercial garbage rate.
Article V. Periods of Declared Disaster or Emergency
   
13.12.280   Purpose.
   
13.12.290   Implementation.
   
13.12.300   No service disconnections.
   
13.12.310   Payment extension.
   
13.12.320   Repayment of balances incurred during declaration period.
   
13.12.330   End of period of declared disaster or emergency.
Article I.
General
13.12.010   Disposition of funds.
   The sums received from the charges imposed by this chapter for water and
sewer service shall be deposited into a fund known as the utilities fund, and
is to be used solely for the purpose of water and sewer operating and
maintenance purposes. The sums received from the charges imposed by this
chapter for garbage service shall be deposited into a fund known as the solid
waste fund.
(Ord. 553, 2017: prior code § 4-3-13)
13.12.020   Rate adjustments.
   Where, because of special conditions, the sewer, water, or garbage rate
would be unfair, inequitable or not in conformity with the rates paid by other
users for similar service, the city commission may, on petition of the owner or
upon its own motion, by resolution adjust such rate by increasing, decreasing,
setting the same within minimum or maximum limits or putting the same on a
fixed rate.
(Ord. 553, 2017: prior code § 4-3-11)
13.12.030   Establishment defined.
   For the purpose of this chapter, all establishments shall be considered
commercial establishments, except single-family dwelling units; provided, that
any duplexes or apartments rented in whole or in part to tenants shall be
considered residential establishments, if each unit is separately metered.
(Prior code § 4-3-9)
13.12.040   Deposits required.
   A.   Each customer shall make a cash deposit to the city for the following
listed amounts based upon their type of use. Type of use is defined as:
      Residential: a single-family residence
      Commercial: any user or consumer other than a single-family residence
except for Industrial or Industrial II users
      Industrial: users that obtain service from the waterworks systems of the
city for use in production or manufacturing services on the site of their place
of business
      Industrial II: users that obtain service from the waterworks system of
the city for use or sale of such water off site from their principal place of
business or from city supply sites
   B.   Owners of a residential rental property may provide notice to the city
that they do not wish to be responsible for any unpaid water/sewer/garbage
bills incurred by the renter by providing the city a signed waiver that shall
comply with NMSA 1978, Section 3-23-6 (1995 Repl. Pamp.). A waiver must be in
place for each individual rental property. Owners who wish to void a waiver
must do so by making the request in writing to the utilities office. In order
to reinstate the waiver, a new waiver must be submitted to the utility office
prior to service being restored.
   C.    Deposits.
      1.   Water service
 
Customer Type                   Deposit Amount
Residential - Owner Occupied    $30.00
Residential - Rental, no waiver $60.00
Residential - Rental, waiver    $100.00
Commercial - Owner Occupied     $40.00
Commercial - Rental             $200.00
 
   2.   Sewer Service
 
Customer Type                   Deposit Amount
Residential - Owner Occupied    $20.00
Residential - Rental, no waiver $20.00
Residential - Rental, waiver    $100.00
Commercial - Owner Occupied     $10.00
Commercial - Rental             $50.00
 
   3.   Garbage
 
Customer Type                   Deposit Amount
Residential - Owner Occupied    $35.00
Residential - Rental, no waiver $35.00
Residential - Rental, waiver    $40.00
Commercial - Owner Occupied     $35.00
Commercial - Rental             $40.00
 
   D.   In the event of discontinuance of the service, the deposit will be
refunded to the customer after the deduction of any bill due to the city for
water service, sewer service, garbage service and any other bill. Disconnects
must be performed by the account holder in person.
   E.   New deposit fees become effective July 1, 2017 for new services, new
accounts, or restored or reinstated accounts.
   F.   Rate reductions.
      1.   Residential customers over the age of sixty-five (65) are eligible
for a ten percent (10%) reduction to their monthly utility bill.
         a.   Proof of age must be provided to the utility billing office.
Proof of age will be determined by the customer providing a driver's license or
ID card issued by a state with the United States, a U.S. Passport book or card,
work visa, or original birth certificate.
         b.   Account holder must physically reside at the address being
provided service.
         c.   Reduction is limited to one household per family.
      2.   Residential customers who are receiving SSD or SSI benefits are
eligible for a ten percent (10%) reduction to their monthly utility bill.
         a.   Proof of benefits being received must be provided to the utility
billing office every six months.
         b.   Account holder must physically reside at the address being
provided service.
         c.   Reduction is limited to one household per family.
      3.   Customers shall only receive a single rate reduction and not a
combination of F(1) age over 65 or F(2) SSD or SSI benefits.
(Ord. 553, 2017: Ord. 473, 2006: Ord. 445 (part), 2003)
Article II.
Water Rates
13.12.050   Residential water rates.
   The water rates to be charged and collected by the city from each single-
family residence obtaining service from the waterworks systems of the city
shall be as follows:
 
Usage                                                       7/1/2017 7/1/2018
1st 3,000 gallons (monthly minimum)                         $18.53   $21.15
Over 3,000 gallons (for each 1,000 gallons or part thereof) $1.64    $1.87
 
   Beginning July 1, 2019, a 2% cost for service increase shall be effective
automatically each July 1st unless rescinded by the Lovington City Commission
sixty (60) calendar days prior.
(Ord. 553, 2017: Ord. 482, 2007: Ord. 470, 2006: Ord. 442 (part), 2002: Ord.
427 (part), 2000: Ord. 408 (part), 1997: Ord. 375 (part), 1993: amended during
1992 codification; Ord. 318, 1983: prior code § 4-3-14)
13.12.060   Commercial water rates.
   The water rates to be charged and collected by the city from each commercial
establishment obtaining service from the waterworks systems of the city shall
be as follows:
 
Usage                                                       7/1/2017 7/1/2018
1st 5,000 gallons (monthly minimum)                         $27.86   $31.79
Over 5,000 gallons (for each 1,000 gallons or part thereof) $1.69    $1.93
 
   Beginning July 1, 2019, a 2% cost for service increase shall be effective
automatically each July 1st unless rescinded by the Lovington City Commission
sixty (60) calendar days prior.
(Ord. 553, 2017: Ord. 483, 2007: Ord. 471, 2006: Ord. 442 (part), 2002: Ord.
427 (part), 2000: Ord. 408 (part), 1997: Ord. 375 (part), 1993: amended during
1992 codification: Ord. 317, 1983: prior code § 4-3-15)
13.12.065   Industrial Water Rates.
   A.   An industrial water rate shall be charged and collected for businesses
that obtain service from the waterworks systems of the city for use in
production or manufacturing services on the site of their place of business.
The water rates to be charged and collected by the city from each industrial
customer shall be as follows:
 
Usage                                                       7/1/2017 7/1/2018
1st 5,000 gallons (monthly minimum)                         $2.15    $2.46
Over 5,000 gallons (for each 1,000 gallons or part thereof) $2.74    $3.12
 
   Beginning July 1, 2019, a 2% cost for service increase shall be effective
automatically each July 1st unless rescinded by the Lovington City Commission
sixty (60) calendar days prior.
(Ord. 553, 2017: Ord. 509, 2013; Ord. 499, 2010)
13.12.068   Industrial water rates II.
   A.   An industrial water rate II shall be charged and collected for
customers or businesses that obtain service from the waterworks system of the
city for use or sale of such water off site from their principal place of
business or from city supply sites. The water rates to be charged and collected
from each industrial customer II shall be as follows:
 
Usage                                                     7/1/2017 7/1/2018
1st 1,000 gallons or less                                 $8.27    $9.44
Over 1,000 gallons (for each 100 gallons or part thereof) $0.78    $0.89
 
   Beginning July 1, 2019, a 2% cost for service increase shall be effective
automatically each July 1st unless rescinded by the Lovington City Commission
sixty (60) calendar days prior.
(Ord. 553, 2017: Ord. 509, 2013)
13.12.070   Connection charge—City main to city meter.
   A charge will be made for each water connection as follows:
   From the city main to the city meter for any size tap, the cost of material
and labor required for installation will be charged.
   These charges will be reviewed and updated on a quarterly basis, in order to
reimburse the city for the cost of providing such connection. (Ord. 316, 1982:
Ord. 255, 1976: prior code § 4-3-16)
13.12.071   Transfer charges.
   A charge of ten dollars shall be made for transfer from one residential
location to another. Said transfer shall be made only when all outstanding
water bills have been paid upon the residence from which the transfer is made.
(Ord. 375 (part), 1993)
13.12.075   Rental property cleanup.
   Landlords may establish temporary metered service at a property for a period
no longer than five (5) calendar days in order to clean-up tenant vacated
rental property.
   A.   A ten (10) dollar deposit, per property, will be required.
   B.   The landlord will be charged eighty-nine cents ($0.89) per every 100
gallons.
   C.   The amount of water used will be deducted from the deposit. Any usage
above the deposit will be due immediately after the five calendar days. The
meter reading will be recorded prior to turning temporary service on and will
be recorded at time of disconnection.
(Ord. 553, 2017)
13.12.080   Failure of meter—Charges—Appeal.
   In the event any of the water meters fail to operate because they have
become clogged by sand or for any other reason fail to function, so as to
record the amount of water used, the water superintendent shall estimate the
amount of water consumed based on former meter readings, condition of the
premises and other pertinent data. If any person feels aggrieved by a bill
based on such estimate, he may appeal the decision to the city commission. The
city commission may, if it considers the position of the water user equitable
and just, remit all or a part of such water bill except that it shall not remit
the base minimum amount of such bill. (Prior code § 4-3-18)
13.12.085   Additional charges for testing meters, when found in proper
condition.
   Any customer who believes that their water meter is not registering
accurately may apply to have the water meter replaced or tested by an
independent testing facility. This request must be made in writing to the
utility billing office.
      1.   A meter shall only be replaced one time.
      2.   Should the customer not agree to a meter replacement or is not
satisfied with the readings obtained from the new meter, testing by an
independent testing facility will be conducted. If the meter registers more
than five (5) percent high, the city will adjust the associated monthly water
bill. If the meter is found to be accurate within five (5) percent, or if the
meter reading is low, the following charges shall be added to such customer’s
subsequent utility bill:
         a.   A fifty-dollar ($50.00) meter testing service.
         b.   The actual cost to perform meter testing.
(Ord. 553, 2017)
13.12.090   Charge for turning water on or off — after hours.
   If it is necessary to turn the water on or off other than between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., there shall be a charge of $50 made each time the
water is turned on or off. These charges will be added to the customers monthly
bill. If water supply to a property is turned off due to an emergency, the
charge of $50 may be waived at the discretion of the City Manager or authorized
designee.
(Ord. 553, 2017: Ord. 261, 1977; Ord. 501, 2011: prior code § 4-3-20)
13.12.095   Customer water leaks.
   In the event that a customer identifies a water leak on their property that
results in an increased water bill, the following measures will be taken:
   A.   Customer must notify the utility billing office within the current
billing cycle.
   B.   Customer must provide documentation that shows proof that the leak has
been repaired.
   C.   The customer’s water and sewer charges will be averaged over the
previous six months prior to identification of the leak by the customer. The
average bill will be the amount that is due. The utility billing office will
make the necessary adjustments to the account to reflect the new total amount
due.
(Ord. 553, 2017)
13.12.100   Delinquent rents—Discontinuance of service.
   All water rents shall be charged against the property served and against the
owner thereof, and if for any reason any sums owing therefor become delinquent,
after due notice to property owner or his agent of intent to discontinue
service and an opportunity by property owner to contest the cutoff, the water
shall be cut off and in no case shall it be turned on to the same property
until such delinquencies shall have been paid in full. Change of ownership or
occupation shall not affect the application of this section. (Amended during
1992 codification: prior code § 4-3-19)
   A.   If payment is not received by the 26th day of each month for the total
past due amount, service will be subject to disconnection.
   B.   If payment is not received by the 26th day of each month for the total
past due amount, a fifty-dollar ($50.00) penalty will be added to the bill.
      1.   Payment must be received during normal business hours.
      2.   Should the 26th day of the month fall on a holiday or a weekend,
payment is due immediately on the next regular business day by close of
business.
(Ord. 553, 2017: amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 4-3-19)
13.12.105   Payment extensions.
   Payment extensions will be allowed twice per calendar year (January 1
through December 31).
   A.   The individual who is responsible for the account must make the payment
extension request no later than the 25th day of each month in order to avoid
service interruption.
   B.   The individual will be granted an additional thirty (30) days to pay
the account balance in full.
   C.   The individual will still incur the 10% late fee.
   D.   Failure to pay the unpaid balance after the extension and any new or
current charges will cause service disconnection. In order to restore service,
the entire balance due must be paid in full and a fifty-dollar ($50.00) penalty
will be added to the bill.
(Ord. 582 (part), 2020; Ord. 553, 2017)
13.12.110   Collection date—Late fee.
   All bills shall be due and payable on the first day of each month for the
previous month's service. If such bills are not paid on or before the tenth day
of the month, a late fee of ten percent of the amount of the bill shall be
added.
(Ord. 553, 2017: prior code § 4-3-10)
13.12.111   Tampering with public utilities.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or attach or cause to be
connected or attached, any kind of pipe, wire or other contrivance to any pipe,
fire hydrant, line, wire or other conductor or appurtenance thereto, carrying
gas, water, electricity, television signals, telephone signals or other
conveyances provided by or belonging to a public utility (whether publicly or
privately owned) in such a manner as to enable such person or other persons to
receive, consume or use gas, water, electricity, television signals, telephone
signals or other utility service without the same passing through a meter,
without obtaining the proper permit, without paying the required fee or in any
other manner so as to evade payment for such public utility service.
   B.   It also shall be unlawful for any person to damage, tamper with or
destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter or any other part of any public utility,
including cable television, water, gas, electricity and telephone and telegraph
systems.
   C.   If any meter, pipe, line, wire, fixture or other installation or
appurtenance thereto provided by a public utility primarily for the purpose of
serving a particular account is found to have been tampered with or altered in
violation of Subsection A of this section, the person or other customer whose
name appears on the records of the public utility affected as the person or
firm responsible for payment of such account shall be held prima facie
responsible for such violation. In addition to a potential criminal charge for
tampering with utilities, consumers and/or property owners shall be billed the
actual cost for any repairs and/or replacement of damaged equipment and/or
appurtenances and the costs thereof and all other charges, fees, penalties,
interest, etc., owned on the account must be paid, in full, prior to any
utility services being restored to any property. All delinquent charges
assessed to a property must be paid in full prior to reinstatement of any
utilities services to a delinquent property.
   D.   Any act which, if uncorrected, would result in any utility customer
being billed or charged by such utility for a lesser amount of utility service
than actually furnished shall be deemed in violation of Subsection A hereof.
   E.   Conviction for violation of this section shall not affect the offenders
civil liability for damages done to facilities or responsibility to pay for
gas, water, electricity, television signals, telephone signals or other utility
service used but not paid for.
   F.   Anyone convicted of a violation of this section
13.12.111 shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars or imprisoned for
not more than ninety (90) days, or both.
(Ord. 553, 2017: Ord. 445 (part), 2003)
Article III.
Sewer Rates
13.12.120   Definitions.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this article shall be as follows:
   "BOD" (denoting biochemical oxygen demand) means the quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure for five days at twenty degrees Celsius expressed in
milligrams per liter.
   "Capital charge" means that portion of the total waste water service charge
which is levied for local capital costs, local investment in plant facilities
and other local costs excluding operation, maintenance and replacement costs.
   "City" means the city of Lovington.
   "Commercial customers" means those customers which have three or more living
units served by a single water meter, or which have one or more businesses
served by a single water meter.
   "Industrial customer" means any nongovernmental, nonresidential user of a
publicly owned treatment works which discharges more than the equivalent of
twenty-five thousand gallons per day of sanitary waste and which is identified
in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual under divisions A, B, D, E, I.
Any nongovernmental user which discharges wastewater which contains toxic
pollutants, poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantities to
contaminate the sludge, injure or interfere with the treatment system process,
or which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance,
creates a hazard or has an adverse effect on the receiving waters.
   "Infiltration/inflow" means the total quantity of water other than
wastewater from both infiltration and inflow without distinguishing the source
from defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, manholes, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard drains, area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and
swampy area, cross connections, catch basins, cooling towers, stormwaters,
surface runoffs, street wash waters, or drainage.
   "Living unit" means a residential unit providing complete, independent,
living facilities for one family, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitation.
   "Municipality" means (1) a city, town, borough, county, parish, district,
association or other public body (including an intermunicipal agency of two or
more of the foregoing entities) created under state law having jurisdiction
over disposal of sewage, industrial waste, or other waste; (2) a special
district such as water, sewer, sanitary, utility, drainage or similar entity
whose principal responsibility is the treatment, transport, or disposal of
liquid waste of the general public in a particular geographic area.
   "Normal sewage" means sewage which, when analyzed, shows by weight a daily
average of not more than two hundred milligrams per liter of BOD and not more
than two hundred milligrams per liter of TSS, and which is otherwise acceptable
into the city's sanitary sewerage system.
   "Residential customers" means those customers which have no more than two
living units served by a single water meter.
   "Surcharge" means a charge added to the normal user charge when the BOD,
TSS, or
other pollutant concentration from a user exceeds the range of concentration of
these pollutants in normal domestic sewage.
   "Suspended solids" means solids that either float on the surface of, or are
in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   "User charge" means that portion of the total wastewater service charge
which is levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement of the wastewater treatment and
collection system.
   "Wastewater treatment system" means (1) the transport of wastewaters from
individual homes or buildings to a plant or facility where treatment of the
wastewater is accomplished; (2) to remove pollutants, dispose, recycle, or
reuse the treated wastewaters and residues which result from the treatment
process, and can include one or more connected or integrated treatment plants.
(Ord. 311 § 1, 1982)
13.12.130   Applicability of article.
   This article shall take precedence over any terms or conditions of
agreements or contracts between the city and the users, including, commercial,
industrial, special districts, other municipalities, or federal agencies or
installations which are inconsistent with this article. (Ord. 311 § 2, 1982)
13.12.140   Determination of use charges.
   The city will apply charges for operation and maintenance pertaining to
extraneous flows (i.e., infiltration/inflow) in the same manner that it
distributes the cost of operation and maintenance among users or user classes
for their actual use. (Ord. 311 § 3, 1982)
13.12.150   Disposition of revenues.
   The city will apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the
costs of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year
and adjust the rate accordingly. (Ord. 311 § 4, 1982)
13.12.160   Use charge schedule.
   A.   There is levied on all persons, firms, corporations, organizations,
political units and political subdivisions and all other entities using the
wastewater collection and treatment system of the city, a schedule of charges
as provided in this section.
   B.   Users connected to and served by the sewer system of the city shall be
classified as either domestic, industrial or commercial.
   C.   The following schedule of charges, which include a portion designated
as the user charge, used for payment of costs of operation and maintenance, and
replacement, of the wastewater collection and treatment system, shall be
amended as follows:
   D.   The following rates are effective July 1, 2017.
   Residential use rates:
 
Usage                                                       7/1/2017 7/1/2018
1st 3,000 gallons (monthly minimum)                         $13.37   $15.26
Over 3,000 gallons (for each 1,000 gallons or part thereof) $0.91    $1.04
 
   Commercial use rates:
 
Usage                                                       7/1/2017 7/1/2018
1st 5,000 gallons (monthly minimum)                         $20.65   $23.57
Over 5,000 gallons (for each 1,000 gallons or part thereof) $0.91    $1.04
 
   Beginning July 1, 2019, a 2% cost for service increase shall be effective
automatically each July 1st unless rescinded by the Lovington City Commission
sixty (60) calendar days prior.
(Ord. 553, 2017: Ord. 484, 2007: Ord. 472, 2006: Ord. 442 (part), 2002; Ord.
427 (part), 2000; Ord. 421, 1999; Ord. 408 (part), 1997; Ord. 311 §§ 5—10,
1982)
13.12.170   Maximum charge.
   The charge for fifty thousand gallons per month shall be the maximum charge
for water consumed and returned to the sanitary sewer system by residential
users, public schools and the courthouse; all such water received from
residential users, public schools and the courthouse in excess of fifty
thousand gallons per month shall be received without charge; and, upon
satisfactory showing by a commercial user that the water consumed by the user
in excess of fifty thousand gallons per month does not reach the sanitary sewer
system of the city, no fee shall be charged for all such water received in
excess of fifty thousand gallons per month and shown to the satisfaction of the
city not to reach the sanitary sewer system of the city; provided, however,
that no reduction shall be allowed to any commercial user whose water
consumption is less than an average of fifty thousand gallons per month. (Ord.
320, 1983: Ord. 3 11 § II, 1982)
13.12.180   Additional costs for discharge of pollutants.
   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
operation, maintenance and replacement costs shall pay for such increased
costs. (Ord. 311 § 15, 1982)
13.12.190   Surcharge schedule.
   A.   Every user who discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or
other liquids other than normal sewage shall be charged and pay a surcharge in
addition to the charge for normal sewage.
   B.   The following surcharge schedule, which includes a portion designated
as the user charge, will be implemented. The user charge portion is to be for
the payment of the costs of operation and maintenance (including replacement)
of the wastewater collection and treatment system. Charges shall be based on
one hundred percent of metered water use in accordance with the following
formula:
   Effective July 1, 2017
   s =   00834 [$0.48 (Vs)(BOD - 200) + $0.48 (Vs)(SS - 200)]
   Where:
      S =    $0.95 per lb.
      S =    Surcharge in dollars monthly
      Vs =    Sewage volume in thousand gallons per month
      .00834 =   Conversion factor for pounds per thousand gallons
      $0.48 =   Unit charge for BOD in dollars per pound, of which $0.43
represents the user charge portion and $0.05 represents capital charges
      BOD-    Five days strength index in milligrams per liter by weight.
      200 =   Allowed BOD and SS strengths in milligrams per liter by weight
      $0.48 =   Unit charge for suspended solids in dollars per pound, of which
$0.43 represents the user charge portion and $0.05 represents capital charges.
      SS =   Suspended solids strength index in milligrams per liter by weight
   The following new charges become effective on July 1, 2018
   s = 00834 [$0.54 (Vs)(BOD - 200) + $0.54 (Vs)(SS - 200)]
   Where:
      S =    $1.09 per lb.
      S =   Surcharge in dollars monthly
      Vs =   Sewage volume in thousand gallons per month
      .00834 =   Conversion factor for pounds per thousand gallons
      $0.54 =   Unit charge for BOD in dollars per pound, of which $0.49
represents the user charge portion and $0.05 represents capital charges
      BOD-   Five days strength index in milligrams per liter by weight.
      200 =   Allowed BOD and SS strengths in milligrams per liter by weight
      $0.54 =   Unit charge for suspended solids in dollars per pound, of which
$0.49 represents the user charge portion and $0.05 represents capital charges.
      SS =   Suspended solids strength index in milligrams per liter by weight
Beginning July 1, 2019, a 2% cost for service increase shall be effective
automatically each July 1st unless rescinded by the Lovington City Commission
sixty (60) calendar days prior.
(Ord. 553, 2017: Ord. 311 §§ 12, 13, 1982)
13.12.200   User charge—Reviewed.
   A.   The user charge portion of the rate structure will be reviewed at least
biannually to accomplish the following:
      1.   Ensure that the extant user charge rate is adequate to cover
operation, maintenance and replacement costs;
      2.   Ensure that operation, maintenance, and replacement costs are being
distributed proportionally among users and user classes.
   B.   The city shall notify each user annually in conjunction with a regular
bill of the rate and that part of the user charge attributable to wastewater
treatment services. (Ord. 311 §§ 14. 16, 1982)
13.12.210   Billing—Delinquency.
   Bills for the service charges for the use of the wastewater collection and
treatment system by a premises shall be rendered to the person or legal entity
designated by the owner, his agent, tenant or occupant to receive the water
bill. The bills for the service charges for use of the wastewater collection
and treatment system shall be rendered monthly and the due date to pay such
bills shall be the same as the date for the water bill rendered to the name and
address designated for such premises. When any wastewater service bill is ten
days in default, rendition of water service to such premises shall be
discontinued until such bill is paid following due notice and opportunity for
hearing. (Ord. 311 § 17, 1982)
13.12.220   Rate increases.
   The rates shall never be reduced below an amount sufficient to provide for
the operation and maintenance of the sewer system and for the payment of the
principal of and interest on existing bonds, and shall, when necessary, be
increased to provide for such operation and maintenance and for the payment of
the principal of and interest on existing bonds. (Ord. 311 § 18, 1982)
13.12.230   All services to be charged for.
   None of the facilities or services afforded by the sewer system shall be
furnished without a charge being made therefor. In the event the city or any
department, agency, or instrumentality thereof shall avail itself of any of the
facilities or services so afforded, the reasonable value thereof shall be
charged against the city, or such department, agency or instrumentality, and
shall be paid for as the charges therefor accrue. The revenues so received from
the city shall be deemed to be revenues from the operation of sewer system, and
shall be used and accounted for in the same manner as any other revenues
derived from its operation; provided, however, that nothing in this section
shall be construed as requiring the city, or any department, agency, or
instrumentality thereof to avail itself of the facilities or services afforded
by the sewer system. (Ord. 311 § 19, 1982)
13.12.240   Violation—Penalty.
   A.   A person who continues discharging wastewater in violation of this
article is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction is punishable by a fine
of not more than two hundred dollars for each violation and for each day of
violation.
   B.   In addition to proceeding under authority of subsection A of this
section, the city is entitled to pursue all other criminal and civil remedies
to which it is entitled under authority of statutes or other ordinances against
a person continuing prohibited discharges. (Ord. 311 § 20, 1982)
Article IV.
Garbage Rates
13.12.250   Residential garbage rates (in city limits).
   The garbage rates to be charged and collected per month by the city from
each residence obtaining service from the contractor employed by the city shall
be as follows:
   The following rates shall be effective July 1, 2017:
 
Description 7/1/2017 7/1/2018
1 Polycart  $25.24   $27.00
2 Polycarts $32.50   $34.76
 
   Beginning July 1, 2019, a 2% cost for service increase shall be effective
automatically each July 1st unless rescinded by the Lovington City Commission
sixty (60) calendar days prior.
(Ord. 553, 2017)
13.12.260   Extraterritorial zone residential garbage rate.
   The garbage rates to be charged and collected per month by the city from
each extraterritorial zone residence obtaining service from the contractor
employed by the city shall be as follows:
   The following rates shall be effective July 1, 2017:
 
Description 7/1/2017 7/1/2018
1 Polycart  $29.38   $31.43
2 Polycarts $36.67   $39.23
 
   Beginning July 1, 2019, a 2% cost for service increase shall be effective
automatically each July 1st unless rescinded by the Lovington City Commission
sixty (60) calendar days prior.
(Ord. 553, 2017)
13.12.270   Commercial garbage rate.
   The garbage rates to be charged and collected per month by the city from
each commercial establishment obtaining service from the contractor employed by
the city shall be as follows:
Description Effective 7/1/2017 Effective 7/1/2018
Description                 Effective 7/1/2017 Effective 7/1/2018
1 Polycart                  $40.38             $43.19
2 Polycarts                 $79.28             $84.81
2 yard - 1 pickup per week  $80.54             $86.16
2 yard - 2 pickups per week $160.86            $172.09
3 yard - 1 pickup per week  $120.06            $128.43
3 yard - 2 pickups per week $240.12            $256.88
4 yard - 1 pickup per week  $156.78            $167.72
4 yard - 2 pickups per week $313.53            $335.41
6 yard - 1 pickup per week  $229.75            $245.78
6 yard - 2 pickups per week $459.52            $491.58
8 yard - 1 pickup per week  $304.33            $325.57
8 yard - 2 pickups per week $608.65            $651.12
 
   Beginning July 1, 2019, a 2% cost for service increase shall be effective
automatically each July 1st unless rescinded by the Lovington City Commission
sixty (60) calendar days prior.
(Ord. 553, 2017)
Article V.
Periods of Declared Disaster or Emergency
13.12.280   Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to ensure City of Lovington customers
utilizing water, sewer, and garbage services will not experience a disruption
in service during times of declared disaster or emergency in an effort to
maintain hygiene and sanitation. In addition, this article will ensure that
operations remain funded during and after the incident.
(Ord. 582 (part), 2020)
13.12.290   Implementation.
   This article of the code may be implemented during a declared national,
state, or local disaster or emergency and will become effective upon
declaration of the City Commission by resolution.
(Ord. 582 (part), 2020)
13.12.300   No service disconnections.
   During the declared disaster or emergency, services will not be disconnected
due to lack of payment during the period the declared disaster or emergency is
in effect. This provision does not include accounts that were past due prior to
the date of such local declaration.
(Ord. 582 (part), 2020)
13.12.310   Payment extension.
   Payment extensions will be allowed during the period of the declared
disaster or emergency.
   A.   Individuals will not be limited on the number of extensions, even if
they have previously requested extensions outside of the declaration period.
   B.   To be eligible for payment extension(s) during the declaration period,
the individual who is responsible for the account must provide proof that their
income, based on family size or persons in household, is below the most recent
version of the Federal Poverty Guideline as provided by the United States
Health and Human Services Department.
   C.   Individuals requesting a payment extension are required to submit:
      1.   Disaster or emergency payment extension form.
      2.   Proof of income.
      3.   Certification of the number of dependents living in household.
   D.   The individual who is responsible for the account must make the request
for a payment extension no later than the 25th day of each month. Failure to
submit the extension request prior to the 25th will result in application of
the fifty-dollar ($50.00) penalty.
   E.   Individuals will be granted extension(s) for period(s) of 30 days.
Additional extensions may be granted before repayment of the past due balance
but customers are still responsible for all past due amounts once the disaster
or emergency is determined to be mitigated or resolved.
   F.   Individuals will still incur the 10% late fee.
   G.   Payment extensions requested and granted during the period of disaster
or emergency are not included as the total number of payment extensions granted
in a calendar year as specified in Section
13.12.105.
(Ord. 582 (part), 2020)
13.12.320   Repayment of balances incurred during declaration period.
   A.   All past due balances accrued during the declared period are expected
to be paid in full on the first due date after the declaration period is
terminated or by determination of the Commission, whichever is sooner.
   B.   Customers who desire to participate in a payment plan must submit a
payment plan request no later than the first day of the month in which the bill
is due after the declaration period.
   C.   Customers requesting a payment plan will be responsible for:
      1.   Providing payment of the current amount due no later than the tenth
day of each month. If the current months payment is not received by the 10th a
late fee of 10% shall be applied.
      2.   Providing payment towards the past due amount as accumulated during
the declared disaster period.
      3.   All past due charges for water, sewer, and garbage service accrued
during the declaration period are due no later than ninety (90) days after the
declaration period is terminated by the Commission.
   D.   If the customer fails to pay the current month during the ninety (90)-
day repayment period by the tenth of the month:
      1.   A fifty-dollar ($50.00) penalty will be added to the bill.
      2.   Service shall be disconnected.
      3.   Service shall not be restored until the account, including the total
past due amount is paid in full.
   E.   If the customer fails to pay the past due charges within the ninety
(90)-day period:
      1.   A fifty-dollar ($50.00) penalty will be added to the bill.
      2.   Service shall be disconnected.
      3.   Service shall not be restored until the account, including the total
past due amount is paid in full.
(Ord. 582 (part), 2020)
13.12.330   End of period of declared disaster or emergency.
   Upon termination of a declared disaster or emergency period, the City
Commission will adopt a resolution stating such. Upon the declared end date the
provisions for payment extensions in this article are no longer in effect.
(Ord. 582 (part), 2020)
Title 14
RESERVED
Title 15
BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
   Chapters:
      
15.04   Uniform Building Code
      
15.08   Electrical Code
      
15.12   Fire Zones
      
15.16   Dangerous Buildings
      
15.20   Flood Damage Prevention
      15.24   Wind Erosion Control
Chapter 15.04
UNIFORM BUILDING CODE
Sections:
   
15.04.010   Adopted.
   
15.04.020   Violation—Penalty.
15.04.010   Adopted.
   A.   The city commission adopts by reference the state building code also
known as the International Conference of Building Officials Uniform Building
Code, 2009 or any adopted edition adopted by the State of New Mexico hence
forth.
   B.   All the conditions, provisions, limitations and terms of the current
New Mexico State building code are adopted as the conditions, provisions,
limitations and terms of the building rules and regulations of the city by
reference as if specifically set out in full in this section.
   C.   A printed copy of the state building code and index is incorporated as
a part of this code as
Chapter 15.04 and is to be read and construed as part of such code as though
fully set out in this section.
   D.   A copy of the building code shall be kept in the office of the city
manager at the city hall and will be available at all reasonable times and
subject to inspection.
(Ord. 546, 2016; amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 14-1-1)
15.04.020   Violation—Penalty.
   Any person who fails to comply with such rules and regulations as set forth
in the building code adopted by this chapter or who violates any of the
provisions of such building code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Prior code
§ 14-1-2)
Chapter 15.08
ELECTRICAL CODE
Sections:
   
15.08.010   Designation of chapter.
   
15.08.020   National Electrical Code adopted.
   
15.08.030   Permit required when.
   
15.08.040   Permits not required when.
   
15.08.050   Permit application— Information required.
   
15.08.060   Fee schedule.
   
15.08.070   Materials—Approval required.
   
15.08.080   Installation requirements.
   
15.08.090   Wiring restrictions.
   
15.08.100   Replacing damaged wiring—Conformance with chapter.
   
15.08.110   Placement and insulation of wires.
   
15.08.120   Inspection—Written notice of completed installation.
   
15.08.130   Noncompliance—Red tag—Covering or concealing installation
prohibited.
   
15.08.140   Certificate of approval—White tag—Connection to electrical service.
   
15.08.150   Certificate of approval— Prerequisites.
   
15.08.160   Removal of notification tag.
   
15.08.170   Certificate authorizing temporary work— Expiration.
   
15.08.180   Concealed installations— Inspection required.
   
15.08.190   Additions to existing installations.
   
15.08.200   Reinspection— Disconnection.
   
15.08.210   Connections to electrical sources— Restrictions.
   
15.08.220   Liability.
   
15.08.230   Electrical inspector-Qualifications.
   
15.08.240   Electrical inspector— Duties.
   
15.08.250   Electrical inspector-Authority.
   
15.08.260   Interference with electrical inspector unlawful.
15.08.010   Designation of chapter.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited and referred to as the
"electrical code" of the city. (Prior code § 16-1-1)
15.08.020   National Electrical Code adopted.
   The regulations contained in the National Electrical Code, 1956 Edition, as
the same are now or may be amended, is adopted by reference and is declared to
be a part of this chapter when not in conflict with a specific statement
contained in the body of this chapter to the contrary. Copies of such
regulations shall be kept on file in the office of the city manager. (Prior
code § 16-1-2)
15.08.030   Permit required when.
   No wiring, devices or equipment for the transmission, distribution or
utilization of electrical energy for light, power or heat shall be installed
within or on any building or structure, nor shall any alteration or addition be
made in any such existing wiring devices or equipment, nor shall any motor be
disconnected and then reconnected for any cause without first securing a permit
from the electrical inspector, except as stated in this chapter; and, in case
of emergency and the building department is closed, the permit then shall be
secured as soon as possible. (Prior code § 16-1-3)
15.08.040   Permits not required when.
   A.   No permit shall be required for minor repair work such as repairing
flush and snap switches, replacing fuses, changing lamp sockets and receptacles
and repairing drop cords or minor repairs to devices which will not necessitate
the disconnecting of soldered joints in wiring, devices or equipment.
   B.   No permit shall be required for the installation of electric wiring,
devices or equipment installed for or by a public utility corporation operating
under a franchise from the city or under state or federal law, to transmit and
sell electrical energy. Such wiring devices or equipment must be for the use of
such corporation in its operation as a public utility as provided for in its
franchise. If the electric public utility engages in the business of installing
wiring for other than their own use, such utility shall be required to take out
a master electrician's license and be governed by the provisions of this
chapter governing master electricians and journeyman electricians.
   C.   No permit shall be required for installing any portable appliances or
devices that are approved by the National Electrical ("ode for operation from
socket or convenience outlet if not over one thousand watts. (Prior code §§ 16-
1-4—16-1-6)
15.08.050   Permit application— Information required.
   Any person making application for such permit shall state the sizes of
conductors to be used in or upon any building for all services, main feeders
and subfeeders, the areas to be served by such conductors and show the basis
used in computing the required sizes of such conductors. Such person shall,
when required by the electrical inspector, file with him complete plans and
specifications showing everything necessary to determine whether the
installation as described will be in conformity with the requirements of this
chapter. (Prior code § 16-1-7)
15.08.060   Fee schedule.
   Before any work is done, the person shall make application for a permit and
shall pay to the city a fee in the amount as follows:
   A.   For new work or addition to old work:
      1.   First ten outlets, twenty cents each;
      2.   From eleven to twenty outlets, fifteen cents each;
      3.   For all additional outlets, ten cents each.
   B.   For installation of fixtures, the same as outlets.
   C.   For each meter loop, fifty cents.
   D.   Motors.
      1.   Fractional horsepower up to and including one-third horsepower, same
as outlets;
      2.   All motors over one-third horsepower, one dollar per horsepower or
fraction thereof for each motor with a maximum fee of three dollars for any one
motor;
      3.   For changing when no wire is installed a fee of fifty cents will be
charged.
   E.   Fans. Ceiling and exhaust fans, twenty-five cents each, with a minimum
charge of fifty cents.
   F.   Floodlights. One dollar for the first floodlight and twenty-five cents
for each additional one.
   G.   Electric Signs.
      1.   One dollar and one-half fee as noted in this section for each outlet
with a maximum fee of five dollars;
      2.   Canteen or ball printed sign, one dollar;
      3.   Barber poles, one dollar and one-half;
      4.   Window strip lighting, cove lighting and decorative hghting, one
dollar and one-half per circuit.
   H.   Neon signs.
      1.   One dollar and one-half plus twenty cents per ampere;
      2.   Outside neon stripping, one dollar plus twenty cents per ampere;
      3.   Inside neon window lighting and other inside neon signs, twenty-five
cents per ampere.
   I.   Electrical Ranges. One dollar each. For extra inspection made necessary
by work rejected on first inspection, one dollar.
   J.   For inspection of apparatus for which no fee is prescribed, the
inspector shall charge one dollar for the first hour or fraction thereof and
one dollar for each additional hour or fraction thereof engaged in making the
inspection. (Prior code § 16-1-8)
15.08.070   Materials—Approval required.
   All materials and appliances used in the installations which are covered by
this chapter shall be approved. Unless otherwise specified in this chapter,
materials and appliances listed in the copyrighted lists of inspected
appliances and supplements published by the Underwriters' Laboratories shall be
made in conformity with approved methods of construction for safety to life and
property, and when so made, shall be considered to be approved. New materials
manufactured from time to time and approved by the National Board of Fire
Underwriters may be made a part of this chapter when and if approved by the
inspector. Such approval must be in writing and attached to all copies of this
chapter on file in City Hall. (Prior code § 16-1-9)
15.08.080   Installation requirements.
   No certificate of approval shall be issued unless the installation is in
strict conformity with the provisions of this chapter, the statutes of the
state and unless they are in conformity with approved methods of construction
for safety to life and property. The regulations as set forth in the National
Electrical Safety Code, as approved by the American Standards Association, and
other installation and safety regulations approved by the American Standards
Association, shall be prima facie evidence of such approved methods. (Prior
code § 16-1-10)
15.08.090   Wiring restrictions.
   No wiring other than the following shall be employed:
   A.   Commercial, Industrial, Public Buildings and Apartment Houses.
      1.   All wiring installed shall be in conduit, surface metal raceway,
underfloor raceway, electrical metallic tubing, castinplace raceway and
wireways and busways.
      2.   No wiring shall be connected to any circuit that does not comply
with such specifications.
      3.   No wiring shall be added to an existing system without first
correcting any overloaded circuit condition that may exist by splitting up the
circuit so that the safe carrying capacity of the conductors is not exceeded.
All new wiring installed to make such corrections shall comply with the above.
      4.   Where outlets or equipment are moved, not to exceed five feet, the
type of wiring already in place, if in a safe condition, may be used for such
extension. If more than five feet, such extension shall comply with the above.
   B.   Residences.
      1.   All complete wiring systems hereafter installed, whether in a
building under construction or one already completed, shall be in conduit,
surface metal raceway or electrical metallic tubing. There shall be a
convenience outlet in each wall of the living room and at least two convenience
outlets in all other rooms.
      2.   All wiring installed in additions to buildings such as a new room or
porch that does not exceed thirty percent of the area of the building may be
the same type as exists. Convenience outlets are required in all new rooms as
specified above.
      3.   Outlets added to existing wiring may be wired in accordance with the
type of wiring already in place provided such wiring complies with the National
Electrical Code requirements for open wires, concealed knob-and-tube work,
conduit, surface metal raceway, armored cable, nonmetallic sheathed cable or
electrical metallic tubing.
      4.   Any circuit found to be overloaded shall be split up so that the
safe carrying capacity of the conductors is not exceeded. (Prior code § 16-1-
11)
15.08.100   Replacing damaged wiring—Conformance with chapter.
   A.   Existing wiring damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of fifty
percent of the present installation shall be entirely rewired in the manner
required by this chapter.
   B.   If the damaged installation is less than fifty percent of the present
installation, it may be reused but the service and service switches shall be
made to conform to the requirements of this chapter.
   C.   The inspector shall be consulted on all such cases for his approval.
(Prior code § 16-1-12)
15.08.110   Placement and insulation of wires.
   A.   Every person, owning or operating a line of wires over streets, alleys
or buildings in the city shall use only wires that are suitable and strong.
Such person shall suitably and safely attach them to strong and sufficient
supports and insulate them at all points of attachment and shall remove all
wires abandoned for use. Such person shall suitably insulate every wire where
it enters a building and, if such is other than a wire designed to carry an
electric light or power current, shall attach to it at suitable and convenient
points in the circuit calculated to prevent danger from fire and near the place
of entering the building, an appliance calcu lated to prevent at all times a
current of electricity of such intensity or volume as to be capable of injuring
electrical instruments or causing fire from entering building by means of such
wire beyond the point at which such appliance is attached.
   B.   No section wires shall be installed, operated or maintained over any
street, alley, sidewalk or building in the city which shall be liable to
seriously interfere with the work of the fire department in the use of ladders
or other apparatus, or which shall obstruct or render hazardous the use of fire
escapes and on complaint, such hazardous wires shall be removed or properly
rearranged.
   C.   No wires shall be strung across streets or alleys except those granted
by franchise by the city.
   D.   Wherever possible and expedient signal wires shall be carried on the
same pole with the electric light or power wires. Such joint construction shall
be made as recommended by the National Electrical Safety Code. (Prior code §
16-1-13)
15.08.120   Inspection—Written notice of completed installation.
   Upon the completion of the installation of the electric wiring, devices and
equipment, it shall be the duty of the person installing same to notify the
electrical inspector in writing, and the electrical inspector shall inspect the
installation within twenty-four hours of the time such written notice is given.
(Prior code § 16-1-14)
15.08.130   Noncompliance—Red tag—Covering or concealing installation
prohibited.
   If, upon inspection, it is found that any part of the work does not comply
with the provisions of this chapter, the electrical inspector shall post a red
tag in the service switch box stating that violations of this chapter have been
found to exist and he shall give notice of such violations to the person to
whom the permit for the work was issued. When such red tag has been posted and
until it has been removed by the inspector, it is unlawful to lath over or
otherwise cover and conceal any part of the electrical installation. (Prior
code § 16-1-15)
15.08.140   Certificate of approval— White tag—Connection to electrical
service.
   If, upon inspection, it is found that all work covered by one permit is
completed and complies with the provisions of this chapter, the inspector shall
issue to the person installing the work a certificate of approval. If the
entire installation is completed and given final approval, the certificate
shall authorize connection to the electrical service and the use of the
installation and written notice of such authorization shall be sent to the
public utility corporation furnishing the electrical service and a white tag,
stating such final approval and authorization, shall be posted in the service
switch box. (Prior code § 16-1-16)
15.08.150   Certificate of approval-Prerequisites.
   A wiring installation shall not be considered as completed and no final
certificate of approval of such an installation shall be issued until all
connections have been completed in all outlet boxes, except the connections to
fixture wiring. (Prior code § 16-1-17)
15.08.160   Removal of notification tag.
   It is unlawful for any person other than the inspector to remove any
notification tag as provided for in this chapter until after connection has
been made to the electrical service and the installation is in use. (Prior code
§ 16-1-18)
15.08.170   Certificate authorizing temporary work— Expiration.
   When a certificate is issued authorizing the connection and use of temporary
work, such a certificate shall be issued to expire at a stated time and shall
be revocable by the inspector at his discretion. (Prior code § 16-1-19)
15.08.180   Concealed installations-Inspection required.
   Where any part of an installation is to be hidden from view by the permanent
placement of parts of a building, the person installing the wiring shall notify
the inspector and such parts of the installation shall not be concealed until
they have been inspected and approved. On large installations where the
concealment of parts of the wiring proceeds continuously, the person installing
the wiring shall give the inspector due notices and inspections shall be made
periodically during the progress of the work. (Prior code § 16-1-20)
15.08.190   Additions to existing installations.
   When an addition is made to an existing electrical installation which has
been installed in any approved system of wiring, if the existing installation
is found to be in a safe operating condition it will not be necessary to rewire
the existing part. In case the existing installation is found to be not in a
safe operating condition, the unsafe wiring must be removed and rewired in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter before a final certificate of
approval will be issued. (Prior code § 16-1-21)
15.08.200   Reinspection— Disconnection.
   A.   The electrical inspector shall periodically make a thorough
reinspection of the installation of all electrical wiring, electric devices and
electric equipment now installed or that may hereafter be installed within the
scope of this chapter and where the installation of any such wiring, devices or
equipment is found to be in a dangerous or unsafe condition, the person owning,
using or operating the same shall be notified in writing and shall make the
necessary repairs or changes required to place such wiring devices and
equipment in safe condition, and have such work completed within five days or
any longer period specified by the electrical inspector in such notice.
   B.   The electrical inspector is empowered to disconnect or order the
discontinuance of electrical service to such wiring, devices or equipment found
to be defective until the installation of such wiring, devices and equipment
has been made safe as directed by the electrical inspector. (Prior code § 16-1-
22)
15.08.210   Connections to electrical sources—Restrictions.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make connections
from a source of electric energy to any electric wiring, devices or equipment
for the installation of which a permit is required until a certificate of
approval has been issued by the electrical inspector authorizing such
connection and the use of such wiring, devices or equipment.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to make connections from a source of
electrical energy to any electrical wiring, devices or equipment which has been
ordered to be disconnected by the electrical inspector or the use of which has
been ordered by the electrical inspector to be discontinued until a certificate
of approval has been issued by the electrical inspector authorizing the
reconnection and use of such wiring, devices or equipment. (Prior code § 16-1-
23)
15.08.220   Liability.
   This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
installing any electric wiring, devices or electric equipment, for damages to
person or property caused by any defect therein. The city shall not be held as
assuming any such liability by reason of the inspection authorized in this
article or certificate of approval issued as provided in this article. (Prior
code § 16-1-24)
15.08.230   Electrical inspector-Qualifications.
   The electrical inspector shall be a competent, well qualified electrical
engineer or journeyman electrician appointed by the mayor, subject to approval
by the city commissioners. When deemed necessary by the mayor, the building
inspector shall serve as the electrical inspector. (Prior code § 16-2-1)
15.08.240   Electrical inspector-Duties.
   The electrical inspector shall inspect all new electrical installations,
additions, alterations or repairs to existing installations at any time deemed
necessary. He shall approve or reject all electrical plans and specifications.
He shall keep a file of all permits issued and shall issue a certificate of
inspection of all approved work. He shall maintain a file of all listed
inspected appliances issued by the Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., which
shall be accessible for public reference. He shall not engage in the business
of sale, manufacture, installation or maintenance of electric wiring, equipment
or devices while engaged as electrical inspector. (Prior code § 16-2-2)
15.08.250   Electrical inspector-Authority.
   A.   The electrical inspector shall decide all questions pertaining to the
installation of electric wiring, devices or equipment not otherwise provided
for in this chapter. Any administration or ministerial matters connected with
the installation or maintenance of electrical wiring, devices or equipment not
covered by the provisions of this chapter, the electrical inspector, by and
with the approval of the mayor, may promulgate and enforce such rules and
regulations as he deems necessary to promote the safety of the public and carry
out the purposes and objects of this chapter.
   B.   The electrical inspector shall have the right during reasonable hours
to enter any building in the discharge of his official duties or for the
purpose of making any inspection or test of the installation of electric
wiring, electric devices or equipment contained therein and shall have the
authority to cause the turning off of all electrical currents and to cut or
disconnect in cases of emergency any wire where such electrical currents are
dangerous to life or property or interfere with the work of the fire
department.
   C.   The electrical inspector is empowered to disconnect or order the
discontinuance of electrical service to any electric wiring, devices and
equipment found to be defectively installed or otherwise not in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter until such wiring, devices and equipment and
their installations have been made safe as directed by the electrical
inspector. (Prior code § 16-2-3)
15.08.260   Interference with electrical inspector unlawful.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with the electrical
inspector in the discharge of his duties or to in any manner prevent or attempt
to prevent him from carrying opt the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The electrical inspector or his authorized assistants shall have the
power to make arrests for the violation of this chapter and to compel the
suspension of any electric work being done in a manner prohibited by this
chapter. (Prior code § 16-2-4)
Chapter 15.12
FIRE ZONES
Sections:
   
15.12.010   Fire zone No. 1.
15.12.010   Fire zone No. 1.
   The fire limits of fire zone No. 1 shall be as described in this section and
as set out on the master fire zoning map dated the ninth of December, 1957, and
as more fully set out in current city and state building codes:
   Main Street (State Road 18).
   A.   From Avenue "D" (State Road 83) North to Corporate Boundary.
180 feet East and West of the Centerline of Main Street through Lot 5, Section
3, Township 16 South, Range 36 East, NMPM; 180 feet West of Centerline of Main
Street from North line of Block 3, Dunaway Addition to North line of Lot 12,
Section 3, Township 16 South, Range 36 East, NMPM; the West half of Blocks I,
H, G, F, E, D, and all of Blocks C and B of the College Addition; the East half
of Blocks 3 and 4, Lots 7 and 8, Block 7 and undivided tract of land situate
between Block 7 and Main Street all in the Dunaway Addition; all of Block 60
and the East half of Blocks 59, 61, and 64 of the North Addition; the East half
of Blocks 4, 5,12 and 13 and all of Blocks 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15
and 16 of Original Lovington; the East half of Blocks 41, 46, 47 and all of
Blocks 42, 43, 44, 45,48, 49 of the South Addition; 180 feet East of Centerline
of Love Street from the South line of Block 16, Original Lovington to the North
line of Block 65 Llano Addition also known as Blocks 56, 57, 58.
   B.   From Avenue "D" (State Road 83) South to Avenue "R".
   The East half of Blocks 68, 69 and all of Blocks 65, 66, 67, 70, 71, 72, 74,
75, 78, 79, 83 and the West half of Blocks 82, 87, 90, 95, 98, 103, 106, 111,
114, 119; the East half of Blocks 86, 91, 94, 99, 102, 107, 110, 115, 118 and
all of Blocks 122, 123, 124, 125 of Llano and South Llano Additions.
   Avenue "D" (State Road 83)
   C.   From Main Street (State Road 18) West to Corporate Boundary.
   Lots 1, 2, 3 of Block 47 and the South half of Blocks 54, 55 South Addition;
Lots 7, 8, 9 of Block 68 Llano Addition; the North 200 feet of Blocks 1,4 and
the North half of Blocks 2, 3 Hillcrest Addition (Price); and the South half of
Blocks 3 Southwest Addition; the South half of Blocks 1, 2 Love Addition; the
North half of Blocks 1, 2 Western Heights Addition; all of Blocks 7,8 June
Addition, Unit 2; the South 175 feet of the Southeast Quarter of the Southwest
Quarter of Section 4, Township 16 South, Range 36 East, NMPM.
   D.   From Main Street East to the Corporate Boundary.
   All of Blocks 2 and 4 of the Dean Addition; Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Block 3 of
the Dean Addition; a tract beginning at the Northeast comer of Block 4, Dean
Addition thence East 1720 feet, thence South 320 feet to the South line of
Section 3, Township 16 South, Range 36 East, NMPM, thence West 1720 feet,
thence North 320 feet to a point of beginning; the North 350 feet of the
Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter and the North 375 feet of the North
half of the Northeast Quarter of Section 10, Township 16 South, Range 36 East,
NMPM, which includes Blocks 1, 2, 3, 4 of the Bellevue Addition. (Amended
during 1992 codification; Ord. 256, 1976; prior code § 14-2-1)
Chapter 15.16
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
Sections:
   
15.16.010   Dilapidated structures—Notice to remove.
   
15.16.020   Abatement by owner-Filing an objection.
   
15.16.030   Objection—Action upon.
   
15.16.040   Appeal process.
   
15.16.050   Failure to comply.
15.16.010   Dilapidated structures— Notice to remove.
   A.   Whenever any building or structure is ruined, damaged and dilapidated,
or any premises is covered with rains, rubbish, wreckage or debris, the city
commission may by resolution find that the ruined, damaged and dilapidated
building, structure or premises is a menace to the public comfort, health,
peace or safety and require the removal from the municipality of the building,
structure, ruins, rubbish, wreckage or debris.
   B.   A copy of the resolution shall be served on the owner, occupant or
agent in charge of the building, structure or premises. If the owner, as shown
by the real estate records of the county clerk, occupant or agent in charge of
the building, structure or premises cannot be served within the municipality, a
copy of the resolution shall be posted on the building, structure or premises
and a copy of the resolution shall be published one time. (Prior code § 14-4-1
(a, b))
15.16.020   Abatement by owner— Filing an objection.
   Within ten days of the receipt of a copy of the resolution or of the posting
and publishing of a copy of the resolution, the owner, occupant or agent in
charge of the building, structure or premises shall commence removing the
building, structure, ruin, rubbish, wreckage or debris, or file a written
objection with the municipal clerk asking for a hearing before the city
commission. (Prior code § 14-4-1 (c))
15.16.030   Objection—Action upon.
   If a written objection is filed as required in this section, the city
commission shall:
   A.   Fix a date for a hearing on its resolution and the objection;
   B.   Consider all evidence for and against the removal resolution at the
hearing; and
   C.   Determine if its resolution should be enforced or rescinded. (Prior
code § 14-4-1 (d))
15.16.040   Appeal process.
   Any person aggrieved by the determination of the city commission may appeal
to the district court by:
   A.   Giving notice of appeal to the city commission within five days after
the determination made by the city commission; and
   B.   Filing a petition in the district court within twenty days after the
determination made by the city commission. The district court shall hear the
matter de novo and enter judgment in accordance with its findings. (Prior code
§ 14-4-1 (e))
15.16.050   Failure to comply.
   If the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the building, structure or
premises fails to commence removing the building, structure, ruins, rubbish,
wreckage or debris:
   A.   Within ten days of being served a copy of the resolution or of the
posting and publishing of the resolution,
   B.   Within five days of the determination by the city commission that the
resolution shall be enforced; or
   C.   After the district court enters judgment sustaining the determination
of the city commission, the municipality may remove the building, structure,
ruins, rubbish, wreckage or debris at the cost and expense of the owner. The
reasonable cost of the removal shall constitute a lien against the building,
structure, ruin, rubbish, wreckage or debris so removed and against the lot or
parcel of land from which it was removed. The lien shall be foreclosed in the
manner provided in Sections 3-36-1 through 3-36-5, N.M.S.A., 1978 Compilation.
(Amended during 1992 codification; prior code § 14-4-1 (f))
Chapter 15.20
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION*
   *Prior history: Ord. 343, 1987; prior code §§ 4-6-1—4-6-14.
Sections:
Article I. Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Methods
   
15.20.010   Statutory authorization.
   
15.20.020   Findings of fact.
   
15.20.030   Statement of purpose.
   
15.20.040   Methods of reducing flood losses.
Article II. Definitions
   
15.20.050   Definitions.
Article III. General Provisions
   
15.20.060   Lands to which this chapter applies.
   
15.20.070   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard.
   
15.20.080   Establishment of development permit.
   
15.20.090   Compliance.
   
15.20.100   Abrogation and greater restrictions.
   
15.20.110   Interpretation.
   
15.20.120   Warning and disclaimer of liability.
Article IV. Administration
   
15.20.130   Designation of the floodplain administrator.
   
15.20.140   Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator.
   
15.20.150   Permit procedures.
   
15.20.160   Variance procedures.
Article V. Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
15.20.170   General standards.
   
15.20.180   Specific standards.
   
15.20.190   Standards for subdivision proposals.
   
15.20.200   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO/AH Zones).
   
15.20.210   Floodways.
Article VI. Penalties
   
15.20.220   Penalties for noncompliance.
Article I.
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Methods
15.20.010   Statutory authorization.
   The Legislature of the state of New Mexico has in (section) 3-17-1 NMSA 1978
delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the city commission of the city
of Lovington, New Mexico, does ordain as follows. (Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord.
439 (part), 2002)
15.20.020   Findings of fact.
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the city of Lovington are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord. 439 (part),
2002)
15.20.030   Statement of purpose.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities, and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord. 439 (part), 2002)
15.20.040   Methods of reducing flood losses.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord. 439 (part), 2002)
Article II. Definitions
15.20.050   Definitions.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   “Alluvial fan flooding” means flooding occurring on the surface of an
alluvial fan or similar landform which originates at the apex and is
characterized by high-velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment
transport, and deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
   “Apex” means a point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the
flow path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and
alluvial fan flooding can occur.
   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel of
property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   “Area of future conditions flood hazard” means the land area that would be
inundated by the one percent annual chance (100-year) flood based on future
conditions hydrology.
   “Area of shallow flooding” means a designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO
zone on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent or
greater annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   “Area of special flood hazard” is the land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given
year. The area may be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map
(FHBM). After detailed rate making has been completed in preparation for
publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30,
AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, Vl-30, VE or V.
   “Base flood” means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   “Basement” means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   “Breakaway wall” means a wall that is not part of the structural support of
the building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse
under specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated
portion of the building or supporting foundation system.
   “Critical feature” means an integral and readily identifiable part of a
flood protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the
entire system would be compromised.
   “Development” means any man-made change to improved and unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or
storage of equipment or materials.
   “Elevated building” means, for insurance purposes, a non-basement building,
which has its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by foundation
walls, shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   “Existing construction” means for the purposes of determining rates,
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective
date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that
date. “Existing construction” may also be referred to as “existing structures.”
   “Existing manufactured home park or subdivision” means a manufactured home
park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the
lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   “Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision” means the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   “Flood or flooding” means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
   “Flood elevation study” means an examination, evaluation and determination
of flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations,
or an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
   “Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)” means an official map of a community, on
which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special
flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   “Flood Insurance Study (FIS).” See “flood elevation study.”
   “Floodplain or floodprone area” means any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source (see definition of “flooding”).
   “Floodplain management” means the operation of an overall program of
corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not
limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain
management regulations.
   Floodplain management regulations” means zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   “Flood protection system” means those physical structural works for which
funds have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the area within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
   “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and non-structural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures and their contents.
   “Floodway.” See “regulatory floodway.”
   “Functionally dependent use” means a use, which cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water The
term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for
the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship
repair facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related
manufacturing facilities.
   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of the Interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
      2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
   “Levee” means a man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed
and constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain,
control, or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   “Levee system” means a flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   “Lowest floor” means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s “lowest floor;” provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of Section 60.3 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   “Manufactured home” means a structure transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
“manufactured home” does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   “Manufactured home park or subdivision” means a parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or
sale.
   “Mean sea level” means, for purposes of the National Flood Insurance
Program, the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to
which base flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   “New construction” means, for the purpose of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, “new construction” means structures for which
the “start of construction” commenced, on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   “New manufactured home park or subdivision” means a manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   “Regulatory floodway” means the channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   “Riverine” means relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   “Special flood hazard area.” See “area of special flood hazard.”
   “Start of construction” (for other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within one hundred
eighty days of the permit date. The “actual start” means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the “actual start of construction”
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   “Structure” means, for floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed
building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above
ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition
would equal or exceed fifty percent of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred.
   “Substantial improvement” means any reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds fifty percent of the market value of the structure before “start of
construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred “substantial damage,” regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a “historic
structure.”
   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of a
floodplain management regulation. (For full requirements see Section 60.6 of
the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.)
   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to be
fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A
structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other
certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in Section 60.3(b)(5),
(c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   “Water surface elevation” means the height, in relation to the National
Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas. (Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord. 440 (part), 2002; Ord. 439 (part),
2002)
Article III. General Provisions
15.20.060   Lands to which this chapter applies.
   The chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard with the
jurisdiction of the city of Lovington. (Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord. 439 (part),
2002)
15.20.070   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the current scientific and engineering report entitled,
“The Flood Insurance Study for Lea County, New Mexico and Incorporated Areas,”
dated December 16, 2008, with the most effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps and/
or Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps (FIRM and/or FBFM) dated December 16, 2008.
(Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord. 440 (part), 2002; Ord. 439 (part), 2002)
15.20.080   Establishment of development permit.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord. 439 (part), 2002)
15.20.090   Compliance.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord. 439 (part), 2002)
15.20.100   Abrogation and greater restrictions.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 490
(part), 2008; Ord. 439 (part), 2002)
15.20.110   Interpretation.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord. 439 (part), 2002)
15.20.120   Warning and disclaimer of liability.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 490
(part), 2008; Ord. 439 (part), 2002)
Article IV. Administration
15.20.130   Designation of the floodplain administrator.
   The City Manager or his designee is hereby appointed the floodplain
administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and
other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (Emergency Management and Assistance -
National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain
management. (Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord. 439 (part), 2002)
15.20.140   Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator.
   Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   C.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter.
   D.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) from which prior approval is required.
   E.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
   F.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency which is Department of Homeland Security and Emergency
Management Preparedness Bureau, prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   G.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   H.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
Section
15.20.070, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
Article V of this chapter.
   I.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the floodplain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community.
   J.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community’s FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot, provided that
the community first completes all of the provisions required by Section 65.12.
(Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord. 439 (part), 2002)
15.20.150   Permit procedures.
   A.   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of Section
15.20.180B;
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with Section
15.20.140A;
   B.   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the flooplain
administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors;
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use. (Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord. 439
(part), 2002)
15.20.160   Variance procedures.
   A.   The appeal board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   B.   The appeal board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   C.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may
appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   E.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in Section
15.20.150 have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   G.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter (Section
15.20.030).
   H.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   I.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   J.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      3.   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   K.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      1.   The criteria outlined in subsections A. through I. of this section
are met; and
      2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord. 440 (part), 2002; Ord. 439
(part), 2002)
Article V. Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
15.20.170   General standards.
   In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   G.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord.
439 (part), 2002)
15.20.180   Specific standards.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in (i) Article III, Section
15.20.070, (ii) Article IV, Section 15.20.140H., or (iii) Article V, Section
15.20.190C., the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
floodplain administrator that the standard of this subsection as proposed in
Article IV, Section
15.20.150A.1. is satisfied.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the floodplain administrator.
   C.   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided.
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   D.   Manufactured Homes.
      1.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community’s FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      2.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites
         a.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         b.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         c.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         d.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      3.   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones A1-30,
AH and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
subsection D. of this section be elevated so that either:
         a.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base
flood elevation; or
         b.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty-six inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
   E.   Recreational Vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty consecutive days;
or
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      3.   Meet the permit requirements of Article IV, Section
15.20.150A., and the elevation and anchoring requirements for “manufactured
homes” in subsection D. of this section. A recreational vehicle is ready for
highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site
only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions. (Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord. 439 (part), 2002)
15.20.190   Standards for subdivision proposals.
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with Article I, Sections
15.20.020,
15.20.030 and
15.20.040.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of Article III, Section
15.20.080; Article IV, Section
15.20.150; and the provisions of Article V.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than fifty lots or five acres,
whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to Article III, Section
152.070 or Article IV, Section
15.20.140H.
   D.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord. 439 (part), 2002)
15.20.200   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO/AH Zones).
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in Article III,
Section
15.20.070, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable,
and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by
ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions apply;
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the
base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the
depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no
depth number is specified).
   B.   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures;
      1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the
base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the
depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no
depth number is specified); or
      2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed
so that below the base specified flood depth in an AO Zone, or below the base
flood elevation in an AH Zone, level the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
   C.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the floodplain administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in Article IV, Section
15.20.150 are satisfied.
   D.   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around structures
on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord. 439 (part), 2002)
15.20.210   Floodways.
   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
Article III, Section
15.20.070, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
   A.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   If Article V, Section
15.20.210A. above is satisfied, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions
of Article V.
   C.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Program Regulations, a community may permit
encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an
increase in base flood elevations, provided that the community first completes
all of the provisions required by Section 65.12. (Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord.
439 (part), 2002)
Article VI. Penalties
15.20.220   Penalties for noncompliance.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this court
order and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this
court order by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this court
order or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not more than three hundred dollars or imprisoned for not more
than ninety days, or both, for each violation, and in addition shall pay all
costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent
the city of Lovington from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 490 (part), 2008; Ord. 439 (part), 2002)
Chapter 15.24
WIND EROSION CONTROL
Sections:
   
15.24.010   Purpose and intent.
   
15.24.020   Applicability.
   
15.24.030   Definitions.
   
15.24.040   Wind Erosion Control Plan (WECP) requirements.
   
15.24.050   Dust control plan review and approval.
   
15.24.060   Implementation.
   
15.24.070   Other violations prohibited.
   
15.24.080   General activity standards.
   
15.24.090   Construction activity standards.
   
15.24.100   Cessation of operations.
   
15.24.110   City construction projects.
   
15.24.120   Control measures.
   
15.24.130   Corrections, effective date, and enforcement.
15.24.010   Purpose and intent.
   A.   The purpose of this section is to protect and maintain the natural
environment and to reduce the health effects and safety issues caused by the
creation of fugitive dust. In addition, this section attempts to limit property
damage due to blowing sand and particulate matter caused by anthropogenic (man-
made) activities by requiring mitigation measures for activities that create
fugitive dust.
   B.   The intent of this section is to minimize the contribution of man-made
dust production on a regular basis. This chapter is also intended to realize
that fugitive dust creation does occur due to the natural environment and
natural events however when careful and effective dust control measures are
implemented on those sources which by their nature are prone to dust creation,
the overall impact from these natural events can be minimized. (Ord. 526
(part), 2014)
15.24.020   Applicability.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any activity, equipment,
operation and/or practice, man-made or man-caused, capable of generating
fugitive dust or windblown particulate matter.
   A.   Exemptions: Any person seeking an exemption from any of the provisions
of this chapter shall submit a petition to the city manager for approval.
   B.   The following activities are automatically exempted from the provisions
of this chapter:
      1.   Governmental activities during emergencies, life threatening
situations or in conjunction with any officially declared disaster or state of
emergency.
      2.   Operations conducted by essential service utilities to provide
electricity, natural gas, oil and gas transmission, cable television,
telephone, water and sewage during service outages and emergency disruptions.
      3.   This chapter shall not apply to the generation of airborne
particulate matter from undisturbed lands. (Ord. 526 (part), 2014)
15.24.030   Definitions.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   "Activity" or "activities" means any land stripping, earthmoving, trenching,
road construction and demolition or renovation of manmade facilities.
   "Air contaminant" means smoke, vapor, charred paper, dust, soot, grime,
carbon, fumes, gases, odors, particulate matter, windborne matter, or any other
material in the outdoor atmosphere.
   "Anthropogenic" means created or caused by human activity.
   "Chemical/Organic stabilizer" means any non-toxic chemical or organic dust
suppressant other than water which meets any specifications, criteria, or tests
required by any federal, state, or local water agency and is not prohibited for
use by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or any applicable law, rule or
regulation.
   "Construction and demolition activities" means any on-site activities
preparatory to or related to building alteration, rehabilitation, removal or
razing, or improvement on real property, including the placement and upkeep of
mobile or manufactured homes or buildings. "Construction" also means
construction of roadway systems including, arterials, expressways, interstates,
tunnels, overpasses, bridges, interchanges, residential and commercial streets
within a subdivision, and airport runway improvements.
   "Control measures" or "CM" means techniques or methods used to prevent or
reduce the emission and/or airborne transport of fugitive dust and dirt.
   "Disturbed area" means any area in which the soil will be altered by
grading, leveling, scraping, cut and fill activities, excavation, brush and
timber clearing, grubbing, and unpaved soils on which vehicle operations and/or
movement will or has occurred.
   "Dust" or "dust emissions" means finely divided solid particulate matter
occurring naturally or created by mechanical processing, handling or storage of
materials in the solid state.
   "Dust generating operation" means any activity capable of generating
fugitive dust, including, but not limited to, activities associated with
creating a disturbed area, construction and demolition activities, and the
movement of vehicles on unpaved roadways or parking areas.
   "Dust suppressant" means a chemical compound or mixture of chemical
compounds added with or without water to a dust source for purposes of
preventing air entrainment.
   "Emission" means an air contaminant, or the act of discharging an air
contaminant, visible or invisible.
   "Erosion" means the transportation of soil particles, or mass movement of
soil (mass wasting), by water, wind front leaving, or mechanical means.
   "Fugitive dust" means particles lifted into the ambient air caused by man-
made and natural activities such as the movement of soil, vehicles, equipment,
blasting, and wind. This excludes particulate matter emitted directly from the
exhaust of motor vehicles and other internal combustion engines, from portable
brazing, soldering, or welding equipment, and from pile drivers.
   "Haul road" means a road constructed for the principle purpose of hauling
construction materials, or to provide access to one or more construction sites
or industrial operations.
   "High wind event" means a climatological occurrence in which the average
wind speed exceeds a threshold in which fugitive dust will be generated from
undisturbed areas, naturally covered areas, disturbed areas, and construction
sites, regardless of reasonably available control measures implementation. The
average wind speed for high wind events is a sustained wind speed of twenty
five miles per hour or greater.
   "Inactive disturbed area" means any disturbed surface area on which active
operations have been suspended.
   "Land stripping" or "land stripping activity" means removal of all or any
portion of existing vegetation from parcels of land with equipment, which plows
or scrapes the surface.
   "Maintenance" means the cleaning, shaping, grading, repair and minor
replacement of drainage, flood control and erosion control facilities, but not
including the cost of power consumed in the normal operation of pump stations.
   "Natural cover" means any vegetation which exists on the property, prior to
any construction activity or achieved through vegetation restoration back to a
natural state, including the placement of sod.
   "Owner or operator" means any person or entity who owns, leases, operates,
controls, or supervises an affected facility or a stationary source of which an
affected facility is a part.
   "Palliative" means any agent used to lessen or reduce dust emissions.
   "Particulate matter" means any airborne finely divided solid or liquid
material with an aerodynamic diameter smaller than one hundred micrometers.
   "Sand" means a naturally occurring granular material composed of finely
divided rock and mineral particles with average diameters of greater than one
hundred micrometers.
   "Silt fence" means a temporary sediment control device consisting of a
synthetic filter fabric stretched across and attached to supporting posts and
entrenched.
   "Undisturbed" means land or property which is in its natural condition and
has not been stripped or graded except if the property has been revegetated and
the ground cover is mature.
   "Unpaved road" means a road which is not covered with dust-suppressing
materials and maintained in such a manner that visible emissions of dust from
the road surface are permanently prevented other than during times of normal
cleaning and/or after flooding.
   "Vacant lot" means a subdivided or unsubdivided parcel of land which
contains no buildings or structures of a temporary or permanent nature,
excluding perimeter walls or fences.
   "Visible emissions" means any emission which are visually detectable without
the aid of instruments and which contain particulate matter.
   "Wind Erosion Control Plan" or "WECP" means a document used to outline the
activities being undertaken which have the ability to create fugitive dust or
windblown particulate matter and the steps that will be taken to mitigate the
escape of these materials beyond the property lines(s) of the originating land
(s).
   "Wind fence" means a barrier made of small, evenly spaced wooden slats or
fabric. They are erected to reduce wind velocity and to trap blowing sand. Wind
fences can be used as perimeter controls around open construction sites to keep
sediments from being blown offsite by the wind. The spaces between the fence
slats allow wind and sediment to pass through but reduce the wind's speed,
causing sediment to deposit along the fence.
   "Wind speed" means the average wind velocity, or gusts regardless of
direction, of the wind from the nearest weather monitoring station, or by a
portable wind instrument located at the site. (Ord. 526 (part), 2014)
15.24.040   Wind Erosion Control Plan (WECP) requirements.
   In addition to standards established in subsequent sections of this chapter,
if the construction, demolition operation or activity is subject to this
chapter, a WECP shall be required, excluding general property maintenance,
e.g., weed management. The WECP outlines the potential activities that may
create dust and the mitigation steps to be taken or that are in place for an
existing or proposed activity. The WECP is a flexible and dynamic document
which may be amended as necessary to reflect the appropriate control measures
for a site or project. The WECP shall be submitted as a separate document along
with any required construction plans for the proposed activity that are
submitted in the planning and zoning application. The following shall
constitute the minimum information required within the WECP and description for
control measures as part of any covered activity:
   A.   Names(s) addresses and phone number(s) of person(s) responsible for the
preparation, submittal and implementation of the control plan and responsible
for the dust generating operations.
   B.   A plot plan or plat of survey of the site which describes:
      1.   The total area of land surface to be disturbed and the total area of
the entire project site, in acres or square feet, depending on scale;
      2.   The operation(s) and activities to be carried out on the site;
      3.   All actual and potential sources of fugitive dust emissions on the
site;
      4.   Delivery, transport and storage areas for the site, including types
of materials stored and size of piles.
   C.   A description of control measures (CMs) or combination thereof to be
applied during all periods of dust generating operations and periods of
inactivity to each of the fugitive dust sources described on the plot plan or
plat. For each source identified a primary and contingency control measure must
be identified and at least one control measure must be implemented. The same
control measure(s) may be used for more than one dust generating activity.
Specific details must include:
      1.   If dust suppressants are to be applied, then the type of
suppressant, method, frequency, and intensity of application, the number and
capacity of application equipment to be used,and any pertinent information on
environmental impacts and/or certifications related to appropriate and safe use
for ground applications;
      2.   For each fugitive dust source at least one auxiliary CM designated
as a contingency measure shall be described in the original control plan.
Should the original CM in the WECP prove ineffective, immediate and effective
implementation of the contingency measure shall obviate the requirement of
submitting a revised control plan. (Ord. 526 (part), 2014)
15.24.050   Dust control plan review and approval.
   Review and approval of the WECP and proposed CMs shall be the responsibility
of the city manager or designee. Approval may be conditioned to require
additional measures, actions, or other activities, in addition to those actions
proposed within the control plan documentation. (Ord. 526 (part), 2014)
15.24.060   Implementation.
   Approval and issuance of the building permit(s) and the approval of all
outlined CMs contained within the WECP or description shall mandate the
implementation of said CMs by the developer, contractor, builder, owner, and/or
agents as part of construction activities. (Ord. 526 (part), 2014)
15.24.070   Other violations prohibited.
   Implementation of CMs shall not allow the creation of other violations of
these standards or other provisions of the municipal code. (Ord. 526 (part),
2014)
15.24.080   General activity standards.
   No person shall cause, allow, or permit diffusion of visible emissions of
fugitive dust or windblown dirt/sand to exceed horizontally or vertically 100
feet beyond the property boundary line within which the emissions become
airborne without taking necessary and feasible precautions to control the
generation of airborne or windblown particulate matter. Sources may be required
to temporarily cease the activity or operation which is causing or contributing
to the emissions until necessary and feasible precautions are taken.
   A.   Ground cover removal prohibited. No person shall disturb the topsoil or
remove ground cover on any real property within the city limits and thereafter
allow the property to remain unoccupied, unused, vacant or undeveloped unless
necessary and feasible precautions are taken to prevent generation of windblown
dust or dirt in accordance with this section.
   B.   Dirt moving activities shall cease when wind speeds exceed twenty-five
mph. Dirt moving activities may recommence when either the wind speeds decrease
or if effective control measures are implemented during the high wind event
which contain the emissions.
   C.   Storage of materials and material transport. No person shall cause,
allow, or permit organic or inorganic dust producing material to be stacked,
piled, or otherwise stored for a period exceeding twenty four hours or permit
transportation of materials likely to give rise to airborne dust without taking
precautions to prevent the creation of fugitive dust. Actions shall be taken to
ensure that such areas or uses with the potential of becoming or generating
fugitive dust and particulate matter, shall be covered, moistened, compacted,
or applied with a chemical dust suppressant, or other applicable CMs to prevent
fugitive dust creation.
      1.   Earth or other material deposited by trucking or earth moving
equipment shall be removed from paved streets by the person responsible for
such deposits.
      2.   Stockpiling materials in paved streets, public or private, shall be
prohibited.
   D.   Continuous activity operations. For existing, on-going, and/or
permanently-sited institutional, governmental, commercial and/or industrial
facilities or operations which may continuously generate fugitive dust or
windblown particulate matter, individual WECPs with corresponding CMs shall be
submitted to the city manager for approval. Approval shall be made by the city
manager or designee and shall be communicated in writing to the property/
business owner. Letters of approval and approved control plans shall be kept at
the property subject to this provision. A new WECP shall be submitted every
three years and reviewed for effectiveness. The provisions of the approved WECP
shall be implemented as needed to eliminate the creation of airborne fugitive
dust or particulate matter. (Ord. 526 (part), 2014)
15.24.090   Construction activity standards.
   These standards shall apply for all design and construction activities on
real property within the city limits including, but not limited to,
subdivisions, large lot residential, office, commercial and industrial
construction.
   No person shall cause, allow, or permit a building or its appurtenances, or
a building or subdivision site to be constructed, used, altered, repaired,
demolished, cleared, or leveled, or the earth to be moved or excavated, without
taking precautions to limit excessive amounts of particulate matter from
becoming airborne. Dust and blowing dirt and sand shall be kept to a minimum by
good practices such as using an approved dust suppressant or soil stabilizer,
paving, covering, landscaping, continuous wetting, controlling access and
speeds, or other acceptable means.
   A.   Subdivision requirements.
      1.   For all subdivisions, a WECP shall be prepared, submitted, and
reviewed for approval as part of the overall review of the subdivision
construction drawings through the planning and zoning process.
      2.   Developers of the subdivision shall be allowed to grade for the
subdivision only after complete subdivision construction drawing approval and
permit issuance. No separate grading permit shall be allowed nor shall any
grading be allowed beyond the phase of the development that is under
construction.
      3.   An expanded scope of grading may be considered provided the
developer submits a WECP for the area of grading outside of the phase of
development which outlines effective dust and windblown particulate matter
control methods and upon permit issuance immediately implements and routinely
maintains the WECP and CM's.
      4.   The developer shall construct and maintain a perimeter wind fence or
dust barrier with a minimum height of three feet along the perimeter of the
development where the construction or development is adjacent to existing
developed or built areas.
   B.   Large lot residential, office, commercial, and industrial requirements.
      1.   For all large lot residential properties, in which the total area is
one-half acre or greater, and for all office, commercial, industrial,
institutional or governmental construction activities, a WECP shall be
prepared, submitted and reviewed as part of the building permit.
      2.   Grading activities shall only be allowed to commence after building
plan approval and permit issuance. Site improvement only development permits
may be considered pursuant to the following:
         a.   The site is three acres or less.
         b.   Dust emissions on the affected lot must be permanently suppressed
by providing paved parking areas and driving isles and landscaping.
         c.   All disturbed building pads must be suppressed as to prevent the
creation of fugitive dust until such time as building placement occurs.
         d.   The anticipated amount of time between site development and
building construction is sixty days or less. If more than sixty days passes the
building pad shall be re-vegetated or fenced off with a minimum three feet high
wind fence capable of controlling fugitive emissions. (Ord. 526 (part), 2014)
15.24.100   Cessation of operations.
   Once construction has commenced, stabilization measures must be taken to
ensure that fugitive dust and windblown particulate matter creation is
suppressed during any period of inactivity; to include weekends, after-hours
and holidays. Permanent stabilization via revegetation, landscaping, paving or
the provision of chemical dust suppressants or wetting shall be required for
properties once the inactive period exceeds sixty days. (Ord. 526 (part), 2014)
15.24.110   City construction projects.
   Construction activities by the city shall require the provision of a WECP
with the construction drawings. This applies to those projects not part of a
subdivision, i.e., road construction or utility replacements, or buildings not
issued building permits by the city, i.e., new city buildings or utility
substations. Compliance to the WECP and outlined CMs shall be the
responsibility of the contractor and subject to verification by the public
works department, utilities department or community development department's
building/project inspectors or the city project management staff. (Ord. 526
(part), 2014)
15.24.120   Control measures.
   Control measures are methods which can be utilized to limit the creation of
fugitive dust or windblown particulate matter. CMs are to be identified within
the WECP and once approved need to be implemented in accordance with this
chapter for all dust or windblown particulate matter generating activities
within or adjacent to the city limits. CMs shall include, but not be limited
to:
   A.   Designing subdivisions or building sites to utilize existing, pre-
development grades;
   B.   Watering disturbed areas on a regular and minimum basis throughout the
daily construction activities, including periods of inactivity;
   C.   Applying palliatives or chemical soil suppressant/stabilizer for idle
construction periods;
   D.   Constructing and maintaining wind barrier fences. Such fencing should
be a minimum of three feet in height with fifty percent or less porosity and be
placed adjacent to roadways or property boundaries to reduce the amount of
windblown material leaving a site. The barriers may also be placed within a
site to create wind buffers;
   E.   Re-seeding or re-vegetation of graded or disturbed areas;
   F.   Grading for street and utility placement only as part of subdivision
construction;
   G.   Building all interior and perimeter cinder block, rockwalls, and
retaining walls as part of the overall construction of all subdivisions and not
part of the individual building permit for each lot. Walls shall serve as wind
breaks and help to reduce the entrainment of dust and the spread of windblown
particulate matter;
   H.   Grading the building pad site only plus five feet in all directions of
the pad site;
   I.   Retaining natural vegetation during the construction phase of building
excluding the building pad site;
   J.   Utilizing existing or natural vegetation as part of the landscaping for
the site as elsewhere required within these design standards, to limit grading
activities, to promote water conservation, and to reduce dust generation;
   K.   Installing non-natural landscaping or vegetation in the latter part of
construction to reduce the amount of disturbed area and the potential for dust
generation;
   L.   Implementing any other proposed dust suppressing agent or activity
approved by the city manager or designee, especially those that have been
developed to be effective in our particular area;
   M.   Combining any two or more of the above items. (Ord. 526 (part), 2014)
15.24.130   Corrections, effective date, and enforcement.
   A.   Correction of condition. If city personnel document that a person is in
non-compliance with any of the provisions contained within the article above,
he or she will notify the city manager or designee and the person will be
notified in writing, by phone or in person, of that fact and specify a period
of time in which the person must achieve compliance. Failure to comply within
the timeframe determined by the city constitutes grounds for a notice of
violation per the city's enforcement ordinances. Correction of condition may
include the amendment of plans to reflect additional or new control measures to
be taken in the event that original measures prove to be insufficient or
ineffective. Nothing herein shall prevent separate enforcement being taken in
accordance with
Chapter 8.28 (Nuisances).
   B.   Remedial action. The city code enforcement officer, its designated
agent, or any other authorized city representative, after proper notice, may
enter upon any real property where dust or windblown particulate matter is
being generated and take such remedial and corrective action as he or she deems
necessary when the owner, occupant, operator, or any tenant, lessee, or holder
of any possessory interest or right in the involved land fails to do so.
   C.   Costs. The actual costs incurred in connection with any remedial or
corrective action taken by the city, pursuant to this section, shall be
assessed against the owner of the property involved. The owner of record will
have fifteen days to submit payment in full. Failure to remit payment shall
cause a lien to be placed upon the property from which remedial or corrective
action was taken.
   D.   Effective date. For all existing, ongoing, and/or permanently-sited
institutional, governmental, commercial and/or industrial facilities or
operations, the wind erosion control provisions of this chapter shall be
submitted in writing, approved, and implemented within fifteen days of the
effective date of this chapter.
   E.   Liability. All persons owning, operating, or in control of any
equipment or property who shall cause, permit, or participate in any violation
of this chapter shall be individually and collectively liable to any penalty or
punishment imposed by and under the municipal code for the city.
   F.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not
exceeding five hundred dollars or by imprisonment not to exceed ninety days or
by both such time and imprisonment. Each day such violation is committed, or
permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such. (Ord. 526 (part), 2014)
Title 16
SUBDIVISION OF LAND
   Chapters:
      
16.01   Processing of Plats
      
16.02   In General
      
16.03   Plats and Platting Procedure
      
16.04   Design Standards
      
16.05   Improvements
      
16.06   Alternate Summary Procedure
Chapter 16.01
PROCESSING OF PLATS
Sections:
   
16.01.010   Procedure for processing plat for new subdivision.
16.01.010   Procedure for processing plat for new subdivision.
   A.   When a developer first proposes a new subdivision, a sketch of the
proposed subdivision, showing the basic outline of the streets, alleys
(including widths) and lots in the subdivision shall be presented to the city.
The developer also should have a map showing how the subdivision conforms with
the master plan for the entire development. The layout of the new subdivision
will be reviewed by the city engineering department to ensure the subdivision
meets with necessary requirements of the city and the city's subdivision
regulations.
   B.   When the subdivision has been reviewed by the city engineering
department and any necessary corrections have been made, the layout will be
presented to the planning and zoning commission and city commission for
preliminary approval. If any changes are recommended by the planning board or
the city commission, the subdivision layout must be modified to include these
changes.
   C.   The developer then may proceed to develop the complete set of plans and
specifications for the water lines, sewer lines, streets and drainage plan for
the new subdivision. The developer's engineer shall provide a letter certifying
the drainage plan has been properly developed. When these plans have been
completed, they will be reviewed by the city engineering department to check
for conformance to the city's standards and specifications. The subdivision
layout and plans and specifications for the improvements then will be presented
to the planning and zoning commission for its approval or recommendation. After
planning and zoning commission's approval, the layout will be presented to the
city commission for its approval prior to the start of construction.
   D.   It will be the responsibility of the developer to ensure the
improvements (if any) are constructed in accordance with the approved plans and
specifications. On completion of the improvement, the developer's engineer, who
shall be a professional engineer registered in the state, shall submit a letter
of certification that all improvements (if any) were made in accordance with
the approved plans and specifications. The developer's engineer also shall
submit to the city one set of reproducible drawings showing the completed
project as it was constructed. The "as built" drawings shall include any minor
changes made in the improvements (if any) during construction.
   E.   Upon completion of the developer's engineer's letter of certification,
and the "as built" plans, the developer shall submit a drawing of the final
plat, which shall include all the necessary legal descriptions and approval
signature blocks, to the city engineering department. The developer also should
submit the original of his restrictive covenants for the subdivision and a
signed, notarized petition requesting approval of the final plat by the city
commission. These documents should be submitted to the city engineering
department, which will check for conformance with the city's requirements. The
documents then will be submitted to the city commission for its final approval.
When the final plat is approved by the city commission, the original of the
final plat with all necessary signatures and the restrictive covenants and
resolutions of the approval of the final plat will be returned to the developer
for filing with the county clerk.
   For state law as to the authority of city as to planning and platting
generally, see NMSA 1978, § 3-19-1 to3-19-12. As to subdivision regulations
generally, see NMSA 1978, § 3-19-6.
   As to planning board generally, see
Chapter 2.72 of this code. As to zoning, see Chapter 17 of this code. As to
buildings generally, see Chapter 15 of this code. As to streets and sidewalks
generally, see Chapter 12 of this code.
(Ord. 447 (part), 2003)
Chapter 16.02
IN GENERAL
Sections:
   
16.02.010   Definitions.
   
16.02.020   Variances and modifications.
16.02.010   Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   A.   Streets and Alleys. The term "street" means a way for vehicular
traffic, whether designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road,
avenue, boulevard, lane, place or otherwise.
      1.   "Arterial streets and highways" are those which are used primarily
for large volumes of traffic. For development purposes, arterial streets are
generally located along section lines.
      2.   "Collector streets" are those which carry moderately high volumes of
traffic and, for development purposes, are generally located along half section
lines.
      3.   "Residential collector streets" are those which cany moderate
volumes of traffic between local streets and collectors or arterials. For
development purposes, these streets are generally located halfway between
collector or arterial streets.
      4.   "Local streets" are those which are used primarily for access to
abutting properties. This categoiy carries low traffic volumes and includes
residential or industrial streets.
      5.   "Marginal access streets" are minor streets which are parallel to
and adjacent to arterial streets and highways and which provide access to
abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
      6.   "Cul-de-sac" is a local street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate vehicle turnaround terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of
traffic flows.
      7.   "Alleys" are minor ways which are used primarily for vehicular
service access to the back or the side of properties otherwise abutting on a
street.
      8.   Pavement widths shall be measured back to back of curbs, where curbs
are required.
   B.   "Flood plain" or "floodway" means those areas within the corporate
boundaries of the city which are subject to flooding as delineated and
identified in the Federal Emergency Management Agency Flood Insurance Study for
the City of Lovington, date August 30, 1999.
   C.   "Subdivide" or "subdivision," for the purpose of approval by a
municipal planning authority, means:
      1.   For the area of land within the corporate boundaries of the
municipality, the division of land into two or more parts by platting or by
metes and bounds description into tracts for the purposes set forth in
subsection D of this section; and
      2.   For the area of land within the municipal extraterritorial
subdivision and platting jurisdiction, the division of land into two or more
parts by platting or by metes and bounds description into tracts of less than
five acres in any one calendar year for the purposes set forth in subsection C
of this section.
   D.   The division of land pursuant to subsection (C)(1) or (2) of this
section shall be for the purposes of:
      1.   Sale;
      2.   Laying out a municipality or any part thereof;
      3.   Adding to a municipality;
      4.   Laying out of lots; or
      5.   Resubdivision.
(Ord. 447 (part), 2003)
16.02.020   Variances and modifications.
   A.   Hardships. Where the planning board finds that extraordinary hardships
may result from strict compliance with this chapter, it may vary the
regulations contained in this chapter, so that substantial justice may be done
and the public interest secured; provided, that such variation will not have
the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of such regulations.
   B.   Large-Scale Developments. The standards and requirements of this
chapter may be modified by the planning and zoning commission in the case of a
plan and program for a new town, complete community or neighborhood unit which,
in the judgment of the planning board, provides adequate public spaces and
improvements for the circulation, recreation, light, air and service needs of
the tract when fully developed and populated, and which aiso provides such
covenants or other legal provisions as will assure conformity to and
achievement of the plan.
   C.   Conditions in Granting. In granting variances and modifications, the
planning board may require such conditions as will, in its judgment, assure
substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements so varied or
modified. (Ord. 447 (part), 2003)
Chapter 16.03
PLATS AND PLATTING PROCEDURE
Sections:
Division 1. Generally
   
16.03.010   Application fee.
Division 2. Preliminary Plat
   
16.03.020   Generally.
   
16.03.030   Form and contents-Supplementary material.
Division 3. Final Plat
   
16.03.040   Generally.
   
16.03.050   Form and contents-Supplementary material.
Division 1.
Generally
16.03.010   Application fee.
   Upon the filing of any plat application as set forth in this article, the
applicant shall pay to the city an application fee in the sum of twenty-five
dollars, plus twenty-five cents an acre for each acre of the proposed
subdivision. No action shall be taken on such application unless such fee is
paid. (Ord. 447 (part), 2003)
Division 2.
Preliminary Plat
16.03.020   Generally.
   A.   The subdivider shall submit to the planning and zoning commission a
preliminary plat, together with improvement plans and other supplementary
material as specified in Section
16.03.030.
   B.   Two copies of the preliminary plat and supplementary material shall be
submitted to the planning board with a written application for conditional
approval. At the time the preliminary application is filed, the preliminary
application fee shall be paid. The planning and zoning commission shall
thereupon refer the application to the city engineer for Ins consideration.
   C.   Following review of the preliminary plat and other material submitted,
for conformity thereof to this chapter, and negotiations with the subdivider on
changes deemed advisable and the kind and extent of improvements to be made by
him, the city engineer shall, within fifteen days, act thereon as submitted or
modified. If approved, the city engineer shall express his approval as
conditional approval and sate the conditions of such approval, if any, or if
disapproved, shall express his disapproval and his reasons therefor, to the
planning and zoning commission.
   D.   The action of the city engineer shall be noted on one copy of the
preliminary plat, referenced and attached to any conditions determined. One
copy shall be retained by the city engineer.
   E.   Conditional approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute
approval of the final plat (subdivision plat). Rather, it shall be deemed an
expression of approval to the layout submitted on the preliminary plat as a
guide to the preparation of the final plat. (Ord. 447 (part), 2003)
16.03.030   Form and contents-Supplementary material.
   The preliminary plat and accompanying supplementary material shall meet the
following requirements:
   A.   General Subdivision Information. General subdivision information shall
describe or outline the existing conditions of the site and the proposed
development, as necessary to supplement the drawings required in this section.
This information shall include data on existing covenants, land characteristics
and available community facilities and utilities and information describing the
subdivision proposal, such as number of residential lots, typical lot width and
depth, business area, playgrounds, park areas and other public areas, proposed
protective covenants and proposed utilities and street improvements.
   B.   Location Map. A location map shall show the relationship of the
proposed subdivision to existing community facilities which serve or influence
such subdivision. Such map shall include development name and location; main
traffic arteries; public transportation lines; shopping centers, elementary and
high schools, parks and playgrounds and other community features, such as
railroad stations, hospitals and churches; title scale; north arrow; and date.
Proper certification shall be made upon the plat by a reputable, registered
civil engineer or land surveyor, ascertaining that the plan represents a survey
made by him and that all necessary monuments are accurately and correctly shown
upon the plan. The engineer shall place such monuments as required by the city
or by the city engineer, and they shall be set at all corners and angle points
of curve and at such intermediate points as shall be required by the city.
   C.   Topographic Data. Topographic data required as a basis for the
preliminary plat, pursuant to subsection D of this section, shall include
existing conditions as follows, except when otherwise specified by the planning
board. (Some or all of the requirements of this section may be suspended if no
improvements are contemplated.):
      1.   Boundary lines: Bearings and distances.
      2.   Easements: Location, width and purpose.
      3.   Location and elevation of any lots or parcels located within a flood
plain or flood way.
      4.   Streets on and adjacent to the tract: Names and rights-of-way, width
and location; type, width and elevation of surfacing; and legally established
centerline elevations; walks, curbs, gutters, culverts, etc.
      5.   Utilities on and adjacent to the tract: Location, size and invert
elevation of sanitary, storm and combined sewers; location and size of water
mains; location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone poles and
street lights; if water mains and sewers are not on or adjacent to the tract,
indicate the direction and distance to and size of nearest ones, showing invert
elevation of sewers.
      6.   Ground elevations on the tract, based on a datum plan approved by
the city engineer, along all drainage channels or swales and at selected points
not more than one hundred feet apart in all directions; show contours with an
interval of not more than one foot if ground slope is regular and such
information is sufficient for planning purposes.
      7.   Subsurface conditions on the tract, if required by the planning
board: Location results of tests made to ascertain subsurface soil, rock and
ground water, unless test pits are dry at the depth of five feet; location and
results of soil percolation tests if individual sewage disposal systems are
proposed.
      8.   Other conditions on the tract: Watercourses, marshes, rock outcrop,
wooded areas, isolated preservable trees, houses, barns, shacks and other
significant features.
      9.   Other conditions on adjacent land: Approximate direction and
gradient of ground slope, including any embankments or retaining wall;
character and location of buildings, railroads, power lines, towers and other
nearby land uses or adverse influences; owners of adjacent unplatted land; for
adjacent platted land, refer to subdivision plat by name, recordation data and
number and show approximate percent built up, typical of lot size and dwelling
type.
      10.   Photographs, if required by the planning board; camera locations,
directions of views and key numbers.
      11.   Zoning on and adjacent to the tract.
      12.   When known, proposed public improvements: Highways or other major
improvements planned by public authorities for future construction on or near
the tract.
      13.   Key plan, showing location of the tract.
      14.   Title and certificates: Present tract designation according to
official records in office of appropriate records; title under which proposed
subdivision is to be recorded, with names and addressees of owners, notation
stating acreage, scale, north arrow, datum, benchmarks, certification of
registered civil engineer or surveyor and date of survey.
   D.   Scale-Proposals. The preliminary plat (general subdivision plan) shall
be at a scale of one hundred feet to one inch or larger. It shall show all
existing conditions required in subsection C of this section and shall show all
proposals, including the following:
      1.   Streets: Names; right-of-way and roadway widths; approximate grades
and gradients; similar data for alleys, if any.
      2.   Other rights-of-way or easements: Location, widths and purpose.
      3.   Location of utilities, if not shown on other exhibits.
      4.   Lot lines, lot numbers and block numbers.
      5.   Sites to be reserved or dedicated for parks, playgrounds or other
public uses.
      6.   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
churches, industry or other non-public uses, exclusive of single-family
dwellings.
      7.   Minimum building setback lines.
      8.   Site data, including number of residential lots, typical lot size
and acres in parks, etc.
      9.   Title, scale, north arrow and date.
      10.   Developer's procedure for complying with the FEMA flood insurance
study for any improvements located within a flood plain or floodway.
   E.   Other Preliminary Plans. When required by the city engineer, the
preliminary plat shall be accompanied by profiles showing existing ground
surface and proposed street grades, including extensions for a reasonable
distance beyond the limits of the proposed subdivision; typical cross section
of the proposed subdivision; typical cross section of the proposed grading,
roadway and sidewalks; and preliminary plan for proposed sanitary and storm
sewers, with grades and sizes indicated. All elevations shall be based on a
datum plane approved by the city engineer.
   F.   Draft of Protective Covenants. A draft of protective covenants (if
any), whereby the subdivider proposes to regulate land use in the subdivision
and otherwise protect the proposed development, shall be included. (Ord. 447
(part), 2003)
Division 3.
Final Plat
16.03.040   Generally.
   A.   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved, and if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that portion
of the approved preliminary plat which he proposes to record and develop at the
time; provided, that such portions conform to all requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Application for approval of the final plat shall be submitted in
writing to the city engineer at least ten days prior to the meeting at which it
is to be considered. At the time the final subdivision plat is filed, the
required fee shall be paid.
   C.   Two copies of the final plat and other exhibits required for approval
shall be prepared as specified in Section
16.03.050 and shall be submitted to the city engineer within six months after
approval of the preliminary plat; otherwise, such approval shall become null
and void, unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by the
planning and zoning commission.
   D.   The planning and zoning commission shall approve or disapprove the
final plat within fifteen days after final submission thereof and thereafter
forward to the city commission the report of its approval or disapproval.
   E.   The city commission shall, at its next regular meeting and within
fifteen days, approve or disapprove the final plat. (Ord. 447 (part), 2003)
16.03.050   Form and contents-Supplementary material.
   The final plat and accompanying supplementary materia] shall meet the
following requirements:
   A.   Generally. The final plat shall be drawn in ink on tracing cloth on
sheets eighteen inches wide by twenty-four inches long or twenty-six inches
wide by thirty-four inches long and shall be at the scale of one hundred feet
to one inch, or larger where necessary; the plat may be on several sheets,
accompanied by an index sheet showing the entire subdivision. For larger
subdivisions, the final plat may be submitted for approval progressively in
continuous sections, satisfactory to the planning and zoning commission. The
final plat shall show the following:
      1.   Primary control points, approved by the city engineer, or
description and "ties" to such control points, to which all dimensions, angles,
bearings and similar data on the plat shall be referred;
      2.   Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets, easements and
other rights-of-way and property lines of residential lots and other sites,
with accurate dimensions, bearing or deflection angles and radii, arcs and
central angles of all curves;
      3.   Name and right-of-way width of each street or other right-of-way;
      4.   Location, dimensions and purpose of any easements;
      5.   Number to identify each lot or site;
      6.   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are dedicated
or reserved;
      7.   Location and description of monuments;
      8.   Names of record owners of adjoining unplatted land;
      9.   Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining platted land by
record name, date and number;
      10.   Certification by surveyor or engineer, certifying to accuracy of
surveys and plat;
      11.   Certification title, showing that applicant is the land owner with
marketable title;
      12.   Statement by owner dedicating streets, rights-of-way and any sites
for public use (if any);
      13.   Title, scale, north arrow and date;
      14.   Certificates for approval by the city engineer and by the planning
and zoning commission;
      15.   Certificates for approval by the city commission.
   B.   Cross Sections and Profiles of Streets. Cross sections and profiles of
streets shall be included, showing grades approved by the city engineer, if he
requires. The profiles shall be drawn by city standard scales and elevations
and shall be based on a datum plane approved by the city engineer.
   C.   Certificate Concerning Improvements. A certificate by the city engineer
shall be included, certifying that the subdivider has complied with one of the
following alternatives:
      1.   All improvements have been installed in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter and with the action of the city engineer giving
conditional approval of the preliminary plat;
      2.   A surety company bond or other security acceptable to the planning
and zoning commission has been filed with the city clerk, in sufficient amount
to assure such completion of all required improvements (if any).
   D.   Other Data. Such other certificates, affidavits, endorsements or
deductions shall be included as may be required by the planning and zoning
commission in the enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 447 (part), 2003)
Chapter 16.04
DESIGN STANDARDS
Sections:
   
16.04.010   Streets.
   
16.04.020   Alleys.
   
16.04.030   Easements.
   
16.04.040   Blocks.
   
16.04.050   Lots.
16.04.010   Streets.
   A.   Arrangement, Character, Etc., Generally. The arrangement, character,
extent, width, grade and location of all streets shall conform to the current
official city map, master plan or part thereof, and shall be considered in
their relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions and
to public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the
proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets.
   B.   Arrangement Where Same Not Shown in City Map or Master Plan. Where such
is not shown in the current official city map, master plan or part thereof, the
arrangement of streets in a subdivision shall either:
      1.   Provide for the continuation of appropriate projection of existing
principal streets in surrounding areas; or
      2.   Conform to a plan for the neighborhood approved or adopted by the
planning board to meet a particular situation, where topographical or other
conditions make continuance or conformance to existing streets impracticable.
   C.   Minor Streets. Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by
through traffic will be discouraged.
   D.   Special Treatment for Subdivisions Containing Arterial Streets. Where a
subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial street, the
planning board may require marginal access streets, reverse frontage with
screen planting or walls contained in a non-access reservation along the rear
property line, deep lots with rear service alleys or such other treatment as
may be necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to
afford separation of through and local traffic.
   E.   Subdivisions Bordering on or Containing Railroad or Limited Access
Highway Rights-of-Way. Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad
right-of-way or limited access highway right-of-way, the planning board may
require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-
way, at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land, as
for park purposes in residential districts or for commercial or industrial
purposes in appropriate districts. Such distance shall be determined with due
regard for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
   F.   Reserve Strips. Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited, except where their control is definitely placed in the city under
conditions approved by the planning board.
   G.   Street Jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one
hundred twenty-five feet shall be avoided.
   H.   Tangents. A tangent at least one hundred feet long shall be introduced
between reverse curves on arterial and collector streets.
   I.   Curves Connecting Street Lines. When connecting street lines deflect
from each other at any one point by more than ten degrees, they shall be
connected by a curve, with a radius adequate to insure a sight distance of not
less than two hundred feet for minor and collector streets and of such greater
radius as the planning board shall determine for special cases.
   J.   Angle of Intersection. Streets shall be laid out as to intersect as
nearly as possible at right angles, and no street shall intersect any other
street at less than sixty degrees.
   K.   Right-of-Way Widths. Street right-of-way widths shall be as shown in
the master plan and, where not shown therein, shall not be less than as
follows:
   Arterial streets      eighty feet
   Collector, minor and marginal streets      sixty feet
   L.   Half Streets. Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential
to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of this chapter. Where the planning board finds it will be
practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided wherever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be
subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
   M.   Dead-end Streets. Dead-end streets, designed to be so permanently,
shall not be longer than five hundred feet and shall be provided at the closed
end with a turnaround having an outside roadway diameter of a least eighty feet
and a street property line diameter of at least one hundred feet.
   N.   Street Grades. No street grade shall be less than one-hundredths
percent. (Ord. 447 (part), 2003)
16.04.020   Alleys.
   A.   Required-Exceptions. Alleys shall be provided in all areas; except,
that the planning board may waive this requirement in commercial areas where
other definite and assured provision is made for service access, such as off-
street loading, unloading and parking consistent with an adequate provision for
the uses proposed.
   B.   Width. The width of an alley shall not be less than twenty feet.
   C.   Alley Intersections, Etc. Alley intersections and sharp changes in
alignment shall be avoided, but where necessary, the corner shall be cut off
sufficiently to permit safe vehicular movement.
   D.   Dead-end Alleys. Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible but,
if unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turning around facilities at
the dead-end, as determined by the planning board. (Ord. 447 (part), 2003)
16.04.030   Easements.
   A.   Generally. Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines
shall be provided for utilities where necessary and shall be at least ten feet
wide.
   B.   Storm Water Easements or Drainage Rights-of-Way. Where a subdivision is
traversed by a watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream, there shall be
provided a storm water easement or drainage right-of-way conforming
substantially with the alignment of such watercourse, or such construction as
will be adequate for the purposes, and as approved by the planning and zoning
commission. (Ord. 447 (part), 2003)
16.04.040   Blocks.
   A.   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with
regard to:
      1.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated;
      2.   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions;
      3.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic;
      4.   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   B.   Block lengths shall not exceed eight hundred eighty feet, measured
along the property lines. (Ord. 447 (part), 2003)
16.04.050   Lots.
   A.   Appropriateness for Location and Type of Development and Use. The iot
size, width, depth, shape and orientation and the minimum building setback
lines shall be appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the type
of development and use contemplated.
   B.   Dimensions Generally. Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements
of the existing ordinances.
   C.   Commercial and Industrial Property. Depth and width of property
reserved or laid out for commercial and industrial purposes shall be adequate
to provide for the off-street service and parking facilities required by the
type of use and development contemplated.
   D.   Corner Lots for Residential Use. Corner lots for residential use shall
have extra width to permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to
both streets.
   E.   Access to Existing Public Streets. The subdividing of the land shall be
such as to provide, by means of a public street, each iot with satisfactory
access to an existing public street.
   F.   Double and Reverse Frontage Lots. Double frontage and reverse frontage
lots shall be avoided, except where essential to provide separation of
residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at
least ten feet, across which there shall be no right of access, shall be
provided along the line of lots abutting such traffic artery or other
disadvantageous use.
   G.   Intersections of Side Lot and Street Right-of-Way Lines. Side lot lines
at the intersection with street right-of-way lines shall be substantially at
right angles or radial to street lines. (Ord. 447 (part), 2003)
Chapter 16.05
IMPROVEMENTS*
* As to street improvements generally and sidewalk construction generally, see
Chapter 12 of this code.
Sections:
   
16.05.010   Street or sidewalk improvements defined.
   
16.05.020   Required improvements.
16.05.010   Street or sidewalk improvements defined.
   "Street or sidewalk improvements" means and includes any installation of
curbs, pavement, sidewalks, drainage, utilities, signs, lights and any other
such improvements which meet the approval of the planning and zoning commission
and conform to standards and specifications prescribed by the city commission.
(Ord. 447 (part), 2003)
16.05.020   Required improvements.
   The following improvements shall be required pursuant to this chapter,
unless waived by the city engineer:
   A.   Monuments. Monuments of a type and design as approved by the planning
board shall be placed at all block corners, angle points, points of curves in
streets, street intersections and points as shall be required by the planning
board. Such monuments may be of iron pipe not less than three-quarters of an
inch in diameter and two feet in length, driven securely into solid earth, with
the grades of same being at grade with established paving, flush with natural
grade of the earth's surface or on existing paving. A four inch bolt and washer
may be used.
   B.   Street Improvements. Street improvements shall include substantial
permanent street signs at each intersection, such signs to be of material and
design as prescribed by the city commission.
   C.   Design Details and Construction Standards. Design details and
construction standards for utility and street improvements shall conform to
standard details and specifications adopted by the city engineer and approved
by the city commission. (Ord. 447 (part), 2003)
Chapter 16.06
ALTERNATE SUMMARY PROCEDURE
Sections:
   
16.06.010   Eligible subdivisions.
   
16.06.020   Submittal requirements.
   
16.06.030   Approval procedure.
   
16.06.040   Construction of nonresidential lot improvements.
16.06.010   Eligible subdivisions.
   A.   Division of land into two or more parcels by platting or metes and
bounds description for specific purposes listed in
Chapter 16.01 requires subdivision approval by the planning and zoning
commission. To expedite the process for two or three lot subdivisions,
subdivisions or resubdi vision of property may be approved by summary procedure
for the following:
      1.   Subdivisions of not more than three parcels of land; or
      2.   Resubdivisions, where the combination or recombination of portions
of previously platted lots does not increase the total number of lots.
   B.   The land shall abut on a street or streets of adequate width in a
partially platted area and is so situated that no additional streets, alleys,
easements for utilities or other public property are required; or if required
to conform to other public streets, alleys or other public ways and such
additional property is shown on the plat as "Herein Dedicated." (Ord. 447
(part), 2003)
16.06.020   Submittal requirements.
   To be considered, two copies of a summary plat meeting the following
conditions shall be submitted to the city manager's designated representative:
   The summary plat for both residential and non-residential developments shall
be in conformance with the previously discussed plat requirements for standard
subdivisions. A certification of approval shall be on the plat for the
signature of the city manager's designated representative, to be attested by
the city clerk.
   A.   For residential subdivisions, the summary plat shall be accompanied by
support plans and documentation showing compliance with Step III construction
improvement requirements for a standard subdivision, as necessary.
   B.   For a non-residential subdivision being processed under this procedure,
the plat shall include the following items necessary for the city manager's
designated representative to review and approve the following items of
consideration:
      1.   Proposed property boundaries, existing adjacent streets or alleys,
and existing intersection and driveway locations on streets or roadways
adjacent to and across from the tracts. This information will be reviewed along
with existing water and sewer locations to serve the site. (Ord. 447 (part),
2003)
16.06.030   Approval procedure.
   A.   The city manager's designated representative is authorized to approve
subdivisions meeting the conditions of this section and conforming to the
provisions of this title and shall, within ten days of final submittal of all
requested information, accept the proposed subdivision or send a written
rejection detailing the reason for said rejection. Any required construction
for residential subdivisions, shall be completed or adequate surety provided
prior to receiving final approval.
   B.   The subdivide!" or the city manager's designated representative may
choose to have the subdivision reviewed by the planning and zoning commission
under the standard procedures if difficulties or unusual circumstances exist.
   C.   Plats approved under this section shall be signed by the city manager's
designated representative and attested by the city clerk and shall be reported
to the planning and zoning commission at its next regularly scheduled meeting
and shall be included in the minutes of the meeting indicating such approval as
coming under this section. (Ord. 447 (part), 2003)
16.06.040   Construction of nonresidential lot improvements.
   A.   For non-residential subdivisions, no improvements will be required at
the time of summary process approval. Improvements shall be constructed at the
time of building construction by the owner of the tract at that time. When the
plans are submitted for a building permit, they will be reviewed in accordance
with the "non-residential development checklist." The owner shall have the
improvements constructed and shall submit the other items necessary to comply
with that checklist as a condition of receiving the building permit and
approval for final occupancy. (Ord. 447 (part), 2003)
Title 17
ZONING
   Chapters:
      
17.04   General Provisions
      
17.08   Administration
      
17.12   General Use Regulations
      
17.16   Zoning Districts Established
      
17.20   "A" Single-Family Dwelling District "
      
17.22   Manufactured Homes and Mobile Homes
      
17.24   "B" Multiple Dwelling District
      
17.28   "C" Commercial District
      
17.32   "D" Industrial District
      
17.34   "E" Economic District
      
17.36   Community Unit Plan
      
17.40   Nonconforming Uses
Chapter 17.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sections:
   
17.04.010   Purpose.
   
17.04.020   Interpretation.
   
17.04.030   Definitions.
17.04.010   Purpose.
   This title is for the purpose of establishing and carrying into effect the
several powers, duties and privileges conferred upon the city by an act of the
State Legislature known as Sections 3-21-1 through 3-21-25 of the New Mexico
Statutes, 1978 Annotated, as amended. These regulations and restrictions have
been made in accordance with a comprehensive plan and are designed to lessen
congestion in the streets; to promote health and the general welfare; to secure
safety from fire, panic and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air;
to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of
population; to facilitate the adequate provisions of transportation, water,
sewage, schools, parks and other public requirements. These regulations and
restrictions have been made after reasonable consideration, among other things,
of the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for particular
uses, and with a view of conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the
most appropriate use of land throughout this municipality. (Amended during 1992
codification: prior code § 11-1-1)
17.04.020   Interpretation.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare. It is not
intended by this title to interfere with, or abrogate or annul any ordinance,
rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued, and not in conflict
with any of the provisions of this title, or which shall be adopted or issued
pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises and likewise not
in conflict with this title; nor is it intended by this title to interfere with
or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between
parties except that if this title imposes a greater restriction, this title
shall control. (Prior code § 11-3-12)
17.04.030   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms are defined.
   General. Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and the
singular number shall include the plural; and the plural, the singular; the
word "building" shall include the word "structure"; the word "lot" shall
include the word "plot"; and the word "shall" is mandatory and not directory
   "Accessory building" means a subordinate building or a portion of the main
building, the use of which is incidental to that of the dominant use of the
building or premises.
   "Alley" means a public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
   "Apartment house" see Dwelling, multiple.
   "Basement" means a story having part but not more than one-half its height
below grade. A basement is counted as a story for the purpose of height
regulations, if subdivided and used for business or dwelling purposes by others
than a janitor employed on the premises.
   "Boardinghouse" means a building other than a hotel, where, for compensation
and by prearrangement for definite periods, meals, or lodging and meals, are
provided for three or more persons, but not exceeding twenty persons.
   "Building" means any structure for the shelter, support or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind; and when separated by
dividing walls without openings, each portion of such building, so separated,
shall be deemed a separate building.
   "Building, height of means the vertical distance from the grade to the
highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard
roof, or to the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   "Carport" means an accessory structure attached to or adjacent to, owned by
and used by the occupants of a building, of which it is an accessory, for the
purpose of providing overhead protection for one or more vehicles, with posts
for support but no walls on any side and no door on the structure.
   "Cellar" means a story having more than one-half of its height below grade.
   "District" means any section of the city for which the regulations governing
the use of buildings and premises or the height and area are uniform.
   "Dwelling" means any building, or portion thereof, which is designed or used
exclusively for residential purposes.
   "Dwelling, multiple" means a building or portion thereof designed for
occupancy by three or more families.
   "Dwelling, single-family" means a building designed for occupancy by one
family.
   "Dwelling, two-family" means a building designed for occupancy by two
families.
   "Family" means one or more persons occupying a premises and living as a
single housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a
boardinghouse, lodginghouse or hotel as defined in this section.
   "Filling station" means any building or premises used principally for the
storing, dispensing, sale or offering for sale at retail of automobile fuels or
oils.
   "Frontage" means property on one side of a street measured along the line of
the street.
   "Garage, private" means an accessory building designed or used for the
storage of not more than three motor-drive vehicles owned and used by the
occupants of the building to which it is accessory. Not more than one of the
vehicles may be a commercial motor vehicle of not more than two tons capacity.
   "Garage public" means a building, or portion thereof, other than a private
or storage garage designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring,
selling or storing motor-driven vehicles.
   "Garage, storage" means a building, or portion thereof, designed or used
exclusively for housing four or more motor-driven vehicles.
   "Grade" means:
      1.   For buildings having walls adjoining one street only the elevation
of the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street;
      2.   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street the
average of the elevation of the sidewalk at the center of all walls adjoining
the streets.
      3.   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street the average level
for the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the
building. Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than five feet from a
street line is to be considered as adjoining the street.
   "Half-story" means a space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the
top floor level, and in which space not more that two-thirds of the floor area
is finished off for use. A half-story containing independent apartment or
living quarters shall be counted as a full story.
   "Home occupation" means any occupation or profession carried on by a member
of a family residing on the premises, in connection with which there is used no
sign other than one nonilluminated nameplate attached to the building entrance
which is not more than one square foot in area; provided, that no commodity is
sold upon the premises except that which is prepared upon the premises;
provided, that no person is employed other than a member of the immediate
family residing on the premises; provided, that no mechanical equipment is
installed or used except such that is normally used for domestic or household
purposes; provided, that no structural, plumbing or electrical additions or
installations are necessary for the operation or establishment of such
occupation; provided, that no state, county or city licenses are necessary or
required to conduct such occupation; and provided, that such occupation is one
which is customarily carried on in the home.
   "Hotel" means a building used as abiding place of more than twenty persons
who are lodged with or without meals for compensation.
   "Institution" means a building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or
nonprofit establishment for public use.
   "Interior court" means an open space that is more than half surrounded by a
single building.
   "Lodginghouse" means a building where lodging only is provided for
compensation to three or more, but not exceeding twenty persons, in
contradistinction to hotels open to transients.
   "Lot" means a parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by one main
building together with its accessory buildings, and uses customarily incidental
to it, including the open spaces required by this title.
   "Lot, corner" means a lot adjoining two or more streets at their
intersection.
   "Lot, depth of means the mean horizontal distance between the front and rear
lot lines.
   "Lot, double frontage" means a lot having a frontage on two nonintersecting
streets as distinguished from a corner lot.
   "Lot, interior*' means a lot other than a corner lot.
   "Lot lines" means the lines bounding a lot.
   "Lot of record" means a lot which is part of a subdivision, the map of which
has been recorded in the office of the county clerk of Lea County, or a lot
described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded in
the office of the County Clerk of Lea County.
   "Nonconforming use" means the use of any premises contrary to the use
provisions of this title for the district in which the premises are located.
   "Parking lot" means a parcel of land devoted to unenclosed parking spaces.
   "Parking space" means a surfaced area, enclosed or unenclosed sufficient in
size to store one automobile, together with a surfaced driveway connecting the
parking space with a street or alley and permitting ingress and egress of an
automobile.
   "Place" means an open unoccupied space other than a street or alley
permanently reserved as the principal means of access to adjoining property.
   "Story" means that portion of a building, other than a basement, included
between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it;
or, if there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the
ceiling next above it.
   "Story, half" means a space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall face not more. than three feet above the
top floor level, and in which space not more than two-thirds of the floor area
is finished off for use. A half-story containing independent apartment or
living quarters shall be counted as a full story.
   "Street" means all property dedicated or intended for public or private
street purposes or subject to public easements therefor.
   "Street line" means a dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land
and a contiguous street.
   "Structural alterations" means any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or
any substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
   "Structure" means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground, including but without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, advertising signs, billboards, back stops for tennis courts and
pergolas.
   "Tourist camp" or "trailer camp" or "trailer court" means an area containing
one or more structures designed to be used as temporary living facilities of
two or more families and intended primarily for automobile transients, or
providing spaces where two or more tents or auto trailers can be parked.
   "Yard" means an open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot
lines, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the
ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this title. In measuring a yard
for the purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the depth of a front
yard, or the depth of a rear yard, the minimum horizontal distance between the
lot line and the building shall be used.
   "Yard, front" means a yard extending across the front of a lot between the
side yard lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street
line or another lot line and the main building or any projection thereof, other
than steps, unenclosed balconies and unenclosed porches.
   "Yard, rear" means a yard extending across the rear of a lot measured
between lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear
lot line and the rear of the main building or any projections other than steps,
unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches. On corner lots the rear yard shall
be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least
dimension. On both comer lots and interior lots the rear yard shall in all
cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
   "Yard, side" means a yard between the building and the side rear yard line.
(Ord. 344 (part), 1987; prior code § 11-1-2)
Chapter 17.08
ADMINISTRATION
Sections:
   
17.08.010   Board of appeals-Established.
   
17.08.020   Board of appeals-Meetings.
   
17.08.030   Board of appeals-Powers.
   
17.08.040   Appeals procedures.
   
17.08.050   Building inspector-Enforcement of title.
   
17.08.060   Planning and zoning commission-Appeals hearing.
   
17.08.070   Permit-Required.
   
17.08.080   Permit-Application.
   
17.08.090   Application-Timely action on.
   
17.08.100   Application-Approval in part
   
17.08.110   Permit-Conditions.
   
17.08.120   Permit-Building inspector's signature required.
   
17.08.130   Permit-Expiration by limitation.
   
17.08.140   Posting of permits-Notice of work commencement
   
17.08.150   Permit-Revocation.
   
17.08.160   Certificate of occupancy required.
   
17.08.170   Amendments to title.
   
17.08.180   Enforcement
   
17.08.190   Violation-Penalty.
17.08.010   Board of appeals-Established.
   A board of appeals is established. The word "board" when used in this
section shall be construed to mean the board of appeals. The board shall
consist of the city commission. (Prior code § 11-3-8 (a))
17.08.020   Board of appeals-Meetings.
   Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the mayor and at such
other times as the board may determine. All meetings of the board shall be open
to the public. The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the
vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examination and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
board and shall be a public record. (Prior code § 11-3-8 (b))
17.08.030   Board of appeals-Powers.
   The board shall have the following powers:
   A.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement of this title.
   B.   Where, by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a
specific piece of property at the time of the original adoption of the
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographical conditions or other
extraordinary or exceptional situation or condition of a specific piece of
property, which condition is not generally prevalent in the neighborhood, the
strict application of this title would result in peculiar and exceptional
practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardship upon the owner of
such property, the board is empowered to authorize upon an appeal relating to
such property, a variation from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship.
   C.   Upon appeal, the board is empowered to permit the following exceptions:
      1.   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot in single ownership as shown on record;
      2.   To permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building which has
been destroyed, or partially destroyed, by fire, or act of God where the board
shall find some compelling public necessity requiring a continuance of the
nonconforming use, but in no case shall such a permit be issued if its primary
function is to continue a monopoly;
      3.   To permit the erection and use of a building or the use of premises
in any location for a public service corporation for public utility purposes
which the board deems reasonably necessary for the public convenience or
welfare;
      4.   To interpret the provisions of the title where the street layout
actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the map fixing
the several districts, which map is attached to and made a part of this title.
(Prior code § 11-3-8 (d))
17.08.040   Appeals procedures.
   A.   Appeals to the board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected by any decision of
the building inspector. Such appeal shall be taken within a reasonable time, as
shall be prescribed by the board by general rules, by filing with the building
inspector and with the board a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof.
The building inspector shall forthwith transmit to the board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from is taken.
   B.   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the building inspector certifies to the board after the notice of
appeal shall have been filed with him, that, by reason of facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or
property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the board or by a court of record on
application or notice to the building inspector and on due cause shown.
   C.   The board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal,
give due notice thereof to the parties in interest and decide the same within a
reasonable time.
   D.   Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by
attorney.
   E.   The concurring vote of two-thirds of all the members of the city
commission shall be required to revise any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the building inspector or to decide a case in favor of an
applicant.
   F.   A fee of fifteen dollars shall be paid to the building inspector at the
time the notice of appeal is filed, which the building inspector shall
forthwith pay over to the city clerk to the credit of the general revenue fund
of the city. (Prior code § 11-3-8 (c))
17.08.050   Building inspector-Enforcement of title.
   A.   Duties in General. The city manager or his designee shall serve as city
building inspector. It shall be the duty of the building inspector to enforce
this title. The building inspector shall receive applications required by this
title, issue permits and furnish the prescribed certificates. He shall examine
premises for which permits have been issued, and shall make necessary
inspection to see that the provisions of law are complied with. He shall
enforce all laws relating to the construction, alteration, repair, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings
and structures, except as may be otherwise provided for. He shall, when
requested by the city commission, or when the interests of the municipality so
require, make investigations in connection with matter referred to in this
title and render written reports on the same. For the purpose of enforcing
compliance with law, he shall issue such notices or orders as may be necessary.
   B.   Inspections. Inspections shall be made by the building inspector or a
duly appointed assistant.
   C.   Adoption of Rules. For carrying into effect this title's provisions,
the building inspector may adopt rules consistent with this title.
   D.   Keeping Records. The building inspector shall keep careful and
comprehensive records of applications, of permits issued, of certificates
issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices or orders
issued. He shall retain on file copies of all papers in connection with
building work so long as any part of the building or structure to which they
relate may be in existence. All such records shall be open to public inspection
at reasonable hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the building
inspector.
   E.   Assistance of Other Officials. The building inspector may request in
the discharge of his duties, the assistance and cooperation of the city
engineer in fixing grades, of the chief of police in enforcing orders, of the
city attorney in prosecuting violations, and of other city officials. (Amended
during 1992 codification; prior code § 11-3-9 (a-d, e (1))
17.08.060   Planning and zoning commission-Appeals hearing.
   A.   The city planning and zoning commission shall act in an advisory
capacity to the board of appeals in any appeal taken under the provisions of
this title, but shall exercise no judicial or legislative authority in so
doing. For that purpose it shall be the duty of the commission to hold an open
hearing on all matters appealed to the board of appeals in advance of the
hearing by the board. Each party to the appeal shall be given three days'
notice in writing of such hearing.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the building inspector to present a statement
of the controversy being appealed to the commission.
   C.   Any person who is a party to the appeal and any officer, department,
board or bureau of the city affected by the decision appealed shall have the
right to be heard before the planning and zoning commission.
   D.   The city planning and zoning commission shall have the power to
promulgate rules and regulations governing hearings held by it under this
chapter. At the conclusion of the hearing the planning and zoning commission
shall, by a majority vote, recommend to the board of appeals that the action
appealed from either be sustained, reversed or reversed in part. Such
recommendation shall be advisory only and may be considered by the board of
appeals in considering the appeal, but shall not be binding upon it.
   E.   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the board of appeals
from hearing and determining any appeal taken under this title without having
received the recommendation of the city planning and zoning commission, if a
report by the commission has not been submitted to the board within fifteen
days from filing of the notice of appeal as provided in subsection A of this
section. (Prior code § 11-3-9 (e)(2-5))
17.08.070   Permit-Required.
   It is unlawful to construct, alter, repair, remove or demolish, or to
commence the construction, alteration, removal or demolition of a building or
structure, without first filing with the building inspector an application in
writing and obtaining a formal permit. (Prior code § 11-3-10 (a))
17.08.080   Permit-Application.
   A.   An application for a permit shall be submitted in such form as the
building inspector may prescribe.
   B.   Such application shall be made by the owner or lessee, or agent of
either, or the architect, engineer or builder employed in connection with the
proposed work. If such application is made by a person other than the owner in
fee, it shall be accompanied by a duly verified affidavit of the owner in fee
or the person making the application that the proposed work is authorized by
the owner in fee and that the person making the application is authorized to
make such application.
   C.   Such application shall contain the full names and addresses of the
applicant and of the owner, and, if the owner is a corporate body, of its
responsible officers.
   D.   Such application shall describe briefly the proposed work and shall
give such additional information as may be required by the building inspector
for an intelligent understanding of the proposed work.
   E.   Application for permit shall be accompanied by such drawings of the
proposed work, drawn to scale, including such floor plans, sections, elevations
and structure details, as the building inspector may require.
   F.   There shall also be filed a plot diagram in a form and size suitable
for filing permanently with the permit record, drawn to scale with all
dimensions figured, showing accurately the size and exact location of all
proposed new construction, or, in the case of demolition, of such construction
as is to be demolished, and of all existing buildings and structures that are
to remain.
   G.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the filing of amendments to an
application or to a plan or other record accompanying same, at any time before
the completion of the work for which the permit was sought. Such amendment,
after approval, shall be filed with and be deemed a part of the original
application.
   H.   Nothing in this section shall require changes in the plans,
construction or designated use of a building for which a lawful permit has been
heretofore issued or which has been otherwise lawfully authorized, and the
construction of which shall have been actually begun on or before May 12, 1971
and which entire building shall be completed, as authorized, within two years
thereafter. (Prior code § 11-3-10 (b-f))
17.08.090   Application-Timely action on.
   It shall be the duty of the building inspector, to examine applications for
permits, within a reasonable time after filing. If, after examination, he finds
no objection to the same and it appears that the proposed work will be in
compliance with the laws and ordinances applicable thereto, he shall approve
such application and issue a permit for the proposed work as soon as
practicable. If his examination reveals otherwise, he will reject such
application, noting his findings in a report to be attached to the application
and delivering a copy to the applicant. (Prior code § 11-3-10 (g))
17.08.100   Application-Approval in part.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the building inspector
from issuing a permit for the construction of a part of a building or structure
before the entire plans and detailed statements of the building or structure
have been submitted or approved, if adequate plans and detailed statements have
been found to comply with this title. (Prior code § 11-3-10 (h))
17.08.110   Permit-Conditions.
   A.   All work performed under a permit issued by the building inspector
shall conform to the approved application and plans, and approved amendments
thereof.
   B.   The location of all new construction as shown on the approved plot
diagram or an approved amendment thereof, shall be strictly adhered to.
   C.   It is unlawful to reduce or diminish the area of a lot or plot of which
a plot diagram has been filed and has been used as the basis for a permit,
unless a revised plot diagram showing the proposed change in conditions shall
have been filed and approved; provided, that this shall not apply when the lot
is reduced by reason of a street opening or widening or other public
improvement. (Prior code § 11-3-10 (i))
17.08.120   Permit-Building inspector's signature required.
   Every permit issued by the building inspector under the provisions of this
chapter shall have his signature affixed thereto; but, this shall not prevent
him from authorizing a subordinate to affix such signature. (Prior code § 11-3-
10 (j))
17.08.130   Permit-Expiration by limitation.
   A permit under which no work is commenced within one year after issuance
shall expire by limitation. (Prior code § 11-3-10 (k))
17.08.140   Posting of permits;- Notice of work commencement
   A.   A copy of the permits shall be kept on the premises open to public
inspection during the prosecution of the work and until the completion of the
same.
   B.   The building inspector may require a certified copy of the approved
plans to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work
to the completion thereof.
   C.   The building inspector shall be given at least twelve hours' notice of
the starting of work under a permit. (Prior code § 11-3-10 (l))
17.08.150   Permit-Revocation.
   The building inspector may revoke a permit of approval issued under the
provisions of this chapter in case there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to a material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based. (Prior code § 11-3-10 (m))
17.08.160   Certificate of occupancy required.
   A.   Subsequent to February 12, 1971, the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this section, no change in the use or character of occupancy of
land, nor any change of use or character of occupancy in an existing building,
other than for single-family dwelling purposes, shall be made, nor shall any
new building be occupied for any purpose until a certificate of occupancy has
been issued by the building inspector. Every certificate of occupancy shall
state that the new occupancy complies with all provisions of this title.
   B.   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the
office of the building inspector, and copies shall be furnished on request to
any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in land or a building
affected by such certificate of occupancy. (Prior code § 11-3-10 (n-o))
17.08.170   Amendments to title.
   The city commission may, from time to time, on its own motion or on
petition, after public notice and hearing, amend the regulations and districts
established in this title. Every such proposed amendment shall be referred by
the city commission to the planning and zoning commission for report. Any such
amendment that has failed to receive the approval of the planning and zoning
commission shall not be passed by the city commission except by three-fourths
vote. If a protest against such amendment is presented, signed by the owners of
twenty percent of the land within such area proposed to be altered, or by
owners of twenty percent or more of the area of the lots immediately abutting
either side of the territory included in such proposed change, or separated
therefrom only by an alley or street, such amendment shall not be passed except
by the favorable vote of three-fourths of the city commission. If such
amendment will transfer an area of less restrictive use and protest is
presented by the owners of twenty percent of the land adjacent to and within
one hundred feet from such area proposed to be transformed, such amendment
shall not be passed except by a three-fourths vote of the city commission.
(Amended during 1992 codification: prior code § 11-3-13)
17.08.180   Enforcement.
   The city manager or his designee shall serve as city building inspector. It
shall be the duty of the building inspector to enforce this title. (Amended
during 1992 codification: Ord. 262, 1977: prior code § 11-3-14 (a))
17.08.190   Violation-Penalty.
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
title shall be punished by a fine not to exceed two hundred dollars or
imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed ninety days, and each day's
violation shall be a separate offense.
   B.   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building,
structure or land is used in violation of this title, the proper authorities of
the city, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action
or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, maintenance or use, to
restrain, correct or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of such
building, structure or land or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or
use in or about such premises. (Prior code § 11-3-14 (b))
Chapter 17.12
ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
Sections:
   
17.12.010   Districts established- Purpose.
   
17.12.020   Boundaries-Map adopted by reference.
   
17.12.030   Boundaries-Conflicts.
   
17.12.040   Annexation.
   
17.12.050   Street vacations.
17.12.010   Districts established-Purpose.
   In order to regulate and restrict the height, number of stories and size of
buildings and other structures, the percentage of lot that may be occupied, the
size of yards, courts and other open spaces, the density of population, and the
location and use of the buildings, structures and lands for trade, industry,
residence or other purposes, the city is divided into districts of which there
shall be four in number known as:
   A.   "A" Single-family dwelling district;
   B.   "B" Multiple dwelling district;
   C.   "C" Commercial district;
   D.   "D" Industrial district (Prior code § 11-2-1)
17.12.020   Boundaries-Map adopted by reference.
   The boundaries of the districts are shown upon the map which is made a part
of this chapter and is designated as the "district map." The district map and
all the notations, references and other information shown thereon are part of
this chapter and have the same force and effect as if the district map and all
the notations, references and other information shown thereon were all fully
set forth or described in this section, which district map is properly attested
and is on file with the clerk of the city. (Prior code § 11-2-2)
17.12.030   Boundaries-Conflicts.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the district map accompanying and made a part of this
chapter, the following rules apply:
   A.   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys unless otherwise
shown, and where the districts designated on the district map accompanying and
made a part of this chapter are bounded approximately by street or alley lines,
the street or alley shall be construed to be the boundary of the district.
   B.   Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated, and where
the property has been or may hereinafter be divided into blocks and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines, and where the
districts designated on the district map accompanying and made a part of this
chapter are bounded approximately by lot lines, the lot lines shall be
construed to be the boundary of the districts unless the boundaries are
otherwise indicated on the district map.
   C.   In unsubdivided property, the district boundary lines on the district
map accompanying and made a part of this chapter shall be determined by use of
the scale appearing on the district map. (Prior code § 11-3-11)
17.12.040   Annexation.
   All territory proposed for annexation shall be studied by the Planning and
Zoning Commission. If the Planning and Zoning Commission recommends approval of
the annexation request, a second recommendation shall be prepared to assign the
proposed territory a zoning district in conformance with the comprehensive
plan. The City Commission shall consider both the annexation request and zoning
recommendation concurrently at the next regularly scheduled meeting. (Ord. 513,
2013; Prior code § 11-2-3)
17.12.050   Street vacations.
   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by official action
of the city commission, the zoning districts adjoining each side of such
street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of
such vacation and all area included in the vacation shall then and thenceforth
be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended districts. (Prior
code § 11-2-4)
Chapter 17.16
GENERAL USE REGULATIONS
Sections:
   
17.16.010   Applicability of chapter.
   
17.16.020   General use restrictions.
   
17.16.030   Height regulations.
   
17.16.040   Accessory buildings.
   
17.16.050   Required yards.
   
17.16.060   Proximity to airport.
   
17.16.070   More than one main building on a lot
   
17.16.080   Off-street parking of commercial vehicles in residential zone.
17.16.010   Applicability of chapter.
   The district regulations set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as
the case may be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in this title.
(Prior code § 11-3-7 (a)(part))
17.16.020   General use restrictions.
   Except as hereinafter provided:
   A.   No person shall use any premises for use other than those permitted in
the district in which such premises are located.
   B.   No building shall be erected unless it conforms to the regulations for
the district in which such premises are located.
   C.   No building shall be enlarged, structurally altered or moved unless
such enlargement, structural alteration or moving conforms to the regulations
for the district in which the premises are located.
   D.   Every building hereafter erected, enlarged or structurally altered
shall be located on a lot as defined in this title and in no case shall there
be more than one main building on one lot. Land that is part of one lot and
that is not in excess of the area requirements for that lot shall not be used
to satisfy the area requirements of any other lot. (Prior code § 11-2-5)
17.16.030   Height regulations.
   A.   Public, semipublic or public service buildings, hospitals, institutions
or schools, when permitted in a district, may be erected to a height not
exceeding sixty feet, and churches and temples may be erected to a height not
exceeding seventy-five feet, if that part of the building exceeding the height
limit is set back from each yard line at least one foot for each foot of
additional building height above the height limit otherwise provided in the
district in which the building is built
   B.   Single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings and multiple dwellings
may be increased in height by not more than ten feet when the side and rear
yards are increased over the yard requirements of the district in which they
are located by not less than ten feet, but they shall not exceed three stories
in height.
   C.   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, monuments,
stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers, ornamental towers
and spires, church steeples, radio towers, or necessary mechanical
appurtenances, and farm buildings may be erected to a height in accordance with
existing or hereafter adopted ordinances of the city. (Prior code § 11-3-7 (a)
(1-3))
17.16.040   Accessory buildings.
   A.   Accessory buildings may be built in a required rear yard but such
accessory buildings shall not be nearer than ten feet to the main buildings,
nor shall any such accessory building occupy more than thirty percent of the
rear yard.
   B.   Accessory buildings which are to be used for storage purposes only may
be erected upon a lot prior to the construction of the main building, but no
accessory building shall be used for a dwelling purpose except by domestic
servants employed on the premises. (Prior code § 11-3-7 (a) (4, 5))
17.16.050   Required yards.
   A.   Every part of a required yard or interior court shall be open to the
sky unobstructed, except for accessory buildings in a rear yard, and except for
the ordinary projections of skylights, sills, belt courses, cornices and
ornamental features projecting not to exceed twelve inches. This requirement
shall not prevent the construction offences and walls not exceeding eight feet
in height, except on that portion of lots within thirty feet of the
intersection of two or more streets in which case fences and walls shall not be
higher than three feet
   B.   Open or lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and
balconies opening upon fire towers projecting into a rear yard not more than
five feet, and the ordinary projections of chimneys and flues may be permitted
by the building inspector.
   C.   An open unenclosed porch or paved terrace may project into required
front yard for a distance not exceeding ten feet.
   D.   For the purpose of the side yard regulations, a two-family or a
multiple dwelling shall be considered as one building occupying one lot. (Prior
code § 11-3-7 (a) (6-9))
17.16.060   Proximity to airport
   No building exceeding one and one-half stories or twenty-five feet shall be
erected within seven hundred and fifty feet of any airport or landing field.
(Prior code § 11-3-7 (10))
17.16.070   More than one main building on lot
   A.   In the event any lot has on it a building being used as a temporary
dwelling and the owner desires to build a permanent dwelling on another part of
the lot, which permanent dwelling would cause the intensity of use provisions
to be violated, he may be granted a special permit by the building inspector to
construct such permanent dwelling upon condition that the temporary dwelling be
vacated or converted to a conforming use within thirty days after the
completion of the permanent dwelling. In the event such is done, it shall be a
violation of this title for the temporary dwelling to be occupied as a dwelling
beyond the period of thirty days allowed in the special permit.
   B.   Single-family homes may be erected on a lot of record in the "A"
Single-family dwelling district where the lot contains a permanent dwelling,
located entirely on the rear half of the lot of record, on or before February
12, 1971; provided, however, that a lot area of four thousand square feet or
more be provided for each house; provided, that the construction of the
additional house be completed not later than five years after February 12,
1971; and provided further, that the additional house comply with all yard
regulations. (Prior code § 11-3-7 (a) (11, 12))
17.16.080   Off-street parking of commercial vehicles in residential zone.
   A.   No truck tractor, semitrailer, the truck tractor individually, or the
semitrailer individually is permitted to park anywhere within any residential
zone of the city.
   B.   No commercial vehicles are to be parked and/or stored in the front
yard, side yard, or rear yard within any residential zone of the city.
"Commercial vehicles" are defined as vehicles with more than two axles,
vehicles used to transport hazardous materials requiring Department of
Transportation placarding, construction vehicles designed for off-road usage,
and vehicles requiring the driver to have either a Class A, Class B, or Class C
driver’s license or the equivalent. A "non-commercial vehicle " is defined as
one that has a gross vehicle weight rating of not more than fifteen thousand
pounds, and can be legally parked in a standard, eight and a half-foot-by-
twenty-foot parking space.
(Ord. 512, 2014)
Chapter 17.20
"A" SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS DISTRICT
Sections:
   
17.20.010   Regulations-In general.
   
17.20.020   Permitted uses.
   
17.20.030   Height restrictions.
   
17.20.040   Front yard requirements-Carport.
   
17.20.050   Side yard requirements-Carport.
   
17.20.060   Rear yard requirements-Carport.
   
17.20.070   Intensity of use.
   
17.20.080   Carports-Additional requirements.
17.20.010   Regulations-In general.
   The regulations set forth in this chapter or set forth elsewhere in this
title when referred to in this chapter are the "A" single-family dwelling
district regulations. (Prior code § 11-3-1 (part))
17.20.020   Permitted uses.
   A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   A.   Single-family dwellings of not less than eight hundred square feet of
floor space of a permanent nature. Specifically excluding trailer houses and
mobile homes, notwithstanding the fact, the mobile home is set on a permanent
foundation and the wheels and mobile characteristics removed;
   B.   Municipality owned or operated parks and playgrounds;
   C.   Churches;
   D.   Public schools, elementary and high, and educational institutions
having a curriculum the same as ordinarily given in public schools;
   E.   Golf courses, except miniature courses and driving tees operated for
commercial purposes;
   F.   Nurseries and truck gardening, but not the raising of poultry, pets or
livestock for strictly commercial purposes or on a scale that would be
objectionable because of noise or odor to surrounding residences;
   G.   Home occupations;
   H.   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to the above uses,
not involving the conduct of a business, including a private garage. Any
accessory building that is not a part of the main structure shall be located
not less than sixty feet from the front lot line;
   I.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work;
   J.   Church or public building bulletin board not exceeding ten square feet
in area and temporary signs not exceeding six square feet in area appertaining
to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises; provided, however, that
there shall be no more than one such sign on any one lot. (Prior code § 11-3-1
(a))
17.20.030   Height restrictions.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories or thirty-five feet in
height, except as provided in Section
17.16.030 of this title. (Prior code § 11-3-1 (b))
17.20.040   Front yard requirements-Carport.
   A.   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than twenty-five
feet from the property line, to include dedicated public right-of-ways and
easements, unless forty percent or more of the frontage on one side of the
street between two intersecting streets is improved with buildings that have
observed a front yard line having a variation in depth of not more than ten
feet, in which case no building shall project beyond the average front yard so
established, but this regulation shall not be interpreted to require a front
yard of more than thirty-five feet. Where lots have double frontage, the
required front yard shall be provided on both streets.
   B.   A carport no larger than seven hundred twenty square feet may be added
and attached to the structure, but only if it meets the following:
      1.   It must not have walls or doors interfering with vision.
      2.   It must have its roof supported in conformance with the state
building code as modified from time to time.
      3.   It must be constructed of metal, wood or concrete of such design and
size as to adequately and safely support the structure.
In no event shall it contain plastic materials.
      4.   Ingress and egress must be assured by a concrete driveway the width
of the carport.
      5.   The front yard must be a depth of at least five feet from the
property line, to include dedicated public right-of-ways and easements, before
reaching the area immediately below the roof of the carport.
(Ord. 557 (part), 2018: Ord. 520 (part), 2014; Ord. 344 (part), 1987: prior
code § 11-3-1 (c) (1))
17.20.050   Side yard requirements-Carport.
   A.   There shall be a side yard on each side of the one-story portions of
buildings having a width of not less than five feet from the property line, to
include dedicated public right-of-ways and easements, and a side yard on each
side of the two-story portions of buildings having a width of not less than
seven and one half feet from the property line, to include dedicated public
right-of-ways and easements. The side yard on the street side of a corner lot
shall not be less than fifteen feet from the property line, to include
dedicated public right-of-ways and easements, except as to lots of record as of
August 9, 1960. The side yard line in regard to such lots of record shall be
that which has been established by usage, but in no case less than five feet
from the property line, to include dedicated public right-of-ways and
easements.
   B.   A carport shall be allowed if it meets the following:
      1.   It must be constructed of metal, wood or concrete of such design and
size as to adequately and safely support the structure. In no event shall it
contain plastic materials.
      2.   It must not have walls or doors interfering with vision.
      3.   It must have its roof supported in conformance with the state
building code as modified from time to time.
      4.   Ingress and egress must be assured by a concrete driveway the width
of the carport.
      5.   The side yard must be a width of at least five feet from the
property line, to include dedicated public right-of-ways and easements before
reaching the point immediately below the roof line of the carport. (Ord. 557
(part), 2018: Ord. 344 (part), 1987: prior code § 11-3-1 (c) (2))
17.20.060   Rear yard requirements-Carport.
   A.   There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than thirty feet
or twenty percent of the depth of the lots, whichever amount is smaller.
   B.   A carport shall be allowed if it meets the following:
      1.   It must be constructed of metal, wood or concrete of such design and
size as to adequately and safely support the structure. In no event shall it
contain plastic materials.
      2.   It must not have walls or doors interfering with vision.
      3.   It must have its roof supported in conformance with the state
building code as modified from time to time.
      4.   Ingress and egress must be assured by a concrete driveway the width
of the carport.
(Ord. 557 (part), 2018: Ord. 344 (part), 1987: prior code § 11-3-1 (c) (3))
17.20.070   Intensity of use.
   Every lot shall have an area of not less than seven thousand square feet per
family; except that, if a lot has less area than required in this chapter and
was a lot of record prior to February 12, 1971, the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this section, such lot may be used for one single-family
dwelling, provided that all other district regulations are observed. (Ord. 520
(part), 2014; Ord. 344 (part), 1987: prior code § 11-3-1 (c) (4))
17.20.080   Carports-Additional requirements.
   A.   The city manager and/or his approved personnel shall inspect and
approve, if all requirements are properly met:
      1.   The location and design of all carports;
      2.   The carport after it is finally completed;
      3.   All city and state regulations and rules must be complied with.
   B.   A city permit must be obtained and all city requirements complied with.
Current lists of city requirements shall be provided to each applicant after
issuance of a building permit. Such list may be changed from time to time as
deemed necessary by the city manager.
   C.   A state building permit must be secured and all state rules complied
with.
   D.   In an area where the construction of carports violates local private
restrictive covenants, the city shall not approve or allow the construction or
modification of carports unless and until all city requirements have been met
and the approval has been obtained of all the homeowners on petitioner's block.
   E.   This chapter shall in no way limit or compromise the rights of any
past, present or future land owner who has standing to enforce any existing or
future private restrictive covenants dealing with the subject matter of this
section.
   F.   Any carport constructed without obtaining prior approval by virtue of
this contract shall be in violation of this chapter and subject to penalties of
ninety days in jail and/or a three hundred dollar fine.
   G.   If a structure, including a carport, is built (1) without prior
approval, (2) with prior approval, but does not conform to the petition, the
city shall notify the landowner by certified mail:
      1.   That the structure does not conform to this chapter;
      2.   That demand is made that the structure be modified to conform to
this chapter;
      3.   That if the structure is not made to conform within the time
allotted, the structure will be torn down within fifteen days from the mailing
of such notice;
      4.   That the city will tear the structure down and bill the landowner
for the cost of tearing the structure down;
      5.   That if payment is not made within thirty days after demand for
payment, the city will file a lien against the landowner's property for the
amount plus interest that is allowed by law. (Ord. 344 (part), 1987: prior code
§ 11-3-1 (c) (5-12))
Chapter 17.22
MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MOBILE HOMES
Sections:
   
17.22.010   Definitions.
   
17.22.020   Regulation of mobile homes.
   
17.22.030   Regulation of manufactured housing.
   
17.22.040   Regulations-In general.
   
17.22.050   Permitted uses.
   
17.22.060   Parking regulations.
   
17.22.070   Height regulations.
   
17.22.080   Yard regulations.
   
17.22.090   Intensity of use.
   
17.22.100   Lot area and dimensions.
   
17.22.110   Setbacks and yards.
   
17.22.120   Screening.
   
17.22.130   Placement and maintenance of mobile homes.
   
17.22.140   Inspections.
   
17.22.150   Carports.
17.22.010   Definitions.
   "Blocking" means concrete or metal supports used to stabilize manufactured
home or mobile home.
   "Manufactured home" means a movable or portable housing structure over
thirty-eight feet in length or over twenty-four feet in width constructed to be
towed on its own chassis and designed to be installed with a permanent
foundation for human occupancy as a residence and which may include one or more
components for towing purposes that can be retracted and which may be
subsequently expanded for additional capacity or may be two or more units
separately towable but designed to be joined into one integral unit as well as
a single unit. "Manufactured home" also includes any movable or portable
housing structure over twelve feet in width and forty feet in length which is
used for nonresidential purposes. "Manufactured home" does not include
recreational vehicles or mobile homes.
   "Mobile home" means a movable or portable housing structure which does not
meet the definition of manufactured home.
   "Mobile home park" means an enclosed area set apart for the exclusive
purpose of mobile home use.
   "Mobile home subdivision" means a subdivision designated and set apart for
the exclusive use of mobile homes.
   'Termanent foundation" means footing composed with steel rebar or fibered
concrete at least two feet by two feet and twelve inches deep with centers
directly under I beam supports, and centers spaced no more than eight feet
apart and complying with the regulations of the state of New Mexico for
manufactured housing.
   "Skirting" means a substantial and solid structure completely enclosing the
undercarriage and blocking of a mobile home or manufactured home and meeting
the requirements of the Manufactured Housing Act and Regulations of the state
of New Mexico. (Ord. 417 (part), 1998; Ord. 406 (part), 1997)
17.22.020   Regulation of mobile homes.
   No mobile home shall be occupied, located or used for residential purposes
unless the mobile home is located on an approved lot or within a mobile home
subdivision or mobile home park approved in accordance with applicable
ordinances and regulations, blocked and skirted unless it meets or exceeds all
fire, electrical and construction codes relating to mobile homes in effect
January 1, 1985 and subsequent thereto. (Ord. 417 (part), 1998: Ord. 406
(part), 1997)
17.22.030   Regulation of manufactured housing.
   A.   No manufactured home shall be occupied, located or used for residential
purposes in zone "A," single-family dwelling, in zone "B," multifamily
dwelling, in zone "C," commercial, or in zone "D," industrial, except upon
prior approval by the city of the specific location in the city.
   B.   No manufactured home shall be occupied, located or used for residential
purposes in zone "B," multi-family dwelling, zone "C," commercial, or any zone
specifically allowed for its use unless it meets all requirements applicable to
single-family site-built housing in that zone. (Ord. 417 (part), 1998;; Ord.
406 (part), 1997)
17.22.040   Regulations-In general.
   The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this
title, when referred to in this chapter, are the manufactured housing and
mobile home regulations. (Ord. 406 (part), 1997)
17.22.050   Permitted uses.
   A building, manufactured home, mobile home or single-family detached
dwelling shall be used only for the following purposes:
   A.   Any use permitted in the "A" single-family dwelling district;
   B.   One-family dwelling, containing a floor space of not less than six
hundred square feet per family;
   C.   Professional offices, or studios of doctors, dentists, artists,
musicians, lawyers and authors, beauty parlors limited to one operator who is
the owner of the premises;
   D.   Nonprofit religious, educational and philanthropic institutions, but
not penal or mental treatment institutions;
   E.   Accessory buildings and uses not involving the conduct of a business
customarily incident to the above uses including a private garage. Any
accessory building that is not a part of the main structure shall be located
not less than sixty feet from the front lot line and shall require three
thousand square feet of the land on said lot devoted to it, with a minimum
distance of at least fifteen feet between structures. (Ord. 406 (part), 1997)
17.22.060   Parking regulations.
   Whenever a structure is erected, converted or structurally altered for
dwelling purposes, one parking space shall be provided on the lot for each
dwelling unit in the structure. (Ord. 406 (part), 1997)
17.22.070   Height regulations.
   The height regulations for manufactured housing and mobile homes are the
same as those in the "A" single-family dwelling district. (Ord. 406 (part),
1997)
17.22.080   Yard regulations.
   A.   The yard regulations shall be the same as in the "A" single-family
dwelling district.
   B.   All interior courts shall have a width equal to at least the height of
the highest part of the building or buildings forming the court. (Ord. 406
(part), 1997)
17.22.090   Intensity of use.
   Every lot shall contain an area devoted to each person living on said lot of
not less than five hundred square feet per person or a minimum area of seven
thousand square feet per family, whichever is less. (Ord. 406 (part), 1997)
17.22.100   Lot area and dimensions.
   A.   Required Lot Area.
 
                                Minimum Lot Area
Mobile homes to 18' in width     4,000 square feet
Mobile homes over 18' in width   5,000 square feet
Single-family detached dwellings 5,000 square feet
 
   Other uses: Minimum lot area to be determined by building area, parking
requirements, required lot dimensions, and required setbacks.
   B.   Required Lot Dimensions.
 
                                Minimum Lot Width Minimum Lot Depth
Mobile homes to 18' in width     40'               100'
Mobile homes over 18' in width   50'               100'
Single-family detached dwellings 50'               100'
 
   Other uses: Lot dimensions to be determined by building area, parking
requirements, required lot dimensions and required setbacks.
(Ord. 406 (part), 1997)
17.22.110   Setbacks and yards.
   A.   Minimum Setbacks form Property Line.
   Front yard: There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than
twenty-five feet.
   Where lots have double frontage, the required front yard shall be required
on both streets.
   Side yard: Side yard on the street side of a corner lot shall be not less
than fifteen feet.
   Back yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than thirty
feet.
(Ord. 406 (part), 1997)
17.22.120   Screening.
   All principal and accessory uses shall be screened with shrubs or solid
fencing from adjacent "A" single-family dwelling district and "B" multiple
dwelling district (Ord. 406 (part), 1997)
17.22.130   Placement and
maintenance of mobile homes.
   A.   No mobile home may be placed upon any lot within the city prior to
submitting a site plan and receipt of subsequent approval of said site plan by
the city.
   B.   There shall be no occupancy of any mobile home until an occupancy
permit is issued by the State of New Mexico Manufactured Housing Division; no
occupancy permit shall be issued until the mobile home is connected to public
sewer and water lines, or until an alternate system is approved by the State of
New Mexico Manufactured Housing Division and is operational.
   C.   No mobile home may be parked on a roadway within the city for more than
twenty-four hours.
   D.   No abandoned, burned or wrecked mobile home may be kept anywhere in the
city for more than thirty days.
   E.   Each mobile home must bear an insignia which attests that the
construction of the mobile home meets Regulation A119.1 of the American Nations
Standards Institute (adopted by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development and Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards.)
   F.   Standard mobile home skirting must be provided around the entire
perimeter of the mobile home between the bottom of the body of the mobile home
and the ground.
   G.   Each mobile home must be anchored to the ground with at least four one-
half inch steel auger anchors, two anchors on each side and in a manner in
compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
   H.   Each mobile home must be stabilized from beneath using a concrete,
masonry, and/or metal support which shall be placed at each comer and placed at
every ten feet of length in a manner acceptable to the city.
(Ord. 558 (part), 2018; Ord. 406 (part), 1997)
17.22.140   Inspections.
   A.   the city shall make such inspections as necessary to establish
satisfactory compliance with this chapter and shall have the authority to enter
upon any private or public real property at reasonable times for the purpose of
inspecting and mvestigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this
chapter.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the owners of mobile home parks or persons in
charge thereof, or owners or occupants of a lot in a mobile home subdivision,
to allow the city or their agent free access to such premises at reasonable
times for the purposes of inspections.
   C.   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a mobile home park to allow
the owner thereof, or their agents or employees access to any part of such
mobile home park at reasonable times for the purpose of making such repairs and
alterations as may be necessary to effect compliance with this chapter or with
any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   The city shall conduct an original inspection within the mobile home
when it is placed upon any lot. The fee for each original inspection shall be
seventeen dollars and fifty cents.
(Ord. 558 (part), 2018; Ord. 410, 1997; Ord. 406 (part), 1997)
17.22.150   Carports.
   Regulations of
Chapter 17.24 shall apply. (Ord. 522 (part), 2014; Ord. 406 (part), 1997)
Chapter 17.24
"B" MULTIPLE DWELLING DISTRICT
Sections:
   
17.24.010   Regulations- In general.
   
17.24.020   Permitted uses.
   
17.24.030   Parking regulations.
   
17.24.040   Height regulations.
   
17.24.050   Yard regulations.
   
17.24.060   Intensity of use.
17.24.010   Regulations-In general.
   The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this
title when referred to in this chapter, are the "B" multiple dwelling district
regulations. (Prior code § 11-3-2 (a))
17.24.020   Permitted uses.
   A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   A.   Any use permitted in the "A" single-family dwelling district;
   B.   Two-family dwellings, containing a floor space of not less than six
hundred square *feet per family;
   C.   Multiple dwelling, containing a floor space of not less than three
hundred square feet per family;
   D.   Professional offices, or studios of doctors, dentists, artists,
musicians, lawyers and authors, beauty parlors limited to one operator who is
the owner of the premises; provided, that such uses as set forth in this
chapter does not violate protective and restrictive covenants concerning
subject land;
   E.   Boardinghouses and lodginghouses;
   F.   Nonprofit religious, educational and philanthropic institutions, but
not penal or mental treatment institutions;
   G.   Hospitals and clinics, but not animal hospitals, animal clinics or
mental hospitals;
   H.   Private clubs and lodges, excepting those the chief activity of which
is customarily carried on as a business;
   I.   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to the above uses not
involving the conduct of a business including a private garage. Any accessory
building that is not a part of the main structure shall be located not less
than sixty feet from the front lot line. (Prior code § 11-3-2 (b))
17.24.030   Parking regulations.
   Whenever a structure is erected, converted or structurally altered for
multiple dwelling or two-family dwelling purposes, one parking space shall be
provided on the lot for each dwelling unit in the structure. (Prior code § 11-
3-2 (c))
17.24.040   Height regulations.
   The height regulations are the same as those in the "A" single-family
dwelling district. (Prior code § 11-3-2 (d))
17.24.050   Yard regulations.
   A.   The yard regulations shall be the same as in the "A" single-family
dwelling district.
   B.   Carport regulations shall be the same as in the “A” single-family
dwelling district, except:
      1.   Carports are not required to be attached to a permanent building;
and
      2.   Carports are not required to match or conform to the permanent
building in materials, character, and design.
   C.   All interior courts shall have a width equal to at least the height of
the highest part of the building forming the court. (Ord. 521, 2014; Prior code
§ 11-3-2 (e) (1, 2))
17.24.060   Intensity of use.
   Every lot shall contain an area of not less than twenty-five hundred square
feet per family. (Prior code § 11-3-2 (e) (3))
Chapter 17.28
"C" COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
17.28.010   Regulations-In general.
   The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this
title and referred to in this chapter are the regulations in the "C" commercial
district. (Prior code § 11-3-3 (a))
17.28.020   Permitted uses.
   A building or premises shall be used for the following purposes:
   A.   Any use permitted in the "A" or "B" districts;
   B.   Advertising signs and billboards not exceeding forty square feet in
area when attached to a building and not extending more than one foot from the
surface of the building pertaining to the character, type, ownership or
occupancy of the building or its contents;
   C.   Amusement place or theaters; provided, however, that no theater shall
be erected or reconstructed unless there is provided on the same lot, or within
three hundred feet thereof, a space for off-street parking which contains an
area adequate to accommodate one automobile for every five seats in the
theater;
   D.   Trailer and tourist camps or courts; provided, however, that all yard
and interior court regulations of the "B" multiple dwelling district are
complied with; and provided further, that there shall be no more than one
trailer or one tourist camp unit for each one thousand square feet of lot area.
Any building used primarily for any of the above enumerated purposes may have
not more than forty percent of the floor area devoted to industry or storage
purposes incidental to such primary use; provided, that not more than ten
employees shall be engaged at any time on the premises in any such incidental
use. (Prior code § 11-3-3 (b)(1-4))
17.28.030   Prohibited uses.
   A building or premises may be used for any other purpose except the
following:
      1.   Acetylene gas manufacture or storage;
      2.   Acid manufacture;
      3.   Alcohol manufacture;
      4.   Ammonia, bleaching powder or chlorine manufacture;
      5.   Arsenal;
      6.   Asphalt manufacture or refining;
      7.   Auto wrecking and wrecked auto storage;
      8.   Blast furnace;
      9.   Bag cleanings;
      10.   Boiler works;
      11.   Brick, tile, pottery or terra cotta manufacture, other than the
manufacture of handicraft products only;
      12.   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of paris manufacture;
      13.   Central mining plant for cement mortar, plaster or paving
materials;
      14.   Coke ovens;
      15.   Creosote manufacture or treatment;
      16.   Disinfectants manufacture;
      17.   Distillation of bones, coal or wood;
      18.   Dyestuff manufacture;
      19.   Explosives or fireworks manufacture or storage;
      20.   Fat rendering;
      21.   Fertilizer manufacture;
      22.   Forge plant;
      23.   Garbage, offal or dead animal reduction or dumping;
      24.   Gas manufacture or storage;
      25.   Glue, size or gelatine manufacture;
      26.   Iron, steel, brass or copper foundry or fabrication plant;
      27.   Junk, iron or rags storage or bailing;
      28.   Oil cloth or linoleum manufacture;
      29.   Oiled rubber goods manufacture;
      30.   Ore reduction;
      31.   Paint, oil, shellac, turpentine or varnish manufacture;
      32.   Paper and pulp manufacture;
      33.   Petroleum or its products, refining or wholesale storage of;
      34.   Planing mills;
      35.   Rock crusher;
      36.   Rolling mills;
      37.   Rubber or gutta-percha manufacture or treatment;
      38.   Shoe polish manufacture;
      39.   Smelting of tin, copper, zinc or iron ores;
      40.   Soap manufacture other than liquid soap;
      41.   Stockyard or slaughter of animals or fowl;
      42.   Stone mill or quarry;
      43.   Tallow, grease or lard manufacture or refining from, or of, animal
fat;
      44.   Tanning, curing or storage of raw hides or skins;
      45.   Tar distillation or manufacture;
      46.   Tar roofing or waterproofing manufacture;
      47.   Vinegar manufacture;
      48.   Wool pulling or scouring;
      49.   Yeast plant;
      50.   Cotton gin or storage;
      51.   And, in general, those uses which may be obnoxious or offensive by
reason of emission of odor, dust, smoke, gas, vibration or noise. (Prior code §
11-3-3 (b) (5))
17.28.040   Parking regulations.
   A.   The parking regulations for dwellings are the same as those in the "B"
multiple dwelling district.
   B.   New commercial buildings shall provide permanent space on the lot in
the ratio of one parking space for each eight hundred square feet of floor
space in the building; provided, however, that two or more establishments may
provide necessary parking space upon a single parcel of land within three
hundred feet of the establishment. (Prior code § 11-3-3 (c))
17.28.050   Height restrictions.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories or thirty-five feet in
height except as otherwise provided in Section
17.16.030 of this tide. (Prior code § 11-3-3 (d)
17.28.060   Front yard.
   Where all the frontage on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets is located in the "C" commercial district, no front yard shall be
required. Where the frontage on one side of the street between two intersecting
streets is located partly in the "C" commercial district and partly in a
dwelling district, the front yard requirements of the dwelling district shall
apply to the "C" commercial district. (Prior code § 11-3-3 (e) (1))
17.28.070   Side yard.
   The side yard regulations for dwellings are the same as those in the "B"
multiple dwelling districts. In all other cases, a side yard is not required
except:
   A.   On the side of a lot adjoining a dwelling district, in which case there
shall be a side yard of not less than five feet; provided, however that if a
side yard is provided where not required, it shall not be less than two and
one-half feet in width;
   B.   On the street side of a corner lot that rears upon a dwelling district,
in which case, there shall be a side yard of not less than five feet. (Prior
code § 11-3-3 (e) (2))
17.28.080   Rear yard.
   A.   Where the lot abuts an alley, no rear yard shall be required for one
story buildings.
   B.   Where the lot abuts an alley, a rear yard of ten feet shall be provided
for the two story parts of buildings.
   C.   Where the lot does not abut an alley, there shall be a rear yard having
a depth of not less than twenty feet, unless the lot is a lot of record on or
before February 12, 1971 and is less than one hundred feet in depth, in which
case, the rear yard need not exceed twenty per cent of the depth of the lot.
(Prior code § 11-3-3 (e) (3))
17.28.090   Interior court
   All interior courts shall have a width equal to at least the height of the
highest part of the building forming the court. (Prior code § 11-3-3 (e) (4))
17.28.100   Intensity of use.
   The intensity of use regulations shall apply to living facilities above
stores or other commercial uses as well as to residential buildings, and every
lot shall provide an area of not less than one thousand square feet per family.
(Prior code § 11-3-3 (e) (5))
Chapter 17.32
D INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
Sections:
   
17.32.010   Regulations- In general.
   
17.32.020   Prohibited uses.
   
17.32.030   Height restrictions.
   
17.32.040   Front yard regulations.
   
17.32.050   Side yard regulations.
   
17.32.060   Rear yard regulations.
   
17.32.070   Intensity of use.
17.32.010   Regulations-In general.
   In the industrial district, there may be any use; except, that there may be
no building for residential use and no mobile trailers; provided, however, that
this shall not preclude housing for supervisory, maintenance, or custodial
personnel where industrial processes require them to live on the premises.
(Ord. 514, 2013; Prior code § 11-3-4(a))
17.32.020   Prohibited uses.
   Any building or premises may be used for any purpose not in conflict with
any ordinance of the city regulating nuisances; provided, however, that no
building or occupancy permit shall be issued for any of the following uses
until, and unless the location of such use has been reviewed and recommended by
the Fire Chief. Upon positive recommendation of the following uses by the Fire
Chief, the City Commission may grant approval..
      1.   Acid manufacture;
      2.   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of paris manufacture;
      3.   Distillation of bones;
      4.   Explosives manufacture or storage;
      5.   Fat rendering;
      6.   Fertilizer manufacture;
      7.   Gas manufacture;
      8.   Garbage, offal or dead animals, reduction, or dumping;
      9.   Glue manufacture;
      10.   Milling plants;
      11.   Cotton gins;
      12.   Smelting of tin, copper, zinc or iron ores;
      13.   Stockyards or slaughter of animals;
      14.   Any other uses which might be objectionable to, or adversely affect
nearby residential districts because of the emission of odor, dust, smoke, gas
or noise. (Ord. 514, 2013; Prior code § 11-3-4 (b))
17.32.030   Height restrictions.
   No building shall exceed three stories or forty-five feet in height except
as otherwise provided in Section
17.16.030. (Prior code § 11-3-4 (c))
17.32.040   Front yard regulations.
   Where all the frontage on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets is located in the "D" industrial district, no front yard shall be
required. Where the frontage on one side of the street between two intersecting
streets is located partly in the "D" industrial district and partly in a
dwelling district, the front yard requirements of the dwelling district shall
apply to the "D" industrial district. (Prior code § 11-3-4 (d) (1))
17.32.050   Side yard regulations.
   The side yard regulations for dwellings are the same as in the "B" multiple
dwelling district. In all other cases a side yard is not required except:
   A.   On the side of a lot adjoining a dwelling district in which case there
shall be a side yard of not less than five feet; and
   B.   On the street side of a corner lot rearing upon a dwelling district in
which case there shall be a side yard of not less than five feet (Prior code §
11-3-4 (d) (2))
17.32.060   Rear yard regulations.
   The rear yard regulations for dwellings are the same as those in the "B"
multiple dwelling district. In all other cases, no rear yard is required except
where the lot abuts on a dwelling district in which case there shall be a rear
yard of not less than twenty feet. (Prior code § 11-3-4 (d) (3))
17.32.070   Intensity of use.
   The intensity of use regulations are the same as in the "C" commercial
district. (Prior code § 11-3-4 (d) (4))
Chapter 17.34
"E" ECONOMIC DISTRICT
Sections:
   
17.34.010   Regulations—In general.
   
17.34.020   Purpose.
   
17.34.030   Definitions.
   
17.34.040   Permitted uses.
   
17.34.050   Prohibited uses.
   
17.34.060   Parking regulations.
   
17.34.070   Height restrictions.
   
17.34.080   Front yard.
   
17.34.090   Side yard.
   
17.34.100   Rear yard.
   
17.34.110   Interior courts.
   
17.34.120   Maintenance requirements.
   
17.34.130   Security requirements.
   
17.34.140   Additional requirements.
   
17.34.150   Prohibition.
   
17.34.160   Notice; abatement; hearing.
   
17.34.170   Contents of notice.
   
17.34.180   Service of notice.
   
17.34.190   Abatement by city.
   
17.34.200   City’s costs declared lien.
   
17.34.210   Penalty.
   
17.34.220   Effective date.
17.34.010   Regulations—In general.
   The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this
title and referred to in this chapter, are the regulations in the "E" economic
district. (Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.020   Purpose.
   A.   To promote, as a matter of public policy, the preservation, protection,
and enhancement of those buildings, properties, structures, sites, and
incidental appurtenances used for commercial purposes that generate gross
receipt tax revenue for the city in the area described as:
      1.   Main Street, beginning at Avenue R and ending at Love Street,
bounded on the east by the east edge of the alley easementbetween Main Street
and Love Street, and bounded on the west by the west edge of the alley between
Main Street and 1st Street. For properties that do not have an alley built or
platted, the boundary will be assumed as the number of feet from the public
right-of-way to the alley that would exist if it were platted or built;
      2.   Avenue D, beginning at 17th Street and ending at Commercial Street,
bounded on the north by the northern edge of the alley easement between Avenue
D and Avenue C, and bounded on the south by the southern edge of the alley
easement between Avenue D and Avenue C. For properties that do not have an
alley built or platted, the boundary will be assumed as the number of feet from
the public right-of-way to the alley that would exist if it were platted or
built;
      3.   In the event the property within the district is subdivided, zoning
may not be changed.
   B.   This district is created in the interest or prosperity, civic pride,
and general welfare of the city, to prevent urban blight by:
      1.   Providing a mechanism to preserve, protect, enhance, and perpetuate
those structures, properties, sites, buildings, and incidental appurtenances
used for commercial purposes in designated areas;
      2.   Fostering civic pride and respect in the community's future;
      3.   Maintaining and improving property values;
      4.   Protecting and enhancing the community's attraction to tourists and
visitors;
      5.   Promoting the structures, property sites, buildings, and incidental
appurtenances for the general welfare of the community; and
      6.   Fostering and encouraging preservation, restoration, and
rehabilitation of structures, properties, buildings, sites, and incidental
appurtenances, thereby preventing urban blight; and
      7.   Increase municipal revenues that will be used for the operation,
repair, maintenance, and improvement of the community.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.030   Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “Alteration” means any act or process that changes one or more of the
exterior features of a structure through the erection, construction,
reconstruction, or painting a part thereof.
   “Building” means any structure with walls or roof, site, or property used
for commercial purposes within the designated area as set forth in this
chapter.
   “District” means the area described in Section
17.34.020.
   “Repair” means an applied coating of paint or stain to the exterior of a
structure, or upkeep of any stucco, sheetrock, wood exterior, stone, rock,
glass, or other exterior covering of a building, site, property, or structure;
and/or any change that is not construction, removal, or alteration.
   “Structure, site, building, property, or incidental appurtenances” means
anything already constructed, to be constructed or erected, in the designated
area referenced in this chapter, the use of which requires permanent or
temporary location on or in the ground, including, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, buildings, fences, gazebos, signs, radio and
television antennas, including supporting towers, and any other structure or
building that would normally be allowed in a commercial zone.
   “Urban nuisance” means:
      1.   Any structure, property, building, site, or incidental appurtenance
that is not properly maintained. Maintenance requirements are listed in Section
17.34.120.
      2.   Any structure, property, building, site, or incidental appurtenance
to exist, which, because of the condition of the exterior, invites vandalism,
graffiti, damage to the building, unlawful entry by persons not otherwise
authorized to be present in the area, affects the overall structural
maintenance of the structure, property, building, and site, in a manner as to
allow rodents or other vermin to infest the area, or which in any manner
affects the public's health or safety, in general, or as regards the immediate
property owner or adjoining property owners.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.040   Permitted uses.
   A building or premises shall be used for the following purposes:
   A.   Municipal-owned or -operated parks and playgrounds;
   B.   Government-owned or -operated offices, buildings, or facilities;
   C.   Churches;
   D.   Multiple dwelling, containing a minimum floor space, based on the
following criteria:
      1.   Studio apartment - 400 square feet;
      2.   One-bedroom apartment - 575 square feet;
      3.   Two-bedroom apartment - 775 square feet;
      4.   Three-bedroom apartment - 950 square feet;
   E.   Professional offices;
   F.   Hospitals and clinics;
   G.   Hotels or motels;
   H.   Retail businesses or facilities that generate gross receipts tax
revenues for the city.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.050   Prohibited uses.
   A building or premises may be used for any other purpose. except the
following:
   A.   Prohibited uses listed in Zones A, B, and C;
   B.   Recreational vehicle and manufactured home parks;
   C.   Single-family dwelling.
      1.   Single-family dwellings located within the district that were
constructed prior to January 1, 2019, may continue to be used as a residence so
long as they comply with the maintenance and security requirements specified in
this chapter;
      2.   If a single-family dwelling is converted to be utilized for any use
that is permitted in Section
17.34.040 before or after the effective date of this chapter, it may not be
reverted back to a residential use;
   D.   Mobile homes or manufactured homes;
   E.   Truck parking lots with the exception to accommodate for truck parking
so long as the operator or driver is conducting business at the site of the
parking area;.
   F.   Buildings repurposed for storage;
   G.   It is unlawful for any person to park a tractor trailer rig, freight
trailer, bus, hazardous cargo vehicle, a vehicle with a manufacturer's gross
vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of more than fifteen thousand pounds on streets,
alleys, public right-of-ways and easements, or upon property located within the
zone.
      1.   Parking of delivery vehicles, which are utilized by the company to
deliver goods and services provided that are originating from the business
location at which the vehicle is parked or stored, are allowed.
      2.   Customer vehicles, as described, being stored at the site of a
mechanics shop or garage are allowed.
      3.   Parking of these vehicles for loading and unloading purposes is
allowable.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.060   Parking regulations.
   New commercial buildings shall provide permanent space on the lot in the
ratio of one parking space for each eight hundred square feet of floor space in
the building; provided,however, that two or more establishments may provide
necessary parking space upon a single parcel of land within three hundred feet
of the establishment. New commercial buildings must provide for handicap access
and parking as required by the Americans with Disabilities Act.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.070   Height restrictions.
   No building shall exceed seven stories or seventy feet in height. (Ord. 569
(part), 2019)
17.34.080   Front yard.
   Where all the frontage on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets is located in the "E" economic district, no front yard shall be
required. Where the frontage on one side of the street between two intersecting
streets is located partly in the "E" economic district and partly in a dwelling
district, the front yard requirements of the dwelling district shall apply to
the "E" economic district. (Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.090   Side yard.
   The side yard regulations for allowable dwellings per this chapter are the
same as those in the "B" multiple dwelling districts. In all other cases, a
side yard is not required except:
   A.   On the side of a lot adjoining a dwelling district, in which case there
shall be a side yard of not less than five feet; provided, however, that if a
side yard is provided where not required, it shall not be less than two and
one-half feet in width;
   B.   On the street side of a corner lot that rears upon a dwelling district,
in which case, there shall be a side yard of not less than five feet. (Ord. 569
(part), 2019)
17.34.100   Rear yard.
   A.   Where the lot abuts an alley, no rear yard shall be required for one-
story buildings.
   B.   Where the lot abuts an alley, a rear yard of ten feet shall be provided
for the two-story parts of buildings.
   C.   Where the lot does not abut an alley, there shall be a rear yard having
a depth of not less than twenty feet, unless the lot is a lot of record on or
before February 12, 1971, and is less than one hundred feet in depth, in which
case, the rear yard need not exceed twenty per cent of the depth of the lot.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.110   Interior courts.
   All interior courts shall have a width equal to at least the height of the
highest part of the building forming the court.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.120   Maintenance requirements.
   A.   Generally, the appearance and condition of the building or structure
shall be maintained to present a safe and attractive streetscape to passersby.
   B.   A maximum of ten percent of the exterior facade may exhibit peeling
paint, damaged stucco, or other deteriorated exterior visible surfaces.
   C.   The exteriors of the properties subject to this chapter shall be kept
free of weeds, overgrown brush, dead vegetation, trash, junk, debris, building
materials, an accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers, notices, except
those required by federal, state, or city law, discarded personal items,
including, but not limited to, furniture, clothing, large and small appliances,
printed material, vehicles, vessels and trailers and/or any other items that
give the appearance that the property is abandoned or solely used for storage
purposes.
   D.   The exteriors of the property shall be maintained free of graffiti or
similar markings by removal or painting over with an exterior grade paint that
matches the exterior color of the structure. Properly maintained murals of non-
offensive nature may be permitted through the approval of the city commission.
   E.   Maintenance shall include, but shall not be limited to, watering,
cutting, and mowing of required landscape and removal of yard waste.
   F.   A structure shall not have windows that are not weather-tight and/or
window frames with more than fifty percent of the surface area covered with
disfigured, cracked, or peeling surface materials for a period of more than
sixty consecutive days.
   G.   In the case of boarded up windows and/or doors, in all cases the
plywood or other covering shall be cut to precisely fit inside the entire
window frame, and not merely tacked over the approximate location of the wall
opening.
      1.   The covering shall be painted a dark ashen grey or black to simulate
a typical exterior window color or by some other color in keeping with the
building facade. These standards shall apply to the front and, in the case of
corner structures, the side facing the avenue also. Alley exposures shall be
exempt from the paint requirement.
      2.   The remainder of the building surface shall present a neat,
attractive, well-maintained appearance, and present a base color and
complimentary trim color, in addition to the color of the window covering(s).
      3.   Utilizing boards or other materials such as metal to secure broken
windows or doors may only be used for no longer than thirty days, after which
time the windows and/or doors must be repaired.
      4.   Permanent repairs shall be done in such a way that will complement
the structure's appearance. Shuttering or enclosing materials, which are not
glass, should be painted to compliment the building appearance.
      5.   All repairs should be done with the intention of improving the
appearance of the existing structure, site, or property within the city.
   H.   A structure shall not have awnings with more than thirty percent of the
surface area, torn, tattered, or missing for a period of more than thirty
consecutive days.
   I.   Structural damage due to insects (termites or other wood-boring pests)
where infestation affects structural components of any structural element
(i.e., roof, floor joists, and the like) shall not be permitted for a period of
more than sixty days.
   J.   The roof shall be maintained so that roof leaks do not threaten
interior electrical components, interior contents, or create damp interior
conditions as to promote mold, mildew, nor threaten adjacent structures, to
include the host structure itself.
   K.   Properties being utilized for commercial purposes shall maintain
parking lots and parking lot entrances. Parking lots and parking lot entrances,
to include the curb and gutter bordering the property, shall be maintained and
repaired with the material of which they are primarily constructed.
   L.   A building, property, site, structure, or incidental appurtenance that,
because of its state of disrepair, is such that could reasonably cause injury,
damage, harm, or inconvenience to a considerable portion of the community in
the use and enjoyment of property, materially interfering with the proper use
or comfort and enjoyment of surrounding property, taking into consideration the
nature and use of the properties in the area and the character of the community
in which they are situated, which condition would be substantially offensive
and annoying to persons of ordinary sensibilities, tastes, and habits living in
the community.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.130   Security requirements.
   A.   Properties subject to this chapter shall be maintained in a secure
manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons.
   B.   A “secure manner” shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
closure and locking of windows, doors, gates and other openings of such size
that may allow a child to access the interior of the property or structure.
Broken windows and other openings shall be secured as applicable by reglazing
or temporary boarding of the windows, doors, or other openings until permanent
repairs are accomplished.
   C.   If the property is owned by an individual, mortgagee, or corporation
located outside of the city, it shall be required that a local point of contact
is registered with the city. This point of contact must be updated with the
city clerk annually. The local point of contact shall have the ability to
perform monthly inspections of the property to verify compliance with the
requirements of this chapter, and have the authority to receive all written
correspondence and notices in regards to the property. Upon the request of the
city, the point of contact shall provide a copy of the inspection report(s) to
the city manager or his or her designee.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.140   Additional requirements.
   The city manager, or his or her designee, shall have authority to require
the mortgagee or owner of record of any property affected by this chapter to
implement additional maintenance and/or security measures, including, but not
limited to, securing any and all door, window or other openings, or other
measures as may be reasonably required to help prevent further decline of the
property.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.150   Prohibition.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, or entity to cause,
permit, or maintain a building in need of exterior repair as set forth above.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.160   Notice; abatement; hearing.
   A.   Whenever an urban nuisance is found to exist within the identified
district as defined by this chapter, the city manager, or his or her designee,
shall give written or published notice to the owner, his or her agent, lessee
or occupant of the property upon which the urban nuisance exists, or upon the
person causing or maintaining the urban nuisance; provided, however, that
failure of the city manager, or his or her designee, to give notice shall not
constitute a defense to any action brought to enforce this section.
   B.   Every person, including the owner, his or her agent, tenant, lessee, or
occupant of the property where the urban nuisance exists, shall abate any urban
nuisance by its correction or removal within ten days of being given notice as
herein above set forth in subsection A above, or by entering into a written
agreement with the city for the correction or removal of the urban nuisance
within the ten-day period.
   C.   If an agreement is entered into within the ten-day period, the time
limits of this section shall be stayed.
   D.   1.   If the person so cited disagrees with the decision made by the
city manager, or his or her designee, that person shall have the right to
request a hearing before the governing body of the city within a ten-day period
after the rendering of a decision in writing by the city manager, or his or her
designee.
      2.   If a request for hearing is made within the ten-day period, the time
limits of this section shall be stayed pending a decision by the governing body
of the city.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.170   Contents of notice.
   The notice to abate an urban nuisance issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall contain:
   A.   An order to abate the urban nuisance or to request a hearing before the
governing body of the city within the ten days after written or published
notice;
   B.   The location of the urban nuisance, if the same is stationary;
   C.   A description of what constitutes the urban nuisance; and
   D.   A statement that, if the urban nuisance is not abated as directed, and
if no request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the city may
abate the urban nuisance and assess the costs thereof against the person, or
take any other action as allowed in this chapter.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.180   Service of notice.
   A notice to abate an urban nuisance issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall be served as any other legal process may be served pursuant to
law.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.190   Abatement by city.
   Upon the failure of the person upon whom notice to abate an urban nuisance
was served pursuant to the provisions of this chapter to abate the same, the
designated officer of the city may proceed to abate the urban nuisance and
shall prepare a statement of costs incurred in the abatement thereof.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.200   City's costs declared lien.
   A.   Any and all costs incurred by the city in the abatement of an urban
nuisance under the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a lien against
the property upon which the urban nuisance existed, which lien shall be filed,
proven, and collected as provided by law.
   B.   The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest at the legal rate thereafter until satisfied.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.210   Penalty.
   A.   Whenever in this chapter an act is prohibited or is made or declared to
be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in this chapter the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any
provision or the failure to perform any act shall be punishable by a fine not
to exceed five hundred dollars.
   B.   Each day any violation or failure to perform the act shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense and is a separate violation of an ordinance
of this city, unless otherwise specifically provided.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
17.34.220   Effective date.
   This chapter shall become effective thirty days after the date of enactment
by the governing body of the city, as to those properties, sites, buildings,
structures, or incidental appurtenances already in existence at the time of
adoption, and as to all others who shall construct, or cause to be erected, any
structure on or in the ground after the enactment of the chapter immediately.
(Ord. 569 (part), 2019)
Chapter 17.36
COMMUNITY UNIT PLAN
Sections:
   
17.36.010   Approval requirements.
17.36.010   Approval requirements.
   The owner or owners of any tract of land comprising an area of not less than
ten acres may submit to the city commission a plan for the use and development
of all of the tract of land for residential purposes or for the repair and
alteration of any existing housing development on an area comprising ten acres
or more. If the proposed community unit plan meets the following conditions:
   A.   That the property adjacent to the area included in the plan will not be
adversely affected;
   B.   That the plan is consistent with the intent and purpose of this title
to promote public health, safety, morals and general welfare;
   C.   That the buildings shall be used only for single-family dwellings, two-
family dwellings or multiple dwellings, and the usual accessory uses such as
garages, storage space or community activities, including churches;
   D.   That the average lot area per family contained in the site exclusive of
the area occupied by streets, will be not less than the lot area per family
required in the district in which the development is located; then the city
commission may approve the plan, and building permits and certificates of
occupancy may be issued even though the use of land, the location of the
buildings to be erected in the area and yards and open spaces contemplated by
the plan do not conform in all respects to the district regulations of the
district in which it is located.
(Prior code § 11-3-6)
Chapter 17.40
NONCONFORMING USES
Sections:
   
17.40.010   Land not containing buildings.
   
17.40.020   Preexisting use- Change in nonconforming status.
   
17.40.030   Restoration and alterations.
   
17.40.040   Discontinuance.
   
17.40.050   Special permits- Authority of city commission.
   
17.40.060   Conditional approval of nonconforming structures.
   
17.40.070   Appeals.
   
17.40.080   Violation.
17.40.010   Land not containing buildings.
   The lawful use of land containing no buildings which does not conform to the
provisions of this title shall be discontinued within five years from February
12, 1971, the date of the approval of the ordinance codified in this section,
and the use of land which becomes nonconforming by reason of a subsequent
change in this title shall also be discontinued within five years from the date
of the change.
(Ord. 557 (part), 2018; prior code § 11-3-5 (a))
17.40.020   Preexisting use-Change in nonconforming status.
   The lawful use of a building or trailer court existing on or before February
12, 1971, may be continued, although such use does not conform with the
provisions of this title, and such use may be extended throughout the building
or trailer court; provided, no structural alterations, except those required by
law or ordinance, are made therein. If no structural alterations are made, a
nonconforming use of a building or trailer court may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same or more restricted classification. The foregoing
provisions shall also apply to nonconforming uses in districts hereafter
changed. Whenever a nonconforming use of a building or trailer court has been
changed to a more restricted use or to a conforming use, such use shall not be
thereafter changed to a less restricted use.
(Ord. 557 (part), 2018; prior code § 11-3-5 (b))
17.40.030   Restoration and alterations.
   A.   No building which has been damaged or destroyed by any means to the
extent of more than fifty percent of its replacement cost at time of damage or
destruction shall be restored except in conformity with the most current
regulations of this title.
   B.   No existing building or premises devoted to a use not permitted by this
title in the district in which such building or premises is located, except
when required to do so by law or ordinance, shall be enlarged, extended,
reconstructed or structurally altered, unless such use is changed to one
permitted by the most current version of this title in the district in which
such building or premises is located.
(Ord. 557 (part), 2018; prior code § 11-3-5 (c, e))
17.40.040   Discontinuance.
   In the event that a nonconforming use of any building or premises is
discontinued for a period of two years, the use of the same shall thereafter
conform to the use permitted in the district in which it is located according
to the most current version of this title.
(Ord. 557 (part), 2018; prior code § 11-3-5 (d))
17.40.050   Special permits—Authority of city commission.
   A.   The city commission may, by special permit after public hearing and
subject to such protective restrictions that it deems necessary, authorize the
location of any of the following buildings or uses in any district from which
they are prohibited by this title:
      1.   Any public building erected and used by any department of the city,
county, state or federal government;
      2.   Hospitals, clinics and institutions for criminals and those for
persons that are insane or have contagious diseases; provided, however, that
such buildings may occupy not over twenty-five percent of the total area of the
lot and will not have any serious and depreciating effect upon the value of the
surrounding property; and provided further, that the buildings shall be set
back from all yard lines a distance of not less than two feet for each foot of
building height;
      3.   Cemetery;
      4.   Community building or recreation field;
      5.   Airport or landing field;
      6.   Commercial greenhouses; provided, that any such structures shall not
be less than one hundred feet from all property lines;
      7.   Temporary commercial amusements or recreational development;
      8.   Extraction of gravel, sand or other raw materials;
      9.   Industrial uses excluded from the "D" industrial district to locate
in the "D" industrial district;
      10.   Parking lots adjacent to, across a street from or across an alley
from a "C" commercial district, a "D" industrial district.
      11.   Any use not specifically identified In this section may be
considered for approval, provided it meets any conditions stipulated in this
title or by the commission, and is not detrimental to the public welfare,
safety, health, morals and convenience of the surrounding area.
   B.   The following findings shall be made for approval of a special permit:
      1.   The use is consistent with the policies and recommendations adopted
by the city comprehensive plan.
      2.   The use will not have significant adverse effect on the character
and value of adjacent properties or surrounding neighborhood.
      3.   The use will not create a hazard, a public nuisance or be injurious
to individuals or to the public.
      4.   The use will not cause noise which is excessive for the particular
area.
      5.   The use will not have significant adverse effects on the natural
environment and attractiveness of an area.
      6.   The use will not be contrary to the public interest.
      7.   The applicant will be able to meet any particular requirements
specified for such a use in land development standards and any additional
conditions that the commission may impose.
      8.   The applicant will be able to meet all requirements imposed by
applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
      9.   The special permit is non-transferable in the event that the
specific use that was granted has changed or the property changes ownership.
   C.   A one hundred fifty- dollar, filing-and-processing fee shall be paid to
the city.
   D.   Before issuance of any special permit for any of the above buildings or
uses, the planning and zoning commission shall provide a review of the
application submitted to the planning and zoning department. Recommendation for
approval or denial of the special permit shall be provided to the city
commission. The city commission will provide final approval or denial of the
special permit.
   E.   If a special permit is granted, the permit shall be publicly displayed
in a prominent on-site location.
(Ord. 557 (part), 2018; prior code § 11-3-5(f))
17.40.060   Conditional approval of nonconforming structures.
   A.   Structures that were built or installed prior to February 13, 2014,
that do not conform to city zoning code will be allowed to remain in place so
long as the following conditions are met:
      1.   Structure does not constitute an immediate threat to health or
safety.
      2.   No negative impact on economic conditions or quality of life.
      3.   The proposed structure(s) fall within the setback requirements
established in the zone in which it is located.
   B.   If the proposed structure(s) does not meet conditions set forth in
subsections A.2 or A.3, the property owner will be required to apply for
conditional approval through the planning and zoning commission.
   C.   If the conditional approval is granted, a document will be filed at the
Lea County Courthouse which will state approval of the nonconforming structure.
   D.   Process for conditional approval of nonconforming structures will be as
follows:
      1.   Property owner will complete the most current version of the city
planning and zoning application and conditional approval of nonconforming
structure request.
      2.   Pay one hundred fifty- dollar, filing-and-processing fee.
      3.   Notice of the conditional approval request will be posted by the
owner on the site of the property where the structure(s) is located fifteen
days from the date of the public hearing.
      4.   Notice of the conditional approval request and the date and time of
the planning and zoning commission public meeting will be provided by city
staff to the owners of property located within one hundred feet of the site by
certified mail fifteen days prior to the date of the public hearing.
      5.   The planning and zoning commission will conduct a public hearing to
determine the approval or denial of the conditional approval request.
      6.   If approval is granted, the approval document will contain language
that specifies the nonconforming structure may remain in place and indicate the
reason(s) why the structure is considered to be in nonconformance.
         a.   In the event the nonconforming structure(s) is in conflict with
setback requirements and is adjacent to public right-of-way(s) or easement(s),
documentation will include the binding requirement that modification of the
structure(s) to bring it into setback conformance or removal of the
nonconforming structure(s), at the owner’s expense, will be required In the
event that installation, replacement, construction, or repair of any municipal
infrastructure or utilities permitted through franchise agreement(s) with the
city.
         b.   If property owner refuses to comply with modifying the structure
(s) to bring into conformance or remove nonconforming structure(s) for the
aforementioned reason(s), the following actions will occur:
            i.   The approval of the nonconforming structure(s) will be
revoked.
            ii.   The nonconforming structures(s) will be removed. The costs
associated with the removal of the structure(s), plus any other penalties or
costs allowed by law in connection therewith, shall be billed to the owner of
record, who shall have fifteen days to submit payment in full. Failure to remit
shall cause a lien to be placed upon the property from which such structure(s)
were removed in the manner prescribed by law.
      7.   In the event of sale or transfer of ownership, the conditional
approval of a nonconforming structure, if granted, is transferable. The same
conditions and restrictions will remain in place.
(Ord. 557 (part), 2018)
17.40.070   Appeals.
   All appeals shall follow regulations set forth in Section
17.08.040.
(Ord. 557 (part), 2018)
17.40.080   Violation.
   Any person, firm, company, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this title in this code, or any ordinance or resolution of the city, or any
rule, regulation or order promulgated by any officer or agency of the city
under authority duly vested in him, her or it, any act is prohibited or is
declared unlawful or a misdemeanor or an offense. The violation of any such
provision of this code or any ordinance, rule, regulation or order shall be
punished by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars nor more than five
hundred dollars. Each day any violation of this code or any such ordinance,
resolution, rule, regula-tion or order shall constitute as a separate offense.
(Ord. 557 (part), 2018)
STATUTORY REFERENCES FOR NEW MEXICO MUNICIPALITIES
   The statutory references listed below refer the code user to state statutes
applicable to New Mexico municipalities. They are up to date through July,
2008.
   General Provisions
   Municipal corporations
   New Mexico Const. Art. X
   Incorporation
   NMSA 1978 Arts. 3-2-3-4
   Home rule
   NMSA Const. Art. X § 6
   Municipal charters
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-15
   Annexation
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-7
   Ordinances
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-17
   Ordinance violation procedures
   NMSA 1978 Art. 35-15
   Penalties for ordinance violations
   NMSA 1978 § 3-17-1
   Elections
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-8
   Absentee voting
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-9
   Administration and Personnel
   Eminent domain
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-10
   Combined municipal organizations
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-16
   Powers of municipalities
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-18
   Confinement of offenders
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-20
   Adoption of codes
   NMSA 1978 § 3-17-6
   Mayor-council form of government
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-11
   Commission-nianagei' form of government
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-14
   Governing body
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-12
   Municipal officers generally
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-10
   Clerk, police officer, manager
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-13
   Open meetings
   NMSA 1978 Art. 10-15
   Ordinances
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-17
   Public records
   NMSA 1978 Ch. 14
   Planning commission and master plans
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-19
   Municipal courts
   NMSA 1978 Art. 35-14
   Libraries
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-14
   Park commission
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-47
   Municipal employees retirement system
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-28
   Fire department
   NMSA 1978 §§ 3-18-11-3-18-11.1
   Methods of insurance
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-62
   Revenue and Finance
   Municipal finances
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-37
   Municipal indebtedness
   N.M. Const. Art. IX; NMSA Art. 3-30
   Revenue bonds
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-31
   Industrial Revenue Bond Act
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-32
   Improvement districts
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-33
   Street improvement fund
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-34
   Sale or lease of property
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-54
   Municipal liens
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-36
   Small cities assistance fund
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-37A
   Prohibition on municipal taxing power
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-2
   Lodgers Tax Act
   NMSA 1978 §§ 3-38-13-3-38-24
   Municipal gross receipts tax
   NMSA 1978 Art. 7-19
   Municipal local option gross receipts tax
   NMSA 1978 Art. 7-19D
   County and Municipal Gasoline Tax Act
   NMSA 1978 Art. 7-24A
   Liquor license taxes
   NMSA 1978 Art. 7-24
   Business Licenses and Regulations
   License fees and taxes
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-38
   Municipal Cable Television Act
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-23A
   Gasoline sales
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-31
   Secondhand dealers and junk stores
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-24
   Liquor license taxes
   NMSA 1978 Art. 7-24
   Markets and market places
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-16
   Animals
   Power to regulate animals
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-3
   Health and Safety
   Health; control of disease
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-43
   Hospitals
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-44
   Ambulance service
   NMSA 1978 Art. 5-1
   Refuse collection and disposal
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-48
   Flood control
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-41
   Nuisances
   NMSA 1978 §§ 3-18-13 and 3-18-17
   Food and merchandise
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-12
   Fire prevention
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-11
   Fireworks
   NMSA 1978 Art. 60-2C
   Public Peace, Morals and Welfare
   Police ordinances
   NMSA 1978 § 3-17-1
   New Mexico criminal code
   NMSA 1978 Ch. 30
   Disorderly conduct
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-17
   Gambling
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-17
   Public intoxication
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-17
   Riots
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-17
   Vehicles and Traffic
   New Mexico vehicle code
   NMSA 1978 Ch. 66
   Adoption of traffic code
   NMSA 1978 § 3-17-6
   Powers of local authorities
   NMSA 1978 §§ 66-7-8, 66-7-9, 66-7-215
   Drunk driving penalty
   NMSA § 3-17-1(C)(2)
   Parking
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-30 and Art. 3-50
   Toll bridges
   NMSA § 3-18-26
   Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places
   Streets, sidewalks and public grounds
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-49
   Parks and recreation
   NMSA 1978 §§ 3-18-18, 3-18-19
   Trees and shrubs
   NMSA 1978 §§ 3-18-27
   Improvement districts
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-33
   Public Services
   Municipal airports
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-39
   Municipal cemeteries
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-8 and Art. 3-40
   Public utility franchises
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-42
   Public utilities generally
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-23
   Electric utilities
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-24
   Cable television
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-23A
   Gas utilities
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-25
   Water facilities
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-25 and Art. 3-27
   Sewage facilities
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-25 and Art. 3-26
   Water or natural gas associations
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-28
   Revenue bonds
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-31
   Improvement districts
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-33
   Municipal transit
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-52
   Water use regulations
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-53
   Refuse collection and disposal
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-48
   Flood control
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-41
   Fire fighting facilities
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-35
   Libraries
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-14
   Buildings and Construction
   Dangerous buildings
   NMSA 1978 § 3-18-5
   Building codes and Fire zones
   NMSA 1978 §§ 3-17-6, 3-18-6
   Subdivisions
   Subdivisions; planning and platting
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-20
   Zoning
   Zoning regulations
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-21
   Historic districts
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-22
   Manufactured housing and zoning
   NMSA 1978 Art. 3-21A
CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE
PRIOR CODE CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE
This table provides users with the legislative history and the current
disposition of the sections in the prior Lovington, New Mexico municipal code.
For example, prior code Section 1-1-1 currently appears in Chapter 1.04.
The legislative history information was derived from the code of the city of
Lovington, New Mexico, adopted February 5, 1971.
Prior Code §Ordinance History Herein
Prior Code §          Ordinance History               Herein
1-1-1                                                 1.04.010
1-1-2                                                 1.04.020
1-1-3                                                 1.04.030
1-1-4                                                 1.04.040
1-1-5                                                 1.04.050
1-1-6                                                 1.04.060
1-1-7                                                 1.04.070
2-1-1                                                 2.04.010
2-1-2                                                 2.08.010
2-1-3                                                 2.08.020
2-1-4                                                 2.08.030
2-1-5                                                 2.12.120
2-1-6                                                 2.08.040
2-1-7                                                 2.12.010
2-1-8                                                 2.12.130
2-1-9                                                 2.12.030
2-1-10                                                2.12.040
2-1-11                                                2.12.020
2-1-12                                                2.04.020
2-2-1                                                 2.12.040
2-2-2                                                 2.12.050
2-2-3                                                 2.12.060
2-2-4                                                 2.12.070
2-2-5                                                 2.12.080
2-2-6                                                 2.12.090
2-2-7                                                 2.12.100
2-2-8                                                 2.12.110
2-3-1                                                 1.08.010
2-3-2                                                 1.08.020
2-3-3                                                 1.08.030
2-3-4                                                 1.08.040
2-3-5                                                 Not codified
2-3-6                                                 1.08.050
2-3-7                                                 1.08.060
2-4-1                                                 2.16.010
2-4-2                                                 2.16.020
2-5-1                                                 3.08.010
2-5-2                                                 3.04.010
2-6-1                                                 2.28.010
2-6-2                                                 2.32.010
2-6-3 (part)                                          2.36.010
2-6-3 (part)                                          2.36.020
2-6-4 (part) (a-1)                                    Repealed by 444
2-6-4 (m)                                             Repealed by 444
2-6-5 (part)                                          2.20.010
2-6-5 (a-e)                                           2.20.020
2-6-5 (f)                                             2.20.030
3-1-1                                                 2.64.010
3-1-2                                                 2.64.020
3-1-3                                                 2.64.030
3-1-4                                                 2.64.040
3-1-5                                                 2.64.050
3-1-6                                                 2.64.060
3-1-7                                                 2.64.070
3-1-8                                                 2.64.080
3-2-1                                                 2.76.010
3-2-2                                                 2.76.020
3-2-3                                                 2.76.030
3-2-4                                                 2.76.040
3-2-5                                                 2.76.050
3-2-6                                                 2.76.060
3-2-7                                                 2.76.070
3-2-8                                                 2.76.080
3-2-9                                                 2.76.090
3-3-1                                                 2.68.010
3-4-1                                                 Repealed by 578
3-4-2                                                 Repealed by 578
3-4-3                                                 Repealed by 578
3-4-4                                                 Repealed by 578
3-4-5                                                 Repealed by 578
3-4-6                                                 Repealed by 578
3-4-7                                                 Repealed by 578
3-4-8                                                 Repealed by 578
3-4-9                                                 Repealed by 578
3-5-1                                                 2.72.010
3-5-2                                                 2.72.020
3-5-3                                                 2.72.030
3-5-4                                                 2.72.040
3-5-5                                                 2.72.050
3-5-6                                                 2.72.060
3-5-7                                                 2.72.070
3-5-8                                                 Repealed by 557
3-5-9                                                 Repealed by 557
3-6-5                                                 2.88.010
4-1-1                                                 2.40.010
4-1-2                                                 2.40.020
4-1-3                                                 2.40.030
4-1-4                                                 2.40.040
4-1-5                                                 2.40.050
4-1-6                                                 2.40.060
4-1-7                                                 2.40.070
4-1-8                                                 2.40.080
4-1-9                                                 2.40.090
6-1-10                                                2,40.100
4-2-1                                                 2,44.010
4-2-2                                                 2.44.020
4-2-3                                                 2.44.030
4-2-4                                                 2.44.050
4-2-5                                                 2.44.110
4-2-6                                                 2.44.060
4-2-7                                                 2.44.090
4-2-8                                                 2.44.130
4-2-9                                                 2.44.100
4-2-10                                                2.44.140
4-2-11                                                2.44.040
4-2-12                                                2.44.070
4-2-13                                                2.44.210
4-2-14                                                2.44.150
4-2-15                                                2.44,120
4-2-16                                                2.44,080
4-2-17                                                2.44.220
4-2-18                                                2.44.170
4-2-19                                                2.44.180
4-2-20                                                2.44.190
4-2-21                                                2.44.200
4-2-22                                                2.44.160
4-2-23                                                2.44.160
4-2-24                                                2.44.230
4-2-25                                                2.44.240
4-2-26                                                2.44.250
4-2-27                                                2.44.260
4-2-28                                                2.44.270
4-2-29                                                2.44.280
4-2-30                                                2.44.290
4-2-31                                                2.44.300
4-2-32                                                2,44.310
4-2-33                                                2,44.320
4-3-33                                                13.08,100
4-3-34                                                Not codified
4-3-35                                                Not codified
4-3-36                                                Not codified
4-3-37                                                Not codified
4-3-38                                                13.08.110
4-3-39                                                13.08.220
4-3-40                                                13.08.230
4-3-41                                                Not codified
4-3-42                                                13.08.210
4-3-43                                                Not codified
4-3-44                                                Not codified
4-3-45                                                Not codified
4-3-46                                                Not codified
4-3-47 (1)                                            Not codified
4-3-47 (2)                                            13.08.010
4-3-47 (3)                                            13.08.120
4-3-47 (4)                                            13.08.120
4-3-47 (5)                                            13.08.130
4-3-47 (6)                                            13.08.140
4-3-47 (7)                                            13.08.150
4-3-47 (8)                                            13.08.190
4-3-47 (9)                                            13.08.160
4-3-47 (10)                                           13.08.170
4-3-47 (11)                                           13.08.180
4-3-47 (12)                                           13.08.200
4-3-47 (13)                                           Not codified
4-3-47 (14)                                           Not codified
4-3-47 (15)                                           Not codified
4-3-47 (16)                                           13.08.040
4-3-47 (17)                                           13.08.050
4-3-47 (18)                                           Not codified
4-3-47 (19)                                           Not codified
4-3-47 (20)                                           Not codified
4-4-1                                                 2.52.010
4-4-2                                                 12.08.010
4-4-3                                                 12.08.140
4-4-4                                                 12.08.060
4-4-5                                                 12.08.150
4-4-6                                                 12.08.090
4-4-7                                                 12.08.130
4-4-8                                                 12.12.010
4-4-9                                                 12.04.070
4-4-10                                                12.04.080
4-4-11                                                12.12.020
4-4-12                                                12.12.030
4-4-13                                                12.12.040
4-4-14                                                12.12.050
4-4-15                                                12.04.050
4-4-16                                                12.04.060
4-4-17                                                12.04.060
4-4-18                                                12.04.130
4-4-19                                                12.04.150
4-4-20                                                12.04.160
4-4-21                                                12.04.120
4-4-22                                                12.04.010
4-4-23                                                12.04.020
4-4-24                                                12.04.030
4-4-25                                                12.04.040
4-4-26                                                12.04.100
4-4-27                                                12.04.100
4-4-28                                                12.04.140
4-4-29                                                12.08.010
4-4-30                                                12.04.090
4-4-31                                                12.04.090
4-4-32                                                12.08.020
4-4-33                                                12.08.080
4-4-34                                                12.08.100
4-4-35                                                12.08.110
4-4-36                                                12.08.120
4-4-37                                                12.08.070
4-4-38                                                12.16.010
4-4-39                                                12.16.010
4-4-40                                                12.16.010
4-4-41                                                12.16.030
4-4-42                                                12.16.040
4-4-43                                                12.16.020
4-4-44                                                12.16.050
4-4-45                                                12.16.060
4-4-46                                                12.08.030
4-4-47                                                12.08.040
4-4-48                                                12.08.050
4-5-1                                                 Repealed by 342
4-5-1                                                 2.48.010
4-5-2                                                 Repealed by 342
4-5-2                                                 8.16.010
4-5-3                                                 Repealed by 342
4-5-3                                                 8.16.040
4-5-3.1                                               8.16.080
4-5-3.2                                               8.16.080
4-5-4                                                 Repealed by 342
4-5-4                                                 8.16.050
4-5-4.1                                               8.16.070
4-5-5                                                 Repealed by 342
4-5-5                                                 8.16.060
4-5-5.1                                               8.16.100
4-5-5.2                                               8.16.090
4-5-6                                                 Repealed by 342
4-5-6                                                 8.16.140
4-5-7                                                 Repealed by 342
4-5-7                                                 8.16.150
4-5-8                                                 Repealed by 342
4-5-8                                                 8.16.150
4-5-9                                                 Repealed by 342
4-5-9                                                 8.16.160
4-5-10                                                Repealed by 342
4-5-10                                                8.16.180
4-5-11                                                Repealed by 342
4-5-11                                                8.16.190
4-5-12                                                Repealed by 342
4-5-12                                                8.16.170
4-5-13                                                Repealed by 342
4-5-13                                                8.16.170
4-5-14                                                Repealed by 342
4-5-14                                                8.16.210
4-5-15                                                Repealed by 342
4-5-15                                                8.16.210
4-5-16                                                Repealed by 342
4-5-16                                                8.16.210
4-5-17                                                Repealed by 342
4-5-17                                                8.16.210
4-5-18                                                Repealed by 342
4-5-18                                                8.16.210
4-5-19                                                Repealed by 342
4-5-19                                                8.16.220
4-5-20                                                Repealed by 342
4-5-20                                                8.16.230
4-5-21                                                Repealed by 342
4-5-21                                                8.16.230
4-5-22                                                Repealed by 342
4-5-22                                                8.16.170
4-5-23                                                Repealed by 342
4-5-23                                                8.16.240
4-5-24                                                Not codified
4-5-24                                                8.16.200
4-5-25                                                Not codified
4-5-25                                                .
                                                       8.16.130
4-5-26                                                Not codified
4-5-26                                                8.16.020
4-5-27                                                Not codified
4-5-27                                                8.16.110
4-5-28                                                Not codified
4-5-28                                                8.16.110
4-5-29                                                Not codified
4-5-29                                                8.16.120
4-5-30                                                Not codified
4-5-30                                                8.16.250
4-5-31                                                Not codified
4-5-31                                                8.16.030
4-5-32                                                Not codified
4-5-33                                                Not codified
4-5-34                                                Not codified
4-5-35                                                Not codified
4-5-36                                                Not codified
4-5-37                                                Not codified
4-5-38                                                Not codified
4-5-39                                                Not codified
4-5-40                                                Not codified
4-5-41                                                Not codified
4-5-42                                                Not codified
4-5-43                                                Not codified
4-5-44                                                Not codified
4-5-45                                                Not codified
4-5-46                                                Not codified
4-5-101                                               8.28.010
4-5-102                                               8.28.050
4-5-103                                               8.28.060
4-5-104                                               8.28.020
4-5-105                                               8.28.030
4-5-106                                               8.28.040
4-5-107                                               8.28.070
4-5-201                                               8.08.010
4-5-202                                               8.08.020
4-5-203                                               8.08.030
4-5-204                                               8.08.060
4-5-205                                               8.08.080
4-5-206                                               8.08.070
4-5-207                                               8.08.040
4-5-208                                               8.08.050
4-5-209                                               8.08.090
4-5-210                                               8.08.100
4-5-211                                               8.08.110
4-5-212                                               8.08.120
4-5-213                                               8.08.130
4-5-214                                               8.08.140
4-5-301                                               8.04.010
4-5-351                                               8.04.020
4-5-352                                               8.04.030
4-6-1                                                 15.20.010
4-6-2                                                 15.20.020
4-6-3                                                 15.20.030
4-6-4                                                 15.20.040
4-6-5                                                 15.20.050
4-6-6                                                 15.20.060
4-6-7                                                 15.20.070
4-6-8                                                 15.20.070
4-6-9                                                 15.20.080
4-6-10                                                15.20.090
4-6-11                                                15.20.100
4-6-12 (a)                                            15.20.110
4-6-12 (b)                                            15.20.120
4-6-12 (c)                                            15.20.130
4-6-13                                                Number not used
4-6-14                                                15.20.140
5-1-1                                                 2.56.010
5-2-1                                                 2.60.010
5-2-2                                                 2.60.020
5-2-3                                                 2.60.030
5-2-4                                                 2.60.040
5-2-5                                                 2.60.050
5-2-6                                                 2.60.070
5-2-7                                                 2.60.060
5-2-8                                                 2.56.020
5-2-9                                                 2.56.030
5-2-10                                                2.56.040
5-2-11                                                2.56.050
5-2-12                                                1.16.010
5-2-13                                                2.56.060
5-2-13.1                                              1.16.020
5-2-14                                                1.16.030
5-2-15                                                1.16.040
5-2-16                                                1.16.050
5-2-17                                                1.16.060
5-2-18                                                1.12.010
5-3-1                                                 2.56.070
5-3-2                                                 2.56.080
6-1 (part)                                            Ch. 2.92
6-1-1                                                 Ch. 2.92
6-1-2                                                 Ch. 2.92
6-1-3                                                 Ch. 2.92
6-1-4                                                 Ch. 2.92
6-1-5                                                 Ch. 2.92
6-1-6                                                 Ch. 2.92
6-1-7                                                 Ch. 2.92
6-1-8                                                 Ch. 2.92
6-1-9                                                 Ch. 2.92
6-1-10                                                Ch. 2.92
6-1-11                                                Ch. 2.92
6-1-12 (a)                                            Ch. 2.92
6-1-12 (b)                                            Ch. 2.92
6-1-12 (c)                                            Ch. 2.92
6-1-12 (d)                                            Ch. 2.92
6-1-12 (e, f)                                         Ch. 2.92
6-1-12 (g)                                            Ch.2.92
6-1-12 (h)                                            Ch. 2.92
6-l-12(i)                                             Ch. 2.92
6-1-12 0)                                             Ch. 2.92
6-1-12 (k)                                            Ch. 2.92
6-1-12(1)                                             Ch. 2.92
6-1-12 (m)                                            Ch. 2.92
6-1-12 (n)                                            Ch. 2.92
6-I-I3 (a)                                            Ch. 2.92
6-1-13 (b)                                            Ch. 2.92
6-1-13 (c)                                            Ch.2.92
6-1-13 (d)                                            Ch. 2.92
6-1-13 (e)                                            Ch. 2.92
6-1-13(0                                              Ch. 2.92
6-1-13 (g)                                            Ch. 2.92
7-1-1                                                 9.08.010
7-1-2                                                 9.08.020
7-1-3                                                 9.20.010
7-1-4                                                 9.20.020
7-1-5                                                 9.16.010
7-1-6                                                 9.16.020
7-1-6.1                                               9.20.130
7-1-7                                                 9.16.030
7-1-8                                                 9.16.080
7-1-9                                                 9.16.090
7-1-10                                                9.16.040
7-1-11                                                Not codified
7-1-12                                                9.16.060
7-1-13                                                9.20.180
7-1-14 (a)                                            9.28.010
7-1-14 (b)                                            9.28.020
7-1-14 (c)                                            9.28.030
7-1-14 (d)                                            9.28.040
7-1-14 (e)                                            9.28.050
7-1-14 (f)                                            9.28.060
7-1-14 (g)                                            9.28.070
7-1-14 (h)                                            9.28.080
7-1-14 (i)                                            9.28.090
7-1-15                                                9.28.100
7-1-16                                                9.16.100
7-1-17                                                9.20.030
7-1-18                                                8.20.010
7-1-19                                                9.20.190
7-1-20                                                9.04.010
7-1-21                                                9.04.020
7-1-22                                                9.04.050
7-1-23                                                9.04.030
7-1-24                                                9.04.040
7-1-25                                                9.04.070
7-1-26                                                9.16.050
7-1-27                                                9.16.070
7-1-28-,                                              8.20.020
7-1-29                                                9.04.050
7-1-30                                                9.04.060
7-1-31                                                9.12.080
7-1-31.1                                              9.12.080
7-1-32                                                9.12.090
7-2-1                                                 9.20.090
7-2-2                                                 9.20.100
7-2-3                                                 9.20.100
7-2-4                                                 9.20.110
7-2-5                                                 9.20.040
7-2-6                                                 9.20.050
7-2-7                                                 9.20.060
7-2-8                                                 9.20.070
7-2-9                                                 9.20.120
7-2-10                                                9.20.160
7-2-11                                                9.20.170
7-2-12                                                9.20.120
7-2-13                                                9.20.080
7-2-14                                                9.20.150
7-3-1                                                 9.12.010
7-3-2                                                 9.12.020
7-3-3                                                 9.12.030
7-3-4                                                 9.12.060
7-3-5                                                 9.12.070
7-3-6                                                 9.12.040
7-3-7                                                 9.20.140
7-3-8                                                 9.12.100
7-3-9                                                 9.04.080
7-3-10                                                8.04.040
7-3-11                                                9.12.110
7-3-12                                                8.04.030
7-3-13                                                9.20.210
7-3-14                                                Not codified
7-3-15                                                Not codified
7-3-16 (part)                                         5.44.010
7-3-16 (part)                                         5.44.030
7-3-16 (part)                                         5.44.040
7-3-17                                                5.44.050
7-3-18                                                5.44.020
7-4-1                                                 9.24.010
7-4-2                                                 9.24.020
7-4-3                                                 9.24.030
7-4-4                                                 9.24.090
7-4-5                                                 9.24.060
7-4-6                                                 9.24.100
7-4-7 (a)                                             9.24.050
7-4-7 (b)                                             9.24.070
7-4-7 (c)                                             9.24.080
7-4-8                                                 9.24.140
7-4-9                                                 9.24.040
7-4-10                                                9.24.120
7-4-11                                                9.24.110
7-4-12                                                9.24.130
7-4-13                                                9.24.130
7-5-1                                                 1.12.020
7-6-1                                                 8.12.010
7-6-2                                                 8.12.020
7-6-3                                                 8.12.030
7-6-4                                                 8.12.040
7-6-5                                                 8.12.060
7-6-6                                                 8.12.050
8-1-1                                                 5.36.020
8-1-2                                                 5.36.030
8-1-3                                                 5.36.040
8-1-4                                                 5.36.080
8-1-5                                                 5.36.060
8-1-6                                                 5.36.070
8-1-7                                                 5.36.010
8-1-8                                                 5.36.010
8-1-9                                                 5.36.050
8-1-10                                                5.36.090
9-1-1                                                 5.08.010
9-1-2                                                 5.08.020
9-1-3                                                 5.08.030
9-1-4                                                 5.08.040
9-1-5                                                 5.08.050
9-1-6                                                 5.08.060
9-1-7                                                 5.08.070
9-2-1                                                 5.08.080
9-2-2                                                 5.08.090
9-2-3                                                 5.08.100
9-2-4                                                 5.08.110
9-2-5                                                 5.08.130
9-2-6                                                 5.08.140
9-2-7                                                 5.08.150
9-2-8                                                 5.08.160
9-2-9                                                 5.08.120
9-2-10                                                5.08.170
9-2-11                                                5.08.390
9-2-12                                                5.08.180
9-2-13                                                5.08.200
10-1-1                                                6.24.010
10-3-29                                               6.08.150
10-3-30                                               6.08.160
10-3-31                                               Repealed by 502
10-3-32                                               Repealed by 502
10-3-33                                               6.08.200
10-3-34                                               6.08.180
10-3-35                                               6.08.130
10-3-36                                               6.08.230
10-3-37                                               6.08.240
10-3-38                                               6.08.250
10-3-39                                               6.08.260
10-3-40                                               6.08.300
10-3-41                                               6.08.220
10-3-42                                               6.08.210
10-3-43                                               6.08.280
10-3-44                                               6.08.270
10-3-45                                               6.08.290
10-3-46                                               6.04.060
10-4-1                                                6.12.010
10-4-2                                                6.12.030
10-4-3                                                6.12.020
10-4-4                                                6.12.040
10-4-5                                                6.12.050
10-4-6                                                6.12.060
10-4-7                                                6.12.070
10-4-8                                                Not codified
10-4-9                                                Not codified
11-1-1                                                17.04.010
11-1-2                                                17.04.030
11-2-1                                                17.12.010
11-2-2                                                17.12.020
11-2-3                                                17.12.040
11-2-4                                                17.12.050
11-2-5                                                17.16.020
11-3-1 (part)                                         17.20.010
11-3-1 (a)                                            17.20.020
11-3-1 (b)                                            17.20.030
11-3-1 (c)(1)                                         17.20.040
11-3-1 (c)(2)                                         17.20.050
11-3-1 (c)(3)                                         17.20.060
11-3-1 (c)(4)                                         17.20.070
11-3-1 (c)(5-12)                                      17.20.080
11-3-2 (a)                                            17,24.010
11-3-2 (b)                                            17.24.020
11-3-2 (c)                                            17.24.030
11-3-2 (d)                                            17.24.040
11-3-2 (e)(l, 2)                                      17.24.050
11-3-2 (e)(3)                                         17.24.060
11-3-3 (a)                                            17.28.010
11-3-3 (b)(lA)                                        17.28.020
11-3-3 (b)(5)                                         17.28.030
11-3-3 (c)                                            17.28.040
11-3-3 (d)                                            17.28.050
11-3-3 (e)(3)                                         17.28.060
11-3-3 (e)(2)                                         17.28.070
11-3-3 (e)(3)                                         17.28.080
11-3-3 (e)(4)                                         17.28.090
11-3-3 (e)(5)                                         17.28.100
11-3-4 (a)                                            17.32.010
11-3-4 (b)                                            17.32.020
11-3-4 (c)                                            17.32.030
11-3-4 (d)(1)                                         17.32.040
11-3-4 (d)(2)                                         17.32.050
11-3-4 (d)(3)                                         17.32.060
11-3-4 (d)(4)                                         17.32.070
11-3-5 (a)                                            17.40.010
11-3-5 (b)                                            17.40.020
11-3-5 (c)                                            17.40.030
11-3-5 (d)                                            17.40.040
11-3-5 (e)                                            17.40.030
11-3-5 (0                                             17.40.050
11-3-6                                                17.36.010
11-3-7 (a)(part)                                      17.16.010
11-3-7 (a)(l-3)                                       17.16.030
11-3-7 (a)(4,5)                                       17.16.040
11-3-7 (a)(6-9)                                       17.16.050
11-3-7 (a)(10)                                        17.16.060
11-3-7(8X11, 12)                                      17.16.070
11-3-8 (a)                                            17.08.010
11-3-8 (b)                                            17.08.020
11-3-8 (c)                                            17.08.040
11-3-8 (d)                                            17.08.030
11-3-9 (a-d)                                          17.08.050
11-3-9 (e)(1)                                         17.08.050
11-3-9 (e)(2-5)        17.08.060
11-3-10 (a)                                           17.08.070
11-3-10 (b-f)                                         17.08.080
11-3-10 (g)                                           17.08.090
11-3-10 (h)                                           17.08.100
11-3-10 (i)                                           17.08.110
11-3-10 (j)                                           17.08.120
11-3-10 (k)                                           17.08.130
11-3-10 (l)                                           17.08.140
11-3-10 (m)                                           17.08.150
11-3-10 (n-o)                                         17.08.160
11-3-11                                               17.16.030
11-3-12                                               17.04.020
11-3-13                                               17.12.170
11-3-14 (a)                                           17.08.180
11-3-14 (b)                                           17.08.190
11-3-15                64-1-5 N.M.S.A. 1953            Not codified
12-1-1                                                Not codified
12-1-2                                                Not codified
12-1-3                                                Not codified
12-1-4                 64-14-4E N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-1-5                 64-14-4G N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-1-6                 64-1-6E N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-1-7                 64-14-20A N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-8                 64-13-37C N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-9                 64-13-33C N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-10                64-14-16G N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-11                64-14-18 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-1-12                                               Not codified
12-1-13                                               Not codified
12-1-14                64-1-17A N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-1-15                                               Not codified
12-1-16                64-14-13C N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-17                                               Not codified
12-1-18                                               Not codified
12-1-19                                               Not codified
12-1-20                                               Not codified
12-1-21                                               Not codified
12-1-22                                               Not codified
12-1-23                64-14-8C N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-1-24                64-1-6B, 64-14-4B N.M.S.A. 1953 Not codified
12-1-25                64-1-6C, 64-14-4C N.M.S.A. 1953 Not codified
12-1-26                64-20-2 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-1-27                64-1-16 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-1-28                                               Not codified
12-1-29                64-14-21A N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-30                64-13-33B N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-31                64-1-15B, 64-13-33D, 64-14-13D  Not codified
                       N.M.S.A. 1953
12-1-32                64-14-24C N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-33                                               Not codified
12-1-34                64-14-13B N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-35                64-1-15A, 64-14-13A, 64-13-33A  Not codifiedNot codified
                       N.M.S.A 1953
12-1-36                64-14-7A N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-1-37                64-1-22,64-14-14 N.M.S.A. 1953  Not codified
12-1-38                64-14-16B N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-39                                               Not codified
12-1-40                64-14-21C N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-41                64-14-20B N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-42                64-13-37B N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-43                64-14-23 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-1-44                64-14-19 N.M.S.A 1953           Not codified
12-1-45                64-1-6D, 64-13-32D N.M.S.A 1953 Not codified
12-1-46                64-14-16D N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-47                                               Not codified
12-1-48                                               Not codified
12-1-49                                               Not codified
12-1-50                64-14-24A N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-51                64-14-24B N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-52                64-14-16 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-1-53                64-13-37A N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-54                64-1-6F N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-1-55                64-14-16F N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-56                64-14-22 N.M.S.A 1953           Not codified
12-1-57                64-14-21B N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-1-58                64-1-8A N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-1-59                64-1-6A, 64-13-32A, 64-14-4A    Not codified
                       N.M.S.A. 1953
12-1-60                64-14-25 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-2-1                                                Not codified
12-2-2                                                Not codified
12-2-3                                                Not codified
12-2-4                                                Not codified
12-2-5                 64-17-7C N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-2-6                                                Not codified
12-2-7                                                Not codified
12-2-8                                                Not codified
12-2-9                                                Not codified
12-2-10                                               Not codified
12-3-1                                                Not codified
12-3-2                                                Not codified
12-3-3                                                Not codified
12-3-4                 64-15-5 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-3-5                 64-15-6 RM.S.A. 1953            Not codified
12-3-6                                                Not codified
12-3-7                 64-15-4 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-4-1                 64-17-2 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-4-2                                                Not codified
12-4-3                 64-17-3 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-4-4                 64-17-4 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-4-5                 64-17-5 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-4-6                 64-17-8(A) N.M.S.A 1953         Not codified
12-4-7                 64-17-7, 64-17-8B,64-17-7(B),   Not codified
                       64-17-7(C) N.M.S.A.1953
12-4-8                 64-17-12 N.M.S.A.               Not codified
12-4-9                                                Not codified
12-4-10                64-17-13 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-5-1                                                Not codified
12-5-2                 64-16-3 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-5-3                 64-16-4A N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-5-4                 64-16-4 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-5-5                                                Not codified
12-5-6.1               64-16-5 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-5-6.2               64-16-5 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-5-6.3                                              Not codified
12-5-7                 64-16-6 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-5-8                 64-16-7 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-5-9                                                Not codified
12-5-10                64-16-8 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-5-11                64-16-9 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-5-12                                               Not codified
12-5-13                                               Not codified
12-5-14                                               Not codified
12-6-1.1                                              Not codified
12-6-1.2               64-18-1.1, 64-18-1.1C N.M.S.A.  Not codified
                       1953
12-6-1.3               64-18-2.1B, 64-18-2.1E, 64-18-  Not codified
                       2.1D N.M.S.A. 1953
12-6-1.4                                              Not codified
12-6-1.5               64-18-4A, 64-18-4B N.M.S.A 1953 Not codified
12-6-1.6               64-18-76A, 4-18-7B N.M.S.A 1953 Not codified
12-6-2.1               64-18-8A1, 64-18-8A3, 64-18-    Not codified
                       8A4, 64-18-8B N.M.S.A. 1953
12-6-2.2               64-18-9 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-6-2.3               64-18-10 N.M.S.A 1953           Not codified
12-6-2.4               64-18-12 N.M.S.A 1953           Not codified
12-6-2.5               64-18-13 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-2.6               64-18-11 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-2.7               64-18-14 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-2.8                                              Not codified
12-6-2.9                                              Not codified
12-6-2.10              64-18-15C N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-6-2.11                                             Not codified
12-6-2.12              64-18-16B, 64-18-16C N.M.S.A.   Not codified
                       1953
12-6-2.13              64-18-17A N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-6-2.14              64-18-18 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-2.15              64-18-19 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-2.16                                             Not codified
12-6-3.1                                              Not codified
12-6-3.2                                              Not codified
12-6-3.3                                              Not codified
12-6-4.1               64-18-27 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-4.2               64-18-28 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-4.3               64-18-44B, 64-18-44C, 64-18-44  Not codified
                       N.M.S.A 1953
12-6-5.1               64-18-21 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-5.2                                              Not codified
12-6-5.3                                              Not codified
12-6-5.4                                              Not codified
12-6-5.5                                              Not codified
12-6-5.6               64-18-22 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-5.7                                              Not codified
12-6-5.8               64-18-24A, 64-18-24B, 64-18-    Not codified
                       24C, N.M.S.A. 1953
12-6-5.9               64-18-25 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-5.10                                             Not codified
12-6-6.1                                              Not codified
12-6-6.2                                              Not codified
12-6-6.3                                              Not codified
12-6-6.4                                              Not codified
12-6-6.5                                              Not codified
12-6-6.6                                              Not codified
12-6-6.7                                              Not codified
12-6-6.8                                              Not codified
12-6-6.9                                              Not codified
12-6-6.10                                             Not codified
12-6-6.11                                             Not codified
12-6-6.12                                             Not codified
12-6-6.13              64-18-52 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-7.1               64-18-45 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-7.2                                              Not codified
12-6-7.3               64-18-46 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-7.4               64-18-31 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-7.5               64-18-40 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-7.6               64-18-41 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-7.7               64-18-42 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-7.8               64-18-43 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-8.1                                              Not codified
12-6-8.2                                              Not codified
12-6-8.3                                              Not codified
12-6-8.4                                              Not codified
12-6-9.1                                              Not codified
12-6-9.2                                              Not codified
12-6-9.3                                              Not codified
12-6-9.4                                              Not codified
12-6-10                64-18-35 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-11.1                                             Not codified
12-6-11.2                                             Not codified
12-6-12.1              64-22-2A N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-12.2              64-22-2 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-6-12.3              64-22-3 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-6-12.4                                             Not codified
12-6-12.5                                             Not codified
12-6-12.6              64-13-66 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-12.7                                             Not codified
12-6-12.8                                             Not codified
12-6-12.9              64-18-54A, 64-18-54B N.M.S.A.   Not codified
                       1953
12-6-12.10                                            Not codified
12-6-12.11             64-18-57 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-12.12             64-18-59 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-12.13             64-18-60 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-12.14             64-18-61 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-12.15                                            Not codified
12-6-12.16                                            Not codified
12-6-12.17                                            Not codified
12-6-12.18                                            Not codified
12-6-12.19             64-22-3.2 N.M.S.A. 1953         Not codified
12-6-12.20                                            Not codified
12-6-12.21                                            Not codified
12-6-12.22             64-22-6 N.M.S.A 1953            Not codified
12-6-12.23             64-13-69,                       Not codified
64-13-70 N.M.S.A. 1953 Not codified
12-6-13.1                                             Not codified
12-6-13.2                                             Not codified
12-6-13.3                                             Not codified
12-6-13.4                                             Not codified
12-6-13.5              64-18-63 N.M.S.A 1953           Not codified
12-6-13.6                                             Not codified
12-6-13.7                                             Not codified
12-6-13.8              64-18-66 N.M.S.A 1953           Not codified
12-6-13.9              64-18-65 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-6-13.10                                            Not codified
12-6-14.1                                             Not codified
12-6-14.2                                             Not codified
12-6-14.3              64-18-37 N.M.S.A 1953           Not codified
12-6-14.4                                             Not codified
12-6-14.5                                             Not codified
12-6-14.6                                             Not codified
12-6-14.7                                             Not codified
12-6-14.8                                             Not codified
12-6-14.9                                             Not codified
12-6-15                                               Not codified.
12-7-1                                                Not codified
12-7-2                                                Not codified
12-7-3                                                Not codified
12-7-4                 64-18-55 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-7-5                 64-18-55 N.M.S.A 1953           Not codified
12-7-6                 64-18-55.1 N.M.S.A. 1953        Not codified
12-7-7                                                Not codified
12-8-1                                                Not codified
12-8-2                                                Not codified
12-8-3                                                Not codified
12-8-4                                                Not codified
12-8-5                                                Not codified
12-8-6                                                Not codified
12-8-7                                                Not codified
12-8-8                                                Not codified
12-8-9                                                Not codified
12-8-10                                               Not codified
12-8-11                                               Not codified
12-8-12                                               Not codified
12-8-13                                               Not codified
12-8-14                                               Not codified
12-8-15                                               Not codified
12-8-16                                               Not codified
12-8-17                                               Not codified
12-8-18                                               Not codified
12-8-19                                               Not codified
12-8-20                                               Not codified
12-8-21                                               Not codified
12-8-22                                               Not codified
12-8-23                                               Not codified
12-9-1.1               64-20-1 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-9-1.2                                              Not codified
12-9-1.3               64-20-2 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-9-1.4               64-20-3 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-9-1.5               64-20-4(a), 64-20-4(b), 64-20-4 Not codified
                       (c), N.M.S.A. 1953
12-9-1.6                                              Not codified
12-9-1.7               64-20-5 N.M.S.A. 1953           . Not codified
12-9-1.8               64-20-6 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-9-1.9               64-20-7, 64-20-28 N.M.S.A. 1953 Not codified
12-9-1.10              64-20-44 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-9-1.11              64-20-24 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-9-1.12              64-20-46 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-9-1.13                                             Not codified
12-9-1.14                                             Not codified
12-9-1.15                                             Not codified
12-9-2                                                Not codified
12-9-3.1                                              Not codified
12-9-3.2                                              Not codified
12-9-3.3                                              Not codified
12-9-4                                                Not codified
12-9-5                 64-3-13 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-9-6                 64-3-11 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-10-1                                               Not codified
12-10-2                                               Not codified
12-10-3                64-22-8 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-10-4                                               Not codified
12-10-5                64-22-8.2,                      Not codified
                      64-22-7 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-10-6                64-22-9 N.M.S.A. 1953           Not codified
12-10-7                64-22-11.1 N.M.S.A. 1953        Not codified
12-10-8                64-22-13 N.M.S.A. 1953          Not codified
12-10-9                64-2-15 N.M.S.A 1953            Not codified
12-10-10                                              Not codified
12-10-11                                              Not codified
12-10-12                                              Not codified
12-10-13                                              Not codified
12-10-14                                              Not codified
12-10-15                                              Not codified
12-10-16                                              Not codified
13-1-1                                                5.12.010
13-1-2                                                5.12.020
13-1-3                                                5.12.030
14-1-1                                                15.04.010
14-1-2                                                15.04.020
14-2-1                                                15.12.010
14-3-1                                                5.16.010
14-3-2                                                5.16.020
14-3-3                                                5.16.030
14-3-4                                                5.16.040
14-3-5                                                5.16.050
14-3-6                                                5.16.060
14-3-7                                                5.16.070
14-4-1 (a)                                            5.16.010
14-4-1 (b)                                            5.16.010
14-4-1 (c)                                            5.16.020
14-4-1 (d)                                            5.16.030
14-4-1 (e)                                            5.16.040
14-4-1 (f)                                            5.16.050
15-1-1                                                5.24.010
15-1-2                                                5.24.020
15-1-3                                                5.24.030
15-1-4                                                5.24.040
15-1-5                                                5.24.050
15-1-6                                                5.24.060
15-1-7                                                5.24.090
15-1-8                                                5.24.100
15-1-9                                                5.24.070
15-1-10                                               5.24.080
16-1-1                                                15.08.010
16-1-2                                                15.08.020
16-1-3                                                15.08.030
16-1-4                                                15.08.040
16-1-5                                                15.08.040
16-1-6                                                15.08.040
16-1-7                                                15.08.050
16-1-8                                                15.08.060
16-1-9                                                15.08.070
16-1-10                                               15.08.080
16-1-11                                               15.08.090
16-1-12                                               15.08.100
16-1-13                                               15.08.110
16-1-14                                               15.08.120
16-1-15                                               15.08.130
16-1-16                                               15.08.140
16-1-17                                               15.08.150
16-1-18                                               15.08.160
16-1-19                                               15.08.170
16-1-20                                               15.08.180
16-1-21                                               15.08.190
16-1-22                                               15.08.200
16-1-23                                               15.08.210
16-1-24                                               15.08.220
16-2-1                                                15.08.330
16-2-2                                                15.08.240
16-2-3                                                15.08.250
16-2-4                                                15.08.260
17-1-1                                                9.12.050
17-1-2                                                9.12.050
17-1-3                                                9.12.050
17-1-4                                                9.12.050
17-1-5                                                9.12.050
17-1-6                                                9.12.050
17-1-7                                                9.12.050
18-1-1                                                5.32.010
18-1-2                                                5.32.020
18-1-3                                                5.32.030
18-1-4                                                5.32.050
18-1-5                                                5.32.040
18-1-6                                                5.32.080
18-1-7                                                5.32.100
18-1-8                                                5.32.090
18-1-9                                                5.32.060
18-1-10                                               5.32.070
18-1-11                                               5.32.110
18-1-12                                               5.32.120
18-1-13                                               5.32.130
18-1-14                                               5.32.140
19-1-1                                                5.04.010
19-1-2                                                5.04.020
19-1-3                                                Repealed by 308
19-1-3                                                5.04.040
19-1-4                                                Repealed by 308
19-1-4                                                5.04.030
19-1-5                                                5.04.050
19-1-6*                                               5.04.060
19-1-6*                                               5.04.080
* Editor's Note: Ord. 308 added two sections numbered 19-1-6.
19-1-7                                                Repealed by 308
19-1-7                                                5.04.070
19-1-8                                                Repealed by 308
19-1-8                                                5.04.100
19-1-9                                                Repealed by 308
19-1-9                                                5.04.110
19-1-10                                               5.04.120
19-1-11                                               5.04.090
19-1-12                                               5.20.010
19-1-13                                               Not codified
21-1-10                                               12.20.090
21-1-11                                               12.20.100
21-1-12                                               12.20.190
21-1-13                                               12.20.110
21-1-14                                               12.20.200
21-1-15                                               12.20.210
21-1-16                                               12.20.120
21-1-17                                               12.20.140
21-1-18                                               12.20.150
21-1-19                                               12.20.160
21-1-20                                               12.20.170
21-1-21                                               12.20.180
21-1-22                                               12.20.130
21-2-1                                                12.20.260
21-2-2                                                12.20.230
21-2-3                                                12.20.240
21-2-4                                                12.20.270
21-2-5                                                12.20.250
21-2-6                                                12.20.280
21-2-7                                                12.20.290
21-2-8                                                12.20.220
22-1-1                                                5.48.010
22-1-2                                                Not codified
22-1-3                                                5.48.200
22-1-4                                                5.48.270
22-1-5                                                5.48.210
22-1-6                                                5.48.220
22-1-7                                                5.48.300
22-1-8                                                5.48.280
22-1-9                                                5.48.290
22-2-1                                                5.48.020
22-2-2                                                5.48.030
22-2-3                                                5.48.040
22-2-4                                                5.48.050
22-2-5                                                5.48.050
22-2-6                                                5.48.060
22-2-7                                                5.48.060
22-2-8                                                5.48.070
22-2-9                                                5.48.080
22-2-10                                               5.48.090
22-3-1                                                5.48.100
22-3-2                                                5.48.110
22-3-3                                                5.48.120
22-3-4                                                5.48.130
22-3-5                                                5.48.150
22-3-6                                                5.48.140
22-3-7                                                5.48.160
22-3-8                                                5.48.170
22-3-9                                                5.48.190
22-3-10                                               5.48.180
22-4-1                                                5.48.230
22-4-2                                                5.48.230
22-4-3                                                5.48.230
22-4-4                                                5.48.230
22-4-5                                                5.48.250
22-4-6                                                5.48.240
22-4-7                                                5.48.260
23-1-1                                                5.52.010
23-1-2                                                Repealed by 531
23-1-3                                                5.52.150
23-2-1                                                5.52.160
23-2-2                                                Repealed by 531
23-2-3                                                Repealed by 531
23-2-4                                                Repealed by 531
23-3-1                                                Repealed by 531
23-3-2                                                Repealed by 531
23-3-3                                                Repealed by 531
23-3-4                                                Repealed by 531
23-3-5                                                Repealed by 531
23-4-1                                                5.52.020
23-4-2                                                5.52.030
23-4-3                                                5.52.070
23-4-4                                                Repealed by 531
23-4-5                                                Repealed by 531
23-4-6                                                5.52.070
23-4-7                                                5.52.040
23-4-8                                                5.52.080
23-5-1                                                9.20.200
23-5-2                                                9.20.200
24-1-1                                                Repealed by 516
24-1-2                                                Repealed by 516
24-1-3                                                Repealed by 516
24-1-4                                                Repealed by 516
24-1-5                                                Repealed by 516
24-1-6                                                Repealed by 516
24-1-7                                                Repealed by 516
24-1-8                                                Repealed by 516
24-1-9                                                Repealed by 516
24-1-10                                               Repealed by 516
24-1-11                                               Repealed by 516
24-1-12                                               Repealed by 516
24-1-13                                               Repealed by 516
24-1-14                                               Repealed by 516
24-1-15                                               Repealed by 516
24-1-16                                               Repealed by 516
24-1-17                                               Repealed by 516
24-1-18                                               Repealed by 516
24-1-19                                               Repealed by 516
24-1-20                                               Repealed by 516
24-2-1                                                5.56.010
24-2-2                                                5.56.020
24-2-3                                                5.56.030
24-2-4                                                5.56.070
24-2-5                                                5.56.040
24-2-6                                                5.56.080
24-2-7                                                5.56.050
24-2-8                                                5.56.120
24-2-9                                                5.56.090
24-2-10                                               5.56.100
24-2-11                                               5.56.140
24-2-12                                               5.56.150
24-2-13                                               5.56.160
24-2-14                                               5.56.110
24-2-15                                               5.56.060
24-2-16                                               5.56.130
24-2-17                                               5.56.080
24-2-18                                               5.56.170
24-2-19                                               5.56.180
24-2-20                                               5.56.190
24-3-1                                                5.28.010
24-3-2                                                5.28.020
24-3-3                                                5.28.030
24-3-4                                                5.28.040
24-3-5                                                5.28.050
24-3-6                                                5.28.070
24-3-7                                                5.28.080
24-3-8                                                5.28.100
24-3-9                                                5.28.100
24-3-10                                               5.28.060
24-3-11                                               5.28.120
24-3-12                                               5.28.110
24-3-13                                               5.28.130
24-3-14                                               5.28.150
24-3-15                                               5.28.160
24-3-16                                               5.28.140
24-3-17                                               5.28.090
24-3-18                                               5.28.170
24-3-19                                               5.28.180
24-3-20                                               5.28.190
24-                    3-23                            Not codified
25-                    1-1                             8.24.010
25-1-2                                                8.24.020
25-1-3                                                8.24.030
25-1-4                                                8.24.040
25-1-5                                                8.24.050
25-1-6                                                8.24.060
25-1-7                                                8.24.070
25-1-8                                                8.24.080
25-1-1*                                               Repealed by 468 (
25-1-2*                                               Repealed by 468
25-1-3*                                               Repealed by 468
25-1-4*                                               Repealed by 468
25-1-5*                                               Repealed by 468
Editor's Note: Ord. 358 added Chapter 25 to prior code. This chapter already
existed, therefore there are two sets of entries for prior code Chapter 25.
                                                      
 
ORDINANCE LIST AND DISPOSITION TABLE
Ordinance Number
Ordinance Number
218       Personnel merit system (Repealed by 435)
254       Rezone (Special)
255       Amends prior code § 4-3-16, water and sewers (13.12)
256       Amends prior code § 14-2-1 (d), fire zones (15.12)
257       Annexation (Special)
258       Amends prior code § 6-1-12 (n), discrimination in city employment (Repealed by
          435)
259       Annexation (Special)
260       Amends prior code § 6-1-12, personnel (Repealed by 435)
261       Amends prior code § 4-3-20, water and sewers (Repealed by 445)
262       Amends prior code § 11-3-14 (a), zoning enforcement (17.08)
263       Rezone (Special)
264       Amends prior code § 12-6-1.2 A. (1), speed limits (Not codified)
265       Amends prior code § 10-3-19, animals (6.20)
266       Amends prior code § 2-2-1, administration (2.12)
267       Amends prior code § 2-2-4, administration (2.12)
268       Annexation and rezone (Special)
269       Annexation (Special)
270       Municipal gross receipts tax (Not codified)
271       Flood hazard prevention (Not codified)
272       Rezone (Special)
273       Annexation (Special)
274       Bond issuance (Special)
275       Amends prior code § 5-2-5, personnel (2.60)
276       Rezone (Special)
277       Amends prior code § 6-1-12 (n), discrimination in city employment (Repealed by
          435)
278       Amends prior code § 4-3-24, water and sewer (13.08)
279       Amends prior code §§ 12-11-2, 12-11-3 and 12-11-15, repeals the 1974 Uniform
          Traffic Ordinance (Repealed by 300)
280       Amends prior code § 4-2-3, fire chief (2.44)
281       Amends prior code § 4-2-20, fire marshal (2.44)
282       Annexation and rezone (Special)
283       Water and sewer bonds (Special)
284       Water and sewer bonds (Special)
285       Water and sewer bonds (Special)
286       Amends prior code § 7-4-10, glue sale to minors (9.24)
287       Annexation (Special)
288       Annexation (Special)
289       Bond amendment (Special)
290       Alley vacation (Special)
291       Telephone company regulations (Not codified)
292       Bond issuance (Special)
293       Amends prior code § 4-5-14, garbage collection (Repealed by 342)
294       Amends prior code § 4-5-21, weed control (Repealed by 342)
295       Amends prior code § 4-5-22, weed control (Repealed by 342)
296       Amends prior code § 12-6-12.13, traffic (Not codified)
297       Amends prior code § 4-5-8, refuse burning (Repealed by 342)
298       Adds prior code § 7-1-6.1, outdoor lighting (9.20)
299       Street vacation (Special)
300       Adopts 1979 Uniform Traffic Ordinance and repeals 1978 edition (Repealed by 323)
301       Annexation and rezone (Special)
302       Adds prior code § 12-6-6.15, parking (Not codified)
303       Amends prior code § 6-1-12 (c) (1) and (2), personnel (Repealed by 435)
304       Adds prior code § 7-5-1, arrest procedure (1.12)
305       Amends prior code § 12-6-14.2 (A) and (B), pedestrians (Not codified)
306       Municipal gross receipts tax (Not codified)
307       Municipal gross receipts tax (Special)
          Adds prior code §§ 19-1-1-19-1-4 and 20-1-14; amends and renumbers prior code §§
308       19-1-5, 19-1-6, 19-1-10, 19-1-11,19-1-12; repeals prior code §§ 19-1-3, 19-1-4,
          19-1-7,19-1-8, and 19-1-9, business licenses (5.04, 5.20)
309       Camping in public parks (12.28)
310       Rename subdivision (Special)
311       Water and sewers (13.12)
312       City electric franchise (Special)
313       Amends prior code §§ 5-2-5 and 5-2-7, personnel (2.60)
314       Amends prior code §§ 24-2-1-24-2-17 and renumbered through 24-2-20, itinerant
          merchants (5.56)
315       Museum board (2.80)
316       Amends prior code § 4-3-16, water (13.12)
317       Amends prior code § 4-3-15, water rates (13.12)
318       Amends prior code § 4-3-14, water rates (13.12)
319       Correction fees for traffic violations (Not codified)
320       Amends § 11 of Ord. 311, water and sewers (13,12)
321       Child safety in motor vehicles (Not codified)
322       Bond issuance (Special)
323       Adopts 1983 Uniform Traffic Ordinance and repeals 1978 edition (Repealed by 362)
324       Amends prior code §§ 12-6-6.1 (16), 12-6-13.1, 12-6-14.9(B), traffic (Not
          codified)
325       Financial responsibility of motor vehicle operators (Not codified)
326       Amends prior code §§ 4-2-1- 4-2-21, fire department (2.44)
327       Adds prior code §§ 10-1-7,10- 1-8, 10-1-9 and 10-2-1, ani mals (6.16)
328       Amends § 2 of Ord. 315, museum board (2.80)
329       Adds prior code § 12-10-6; amends prior code § 23-6-12.1 (K), (P) and (S),
          vehicles and traffic (Not codified)
330       Amends prior code Ch. 7, Article 4, offenses relating to minors (9.24)
331       Amends prior code § 7-3-16, dance halls (5.44)
332       Adds prior code §§ 10-1-7 and 10-1-8; amends prior code §§ 10-1-6, 10-3-12, 10-3-
          46, animals (6.04, 6.08)
333       Municipal gross receipts tax (Not codified)
334       Annexation (Special)
335       Annexation (Special)
336       Amends prior code §§ 10-1-8 and 10-3-46, animals (6.04)
337       Adds prior code § 12-9-10, parking (Not codified)
          Adds prior code § 12-6-13.14; amends prior code §§ 12-2-5, 12-4-7, 12-6-1.2, 12-6-
338       1.3, 12-6-11.1, 12-6-12.1, 12-6-12.2, 12-6-12.6, 12-6-13.13, 12-7-9.1-12-7-9.6,
          12-10-4, 12-12-5, 12-12-6, vehicles and traffic (Not codified)
339       Adds prior code §§ 7-6-1-7-6-6, smoking in public places (8.12)
340       Adds prior code § 7-1-32, controlled substances (9.12)
341       Amends prior code § 7-1-9, drinking in public (9.16)
342       Repeals and replaces prior code §§ 4-5-1-4-5-23, garbage (2.48, 8.16)
343       Adds prior code §§ 4-6-1-4-6-14, flood damage prevention (15.20)
344       Amends prior code §§ 11-1-2,
11-3-1(c), carports (17.04, 17.20)
345       Amends prior code § 4-5-31, littering (8.16)
346       Amends prior code § 12-12-1.3, traffic violation corrections fee (Not codified)
347       Amends prior code § 12-6-12.2, driving under the influence (Not codified)
348       Adds prior code § 5-2-13.1, mandatory corrections fee (1.16)
349       Amends prior code § 5-2-13, municipal court (2.56)
350       Amends prior code §§ 3-2-1-3-2-9, library board (2.76)
351       Adds prior code Ch. 24, Article 3, garage sales (5.28)
352       Adds prior code §§ 4-5-3.1, 4-5-3.2,4-5-4.1,4-5-5.1,4-5-5.2, garbage (8.16)
353       Adds prior code § 4-5-107; amends and renumbers §§ 4-5-101-4-5-106, garbage (8.28)
354       Amends and renumbers prior code Ch. 4, Article 5, Division 3, restaurants (8.08)
355       Adds prior code § 4-5-352, renumbers Ch. 4, Article 5, Division 4, food products
          (8.04)
356       Amends prior code § 5-2-5, municipal judge salary (2.60)
K:        Amends prior code § 12-6-12.2(H), driving under the influence (Not codified)
start>357
358       Adds prior code Ch. 25, fair housing (Repealed by 468)
          Adds prior code § 12-6-13.15; amends prior code §§ 12-1-2, 12-1-5, 12-1-8, 12-1-
359       11, 12-1-20, 12-1-23, 12-1-30, 12-1-46, 12-1-53, 12-1-61, 12-1-65, 12-1-73, 12-1-
          80, 12-1-81, 12-3-4, 12-4-1, 12-4-10, 12-6-12.5, 12-6-12.11, 12-6-13.14, 12-10-6,
          12-12-8, vehicles and traffic (Not codified)
360       Adds prior code § 7-1-31.1, marijuana (9.12)
361       Municipal gross receipts tax (3.12)
362       Adopts 1990 Uniform Traffic Ordinance and repeals 1983 edition (10.04)
363       Grants franchise to Gas Company of New Mexico (Special)
          Amends prior code §§ 12-1-17, 12-1-19, 12-1-28, 12-4-6, 12-4-7, 12-6-1.3, 12-6-
364       12.2, 12-6-13.12, 12-6-13.14, 12-6-15, 12-7-5, 12-7-6, 12-10-1.1, 12-10-3.7 and
          12-10-6, vehicles and traffic (Not codified)
365       Fair housing (Repealed by 468)
366       Gross receipts tax (5.04)
          Adds§§
367       1.01.010-
          1.01.100, code adoption (1.01)
          Amends §§
368       8.16.040-
          8.16.110, garbage collection (8.16)
369       Amends §
          5.04.010, business registration fee (5.04)
370       Amends §
          2.76.020, library board (2.76)
          Amends §§
371       5.44.010 and
          5.44.030, dance halls (5.44)
372       Labor-management relations (Repealed by Ord. 460)
          Amends §§
373       5.08.080-
          5.08.110 and
          5.08.160, alcoholic beverages (5.08)
          Amends §§
374       8.12.010-
          8.12.040, smoking (8.12)
          Amends §§
375       13.12.050,
          13.12.060 and
          13.12.071, water rates (13.12)
376       Mandatory corrections fee (1.20)
377       Amends §
          5.20.010, circuses and carnivals (5.20)
378       Bond issue (Special)
379       Amends § 12-6-12.1 and 12-6-12.2, uniform traffic code (Not codified)
380       Amends § 12-6-12.6 and 12-6-12.7, uniform traffic codes (Not codified)
381       Regulations for rates charged to cable television subscribers (5.60)
382       Amends §
          6.16.030, potbellied pig (6.16)
383       Dedicates portion of municipal gross receipts tax (Special)
384       Amends §§ 4, 5, 6, 7 and 15 of fair housing ordinance (Repealed by 468)
385       Amends §
          6.16.030(B)(4), livestock and fowl (6.16)
386       Maximum penalty provisions (1.16)
387       Establishes enterprise zone (Special)
388 Loan agreement (Special)
          Amends §§
389       8.16.110 and
          8.16.120, garbage, refuse, weeds and litter; amends §
          13.12.040, rates, billing and collection (8.16)
          Amends §§
390       8.16.110and
          8.16.120, garbage, refuse, weeds and litter (8.16)
391       Dedicates portion of municipal gross receipts tax (Special)
392       Bond issue (Special)
          Adds §§
393       9.24.051-
          9.24.054; amends §
          9.24.050, offenses by or against minors (9.24)
394       City electric franchise (Special)
395       Amends Ord. 363, gas franchise (Special)
          Adds §§
396       9.24.150-
          9.24.155, offenses by or against minors (9.24)
          Amends §§ 12-1-47,12-1-49, 12-1-50, 12-1-51, 12-6-11.1, 12-6-11.2, 12-6-11.3,12-6-
397       12.1, 12-9-9, 12-10-4, 12-12-9 and 12-12-11, uniform traffic ordinance (Not
          codified)
398       Adds
          Ch. 3.16, lodger's tax (3.16)
399       Amends §
          2.12.010, city commission (2.12)
400       Amends §
          9.24.060, offenses by or against minors (9.24)
401       Amends §
          9.24.070, offenses by or against minors (9.24)
402       Amends §
          9.24.120, offenses by or against minors (9.24)
403       Amends
          Ch. 3.16, lodger's tax (3.16)
404       Bond issue (Special)
405       Rezone (Special)
406       Adds
          Ch. 17.22, manufactured homes and mobile homes (17.22)
407       Amends Ord. 404, bond issue (Special)
          Amends §§
408       13.12.050,
          13.12.060 and
          13.12.160(C), water rates (13.12)
409       Amends §
          2.60.050, municipal judge (2.60)
410       Adds§
          17.22.140(D), manufactured homes and mobile homes (17.22)
411       Amends § 12-6-12.2, uniform traffic code (Not codified)
412       Amends §
          8.16.110(C), garbage collection (8.16)
413       Amends §
          2.60.050, benefits and salary (2.60)
          Amends §§
414       1.20.010 through
          1.20.030, mandatory corrections fee (1.20)
415       Adds
          Ch. 8.30, oil and gas wells and pipelines (8.30)
416       (Pending)
          Amends §§
417       17.22.010-
          17.22.030, manufactured and mobile homes (17.22)
          Amends §§
418       8.30.120 and
          8.30.200, oil and gas wells and pipelines (8.30)
419       Amends §
          2.76.020, library board (2.76)
420       Adds
          Ch. 8.32, housing and sanitation facilities standards (8.32)
421       Amends §
          13.12.160, use charge schedule (13.12)
422       Amends §
          8.30.180, oil and gas wells and pipelines (8.30)
423       Amends §
          2.12.120, city commissioner compensation (2.12)
424       Franchise grant to Leaco Rural Telephone Cooperative, Inc. for telephone and
          communication services (Special)
425       Fireworks ordinance (8.20)
426       Fireworks control ordinance (8.20)
          Amends §§
427       13.12.050,
          13.12.060 and
          13.12.160, water rates and use charges (13.12)
          Amends §
428       8.16.110 and
          8.16.110(A) and (D), garbage collection fees (8.16)
          Amends §
429       8.16.110 and
          8.16.110(A)-(F), garbage collection fees (8.16)
430       (Pending)
431       (Pending)
432       Establishes times authorized for use of fireworks; amends Ords. 425 and 426 (8.20)
433       Amends §§ 12-6-7.4,12-6-13.12, 12-6-13.13 and 12-9-9; repeals §§ 12-6-13.14(D)(3)
          and 12-7-7(B) of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance (Not codified)
434       Adds
          Ch. 13.06, regulations for emergency water rationing (13.06)
435       Amends
          Ch. 2.92; repeals Ords. 218, 258,260,277 and 303, personnel merit system (2.92)
436       Amends Ord. 432, use of approved fireworks at special events (8.20)
437       Amends §
          8.16.110, garbage collection rates (8.16)
438       Amends § 2.12.011, commission districts (2.12)
439       Amends
          Ch. 15.20, flood damage prevention (15,20)
440       Amends Ord. 439, flood damage prevention (15.20)
441       Wastewater construction loan funding (Special)
          Amends §§
442       13.12.050,
          13.12.060,
          13.12.160, water rates (13.12)
443       Smoke-free environment in city buildings and cars (Not codified)
444       Repeals and replaces
          Ch. 2.24, city attorney (2.24)
          Adds§
445       13.12.111, repeals and replaces §§
          13.12.040 and
          13.12.090, rates, billing and collection (13.12)
446       Adds §
          8.30.290, oil and gas wells and pipelines (8.30)
447       Adds Title 16, subdivisions (16.01,16.02,16.03, 16.04, 16.05, 16.06)
448       Amends §
          8.16.110, garbage collection rates (8.16)
          Amends §
449       8.30.290, proximity of pipelines to water well, and adds§§
          8.30.300 through 8.30.520, oil and gas wells, and pipelines (8.30)
450       Amends prior code § 12-12-1.3, traffic violations corrections fee, judicial
          education fee and court automation fee (Not codified)
          Adds §§
451       2.68.020-
          2.68.050, department of emergency management (2.68)
          Adds §§
452       2.68.060-
          2.68.130, Emergency Interim Succession Act (2.68)
453       Economic development plan (Not codified)
454       Amends §
          6.12.020, vaccination of cats (6.12)
455       Amends §
          6.08.010, vaccination of dogs (6.08)
456       Amends §§ 12-1-1-12-13-6, Uniform Traffic Ordinance (Not codified)
457       Grants franchise to valor telecommunications of Texas (Special)
458       Amends §
          8.16.110, garbage, refuse, weeds and litter (8.16)
459       Amends §
          2.92.460, personnel merit system (2.92)
460       Repeals and replaces Ord. 372 (
          Ch. 2.96), labor management relations (2.96)
461       Amends
          Ch. 3.16, lodger's tax (3.16)
462       Adopts 2005 amendments to 2004 Uniform Traffic Ordinance (Not codified)
463       Authorizes sale of real property (Special)
464       Amends §
          8.16.110, garbage, refuse, weeks and litter (8.16)
465       Bond issuance (Special)
466       Amends §
          5.04.010, business registration and license fees (5.04)
          Amends §§
467       5.56.090 and
          5.56.100, transient and itinerant merchants and vendors (5.56)
468       Repeals and replaces
          Ch. 9.32, Ords. 365, 384 and Res. 41497-1, fair housing (9.32)
469       Amends prior code 4.7, personnel merit system (2.92)
470       Amends §
          13.12.050, rates, billing and collection (13.12)
471       Amends §
          13.12.060, rates, billing and collection (13.12)
472       Amends §
          13.12.160, rates, billing and collection (13.12)
473       Amends §
          13.12.040, rates, billing and collection (13.12)
474       Amends §
          8.16.110, garbage, refuse, weeds and litter (8.16)
475       Amends Ord. 441, wastewater construction loan funding (Special)
476       Adopts 2006 amendments to 2004 Uniform Traffic Ordinance (Not codified)
477       (Cancelled)
          Amends §§
478       8.20.020,
          8.20.050 and
          8.20.060, fireworks and explosives (8.20)
          Amends §§
479       2.16.010 and
          2.24.020, municipal officers (2.16, 2.24)
480       Loan agreement (Special)
481       Amends §
          8.16.110, garbage, refuse, weeds and litter (8.16)
482       Amends §
          13.12.050, rates, billing and collection
483       Amends §
          13.12.060, rates, billing and collection
484       Amends §
          13.12.160, rates, billing and collection
485       Amends §
          12.08.060, street and sidewalk use regulations (12.08)
486       Amends §
          2.92.310, personnel merit system (2.92)
487       Amends §
          2.16.010, city manager (2.16)
488       Amends §
          8.16.110, garbage, refuse, weeds and litter (8.16)
489       Rezone (Special)
490       Amends
          Ch. 15.20, flood damage prevention (15.20)
491       Water project funding (Special)
492       Mandatory fees collected for judicial education fee (not codified)
493       Amends §
          1.16.020, mandatory fees collected upon conviction (1.16)
494       Lease agreement (Special)
495       Economic development plan (not codified)
          Adds §§
496       3.12.050-
          3.12.080, municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax (3.12)
497       Amending Ord. 475, amending wastewater construction loan funding (Special)
498       Approves downtown Lovington Master Plan/ Metropolitan Redevelopment Area Plan and
          establishes a tax increment financing district (Special)
499       Adds§
          13.12.065, Industrial water rates
500       Adopting by reference the 2010 New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance
501       Repeals and replaces §
          13.12.090, charge for turning water on or off
          Amends §§
          6.08.060,
502       6.08.170, and
          6.08.190, and adds §
          6.08.236 animal regulations
503       Annexation (Special)
504       Sale of property (Special)
505       Amends
          Ch. 8.16, Art. III, weeds and grass (8.16)
506       Adds
          Ch. 3.20, affordable housing program (3.20)
507       Amends
          Ch. 2.90, parks and recreation board (2.90)
          Adds §
508       5.04.015 and amends §§
          5.56.110 and
          5.56.190, business licenses and regulations (5.04, 5.56)
          Amends §
509       13.12.065 and adds §
          13.12.068, industrial water rates (13,12)
          Amends §
510       8.28.050 and adds §
          8.28.080, nuisances (8.28)
511       Amends § 2.72.090, planning commission membership (repealed by 557)
512       Adds §
          17.16.080, off-street parking of commercial vehicles in residential zone (17.16)
513       Amends §
          17.12, annexation (17.12)
          Amends §§
514       17.32.010 and
          17.32.020, D industrial district (17.32)
          Amends
516       Ch. 5.56, solicitors, transient, and itinerant merchants and repeals Ch. 5.40,
          peddlers, solicitors, and canvassers (5.56)
517       Amends
          Ch. 12.28, public park and recreation facility regulations (12.28)
518       Adopting by reference the 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance with 2013
          amendments (10.04)
          Amends §§
520       17.20.040 and
          17.20.070, carport regulations (17.20)
521       Amends §
          17.24.050, yard regulations (17.24)
522       Amends §
          17.22.150, carport regulations (17.22)
523       Amends §
          12.08.060, regulations on stopping of vehicles (12.08)
525       Amends §
          2.92.250, personnel merit system regulations (2.92)
526       Adds
          Ch. 15.24, wind erosion control (15.24)
529       Amends §
          10.04.010, uniform traffic code (10.04)
531       Amends
          Ch. 5.52, recreational vehicle and manufactured home regulations (5.52)
          Amends §§
          2.92.460,
          2.92.480,
532       2.92.500,
          2.92.590,
          2.92.600, and
          2.92.610, personnel merit system regulations (2.92)
539       Amends §
          10.04.010, uniform traffic code (10.04)
543       Amends §
          10.04.010, uniform traffic code (10.04)
          Amends §§
545       2.92.430 and
          2.92.500, personnel merit system regulations (2.92)
546       Amends §
          15.04.010, uniform building code (15.04)
          Amends
547       Ch. 2.20, city clerk, and adds §§
          2.25.010—
          2.25.030, treasurer (2.20, 2.25)
          Amends §§
548       8.16.130 and
          8.16.131, garbage, refuse, weeds and litter (8.16)
          Amends §§
549       2.92.600 and
          2.92.610, personnel merit system regulations (2.92)
          Amends §§
550       12.28.015 and
          12.28.016, public park regulations (12.28)
          Amends §§
          13.04.030,
          13.04.120—
          13.04.150, water service system, §§
          13.08.020,
          13.08.040,
          13.08.105,
          13.08.240, sewer service system, and §§
553       13.12.010,
          13.12.020,
          13.12.040—
          13.12.068,
          13.12.075—
          13.12.111,
          13.12.160,
          13.12.190, adds §§
          13.12.250—
          13.12.270, rates billing and collection (13.04, 13.08, 13.12)
554       Amends §
          2.90.020, membership and appointment of parks and recreation board (2.90)
556       Amends §
          10.04.010, adoption of uniform traffic ordinance (10.04)
          Amends
          Ch. 2.72, planning and zoning commission; §§
          17.20.040,
557       17.20.050,
          17.20.060, carports in A district;
          Ch. 17.40, nonconforming uses; repeals §§ 17.20.070, 17.20.080 (2.72, 17.22,
          17.40)
          Amends §§
558       17.22.130,
          17.22.140, placement, maintenance and inspections of mobile homes (17.22)
559       Loan agreement (Special)
          Amends §§
560       2.12.120,
          2.60.050, compensation for city commission members, and for municipal judge (2.12,
          2.60)
561       Project participation agreement and guaranty (Special)
562       Annexation (Special)
          Amends §
          10.04.010; repeals and replaces §§
563       10.04.020,
          10.04.030,
          10.04.040, uniform traffic code (10.04)
          Amends
564       Ch. 2.84, youth center board (repealed by 578); amends §§
          2.90.020,
          2.90.090, membership, appointment and duties of parks and recreation board (2.90)
565       Amendments of housing production services agreement (Special)
566       Adds
          Ch. 2.38, parks and recreation director (2.38)
          Amends §§
          2.92.080,
567       2.92.590,
          2.92.600,
          2.92.610, part-time classified employees (2.92)
568       Loan agreement and intercept agreement (Special)
569       Adds
          Ch. 17.34, E economic district (17.34)
570       Project participation agreement (Special)
571       Project participation agreement and guaranty (Special)
572       Amends §
          2.60.060, duties of municipal judge (2.60)
573       Amends
          Ch. 8.20, fireworks and explosives (8.20)
          Amends §§
574       10.04.010,
          10.04.020, adoption and penalty assessment program of uniform traffic ordinance
          (10.04)
575       Annexation (Special)
576       Annexation (Special)
577       Annexation (Special)
          Amends §
578       2.90.020, membership and appointment of parks and recreation board; repeals Ch.
          2.84, youth center board (2.90)
579       Sale of property (Special)
580       Loan agreement and lease agreement (Special)
581       Intergovernmental agreement (Special)
          Amends § 13.12.105, payment extensions; adds §§ 13.12.280—13.12.330, periods of
582       declared disaster or emergency (
          13.12)
583       Amends
          Ch. 3.16, lodger’s tax (3.16)
586       Rezone (Special)
587       Amends §
          2.12.010, commissioner districts (2.12)
588       Adds
          Ch. 5.40, cannabis regulation (5.40)
592       Amends §
          2.12.080, rules of debate (2.12)
597       Opts in for the election of municipal officers in the next regular local election
          (Not codified)
600       Amends
          5.08.050, hours of operation (5.08)
          
 
