SUNLAND PARK, NEW MEXICO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Updated through Ordinance 2023-10, passed 10-17-23
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This city code of the city of Sunland Park, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2023-10, passed October 17, 2023.
Ordinances of the city adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this city code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent
therewith. Consult the city office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                  American Legal Publishing
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the Governing Body, this City Code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of Sunland Park. This
City Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the SUNLAND PARK CITY CODE
and is hereby published by authority of the Governing Body and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided
in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (2000 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (2000 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each City of Sunland Park copy of this City Code. Each such
replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each
individual copy of the City Code. (2000 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
Governing Body. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall see that the replacement pages
are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer. Any person having custody of a copy of the City Code shall
make every effort to maintain said Code current as to the most recent
ordinances passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or
replacement pages when such are delivered or made available to such person
through the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. Said Code books, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the City and shall be returned to the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer when directed so to do by order of the Governing Body. (2000
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; and all special ordinances. (2000 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2000 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This Section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the City herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the City under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this City Code. (2000 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted by reference or
any codes or portions of codes adopted herein is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted
by reference or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein. The Governing
Body hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this City Code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
City Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been
changed in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2000 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   CITY: The City of Sunland Park, County of Dona Ana, State of New Mexico
   CODE: The City Code of the City of Sunland Park.
   COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the Council of the City of Sunland
Park.
   COUNTY: The County of Dona Ana, State of New Mexico.
   EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
City of Sunland Park".
   FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   FISCAL YEAR 1 : The fiscal year of the City shall begin on July 1 and end on
June 30.
   GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
   GOVERNING BODY: The Mayor and elected Councilors of the City of Sunland
Park.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MISDEMEANOR 2 : Any offense for which the authorized penalty upon conviction
is imprisonment in excess of six (6) months but less than one year.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the City, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this Code.
   OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Sunland Park".
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE: The State of New Mexico.
   STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this
Code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for
the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2000 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 6-10-1.
2 2. NMSA § 31-1-2.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2000
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Maximum Penalty
1-4-2: Mandatory Fees Collected Upon Conviction
1-4-3: Disposition And Use Of Fees Collected
1-4-4: Community Service In Lieu Of Incarceration
1-4-5: Application Of Provisions
1-4-6: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: MAXIMUM PENALTY 1 :
Unless a lesser maximum penalty or a specific penalty is established by
ordinance for a particular offense, the maximum penalty for violation of this
code or any city ordinance shall be as follows:
   A.   Violations Generally: Except for those violations of this code or city
ordinances described in subsections B and C of this section, a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for not more than ninety
(90) days or both;
   B.   Driving While Under The Influence Of Liquor Or Drugs: For violations of
this code or an ordinance prohibiting driving a motor vehicle while under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs, a fine of not more than nine hundred
ninety nine dollars ($999.00) or imprisonment for not more than one hundred
seventy nine (179) days, or both; and
   C.   Industrial User Wastewater Pretreatment: For violations of an
industrial user wastewater pretreatment ordinance, or this code, as required by
the United States environmental protection agency, a fine of not more than nine
hundred ninety nine dollars ($999.00) a day for each violation. (Ord. 98-03, 6-
16-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-17-1.
1-4-2: MANDATORY FEES COLLECTED UPON CONVICTION:
   A.   Mandatory Fees Imposed: In addition to any fine or imprisonment
described in section
1-4-1 of this chapter, there is imposed upon any person convicted of violating
any provision of this code or a city ordinance the penalty for which carries a
potential jail term or any ordinance or code provision relating to the
operation of a motor vehicle the following mandatory fees: (Ord. 98-03, 6-16-
1998)
      1.   Corrections Fee: A corrections fee of twenty dollars ($20.00);
      2.   Judicial Education Fee: A judicial education fee of two dollars
($2.00); and
      3.   Court Automation Fee: A court automation fee of six dollars ($6.00).
(Ord. 03-01, 7-1-2003)
   B.   Definition Of Convicted: As used in this chapter, "convicted" means the
defendant has been found guilty of a criminal charge by the municipal judge,
either after trial, a plea of guilty or a plea of nolo contendere, or has
elected to pay a penalty assessment in lieu of trial. (Ord. 98-03, 6-16-1998)
1-4-3: DISPOSITION AND USE OF FEES COLLECTED':
   A.   Corrections Fees: All money collected pursuant to subsection
1-4-2A1 of this chapter shall be deposited in a special fund in the municipal
treasury and shall be used solely for municipal jailer or juvenile detention
training, for the construction planning, construction, maintenance and
operation of the municipal jail or juvenile detention facility, to pay the cost
of housing municipal prisoners or juveniles in any detention facility in the
state or complying with match or for contribution requirements for the receipt
of federal funds relating to jails or juvenile detention facilities; providing
inpatient treatment or other substance abuse programs in conjunction with or as
an alternative to jail sentencing; defraying the cost of transporting prisoners
to jails or juveniles to juvenile detention facilities; or providing electronic
monitoring system.
      1.   A municipality may credit the interest collected from fees deposited
in the special fund pursuant to NMSA § 35-14-11, subsection (D).
   B.   Judicial Education Fees: All money collected pursuant to subsection
1-4-2A2 of this chapter shall be deposited in a special fund in the municipal
treasury and shall be remitted monthly to the state treasurer for credit to the
judicial education fund and shall be used for education and training, including
production of bench books and other written materials of municipal judges and
other municipal court personnel.
   C.   Court Automation Fees: All money collected pursuant to subsection
1-4-2A3 of this chapter shall be deposited in a special fund in the municipal
treasury and shall be used solely for municipal jailer or juvenile detention
training, for the construction planning, construction, maintenance and
operation of the municipal jail or juvenile detention facility, to pay the cost
of housing municipal prisoners or juveniles in any detention facility in the
state, or complying with match or for contribution requirements for the receipt
of federal funds relating to jails or juvenile detention facilities; providing
inpatient treatment or other substance abuse programs in conjunction with or as
an alternative to jail sentencing; defraying the cost of transporting prisoners
to jails or juveniles to juvenile detention facilities; or providing electronic
monitoring system. (Ord. 03-01, 7-1-2003)
1-4-4: COMMUNITY SERVICE IN LIEU OF INCARCERATION:
   A.   Community Service: Every person convicted of a violation of this code
or a city ordinance may be sentenced to a period of community service by the
municipal court. The period of service and type of service shall be specified
by the court.
   B.   Credit For Work Done: Each prisoner required to work, as provided in
subsection A of this section, shall be credited with seven dollars ($7.00) per
hour worked toward the reduction of any fine.
   C.   Release From Incarceration: Each prisoner shall be released from
incarceration upon working enough days to reduce the fine to nothing, unless a
jail sentence was imposed by the municipal judge and the prisoner has not
served the full term. In determining whether a jail sentence has been served,
time worked for seven dollars ($7.00) per hour in community service as ordered
by the municipal judge shall be credited against the jail sentence imposed by
the municipal judge. The credit against a jail sentence imposed shall be that
the jail sentence shall be reduced by a twenty four (24) hour period for each
eight (8) hours worked, so long as a prisoner shall not receive credit against
a fine and a jail term for the same hours worked.
   D.   Waiver Of Liability: No person convicted of a violation of this code or
a city ordinance may serve in community service unless the person, in writing,
waives liability of the city, its officials and employees on a form approved by
the city and unless there is adequate supervision available to supervise the
community service. (Ord. 96-06, 8-6-1996)
1-4-5: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2000 Code)
1-4-6: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2000
Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Official Seal
1-5-2: Mission Statement
1-5-3: Vision Statement
1-5-1: OFFICIAL SEAL:
The design which is attached to Ordinance 1984-06, on file in the office of the
City Clerk-Treasurer, is hereby adopted as the Official Seal of the City, and
is so entered into the official records of the City. (Ord. 1984-06, 3-13-1984)
1-5-2: MISSION STATEMENT:
Provide a superior quality of life for the citizens of Sunland Park through the
development of our natural, economic, and cultural resources, with a more
accountable, transparent, efficient, and effective government that encourages
the involvement of its citizens. (Mission Statement, 6-21-2016)
1-5-3: VISION STATEMENT:
To be the borderland destination of choice where people want to live, work, and
play. (Vision Statement, 6-21-2016)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Compensation; Travel Expenses
1-6-2: Procedure For Counting Abstentions
1-6-3: Election Districts For City Councilors
1-6-4: Council Committees
1-6-1: COMPENSATION; TRAVEL EXPENSES:
   A.   Mayor: The mayor shall receive a compensation of three thousand seven
hundred fifty dollars ($3,750.00) payable upon the first day of each calendar
month. In addition, when the Mayor must travel outside the city on official
business, he or she shall be reimbursed for travel and per diem in accordance
with state statutory provisions.
   B.   The mayor pro tem shall receive a compensation of one thousand two
hundred sixty dollars ($1,260.00) payable upon the first day of each calendar
month. In addition, when the mayor pro tem must travel outside the city on
official business, he or she shall be reimbursed for travel and per diem in
accordance with state statutory provisions.
   C.   Councilors: The councilors shall receive a compensation of one thousand
two hundred sixty dollars ($1260.00) per month. In addition, when a councilor
must travel outside the city on official business, he or she shall be
reimbursed for travel and per diem in accordance with the state statutory
provisions.
   D.   Effective Date: The effective date of this section is January 1, 2024
and the provisions of subsections A., B. and C. of this section shall result in
increase in compensation only for persons appointed or elected mayor and
councilor after November 7, 2023. (Ord. 00-02, 1-18-2000; amd. Ord. 2011-01, 1-
5-2011; amd. Ord. 2012-01, 2-10-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-8, 8- 15-2023)
1-6-2: PROCEDURE FOR COUNTING ABSTENTIONS:
   A.   Ordinance Or Resolution Passage: If one or more governing body members
abstain, then the abstentions (except for conflicts of interest) shall be
counted as "no" votes if the action being voted on is passage of an ordinance
or resolution. If counting the abstention as a "no" vote results in a tie, then
the mayor shall break the tie.
   B.   Votes Other Than For Ordinance Or Resolution Passage: If one or more
governing body members abstain, and the action being voted on is other than the
passage of an ordinance or resolution, then abstentions (except for conflict of
interest) shall be counted as agreeable with the majority. If there is no
majority, because the vote is tied before the abstentions are taken into
account, then the abstentions shall not be counted at all, the rule of
reduction shall apply, and the mayor shall break the tie.
   C.   Disqualification For Conflict Of Interest: A disqualification for
conflict of interest purposes shall not be counted as a "yes" or "no" vote. The
rule of reduction shall be applied in such a case.
   D.   Abstention By Mayor: An abstention by the mayor shall be counted as a
"no" vote. (Ord. 1992-04, 9-16-1992)
1-6-3: ELECTION DISTRICTS FOR CITY COUNCILORS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish single member
districts for election of city councilors and to adopt rules and regulations to
implement elections by district as authorized in New Mexico Statutes Annotated
1978 section 3-8-1G.
   B.   Creation Of Districts:
      1.   Beginning with the March 2002 regular municipal election, city
councilors shall reside in and be elected from municipal election districts,
except as otherwise provided in this section.
      2.   There are created six (6) single member municipal election
districts, which include the partial and full precincts number 13, 97, and 14.
The boundaries of each municipal election district are shown on the municipal
election district map which is labeled exhibit A to Resolution 2011-51 and
adopted by reference as if fully set out in this section as the official
districting map and is to be kept in the custody of the municipal clerk.
      3.   The districts created are single member districts.
   C.   Implementation Of Districting: With respect to the municipal general
election of March 2002, those councilors who remain in office until March 2004
by virtue of their election in the March 2000 election shall be deemed to
represent the districts created by this section in which they reside as of the
effective date hereof and they shall be subject to the same rules, regulations
and laws as councilors elected from districts in the March 2002 election. In
the March 2002 election, districts 1, 2, and 3 created by this section shall
elect city councilors and in the March 2004 election the remaining three (3)
districts shall elect city councilors and so thereafter staggered each regular
municipal election.
   D.   Candidates:
      1.   Only persons residing in a particular municipal election district
and who otherwise meet all applicable requirements imposed by law or ordinance
shall be allowed to be candidates for the position of city councilor for that
municipal election district.
      2.   In determining whether the residence of a person is in a particular
district, the rules set forth in New Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978 section 3-
8-3 shall apply.
      3.   In addition to the requirements for a declaration of a candidacy set
forth in New Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978 section 3-8-27A, the municipal
clerk shall not accept a declaration of candidacy for the position of city
councilor unless the declaration of candidacy states which district the
candidate resides in and is seeking election from. The municipal clerk shall
determine if the candidate's residence is within the district from which the
candidate is seeking election. If the candidate does not reside within the
district, the municipal clerk shall determine that the declaration of candidacy
is invalid.
      4.   A write-in candidate shall not be elected to fill the position of
city councilor unless the write-in candidate resides in the district from which
the write-in candidate is elected.
   E.   Polling Places: In addition to the requirements of New Mexico Statutes
Annotated 1978 section 3-8-11, the governing body shall assure that each
election district has not less than one polling place. This does not require
that polling places be located in separate physical locations.
   F.   Ballots: In addition to the requirements of New Mexico Statutes
Annotated 1978 section 3-8-29, the municipal clerk shall cause all ballots for
separate candidates for the position of city council by district. The order of
the candidates running for office within each district shall be determined by a
drawing by lot. There shall be a position for a voter to insert a write-in.
   G.   Precinct Boards: In addition to the requirements of New Mexico Statutes
Annotated 1978 section 3-8-20, the precinct board shall assure that each person
votes only for a candidate for the position of city councilor from the district
within which that person resides.
   H.   Publication Of Names Of Candidates: In addition to the requirements of
New Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978 section 3-8-30, the municipal clerk shall
assure that the publication of the names of candidates for the office of city
councilors shall designate from which election district each such candidate is
seeking election.
   I.   Election Of Other Municipal Officers: Nothing in this section shall be
construed to affect the manner in which other municipal officers are elected.
   J.   Plurality Of Votes Cast Required For Election: In addition to the
requirements of New Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978 section 3-8-32, each
candidate for the position of city councilor shall only receive votes cast for
such candidate by the resident qualified electors of the election district from
which that candidate is running. The candidate who receives a plurality of
votes cast in that district shall be elected to the office for the term
designated. (Ord. 2002-01, 1-4-2002; amd. Res. 2011-51, 12-13-2011)
1-6-4: COUNCIL COMMITTEES:
   A.   The city council shall have the following committees:
      1.   Infrastructure and social services;
      2.   Public safety and governance;
      3.   Community and economic development;
   B.   The mayor shall be a member of all committees listed in subsection A.
above.
   C.   The members of the committees of the city council shall be appointed by
the mayor and shall serve for an initial term set to expire in January.
Thereafter the members shall be appointed by the mayor every January and serve
for one year. In case of a vacancy, the mayor may appoint a different councilor
at which time the vacancy is present to serve for the remainder of the term.
   D.   The members of the committees shall not serve on the same committee for
two consecutive terms and no more than two councilors can serve on a committee.
   E.   The committees shall meet at such time and place as the committees
shall determine for their convenience and necessity or as requested by the
mayor or city manager.
   F.   The mayor may appoint a department head or department heads as deemed
necessary for each committee.
   G.   The mayor may appoint one (1) member of the public as deemed necessary
for each committee.
   H.   All committees may also aid in developing programs following advisory
recommendations to the Mayor and City Council. (Ord. 2020-2, 5-5-2020)
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Personnel Rules And Regulations Adopted
1-7-2: Retiree Health Care
1-7-3: Exempt Appointed Positions
1-7-1: PERSONNEL RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: The City of Sunland Park Personnel Rules and Regulations of
December 1992 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of the City Code.
   B.   Amendment: The Governing Body of the City may amend, modify,
supplement, repeal or reenact the City Of Sunland Park Personnel Rules and
Regulations by resolution. (Ord. 1992-12, 12-16-1992)
1-7-2: RETIREE HEALTH CARE:
Pursuant to chapter 6, section 9, Laws of New Mexico, 1990, the City determines
to be included in coverage under the Retiree Health Care Act 1 . (Ord. 1990-04,
7-18-1990; amd. 2000 Code)
 
Notes
1 1NMSA § 10-7C-1 et seq.
1-7-3: EXEMPT APPOINTED POSITIONS:
The Governing Body of the City Sunland Park finds it necessary that the
following positions be exempt appointed positions. The positions require
consistent interpretation and application of policy of the elected leaders of
the City as administered by the City Manager. Persons holding these positions
must be responsive to and willing to adhere to the policy of the elected City
leadership including the preparation and updating of the comprehensive plan and
the development of long-range and middle-range forecasting activities, the
implementation of current plans, policies and procedures developed or to be
developed in the future. Therefore, individuals holding these positions must be
responsive to the policy initiatives of the elected City leaders. Persons
employed in these positions shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of
a majority of all members of the Council, however, the Court Administrator is
appointed by the Municipal Judge and may be removed by the Municipal Judge. All
other appointed officers may be removed only by vote of a majority of all
members of the Council.
   A.   City Community Development Director;
   B.   Child and Family Development Director;
   C.   City Clerk;
   D.   Motor Vehicle Office Manager;
   E.   City Water and Sewer Department Director;
   F.   City Attorney;
   G.   Finance Director;
   H.   Fire Chief;
   I.   Police Chief;
   J.   Public Works Director;
   K.   Library Director;
   L.   City Manager;
   M.   Public Housing Director;
   N.   Court Administrator. (Ord. 2010-04, 4-14-2010)
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Office Created
1-7A-2: Appointment And Selection Generally
1-7A-3: Oath; Bond
1-7A-4: Compensation
1-7A-5: Qualifications
1-7A-6: Duties
1-7A-7: Serves At Pleasure Of Mayor and Council in the Absence of a City
Manager
1-7A-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of the City Clerk. (Ord. 2013-06, 11-5-2013)
1-7A-2: APPOINTMENT AND SELECTION GENERALLY:
The City Manager shall appoint a person who shall be responsible for the proper
and efficient administration of the office of City Clerk. The City Clerk shall
be appointed solely on the basis of administrative qualifications and the
selection shall not be limited by reason of former residence. The City Clerk
shall have a seat, but no vote at all meeting of the Governing Body. (Ord.
2013-06, 11-5-2013)
1-7A-3: OATH; BOND:
The City Clerk shall take an oath or affirmation to support the Constitution of
the United States, the constitution and Laws of New Mexico and faithfully
perform the duties of his office in conformance with NMSA § 3-10-2; and within
ten (10) days of such oath or affirmation, shall furnish a surety bond to the
governing body in the amount prescribed by the governing body or recommended by
the City Auditor. The City of Sunland Park shall pay for the surety bond. (Ord.
2013-06, 11-5-2013)
1-7A-4: COMPENSATION:
The City Clerk shall receive such compensation as allowed in the City of
Sunland Park Classification and Pay Plan as adopted by the Governing Body and
as may be amended by the Governing Body from time to time. (Ord. 2013-06, 11-5-
2013)
1-7A-5: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   The City Clerk shall have an Associate's Degree related to the field of
Office Administration, business and/or public administration and shall have at
least two (2) years' experience in administration in an executive capacity,
preferably in or related to general municipal government, or combination of
education, training or experience.
   B.   The City Clerk shall, at the time of appointment, be a New Mexico
Certified Municipal Clerk or if not a New Mexico Certified Municipal Clerk,
shall begin the process of certification immediately upon employment and shall
become certified within four (4) years of appointment. (Ord. 2013-06, 11-5-
2013)
1-7A-6: DUTIES:
The City Clerk shall:
   A.   Disseminate all ordinances, rules and regulations enacted by the
Governing Body;
   B.   Keep in custody all minutes, ordinances and resolutions approved by the
Governing Body;
   C.   Attend all meetings of the Governing Body, prepare and publish meeting
agenda, prepare minutes, and attend other meetings as directed by the Governing
Body;
   D.   Record all proceedings, ordinances and resolutions of the Governing
Body;
   E.   Enforce and/or monitor the Governing Body rules of Procedures during
all meeting and/or workshops held by the Governing Body;
   F.   Upon request, furnish copies of municipal records for a reasonable fee
established by the City Council for the cost of furnishing copies of municipal
records;
   G.   Represent the City in regard to local, regional, state and federal
activities of concern to the City;
   H.   Administer the personnel policies of the City as provided in the City
Sunland Park Personnel Rules and Regulations;
   I.   Attend training and professional development workshops at the expense
of the City, as approved and directed by the City Manager;
   J.   Administer the municipal elections and duties related thereof as
described in detail in the Municipal Election Code, NMSA Chapter 23, Articles 8
and 9, and as also outlined in the Election code published by the Secretary of
State's Office;
   K.   Develop and prepare budget estimates for the office of City Clerk for
submission to the Mayor and Governing Body;
   L.   Monitor expenditures of the office of City Clerk Department to ensure
that expenditures are within budget limits and in accordance with laws
governing expenditures of public funds;
   M.   Perform other duties as directed and/or assigned by the Mayor or the
Governing Body;
   N.   Designate, in writing, the responsibility for administering various
procedural phases of assigned duties of the City Clerk. Provided, however, that
the City Clerk shall remain responsible for the performance of these duties and
be responsible to ensure they are performed in a timely and proper manner;
   O.   Interact with the diverse entities, individuals and general public so
as to find relevant solutions;
   P.   Keep and maintain all personnel files, and act as the human resources
representative of the City of Sunland Park, and perform such other duties that
it implies in the case of a vacancy or absence of the Human Resource Director;
and
   Q.   Perform additional duties as necessary or assigned. (Ord. 2013-06, 11-
5-2013)
1-7A-7: SERVES AT THE PLEASURE OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL IN THE ABSENCE OF A CITY
MANAGER:
The City Clerk serves at the pleasure of the Mayor and City Council should the
position of the City Manager be vacant, and may, subject to the terms of any
written employment contract, be removed by such at any time with or without
cause. (Ord. 2013-06, 11-5-2013)
ARTICLE B. CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Manager; Employment; Qualifications
1-7B-2: Duties
1-7B-3: Departments
1-7B-4: Hiring
1-7B-5: Compensation and Contract
1-7B-6: Relationship with the Mayor and City Council
1-7B-7: Appointment and Dismissal of Employees
1-7B-8: Performance Evaluation
1-7B-1: MANAGER; EMPLOYMENT; QUALIFICATIONS:
The Manager shall be the Chief Administrative Officer for the City of Sunland
Park. He or she shall be employed for an indefinite term and until a vacancy is
created by death, resignation, or removal by the City Council. The Manager
shall be appointed solely on the basis of administrative qualifications and the
selection shall not be limited by the reason of former residence. (Ord. 2014-
06, 9-2-2014)
1-7B-2: DUTIES:
   A.   The Manager shall:
      1.   Enforce and carry out all ordinances, rules, and regulations enacted
by the City Council;
      2.   Employ and discharge all persons engaged in the administrative
service of the City of Sunland Park;
      3.   Prepare and submit an annual budget;
      4.   Make recommendations to the City Council on all matters concerning
the welfare of the City of Sunland Park.
   B.   The Manager shall have a seat, but no vote, at every meeting of the
City Council. Except when clearly undesirable or unnecessary, the City Council
shall request the opinion of the Manager on any proposed measure. (Ord. 2014-
06, 9-2-2014)
1-7B-3: DEPARTMENTS:
The administration of the affairs of the City of Sunland Park shall be divided
into as many departments as may be deemed desirable by the City Council. Each
department shall be under the charge of a person employed by the Manager. (Ord.
2014-06, 9-2-2014)
1-7B-4: HIRING:
   A.   Advertisement for the position of Manager will be placed at the
direction of the Mayor or his/her designee in a publication for a minimum
period of two weeks. An Interview Committee including, at a minimum, one
Department Head, the Mayor, and one City Councilor, shall review the
applications and interview the applicants. After the Interview Committee has
interviewed a minimum of three (3) applicants, the Mayor shall recommend a
suitable candidate to the City Council. Subsequently, the City Council must
approve a choice by majority vote before employment is offered.
   B.   In the event the applicant pool is insufficient in number or
qualifications, or if the Mayor and Council cannot come to consensus on a
candidate's suitability, the position shall be advertised again. (Ord. 2014-06,
9-2-2014)
1-7B-5: COMPENSATION AND CONTRACT:
The Manager will be compensated based on the contractual agreement entered into
by the City Council and the Manager. The contractual agreement shall be "At
Will" and considered exempt under the Fair Labor and Standards Act. In addition
to the terms and obligations contained in the contract, the Manager shall be
subject to the Position Description attached to Ordinance 2014-06 as Exhibit
"A." (Ord. 2014-06, 9-2-2014)
1-7B-6: RELATIONSHIP WITH THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL:
The Manager shall be responsible to the Mayor and City Council for the
efficient administration of the departments of city government. (Ord. 2014-06,
9-2-2014)
1-7B-7: APPOINTMENT AND DISMISSAL OF EMPLOYEES:
The Manager shall have the authority to appoint, discipline, or dismiss any
employee provided such action is in compliance with the City's personnel rules
and regulations, ordinances, resolutions, or policies. (Ord. 2014-06, 9-2-2014)
1-7B-8: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION:
   A.   City Manager is directly responsible to the Mayor and City Council and
shall have a work performance evaluation conducted by the Mayor and City
Council;
   B.   This work performance evaluation shall be conducted after the first
ninety (90) days of employment and every six (6) months thereafter in a written
format as approved and specified by the Governing Body; and
   C.   City staff is hereby authorized and instructed to do all deeds as
necessary in the accomplishment of the herein above. (Res. 2016-21, 5-3-2016)
ARTICLE C. DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Office Created
1-7C-2: Appointment and Selection Generally
1-7C-3: Oath; Bond
1-7C-4: Compensation
1-7C-5: Qualifications
1-7C-6: General Statement of Duties
1-7C-7: Essential Duties and Responsibilities
1-7C-8: Environmental/Physical Conditions
1-7C-9: Serves at the Pleasure of the Mayor and Council in the Absence of a
City Manager
1-7C-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of the Director of the Public Works for the
Public Works Department of the City of Sunland Park. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-18-2013)
1-7C-2: APPOINTMENT AND SELECTION GENERALLY:
The City Manager shall appoint a person who shall be responsible for the proper
and efficient administration of the office of the Director of Public Works of
the City of Sunland Park. The Director of Public Works provides critical
services for the public by directing all aspects and functions of the Public
Works Department, including the maintenance and design of streets and the city
irrigation system. The Director is responsible for overseeing the General
Maintenance, Parks and Recreation, Animal/Vector Control, Streets, Solid Waste,
and the Youth and Seniors Divisions. This position shall be appointed solely
based on qualifications and shall not be limited by reason of former residence.
(Ord. 2013-10, 11-18-2013)
1-7C-3: OATH; BOND:
The Director of Public Works shall take an oath or affirmation to support the
Constitution of the United States, the constitution and Laws of the State of
New Mexico and to faithfully perform the duties of said office in conformance
with NMSA § 3-10-2; and within ten (10) days of such oath or affirmation; shall
furnish a surety bond to the governing body in the amount prescribed by the
governing body or recommended by the City Auditor. The City of Sunland Park
shall pay for the surety bond. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-18-2013)
1-7C-4: COMPENSATION:
The Director of Public Works shall receive such compensation as allowed by the
City classification and pay plan as adopted by the Governing Body and may be
amended by the Governing Body from time to time. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-18-2013)
1-7C-5: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   The Director of the Public Works shall possess Bachelor's Degree and at
least four (4) years as supervisor or any equivalent combination of education
and experience; possess a valid driver license; and shall be required to pass
physical and psychological examination by a licensed physician chosen and paid
be the City of Sunland Park.
   B.   Minimum Requirements:
      1.   Extensive knowledge, experience and qualifications to direct street,
park and recreational facilities maintenance, and to work with the consulting
engineers in the planning designing and implementing the various projects of
the Public Works Department;
      2.   Knowledge of public agency budgets, contract administration,
administrative practices, and general principles of risk management related to
functions of assigned area;
      3.   Ability to plan, assign, direct, coordinate and review the work of
others; to present information clearly and concisely, orally or in writing; to
establish effective working relationships with associates and the public; to
establish rules of job/worker safety and to enforce observance of safety
precautions in the work place; and a general knowledge of safety functions of
municipal government and its relationship to the Federal, state and county
governments;
      4.   Professional knowledge of the business and management principals
involved in strategic planning, resource allocation, leadership, and
coordination of human capital and resources; principles and practices of
employee supervision, including work planning, assignment, review and
evaluation;
      5.   Knowledge of relevant equipment, policies, procedures and strategies
to promote effective safety operations for the protection of employees, public,
and property; and
      6.   Perform other duties at the direction of the City Manager. (Ord.
2013-10, 11-18-2013)
1-7C-6: GENERAL STATEMENT OF DUTIES:
   A.   The Director of Public Works is responsible for the effective and
efficient administration of the Public Works Department to provide for the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Sunland Park. The duties of the
office are performed with considerable responsibility for independent action
and decision-making under the broad policy guidance of the City Manager, and
the quality of work is reviewed through meetings, reports and observation of
results obtained.
   B.   The Director of Public Works may designate, in writing, the
responsibility for administering various procedural phases of the assigned
duties, however the Director of the Public Works shall have the responsibility
to oversee the performance of the duties and to ensure that they are performed
in a timely and proper manner.
   C.   The duties and responsibilities listed are intended only as
illustrations of various types of work that may performed and the omission of
specific duties does not exclude them from the position if the work is similar
or logical to the position. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-18-2013)
1-7C-7: ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The Director of the Public Works shall:
   A.   Supervise, direct and administer the multiple divisions within the
Public Works Department, delegating work through subordinate supervisor(s);
   B.   Determine personnel, equipment and facilities required for the
efficient administration of the Department and make recommendations to City
Manager;
   C.   Participate in the selection of all Department employees;
   D.   Direct the training assignment, discipline of subordinates, and
evaluate performance of staff;
   E.   Meet with the citizens and carry out other activities in dealing with
the public;
   F.   Confer and cooperate with the directors of other departments;
   G.   Direct and monitor all activities of Department employees to ensure
that the city parks and recreation facilities, general maintenance, streets,
animal/vector control, youth and senior activities are operated in a safe,
efficient and effective manner in conformance with the applicable laws of the
Federal, state and local governments;
   H.   Advise the City Manager on the development of problems that may arise
affecting the health, welfare and safety of the citizens of the City;
   I.   Meet with the City Manager and professional engineering consultants
regarding scope of work to be performed and contract requirements;
   J.   Review and comment on any subdivision plans or development proposals
submitted to the Community Development Department;
   K.   Prepare Department budget estimates for submission to the City Manager
and the Governing Body;
   L.   Monitor expenditures of the Department to ensure that expenditures are
within budget limits and in accordance with laws governing expenditures of
public funds;
   M.   Attend training and professional development workshops at the expense
of the city, as approved and directed by the City Manager;
   N.   Handle grievances, maintains Department discipline, and promote the
proper conduct and behavior of Department personnel;
   O.   Prepare and submits periodic reports to the City Manager regarding the
Department's activities and prepare a variety of other reports as appropriate;
   P.   Attend conferences and meetings to keep abreast of current trends in
the field; represent the Public Works Department in a variety of local, county,
state, and other meetings as directed by the City Manager;
   Q.   Attend all regular or special meetings of the City Council; and attend
other meetings as appropriate;
   R.   Represent the City and the Department at civic, community, and
governmental meetings;
   S.   Coordinate and interact with the diverse entities and individuals, such
as consultants, engineers, contractors, architects and the general public so as
to find relevant solutions; and
   T.   Perform additional duties as necessary or assigned. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-
18-2013)
1-7C-8: ENVIRONMENTAL/PHYSICAL CONDITIONS:
   A.   While performing the duties of this job, the employee is required as
appropriate to stand; walk; use hands and fingers to handle, feel or operate
machines, tools, or controls; and reach with hands and arms; will be required
to sit, climb, balance, stoop, kneel, crouch, crawl, talk, hear and smell;
   B.   Must occasionally lift and/or move up to fifty (50) pounds;
   C.   Will occasionally work in outside weather conditions, be exposed to
fumes, toxins or other caustic chemicals;
   D.   Will occasionally work near moving mechanical parts, and in high,
precarious places, and be exposed to wet and/or humid conditions, fumes or
airborne particles, toxic or caustic chemicals, risk of electrical shock, and
vibration;
   E.   Will be exposed to moderate noise level in the work environment and at
times loud when operating or in the vicinity of equipment. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-
18-2013)
1-7C-9: SERVES AT THE PLEASURE OF THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL IN THE ABSENCE OF A
CITY MANAGER:
The Director of the Public Works serves at the pleasure of the Mayor and
Council should the position of City Manager be vacant, and may, subject to the
terms of any written employment contract, be removed at any time with or
without cause. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-18-2013)
ARTICLE D. SUNLAND PORT AUTHORITY
SECTION:
1-7D-1:    Corporate Responsibilities
1-7D-2:    Accountability
1-7D-3:    Board Of Directors And General Chairman/Executive Director
1-7D-4:    Authority Personnel
1-7D-5: Corporate Powers And Authority
1-7D-1: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITIES:
The Authority will be responsible for the following:
   A.   Management, control, maintenance and police security of Port support
facilities, and related industrial, commercial, tourist, industrial research
activities, and utilities serving Port and Port-related activities.
   B.   Planning, management, and control of the development of future Port
support and Port-related facilities and activities.
   C.   Research, planning and management, in coordination with the Republic of
Mexico, of measures to remove or reduce obstacles to trade between and/or
through the Republic of Mexico and the State of New Mexico, U.S.A.
   D.   Same responsibilities as subsections A and B of this Section should
apply to such other activities as airports, heliports, spaceports, and possibly
seaports.
   E.   Payment, after completion of first year operations, shall be made to
said Authority of all Authority operating expense from revenue received from
user fees charged and received by the Authority to the General Fund of the
City. All future revenues and fees will go to said account.
   F.   Payment of annual principal and interest on revenue bonds issued and
sold by the Authority shall be made from a Bond Retirement Reserve Fund which
shall accrue from the user fees and/or toll receipts. (Ord. 1991-04, 3-6-1991,
eff. 3-6-1991)
1-7D-2: ACCOUNTABILITY:
The Sunland Port Authority shall prepare and submit directly to the City Clerk-
Treasurer by December 1 of each year, a complete statement of all financial
transactions in which the Authority has been involved. (Ord. 1991-04, 3-6-1991,
eff. 3-6-1991)
1-7D-3: BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND GENERAL CHAIRMAN/EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR:
   A.   Establishment: There shall be nine (9) directors and one general
chairman/executive director of said Port Authority.
   B.   Composition: The incumbent Mayor and incumbent City Councilors of the
City shall comprise seven (7) members of the Authority. The other two (2) shall
be the current chairman of the Sunland Park Transportation Development District
and the current chairman of the Sunland Park Planning and Zoning Commission.
This will be a total of nine (9) voting members on said Port Authority.
   C.   General Chairman/Executive Director: The general chairman/ executive
director of said Port Authority shall be appointed by the nine (9) members of
the Board of Directors and shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of
Directors. This general chairman/executive director shall be paid an annual
salary (to be determined by the Board of Directors) plus actual expenses
incurred in the travel for Port Authority business reasons.
   D.   Meetings: Directors of the Port Authority shall meet nominally four (4)
times a year or otherwise upon call for a meeting issued by the general
chairman/executive director. (Ord. 1991-04, 3-6-1991, eff. 3-6-1991)
1-7D-4: AUTHORITY PERSONNEL:
Personnel on the Port Authority payroll shall devote all of their duty time
concerned only with official Authority business. Rates of pay to Authority
personnel shall be determined by the Board of Directors of the Authority. (Ord.
1991-04, 3-6-1991, eff. 3-6-1991)
1-7D-5: CORPORATE POWERS AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   The Port Authority shall have all powers and authority already granted
to the City, including eminent domain.
   B.   The Port Authority may own, buy, sell, lease, and swap (value for
value) land for Port related activities.
   C.   The Port Authority Board of Directors shall set all user fees and/or
relevant tolls.
   D.   Jurisdiction for zoning and dictate of kind and class of construction
on land owned, or legally set aside, for the Authority to buy, shall be granted
to the Sunland Port Authority.
   E.   Power to compel payment of user fees on services, private construction
permits and on private land purchases within Port Authority's jurisdiction (in
order to finance infrastructure, development roads, utilities, and customer
service lines).
   F.   Power of Port Authority to issue and sell revenue bonds, subject to
preissue feasibility approval by revenue bond underwriters that are acceptable
to the New Mexico Treasurer.
   G.   Authority to grant franchises and/or concessions that are in the best
interests to the City and the State, by and through procedures that are common
to large municipalities in New Mexico.
   H.   Authority to contract with franchiser or concessionaire to collect from
public users for services rendered a user fee (surcharge or toll). This will be
done with prior approval by the United States Department of Commerce.
Power to invoke authority in the preceding subsections A through H and the
responsibility for exercising those authorities rests with the whole Board of
Directors and the general chairman/executive director of the Sunland Port
Authority. (Ord. 1991-04, 3-6-1991, eff. 3-6-1991)
ARTICLE E. POLICE CHIEF
SECTION:
1-7E-1: Office Created
1-7E-2: Appointment And Selection Generally
1-7E-3: Oath; Bond
1-7E-4: Compensation
1-7E-5: Qualifications
1-7E-6: General Statement of Duties
1-7E-7: Essential Duties and Responsibilities
1-7E-8: Environment/Physical Conditions
1-7E-9: Serves at the Pleasure of the Mayor and Council in the Absence of a
City Manager
1-7E-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of the Chief of Police of the City of
Sunland Park Police Department. (Ord. 2013-08, 11-18-2013)
1-7E-2: APPOINTMENT AND SELECTION GENERALLY:
The City Manager shall appoint a person who shall be responsible for the proper
and efficient administration of the Office of Chief of Police of the City of
Sunland Park. The position shall be appointed solely on the basis of law
enforcement qualifications and shall not be limited by reason of former
residence. (Ord. 2013-08, 11-18-2013)
1-7E-3: OATH; BOND:
The Chief of Police shall take an oath or affirmation to support the
Constitution of the United States, the constitution and Laws of the State of
New Mexico and to faithfully perform the duties of said office in conformance
with NMSA § 3-10-2; and within ten (10) days of such oath or affirmation; shall
furnish a surety bond to the governing body in the amount prescribed by the
governing body or recommended by the City Auditor. The City of Sunland Park
shall pay for the surety bond. (Ord. 2013-08, 11-18-2013)
1-7E-4: COMPENSATION:
The Chief of Police shall receive such compensation as allowed by the City
Classification and Pay Plan as adopted by the Governing Body and may, from time
to time be amended by the Governing Body. (Ord. 2013-08, 11-18-2013)
1-7E-5: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   The Chief of Police shall be free of any felony convictions; be a
United States citizen; and shall be required to pass a physical and current
psychological examination by a licensed physician chosen and paid by the City
of Sunland Park.
   B.   Education and Experience:
      1.   The Chief of Police shall possess a Bachelor's degree in Police
Science, Law Enforcement, Criminal Justice, Business or Public Administration
or related field;
      2.   Seven (7) years of experience in police work, three (3) years of
which must have been equivalent to police lieutenant or higher; and
      3.   Completion of the basic law enforcement training academy or
equivalent; and/or
      4.   Any equivalent combination of years of education and experience.
   C.   Minimum Requirements:
      1.   New Mexico Driver's License, or equivalent license issued by another
state;
      2.   Thorough knowledge of modern law enforcement principals, procedures,
techniques and equipment; considerable knowledge of applicable laws, ordinances
and department rules and regulations;
      3.   Impartially and firmly exercise appointing officer authority through
subordinate supervisors to enforce personnel and safety rules and regulations,
and provide leadership to motivate productivity and cooperation of individuals
or teams to produce quality and timely operation results;
      4.   Formulate and establish department policies, budgetary goals and
field operation objectives;
      5.   Apply administrative and managerial principals and techniques;
      6.   Read and comprehend common financial and legal documents;
      7.   Apply established mathematical and statistical techniques to analyze
data in practical situations;
      8.   Define problems dealing with several abstract and concrete variables
such as when responding to inquiries or complaints, or resolving internal
conflicts;
      9.   Express oneself clearly and concisely orally and in writing to
analyze and persuasively explain complex technical and regulatory standards and
practices in reports, correspondence, speeches and discussion;
      10.   Establish and maintain effective working relationships with fellow
employees, city officials, other agencies, civic organizations and the general
public using diplomacy in complicated situations involving common operating and
management issues;
      11.   Exercising good judgment and making sound decisions;
      12.   Skilled in the use of Police equipment;
      13.   Operation of a motor vehicle through city traffic. (Ord. 2013-08,
11-18-2013)
1-7E-6: GENERAL STATEMENT OF DUTIES:
Under the general direction, as department head, perform a variety of complex
administrative, supervisory duties; engage in effective planning, coordinating
and directing the activities of the Police Department utilizing staff
management, resource allocation, programs, initiatives and sound fiscal
practices. (Ord. 2013-08, 11-18-2013)
1-7E-7: ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The Chief of Police shall:
   A.   Plan, coordinate, and evaluate Police Department operations;
   B.   Develops policies and procedures for the Department mandated by law, to
ensure efficient operations of the department, and implement directives from
the City Manager;
   C.   Plan and implement a law enforcement program for the City of Sunland
Park in order to better carry out the policies and goals of the City
Management; review Departmental performance and effectiveness, formulate
programs or policies to alleviate deficiencies;
   D.   Ensure that laws and ordinances are enforced and that public peace and
safety is maintained;
   E.   Coordinate use of the information gathered and work accomplished by
various officers; assign officers to special investigations as needs arise for
their specific skills;
   F.   Assure that personnel are assigned to shifts and working units which
provide optimum effectiveness in terms of current situations and circumstances
governing development;
   G.   Review evidence, witnesses, and suspects in criminal cases to correlate
all aspects, and to assess for trends, similarities, or for associations with
other cases;
   H.   Supervise and coordinate the preparation and presentation of the annual
budget for the Department; direct the implementation of the department budget;
plan for and review specifications for new or replaced equipment;
   I.   Direct department administration in conducting cost-benefit,
statistical or other analyses such as project labor requirements and material
specifications; review funding requests, propose program improvements and
suggest staffing to prepare consolidated annual budgets; set department
performance standards; control receipt, allocation and expenditure; analyze
personnel, equipment, supplies and maintenance costs, and justify deviations
from forecasts following established City financial policies and procedures;
   J.   Prepare and submit periodic reports to the City Manager upon request,
regarding the Department's activities and prepare a variety of other reports as
appropriate;
   K.   Cooperate with County, State and Federal Law Enforcement agencies as
appropriate where activities of the Police Department are involved;
   L.   Meet with elected or appointed officials, other law enforcement
officials, community and business representatives and the public on all aspects
of the Department activities;
   M.   Serve on boards and committees representing the City and Department at
civic, community and governmental meetings;
   N.   Coordinate activities with supervisors and other City departments,
exchange information with officers in other law enforcement agencies, the
District Attorney, Court Administrator, and City Attorney's Office regarding
cases, policies and procedures.
   O.   Oversee the operations and update the required department record
keeping in areas such as payroll, employee files, purchase requisitions and
other transactions;
   P.   Direct and oversee administration of collective bargaining agreements;
participate in negotiations with the police union; maintain liaison with labor
representatives and ensure maintenance of management rights;
   Q.   Supervise assigned supervisory and non-supervisory personnel; schedule
work to expedite flow and balance loads; assign duties, issue written and oral
instructions; checking work for service effectiveness, quality acceptability,
and policy and procedural conformance; guide subordinates to overcome
difficulties encountered, correct errors and rectify complaints; appraise
performance of direct reports and review employee ratings by subordinate
supervisors, coaching to motivate competency improvement and career
advancement; arrange for or conduct internal orientation, job training, and
employee development activities; enforcing personnel rules and regulations,
enforce conduct, courtesy, attendance, appearance and safety standards;
maintain harmony among employees, resolve applicable grievances; interview and
recommend hiring of applicants; commend, transfer, discipline and terminate
employees; changing staffing levels and job designs;
   R.   Attend all regular or special meetings of the City Council; and attend
other meetings as appropriate;
   S.   Attend training and professional development workshops at the expense
of the city, as approved and directed by the City Manager to keep abreast of
current trends in the field;
   T.   Perform additional duties as necessary or assigned. (Ord. 2013-08, 11-
18-2013)
1-7E-8: ENVIRONMENT/PHYSICAL CONDITIONS:
   A.   Availability for evening and weekend work as needed.
   B.   Will occasionally work in outside weather conditions.
   C.   Will occasionally be exposed to wet and/or humid conditions, fumes or
airborne particles, toxic or caustic chemicals, extreme cold, extreme heat, and
vibration.
   D.   May frequently be exposed to hazard conditions related to but not
limited to traffic hazards, civil disturbances, rescues, hostile individuals,
exposure to diseases, operation of heavy equipment, slips and falls.
   E.   The noise level in the work environment is usually moderate. (Ord.
2013-08, 11-18-2013)
1-7E-9: SERVES AT THE PLEASURE OF THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL IN THE ABSENCE OF A
CITY MANAGER:
The Chief of Police serves at the pleasure of the Mayor and Council should the
position of the City Manager be vacant, and may, subject to the terms of any
written employment contract, be removed by such at any time with or without
cause. (Ord. 2013-08, 11-18-2013)
ARTICLE F. FIRE CHIEF
SECTION:
1-7F-1: Office Created
1-7F-2: Appointment and Selection Generally
1-7F-3: Oath; Bond
1-7F-4: Compensation
1-7F-5: Qualifications
1-7F-6: General Statement of Duties
1-7F-7: Essential Duties and Responsibilities
1-7F-8: Environment/Physical Conditions
1-7F-9: Serves at the Pleasure of the Mayor and Council in the Absence of a
City Manager
1-7F-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of the Fire Chief of the City of Sunland
Park Fire Department. (Ord. 2013-09, 11-18-2013)
1-7F-2: APPOINTMENT AND SELECTION GENERALLY:
The City Manager shall appoint a person who shall be responsible for the proper
and efficient administration of the Office of the Fire Chief of the Fire
Department of the City of Sunland Park. The position shall be appointed solely
based on qualifications and shall not be limited by reason of former residence.
(Ord. 2013-09, 11-18-2013)
1-7F-3: OATH: BOND:
The Fire Chief shall take an oath or affirmation to support the Constitution of
the United States, the constitution and Laws of the State of New Mexico and to
faithfully perform the duties of said office in conformance with NMSA § 3-10-2;
and within ten (10) days of such oath or affirmation; shall furnish a surety
bond to the governing body in the amount prescribed by the governing body or
recommended by the City Auditor. The City of Sunland Park shall pay for the
surety bond. (Ord. 2013-09, 11-18-2013)
1-7F-4: COMPENSATION:
The Fire Chief shall receive such compensation as allowed by the City
Classification and Pay Plan as adopted by the Governing Body and may, from time
to time be amended by the Governing Body. (Ord. 2013-09, 11-18-2013)
1-7F-5: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   The Fire Chief shall be free of any felony convictions; be a United
States citizen; and shall be required to pass a physical and current
psychological examination by a licensed physician chosen and paid by the City
of Sunland Park.
   B.   Education and Experience:
      1.   The Fire Chief shall possess a Bachelor's degree in Fire Science,
Business or Public Administration or related field or graduation from the
National Fire Academy's Executive Officer Program and ten (10) years of
progressively responsible fire protection and suppression experience in
municipal fire agency of similar size of the City of Sunland Park, or larger,
including two (2) years of recent command experience involving supervision and
administration of an established fire district comprised of several fire
stations.
      2.   IFSAC Firefighter I, II.
      3.   IFSAC Hazardous Material Awareness and Operations.
      4.   IFSAC Fire Inspector I.
      5.   IFSAC Fire Officer I, II.
      6.   New Mexico EMT-Basic or must reciprocity within twelve (12) months.
      7.   National Incident Management System (NIMS), Incident Command System
(ICS) 100, 200,300, 400, 700, 800.
   C.   Minimum Requirements:
      1.   New Mexico Class "E" Driver License, or equivalent license issued by
another state;
      2.   Comprehensive knowledge of the principals, practices, methods and
equipment of modern fire prevention and suppression: laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations pertinent to Fire Department activities; water supply and
distribution systems; management theories and administrative practices as
applied to analysis and evaluation of programs, policies and operation needs;
principles and practices of municipal budget preparation and administration;
      3.   Ability to plan, develop, implement, coordinate and control
functions of a municipal fire department;
      4.   Impartially and firmly exercise appointing officer authority through
subordinate supervisors to enforce personnel and safety rules and regulations,
and provide leadership to motivate productivity and cooperation of individuals
or teams to produce quality and timely operation results;
      5.   Formulate and establish department policies, budgetary goals and
field operation objectives;
      6.   Apply administrative and managerial principals and techniques;
      7.   Read and comprehend common financial and legal documents;
      8.   Apply established mathematical and statistical techniques to analyze
data in practical situations;
      9.   Define problems dealing with several abstract and concrete variables
such as when responding to inquiries or complaints, or resolving internal
conflicts;
      10.   Express oneself clearly and concisely orally and in writing to
analyze and persuasively explain complex technical and regulatory standards and
practices in reports, correspondence, speeches and discussion;
      11.   Establish and maintain effective working relationships with fellow
employees, city officials, other agencies, civic organizations and the general
public using diplomacy in complicated situations involving common operating and
management issues;
      12.   Exercising good judgment and making sound decisions;
      13.   Skilled in the use of firefighting equipment;
      14.   Operation of a motor vehicle through city traffic. (Ord. 2013-09,
11-18-2013)
1-7F-6: GENERAL STATEMENT OF DUTIES:
Under the general direction, as department head, manages fire prevention and
suppression, rescue, training communications, and other activities designed to
protect lives, property through effective planning, staff management, resource
allocation, programs, initiatives and sound fiscal practices. (Ord. 2013-09,
11-18-2013)
1-7F-7: ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The Fire Chief shall:
   A.   Plan, develop and organize fire support and operations programs and
projects;
   B.   Ensures that policies and methods meet statutory requirements;
reviewing and interpreting current and proposed legislation and regulation in
conjunction with City legal staff; participating in the development of public
safety short and long range plans by determining departmental objectives,
priorities and resources required for attainment of goals; ordinances,
resolutions and major operating adjustments to preserve and enhance efficiency
and effectiveness of fire suppression and prevention activities including
review of staff proposals to solve problems such as integration of processes
and services of other City departments, other jurisdictions, and regulatory
agencies; studying and standardizing methods and performance measures to
continuously improve operating productivities and quality; directing and
participating in research of alternative approaches to fire suppression,
hazardous material handling, fire and life safety code and emergency programs;
presenting proposals to Council and other board meetings;
   C.   Implement, coordinate and evaluate timely, reliable and economical fire
prevention including inspection, rescue, training, communication and
maintenance within available sources;
   D.   Be involved in responding to alarms and directing activities at large
for fire or incident scenes; acquiring and allocating approved personnel,
equipment and supplies, and arranging for maintenance; scheduling multiple
projects and reviewing progress, costs, field investigations and diagnosing and
solving priority conflicts and organization problems; initiating corrective
measures and controls to expedite and optimize interrelated activities and
facilitate flow of communications;
   E.   Advising other City departments and elected officials; explaining
department functions and rules to citizens, civic groups, regulatory agencies
to solve operating problems and rectify complaints;
   F.   Maintaining liaisons with state and Federal agencies having regulatory
authority over the Fire Department;
   G.   Serves on boards and committees; represent the City and Department at
civic, community and governmental meetings;
   H.   Direct department administration in conducting cost-benefit,
statistical or other analyses such as project labor requirements and material
specifications, and reviewing funding request, propose program improvements and
suggest staffing to prepare consolidated annual budgets, and set department
performance standards; controlling receipt, allocation and expenditure by
recording analyzing personnel, equipment, supplies and maintenance cost, an
justify deviations from forecast following established City financial policies
and procedures;
   I.   Implement Mayoral directives; preparing and presenting technical,
statistical and cost estimates and results reports for the City official and
executives, and other jurisdictions and agencies;
   J.   Overseeing the operations and updating the required department record
keeping in areas such as payroll, employee files, purchase requisitions and
other transactions;
   K.   Directing and overseeing administration of collective bargaining
agreements; participating in negotiations with the firefighters union;
maintaining liaison with labor representatives and ensuring maintenance of
management rights;
   L.   Supervise assigned supervisory and non-supervisory personnel and is
involved in scheduling work to expedite flow and balance loads; assigning
duties, issuing written and oral instructions; checking work for service
effectiveness, quality, acceptability, and policy and procedural conformance;
guiding subordinates to overcome difficulties encountered, correct errors and
rectify complaints; appraising performance and review employee ratings by
subordinate supervisors, coaching to motivate competency improvement and career
advancement; arranging for or conducting internal orientation, job training,
and employee development activities; enforcing personnel rules and regulations,
enforce conduct, courtesy, attendance, appearance and safety standards;
maintain harmony among employees, resolve applicable grievances; interview and
recommend applicants for employment; commend, transfer, discipline and
terminate employees; changing staffing levels and job designs;
   M.   Prepare and submit periodic reports to the City Manager regarding the
Department's activities and prepares a variety of other report as appropriate;
   N.   Attend all regular or special meetings of the City Council; and attend
other meetings as appropriate;
   O.   Attend training and professional development workshops at the expense
of the city, as approved and directed by the City Manager;
   P.   Attend conferences and meetings to keep abreast of current trends in
the field; represents the Fire Department in a variety of local, county, state
and other meetings as directed by the City Manager;
   Q.   Perform additional duties as necessary or assigned. (Ord. 2013-09, 11-
18-2013)
1-7F-8: ENVIRONMENT/PHYSICAL CONDITIONS:
   A.   Availability for evening and weekend work as needed.
   B.   Will work primarily in an office setting but may frequently be exposed
to hazardous conditions related to but not limited to structure fires,
hazardous material releases, civil disturbances, rescues, hostile patients,
exposure to diseases, operation of heavy equipment, slips and falls.
   C.   Occasionally climbing, laying down, stooping, kneeling and bending.
   D.   Frequent exposure to various weather conditions.
   E.   Fieldwork may be required. (Ord. 2013-09, 11-18-2013)
1-7F-9: SERVES AT THE PLEASURE OF THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL IN THE ABSENCE OF A
CITY MANAGER:
The Fire Chief serves at the pleasure of the Mayor and Council should the
position of the City Manager be vacant, and may, subject to the terms of any
written employment contract, be removed by such at any time with or without
cause. (Ord. 2013-09, 11-18-2013)
ARTICLE G. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-7G-1: Office Created; Appointment
1-7G-2: Appointment And Selection Generally
1-7G-3: Oath; Bond
1-7G-4: Compensation
1-7G-5: General Statement Of Duties
1-7G-6: Essential Duties And Responsibilities
1-7G-7: Qualifications And Job Description
1-7G-8: Serves At Pleasure Of Governing Body
1-7G-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of the city attorney, which officer shall be
appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council. (Ord.
04-10, 8-3-2004)
1-7G-2: APPOINTMENT AND SELECTION GENERALLY:
The mayor shall appoint, with the consent of the city council, a person who
shall be responsible for the proper and efficient administration of the office
of the attorney department of the city. This position shall be appointed solely
on the basis of qualifications and shall not be limited by reason of former
residence. (Ord. 04-10, 8-3-2004)
1-7G-3: OATH; BOND:
The city attorney shall take an oath or affirmation to support the constitution
of the United States, the constitution and laws of the state and faithfully
perform the duties of his office in conformance with New Mexico Statutes
Annotated section 3-10-2; and within ten (10) days of such oath or affirmation,
shall furnish a surety bond to the governing body in the amount prescribed by
the governing body or recommended by the city auditor. The city shall pay for
the surety bond. (Ord. 04-10, 8-3-2004)
1-7G-4: COMPENSATION:
The city attorney shall receive such compensation as allowed in the city
classification and pay plan as adopted by the governing body and as may be
amended by the governing body from time to time. (Ord. 04-10, 8-3-2004)
1-7G-5: GENERAL STATEMENT OF DUTIES:
Under the general direction of the mayor and city council, performs a variety
of complex, high level administrative, technical and professional work in
prosecuting crimes, conducting civil lawsuits, drawing up legal documents,
advises city officials as to legal rights and obligations, and practices other
phases of applicable local, state and federal laws. (Ord. 04-10, 8-3-2004)
1-7G-6: ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Manages and supervises the city attorney's department to achieve goals
within available resources; plans and organizes workloads and staff
assignments; trains, motivates and evaluates assigned staff; reviews progress
and directs changes as needed, when necessary.
   B.   Provides leadership and direction in the development of short and long
range plans; gathers, interprets, and prepares data for studies, reports and
recommendations; coordinates legal department activities with other departments
and agencies as needed. Confers with colleagues with specialty in area of law
to establish and verify basis for legal proceedings; serves as a liaison
between outside legal counsel and city officials on specialized legal issues.
Prepares a variety of studies, reports and related information for decision
making purposes.
   C.   Provides professional advice to the mayor, city council and department
heads; makes presentations to councils, boards, commissions, civic groups and
the general public. Advises city officials of changes to state or federal laws
affecting city operations. Interprets laws, ruling and regulations for city
officials and staff.
   D.   Communicates official plans, policies and procedures to staff and the
general public. Performs general management duties for the mayor as assigned.
   E.   Attends all meetings of the council or administration at which
attendance may be required. Advises the mayor and city council of legal
conditions and current and future trends; issues legal opinions. Prepares and
submits to the mayor and council such reports as may be required by that body
or as the city attorney may deem it advisable to submit.
   F.   Approves ordinances, resolutions and contracts as to legal form;
provides legal advice as to substance. Drafts ordinances, resolutions,
contracts, agreements, deeds, leases, franchises, etc.; reviews documents
prepared by other agencies or parties. Assists department directors to see that
all laws and ordinances are faithfully performed.
   G.   Represents the city in court and before quasi-judicial or
administrative agencies of government. Prepares legal briefs, develops
strategy, arguments and testimony in preparation for presentation of case.
Files brief with court. Gathers evidence in civil, criminal, and other cases to
formulate defense or to initiate legal action. Conducts research, interviews
clients, and witnesses and handles other details in preparation for trial.
(Ord. 04-10, 8-3-2004)
1-7G-7: QUALIFICATIONS AND JOB DESCRIPTION:
Graduation from an accredited law school with a juris doctor degree in law, and
a minimum of two (2) years' experience as a practicing attorney, with general
government experience preferred. Must possess a license to practice law in the
state of New Mexico and be a member in good standing of the state bar
association. Must possess and maintain a valid driver's license. Must not have
a conflict of interest that might preclude performance of any duty on behalf of
the city. Must be able to pass background investigation and must be clear of
any felony conviction.
   A.   Knowledge, Abilities, Skills And Other Characteristics:
      1.   Knowledge of modern policies and practices of municipal law and
public administration.
      2.   Knowledge of state statutes relating to municipal affairs relating
to the purchase of goods and services, contracting, labor, employment, land
use, environment and traffic.
      3.   Oversees prosecution of civil or criminal cases in city, county, or
state court.
      4.   Gathers and analyzes evidence in cases and reviews pertinent
decisions, policies, and regulations and other legal matters pertaining to
cases.
      5.   Prepares petitions for sewer and street improvement and forms of
easements, bonds, complaints, notices and assessment proceedings.
      6.   Presents evidence against accused to grand jury for indictment or
release of accused as required.
      7.   Studies and interprets state constitution, laws, court decisions,
city charter, ordinances, etc.; to provide legal advice or opinions.
      8.   Provides legal advice and prepares formal legal opinions on broad
range of issues for various city departments and law enforcement agencies.
      9.   Drafts ordinances, resolutions, petitions, deeds, leases, etc.
      10.   Prepares and issues complaints, warrants and subpoenas.
      11.   Assures that assigned areas of responsibilities are performed
within budget; performs cost control activities; monitors revenues and
expenditures in assigned area to assure fiscal control; prepares annual budget
funds, personnel, materials, facilities, and time.
      12.   Determines work procedure, prepares work schedules, and expedites
workflow; studies and standardizes procedures to improve efficiency and
effectiveness of operations.
      13.   Coordinates the information gathered and work accomplished by his/
her employees; assigns employees; assigns employees' projects as the needs
arise for their specific skills.
      14.   Supervises and coordinates the preparation and presentation of an
annual budget for the department; directs the implementation of the
department's budget; plans for and reviews specifications for new and replaced
equipment.
      15.   Handles grievances, maintains departmental discipline and the
conduct and general behavior of assigned personnel. Maintains harmony among
workers and resolves grievances; performs or assists subordinates in performing
duties; adjusts errors and complaints.
      16.   Prepares and submits periodic reports to the mayor regarding the
department's activities, and prepares a variety of the reports as appropriate.
   B.   Additional Duties: Perform additional duties as necessary or assigned.
(Ord. 04-10, 8-3-2004)
1-7G-8: SERVES AT PLEASURE OF GOVERNING BODY:
The city attorney serves at the pleasure of the governing body and may, subject
to the terms of any written employment contract, be removed by the governing
body at any time with or without cause. (Ord. 04-10, 8-3-2004)
ARTICLE H. CHILD AND FAMILY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-7H-1: Office Created; Appointment
1-7H-2: Appointment And Selection Generally
1-7H-3: Oath; Bond
1-7H-4: Compensation
1-7H-5: General Statement Of Duties
1-7H-6: Essential Duties And Responsibilities
1-7H-7: Qualifications And Job Description
1-7H-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of the child and family development
director, which for all purposes shall be considered a merit employee under the
classification system as defined under and subjected to the general provisions
of the city personnel rules and regulations. This office and subsequently this
department is subject to grant funding and may be abolished due to a lack
thereof. (Ord. 00-04, 6-20-2000)
1-7H-2: APPOINTMENT AND SELECTION GENERALLY:
The mayor shall appoint, subject to the city's personnel rules and regulations
policies, with the consent of the city council, a person who shall be
responsible for the proper and efficient administration of the office of the
child and family development department of the city. This position shall be
selected in accordance to the city's personnel policy and shall not be limited
by reason of former residence. (Ord. 00-04, 6-20-2000)
1-7H-3: OATH; BOND:
The child and family development director shall take an oath or affirmation to
support the constitution of the United States, the constitution and laws of the
state and faithfully perform the duties of his/her office in conformance with
New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-10-2; and within ten (10) days of such
oath or affirmation, shall furnish a surety bond to the governing body in the
amount prescribed by the governing body or recommended by the city auditor. The
city shall pay for the surety bond. (Ord. 00-04, 6-20-2000)
1-7H-4: COMPENSATION:
The child and family development director shall receive such compensation as
allowed in the city classification and pay plan as adopted by the governing
body and as may be amended by the governing body from time to time. (Ord. 00-
04, 6-20-2000)
1-7H-5: GENERAL STATEMENT OF DUTIES:
Under the general direction of the mayor, the child and family development
director is responsible for the planning, implementation and administration of
the child and family development department and its relevant programs. The
director's responsibility includes the gathering of relevant data to further
the programs' objectives, in addition to acting as a resource tool and
assessment instrument. This position is also responsible for developing,
coordinating, implementing, and evaluating programs and initiatives in which
the intent is to provide guidance and support for families and children within
the city. (Ord. 00-04, 6-20-2000)
1-7H-6: ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Duties Enumerated:
      1.   Manages and supervises the child and family department to achieve
goals within available resources; plans and organizes workloads and staff
assignments; trains, motivates and evaluates assigned staff, reviews progress
and directs changes as needed.
      2.   Provides leadership and direction in the development of short and
long range plans; gathers, interprets, and prepares data for studies, reports
and recommendations; coordinates department activities with other departments
and agencies as needed.
      3.   Provides professional advice to the city officials; makes
presentations to councils, boards, commissions, civic groups and the general
public.
      4.   Communicates official plans, policies and procedures to staff and
the general public.
      5.   Assures that assigned areas of responsibility are performed within
budget; performs cost control activities; monitors revenues and expenditures in
assigned area to assure sound fiscal control; prepares annual budget request;
assures effective and efficient use of budget funds, personnel, materials,
facilities, and time.
      6.   Determines work procedures, prepares work schedules, and expedites
workflow; studies and standardizes procedures to improve efficiency and
effectiveness of operations.
      7.   Issues written and oral instructions; assigns duties and examines
work for exactness, neatness, and conformance to policies and procedures.
      8.   Maintains harmony among workers and resolves grievances; performs or
assists subordinates in performing duties; adjusts errors and complaints.
      9.   Prepares a variety of studies, reports and related information for
decision making purposes.
      10.   Develops policies and procedures for the department in order to
implement directives from the mayor and the city council.
      11.   Coordinates the information gathered and work accomplished by his/
her employees; assigns employees projects as the needs arise for their specific
skills.
      12.   Supervises and coordinates the preparation and presentation of
annual budget for the department; directs the implementation of the
department's budget; plans for and reviews specifications for new or replaced
equipment.
      13.   Oversees the training and development of department personnel.
      14.   Handles grievances, maintains departmental discipline and the
conduct and general behavior of assigned personnel.
      15.   Prepares and submits periodic reports to the mayor regarding the
department's activities, and prepares a variety of other reports as
appropriate.
      16.   Attends conferences and meetings to keep abreast of current trends
in the field; represents the community development department in a variety of
local, county, state and other meetings according to city personnel policies.
      17.   Attends all regular meetings of the city council; attends special
meetings of the city council, departments, or administration at which
attendance may be required.
      18.   Represents the city at civic, community, and government meetings.
      19.   Presents, coordinates, and interacts with the diverse entities,
individuals, and the general public to find relevant solutions.
   B.   Additional Duties: Perform additional duties as necessary or assigned.
(Ord. 00-04, 6-20-2000)
1-7H-7: QUALIFICATIONS AND JOB DESCRIPTION:
The following shall apply to the child and family development director:
   A.   Education And Experience:
      1.   Bachelor's degree in early childhood education, child development or
related field (preferably a master's degree).
      2.   Four (4) years' administrative experience or equivalent in upper
education (preferably with 2 years community development experience).
      3.   Bilingual (in English and Spanish).
   B.   Skills, Abilities And Certificates:
      1.   Knowledge of the principles, practices and methods of child and
family development, early childhood, planning and research activities.
      2.   Knowledge of grants, proposal writing and administration.
      3.   Ability to establish an effective administration.
      4.   Public relations abilities required.
      5.   Ability to develop, implement and evaluate individual initiatives
and programs.
      6.   Knowledge in administration.
   C.   Environmental/Physical Conditions:
      1.   Work is primarily in an office.
      2.   Fieldwork is required. (Ord. 00-04, 6-20-2000)
ARTICLE I. FINANCE DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-7I-1: Office Created; Appointment
1-7I-2: Appointment And Selection Generally
1-7I-3: Oath; Bond
1-7I-4: Compensation
1-7I-5: General Statement Of Duties
1-7I-6: Essential Duties And Responsibilities
1-7I-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of the finance director which shall be
appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council. (Ord.
04-12, 8-3-2004)
1-7I-2: APPOINTMENT AND SELECTION GENERALLY:
The mayor shall appoint, with the consent of the city council, a person who
shall be responsible for the proper and efficient administration of the office
of the finance director of the city. This position shall be appointed solely on
the basis of qualifications and shall not be limited by reason of former
residence. (Ord. 04-12, 8-3-2004)
1-7I-3: OATH; BOND:
The finance director shall take an oath of affirmation to support the
constitution of the United States, the constitution and laws of the state and
faithfully perform the duties of his office in conformance with New Mexico
Statutes Annotated section 3-10-2; and within ten (10) days of such oath or
affirmation, shall furnish a surety bond to the governing body in the amount
prescribed by the governing body or recommended by the city auditor. The city
shall pay for the surety bond. (Ord. 04-12, 8-3-2004)
1-7I-4: COMPENSATION:
The finance director shall receive such compensation as allowed in the city
classification and pay plans adopted by the governing body and as may be
amended by the governing body from time to time. (Ord. 04-12, 8-3-2004)
1-7I-5: GENERAL STATEMENT OF DUTIES:
Under the general direction of the mayor and city council, the finance director
serves as the city treasurer and performs the duties of municipal finance
officer as set forth in chapter 3, article 37, New Mexico Statutes Annotated
1978. In addition, the finance director performs a variety of professional,
administrative and highly technical duties in the area of city financing and
accounting, and the maintenance of all accurate and true financial records of
the city in conformance with appropriate federal, state and local laws. (Ord.
04-12, 8-3-2004)
1-7I-6: ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The finance director shall perform the following:
   A.   Manages and supervises the finance department to achieve goals within
available resources; plans, prioritizes and organizes workloads and staff
assignments; trains, motivates and evaluates assigned staff, reviews progress
and directs changes as needed, when necessary.
   B.   Provides leadership and direction in the development of short and long
range plans; gathers, interprets, and prepares data for studies, reports and
recommendations; coordinates finance department activities with other
departments and agencies as needed. Confers with the city's independent
accountants and auditors, as well as the state auditor and state department of
finance and administration as needed. Prepares a variety of studies, reports
and related information for decision making purposes.
   C.   Provides professional advice to the mayor, city council and department
heads as it pertains to the area of city finances, makes presentations to
councils, boards, commissions, civic groups and the general public.
   D.   Communicates official plans, policies and procedures to staff and the
general public. Performs financial and accounting duties for the city
administration as assigned.
   E.   Attends all meetings of the council or administration at which
attendance may be required. Advises the mayor and city council of financial
conditions and current and future trends. Prepares and submits to the mayor and
city council such reports as may be required by that body or as the finance
director may deem it advisable to submit.
   F.   Serves as the procurement officer for the city.
   G.   Serves as treasurer for the city and shall:
      1.   Receive all monies belonging to the city;
      2.   Keep city accounts and records in the manner prescribed by the
governing body;
      3.   Keep the money of the city separate from any other money in his/her
possession;
      4.   Expend the city money only as directed by the governing body;
      5.   Submit a monthly report of the receipts and expenditures of the
city;
      6.   Prepare annually, at the close of the fiscal year, a financial
report showing the receipts, expenditures and balances for each city fund. A
copy of the annual financial report shall be filed in the office of the city
clerk as a public document;
      7.   At the direction of the mayor, oversee and monitor the development
and submission of the annual budget and prepare supporting justification for
presentation of the annual budget to the city council;
      8.   In accordance with the provisions of the public records act,
maintain the city's financial records for public inspection during regular
business hours of the city;
      9.   Comply with the provisions of New Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978
section 3-37-1 et seq. (Ord. 04-12, 8-3-2004)
ARTICLE J. MOTOR VEHICLE MANAGER
SECTION:
1-7J-1: Office Created
1-7J-2: Appointment and Selection Generally
1-7J-3: Oath; Bond
1-7J-4: Compensation
1-7J-5: Qualifications
1-7J-6: General Statement of Duties
1-7J-7: Essential Duties and Responsibilities
1-7J-8: Environment/Physical Conditions
1-7J-9: Serves at the Pleasure of the Mayor and Council in the Absence of a
City Manager
1-7J-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of the Motor Vehicle Manager for the Motor
Vehicle Department of the City of Sunland Park. (Ord. 2013-11, 11-18-2013)
1-7J-2: APPOINTMENT AND SELECTION GENERALLY:
The City Manager shall appoint a person who shall be responsible for the proper
and efficient administration of the Motor Vehicle Department of the City of
Sunland Park. The position shall be appointed solely based on qualifications
and shall not be limited by reason of former residence. (Ord. 2013-11, 11-18-
2013)
1-7J-3: OATH; BOND:
The Motor Vehicle Manager shall take an oath or affirmation to support the
Constitution of the United States, the constitution and Laws of the State of
New Mexico and to faithfully perform the duties of said office in conformance
with NMSA § 3-10-2; and within ten (10) days of such oath or affirmation; shall
furnish a surety bond to the governing body in the amount prescribed by the
governing body or recommended by the City Auditor. The City of Sunland Park
shall pay for the surety bond. (Ord. 2013-11, 11-18-2013)
1-7J-4: COMPENSATION:
The Motor Vehicle Manager of the Motor Vehicle Department shall receive such
compensation as allowed by the City classification and pay plan as adopted by
the Governing Body and may, from time to time be amended by the Governing Body.
(Ord. 2013-11, 11-18-2013)
1-7J-5: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   The Motor Vehicle Manger shall possess a Bachelor's Degree in any field
of study from an accredited college or university and five (5) years of
professional level experience operating within the parameters and guidelines
directly relate to the position. Any combination of education and experience
with this occupation totaling nine (9) years may be substituted for the
required education and experience.
   B.   Minimum Requirements:
      1.   Possess and maintain a valid New Mexico Driver's License, or
equivalent license issued by another state including a current Defensive
Driving Certificate from the State of New Mexico or pass and receive Defensive
Driving Certification within six (6) months of the date of hire as a condition
of continued employment.
      2.   Through knowledge of the responsibilities and functions of motor
vehicle operations, including policies, laws and regulations, bookkeeping and
accounting principles, general office procedures, some knowledge of computer
operations; working knowledge and familiarity with the appropriate city
ordinances and state and local statutes and regulations; and thorough knowledge
of the organizational structure of City government.
      3.   Ability to work independently, to understand the purpose of standard
procedure, rules and regulations and to follow them intelligently; to learn the
fundamental elements of municipal government and the importance of adhering
strictly to the law in the performance of duties.
      4.   Ability to communicate with the citizens of the City on a daily
basis in a cheerful, helpful and positive manner.
      5.   Bilingual proficiency in the English and Spanish languages is
desirable.
      6.   Ability to supervise paid staff and other assignees.
      7.   Knowledge of motor vehicle automation software.
      8.   Knowledge of personal computer software including but not limited to
Windows and MS Office.
      9.   Ability to deal effectively and appropriately with representatives
of public and private sector agencies in both state and federal levels.
      10.   Possession of valid driver license and clear driving record. (Ord.
2013-11, 11-18-2013)
1-7J-6: GENERAL STATEMENT OF DUTIES:
Under the general duties of the Motor Vehicle Manager, is responsible for the
planning, implementation, and administration of the Sunland Park Motor Vehicle
Department. The position is generally responsible for developing, coordinating,
implementing, and evaluating traditional and emerging programs and services
that support the issuances of driver's license, title transfers, registration
renewals within the state laws and regulations and policies of the State of New
Mexico and the City of Sunland Park. (Ord. 2013-11, 11-18-2013)
1-7J-7: ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The Motor Vehicle Manager shall:
   A.   Manage and supervise the Motor Vehicle Department to achieve goals with
available resources; plan and organize workloads and staff assignments; train,
motivate, and evaluate assigned staff, review progress, and direct change as
needed;
   B.   Provide leadership and direction in the development of short and long-
range plans; gather, interpret, and prepare data for studies. Reports, and
recommends; coordinates department activities with other departments and
agencies as needed;
   C.   Provide professional advice to City officials; make presentations to
council, boards, commissions, civic groups, and the general public;
   D.   Communicate official plans, policies, and procedures to staff and the
general public;
   E.   Assure that assigned areas of responsibility are performed within
budget; perform cost control activities; monitor revenue and expenses in
assigned area to assure sound fiscal control; prepares annual budget request;
assures effective and efficient use of budget funds, personnel, materials,
facilities, and time;
   F.   Oversee the operation and updating of the required department record
keeping in areas such as payroll, employee files, purchase requisitions and
other transactions;
   G.   Determine work procedures; Prepares work schedules and expedite
workflow; study and standardize procedures to improve efficiency and
effectiveness of operations;
   H.   Supervise assigned supervisory and non-supervisory personnel and
schedule work to expedite flow and balance loads; assign duties, issue written
and oral instructions; check work for service effectiveness, quality,
acceptability, and policy and procedural conformance; guiding subordinates to
overcome difficulties encountered, correct errors and rectify complaints;
appraise performance of direct reports and review employee ratings by
subordinate supervisors, coach to motivate competency improvement and career
advancement; arrange for or conduct internal orientation, job training, and
employee development activities; enforce personnel rules and regulations,
conduct, courtesy, attendance, appearance and safety standards; maintain
harmony among employees, resolve applicable grievances; interview and recommend
applicants for hiring; commend, transfer, discipline and terminate employees;
changing staffing levels and job designs;
   I.   Issue written or oral instructions; assign duties and examine work for
exactness, neatness, and conformance to City and State policies and procedures;
   J.   Maintain harmony among workers and resolve grievances; supervise and
assist subordinates in performing duties; adjust errors and respond to
complaints;
   K.   Prepare a variety of studies, reports, and related information for
decision-making;
   L.   Develop policies and procedures for the Department in order to
implement directives from the City Manager;
   M.   Coordinate the information gathered and work accomplished by her/his
employees; assigns employees projects as the need arises for their specific
skills;
   N.   Supervise and coordinate the preparation and presentation of an annual
budget for the Department; direct the implementation of the Department's
budget; plan for and review specifications for supplies, equipment, and
materials;
   O.   Oversee the training and development of Department personnel;
   P.   Prepare and submits periodic reports to the City Manager regarding the
Department's activities and prepare a variety of other reports as appropriate;
   Q.   Attend conferences and meetings to keep abreast of current trends in
the field; represent the Motor Vehicle Department in a variety of local,
county, state, and other meetings according to City personnel policies;
   R.   Attend all regular and special meetings of the City Council and other
meetings as appropriate;
   S.   Represent the City and the Department at civic, community, and
governmental meetings;
   T.   Make presentations to, coordinate, and interact with the diverse
entities, individuals and general public to find relevant solutions;
   U.   Perform additional duties as necessary or assigned. (Ord. 2013-11, 11-
18-2013)
1-7J-8: ENVIRONMENT /PHYSICAL CONDITIONS:
   A.   Work is primarily in an office setting, extensive personal computer,
telephone usage but some travel and field work is required.
   B.   Work is performed under strict deadlines and high pressure and
stressful situations in conformance with applicable laws of the Federal, state
and city governments. (Ord. 2013-11, 11-18-2013)
1-7J-9: SERVES AT THE PLEASURE OF THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL IN THE ABSENCE OF A
CITY MANAGER:
The Motor Vehicle Manager serves at the pleasure of the Mayor and Council
should the position of the City Manager be vacant, and may, subject to the
terms of any written employment contract, be removed by such at any time with
or without cause. (Ord. 2013-11, 11-18-2013)
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL JUDGE
SECTION:
1-8-1: Powers And Duties; Jurisdiction
1-8-2: Qualification; Term Of Office
1-8-3: Compensation And Expenses
1-8-4: Bond And Oath
1-8-5: Alternate Judge
1-8-6: Vacancy
1-8-7: Judicial Ethics And Standards
1-8-8: Suspend And Defer Sentences And Grant Probation
1-8-9: Traffic Fines Payable To Court Clerk
1-8-10: Records Kept
1-8-11: Court Personnel
1-8-12: Budget
1-8-13: Discharge Of Liability
1-8-14: Liberal Construction
1-8-1: POWERS AND DUTIES; JURISDICTION:
The municipal judge shall serve as the judicial branch of the city and shall:
(Ord. 1987-14, 7-28-1987)
   A.   Hear and decide only cases of persons duly accused by a duly authorized
city officer, agent or employee or by any resident of the city, of violating a
city ordinance. (Ord. 1991-10, 8-21-1991)
   B.   Dismiss or pass judgment upon all such cases heard.
   C.   Impose or suspend an appropriate sentence, as provided in section 1-4-
1 of this title. (Ord. 1987-14, 7-28-1987; amd. 2000 Code)
   D.   Issue subpoenas and warrants to carry out the duties of the court.
   E.   Punish for contempt of court.
   F.   Maintain such records and issue such documents as are required by state
statute or regulation of the administrative office of the courts of the New
Mexico supreme court.
   G.   Not later than the tenth day of each month, submit to the governing
body a written report of all monies collected during the previous month, which
shall include an itemized statement of the amount collected, the purpose for
which collected, the name of the person paying, and the date of payment.
   H.   Not later than the tenth day of each month, turn over to the city
clerk-treasurer all monies collected the previous month.
   I.   Annually, unless exempted by the chief justice of the supreme court,
complete a training course approved by the administrative office of the courts
of the New Mexico supreme court.
   J.   Regularly schedule court hearings in the municipal court at such times
as will least inconvenience all parties concerned. In the event that the judge
does not provide for a reasonable schedule of hearings, the governing body
shall establish a reasonable minimum schedule by ordinance.
   K.   Be able at all reasonable hours for the issuance of warrants and
summons. (Ord. 1987-14, 7-28-1987)
1-8-2: QUALIFICATION; TERM OF OFFICE:
   A.   Qualified Elector; Residency: Each candidate for the office of
municipal judge shall be a qualified elector residing within the city and if
elected shall continually retain residence within the city throughout his term
of office.
   B.   Term: The municipal judge shall be elected for a term of four (4) years
at a regular municipal election. (Ord. 1987-14, 7-28-1987)   )
1-8-3: COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES:
   A.   Salary; Travel Expenses: Effective January 1, 2024, the municipal judge
shall receive a compensation of one thousand nine hundred ninety-nine dollars
and ninety-two cents ($1,999.92) payable upon the first day of each calendar
month. In addition, when the municipal judge must travel outside the city on
official business, he or she shall be reimbursed for travel and per diem in
accordance with state statutory provisions. (Ord. 00-02, 1-18-2000; amd. Ord.
2023-9, 8-15-2023)
   B.   Part Time Elected Official: The municipal judge is a part time elected
city official and is not entitled to vacation, sick leave, holidays or other
employee benefits granted full time city employees. He shall be granted
benefits which may from time to time be granted to other part time city
employees. (Ord. 1987-14, 7-28-1987)
1-8-4: BOND AND OATH:
The municipal judge shall, before he enters the duties of office, if no
corporate surety bond covering all city officials exists, execute a surety bond
to the city in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) conditioned upon
the faithful performance of his duties and the paying over to the city of all
fines, forfeited bonds and other money which comes into his hand by virtue of
his office. The municipal judge shall take the oath of office as required in
New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-10-2. (Ord. 1987-14, 7-28-1987; amd.
2000 Code)
1-8-5: ALTERNATE JUDGE:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor, with the advice and consent of the governing
body, shall appoint a qualified elector of the city to serve as acting
municipal judge in the absence or incapacity of the municipal judge.
   B.   Duties: The alternate municipal judge shall exercise all powers and
perform all duties of the municipal judge until the return of the municipal
judge.
   C.   Salary And Expenses: The alternate municipal judge shall receive
compensation at the rate of seventy-seven dollars ($77.00) per day for each day
worked and shall receive travel and per diem if official travel is approved by
the governing body and when the costs of such travel and per diem have been
budgeted as provided by law. (Ord. 1987-14, 7-28-1987; amd. Ord. 08-01, 4-29-
2008)
1-8-6: VACANCY:
   A.   Office Declared Vacant: In the event that the municipal judge resigns,
is removed, dies, or ceases residence within the city, the mayor, with the
advice and consent of the governing body, shall declare the office of the
municipal judge vacant.
   B.   Appoint Temporary Replacement: The mayor, with the advice and consent
of the governing body, shall appoint a qualified elector of the city to serve
until the next regular city election, at which time a municipal judge shall be
elected for a term of four (4) years. (Ord. 1987-14, 7-28-1987)
1-8-7: JUDICIAL ETHICS AND STANDARDS:
   A.   Compliance With State Guidelines: In trial proceedings, the municipal
judge shall be guided by the rules of procedure for municipal courts and the
New Mexico municipal benchbook issued by the New Mexico supreme court. In
addition, the public and private actions of the municipal judge shall be
governed by the code of judicial conduct issued by the New Mexico supreme
court, except for those provisions specifically made nonapplicable to municipal
judges.
   B.   Investigation And Removal: A municipal judge may be investigated and
disciplined, removed or retired, by order of the supreme court upon
recommendation of the judicial standards commission, as provided in article VI,
section 32 of the New Mexico constitution and New Mexico Statutes Annotated
sections 34-10-1 through 4. (Ord. 1987-14, 7-28-1987)
1-8-8: SUSPEND AND DEFER SENTENCES AND GRANT PROBATION:
When the municipal judge is satisfied that the public will be served and the
ends of justice will be served, the municipal judge may:
   A.   Suspend in whole or in part the execution of sentence;
   B.   Place the defendant on probation for a period not exceeding one year on
terms and conditions the court deems best, including, but not limited to,
deferment of sentence,. making restitution, or performing community service; or
   C.   Impose any or all of the provisions of both subsections A and B of this
section on the defendant. (Ord. 1987-14, 7-28-1987)
1-8-9: TRAFFIC FINES PAYABLE TO COURT CLERK:
The Municipal Judge shall designate the specific offenses under the Traffic
Code of the City (Title 6 of this Code), the fines for which may be accepted by
the Clerk of the Municipal Court upon a plea of guilty and shall specify by
suitable schedule the amount of such fines. (Ord. 1987-14, 7-28-1987)
1-8-10: RECORDS KEPT:
   A.   Records Sent To State: The Municipal Judge shall keep or cause to be
kept a record of every traffic complaint, uniform traffic citation and other
form of traffic charge filed in his Court and every official action and
disposition of the charge by his Court. Within ten (10) days after disposition
of the charge violating the Traffic Code of the City, the Municipal Judge
shall, upon forms furnished by the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, prepare,
certify as correct, and forward to the State Department of Motor Vehicles an
abstract of the record. A report need not be made of any conviction involving
illegal parking or standing of a vehicle except when a uniform traffic citation
is used. When the uniform traffic citation is issued, the form of the abstract
on the back of the officer's first copy containing the above information shall
be used.
   B.   Failure To Comply: The failure or refusal of the Municipal Judge to
comply with the provisions of this Section is misconduct in office and grounds
for removal. (Ord. 1987-14, 7-28-1987)
1-8-11: COURT PERSONNEL:
   A.   City To Provide Clerks: Pursuant to the recognized right of the
Municipal Judge to control the Court personnel, the Governing Body hereby
provides the Municipal Court a part-time clerk. Said clerk shall be a full-time
person on the staff of the City and during such time as such person's services
are necessary to assist the Municipal Judge, shall be under the control and
supervision of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   B.   Duties: The part-time clerical employee assistant provided to the
Municipal Court shall report to, and be supervised by, the City Clerk-Treasurer
and shall be responsible for assisting in the administrative work of the Court
and shall keep his office open during hours designated by the City Clerk-
Treasurer. The assistant shall also:
      1.   Receive fines and issue receipts therefor.
      2.   Receive and issue receipts for bail bonds.
      3.   Enter on the Court docket the time for appearance of all persons
coming before the Court and notify the arresting officer to be present.
      4.   Notify the City Attorney of such violations and complaints as may be
designated by the City Attorney.
      5.   Keep a record of all alleged violations of traffic ordinances
together with a notation of final disposition. Such record shall indicate all
types of offenses and the total of each type, and shall be maintained for a
period of five (5) years.
      6.   Keep a record of all traffic accidents, warnings, arrests,
convictions and complaints reported for each driver which shall be filed
alphabetically under the name of the driver. Such record shall be available for
use and information of the Police Department and City Attorney's office. (Ord.
1987-14, 7-28-1987)
1-8-12: BUDGET:
Pursuant to recognized right of the Municipal Judge to personally present and
justify the budget of the Municipal Court to the Governing Body, he shall do so
during the time of the general City budget making process. (Ord. 1987-14, 7-28-
1987)
1-8-13: DISCHARGE OF LIABILITY:
Upon successful completion of the terms and conditions of probation, the
defendant's liability for any fine or other punishment imposed shall be fully
discharged. (Ord. 1987-14, 7-28-1987)
1-8-14: LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION:
This Chapter shall be liberally construed to effectuate the intent of the City
to give the Municipal Judge wide discretion regarding probation, suspension and
deferment. (Ord. 1987-14, 7-28-1987)
CHAPTER 9
FEES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Short Title
1-9-2: Purposes
1-9-3: Fee Schedule
1-9-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the "Fees Ordinance of the City of Sunland Park."
(Ord. 2005-02, 4-5-2005)
1-9-2: PURPOSES:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the best interests of the city and
its inhabitants; that it is in the best interests of the city and its
inhabitants that fees be charged to defray administrative costs for the
processing of certain applications that benefit a limited number of people and
the public at large; that certain products produced by the city benefit only a
limited number of people and therefore the cost of these products should not be
borne by its inhabitants. (Ord. 2005-02, 4-5-2005)
1-9-3: FEE SCHEDULE:
Fees (to be established by city council resolution) are hereby established for
the following products and services:
   A.   Annexation;
   B.   Appeal;
   C.   Conditional (special) use permit;
   D.   Variance;
   E.   Zone change;
   F.   Subdivision;
   G.   Summary subdivision;
   H.   Preliminary subdivision review;
   I.   Subdivision infrastructure review and inspection;
   J.   Parkland dedication or in-lieu of fee;
   K.   Water rights dedication;
   L.   Sign permit;
   M.   Mobile home blocking permit;
   N.   Zoning map;
   O.   Copy of master plan;
   P.   Copy of subdivision ordinance;
   Q.   Copy of zoning ordinance;
   R.   Copy service;
   S.   Notary Public service;
   T.   Business license;
   U.   Business license duplicate;
   V.   Business license penalty;
   W.   Street vendor license;
   X.   Zone clearance letter;
   Y.   Block wall permit;
   Z.   State Tax I.D. number;
   AA.   Building permit copies;
   BB.   Street map;
   CC.   Copies of minutes on tape;
   DD.   Other maps;
   EE.   Judicial education fee.
(Ord. 2005-02, 4-5-2005; amd. Ord. 2009-05, 10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 10
CAMPAIGN FINANCE
SECTION:
1-10-1: Title
1-10-2: Definitions
1-10-3: Purpose and Intent
1-10-4: Printing or Publishing Campaign Material without Specifying Sponsor
1-10-5: Campaign Treasurer
1-10-6: Reporting
1-10-7: Report Filing Periods
1-10-8: Election Financial Records
1-10-1: TITLE:
This Chapter may be cited as the "Campaign Finance Code". (Ord. 2017-2, 8-15-
2017)
1-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this Chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   CANDIDATE: An individual seeking election to the position of mayor,
councilor or municipal judge at a regular or special election of the city.
   CONTRIBUTION: A gift, proceeds from any fundraiser(s), subscription, loan,
loan guarantee, advance, deposit, or contract agreement of money or anything of
value or other obligation, including but not limited to, in-kind services or
contributions, whether or not legally enforceable, made directly or indirectly,
for the primary purpose of supporting or opposing a candidate for elective
office or purpose of supporting a municipal question to a candidate or
political committee. This does not include the value of services provided
without compensation or unreimbursed personal expenses of individuals who
volunteer a portion or all of their time on behalf of a candidate, political
committee and/or municipal question.
   ELECTION: Any general or special municipal election in the city.
   EXPENDITURE: A payment, transfer, or distribution, or obligation or promise
to pay, transfer, or distribute any money or other thing of value for the
purpose of influencing the outcome of an election of a candidate or a municipal
question, but does not include the candidate's or his/her immediate family's
personal expenses.
   GENERAL PURPOSE POLITICAL COMMITTEE: A political committee other than a
special purpose political committee.
   MUNICIPAL QUESTION: Any question that is placed upon a ballot for a general
or special election by the registered voters of the city or the governing body.
   PERSON: Any individual, estate trust, receiver, conservative association,
club, corporation, company firm, partnership, joint venture, syndicate, or
entity.
   POLITICAL COMMITTEE: Every one or more persons who is/are selected,
appointed, chosen, or associated for the purpose of, wholly or in part,
supporting or opposing one or more candidates at any election or a municipal
question, and includes political committees or similar organizations composed
of employees or members of any corporation, labor organization, trade or
professional association or any other similar group which raises, collects,
expends or contributes money or any other thing of value for the purpose of
supporting or opposing a candidate or a municipal question in a municipal
election.
   REPORTING INDIVIDUAL: Every candidate, every treasurer of every political
committee, every person or corporate officer whose purpose is to aid the
candidate in the campaign for municipal office or a municipal question.
   SPECIAL PURPOSE POLITICAL COMMITTEE: A political committee making
contributions to support or oppose one candidate or a municipal question, such
contributions being limited to one special or one general election. (Ord. 2017-
2, 8-15-2017)
1-10-3: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the public policy of the City of Sunland Park that:
   A.   Public confidence in municipal government is essential and must be
promoted by all possible means;
   B.   Political campaign contributions and expenditures be fully disclosed to
the public and that secrecy in the sources and application of such
contributions be eliminated;
   C.   The public's right to know how political campaigns are financed far
outweighs any right that political campaigns remain secret and private;
   D.   The public interest is served by encouraging the widest participation
of the public in the electoral process by reducing the dependence of candidates
on large contributions; and
   E.   This Chapter also applies to any contributions, expenditures by
persons, or committees whose purpose is to encourage adoption or defeat of any
candidate or municipal question submitted to the voters of the city. (Ord.
2017-2, 8-15-2017)
1-10-4: PRINTING OR PUBLISHING CAMPAIGN MATERIAL WITHOUT SPECIFYING SPONSOR:
It is unlawful for any person, organization or political committee to publish,
print, or circulate any campaign advertising or communication which does not
specify the name of the sponsor or the name of a responsible officer who
authorized the printing, publication, or circulation of such material in any
municipal election or special election. Written, printed, or posted materials
shall also show a telephone contact number. (Ord. 2017-2, 8-15-2017)
1-10-5: CAMPAIGN TREASURER:
   A.   Each candidate or any political committee subject to the financial
restriction of Section
1-10-6B. of this Chapter shall have a designated campaign treasurer. A
candidate or person may appoint himself/herself as campaign treasurer.
      1.   Political committees established to support or defeat a municipal
ballot question shall file with the City Clerk, within thirty (30) business
days after City Council authorizes the municipal question to be placed on a
ballot.
   B.   The name, address, and telephone number of the campaign treasurer shall
be filed with the City Clerk with his/her declaration.
   C.   The campaign treasurer shall keep a true and full record of all
contributions and expenditures, to include:
      1.   The name and address of every contributor whose total contribution
exceeds twenty-five dollars ($25.00);
      2.   The amount and form of every contribution;
      3.   A full record of all disbursements;
      4.   Receipts for all expenditures exceeding twenty-five dollars
($25.00), reflecting the purpose of each expenditure, and the date and method
of payment; and,
      5.   A full record of all debt incurred.
   D.   Campaign records shall be preserved by the campaign treasurer or
candidate for at least one (1) year after the date of the election for which
the accounts are required to be kept. (Ord. 2017-2, 8-15-2017)
1-10-6: REPORTING:
   A.   Each candidate or campaign treasurer on behalf of the candidate,
person, or committee shall file a campaign report with the city clerk on a form
provided by the City Clerk.
   B.   It is unlawful for any political committee as defined in NMSA § 1-19-
26L (2010) to engage in a political purpose as defined in NMSA § 1-19-26M
(2010) to receive contributions or expend in excess of five hundred dollars
($500.00) in any calendar year or continue to receive or make any contributions
or expend for any political purpose unless that political committee appoints
and maintains a treasurer as required by this Chapter. Each treasurer shall
comply with Sections
1-10-5 and
1-10-6 herein.
   C.   Each campaign report, which identifies any contributions and
expenditures exceeding twenty-five dollars ($25.00), shall itemize each item
and include:
      1.   The amount of contribution or expenditure or value of goods and
services contributed;
      2.   The purpose of any contribution or expenditure and any in-kind
contribution or in-kind expenditure;
      3.   The date of the contribution or expenditure;
      4.   The name and address of the person or entity from whom any
cumulative contribution exceeding twenty-five dollars ($25.00) was received;
and,
      5.   The name and address of the person or entity to whom any cumulative
expenditure exceeding twenty-five dollars ($25.00) was made.
   D.   Anonymous contributions may not exceed twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
   E.   When the reporting individual is a candidate, the report shall include
the expenditures and contributions of those political committees authorized by
the candidate to expend and receive funds on behalf of his/her candidacy, and
when the candidate files a report for the political committee, the treasurer
thereof need not file a report of expenditures and contributions for the period
of time covered in the candidate's report.
   F.   Each campaign report shall contain the total of all contributions and
expenditures. Total contributions to the candidate shall not exceed two
thousand three hundred dollars ($2,300.00) from any individual, political
committee, or any other entity, except for a candidate's contribution or loan
to their own campaign.
   G.   An itemized campaign report is required if the total contributions and
expenditures received exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). A campaign
report shall contain a written declaration, under oath, if neither the campaign
contributions nor the expenditures exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
   H.   Each campaign report shall contain a declaration that the campaign
report has been prepared with all reasonable diligence and that it is true,
complete, and correct.
   I.   Each campaign report shall be subscribed and sworn to by the candidate
or a designated campaign treasurer.
   J.   It is the candidate's and political action committees' responsibility
to be aware of the reporting requirements and penalties for violation thereof.
(Ord. 2017-2, 8-15-2017)
1-10-7: REPORT FILING PERIODS:
   A.   Mandatory campaign reports include, but are not limited to, a full
record of all debt incurred, which shall be filed during the following periods:
      1.   The first report shall be filed thirty-five (35) days before the
election. The first campaign report shall contain a total listing of all
contributions and expenditures to a candidate who intends to seek election.
      2.   If a candidate has not received any contributions or has not made
any expenditures since the candidate's last report was filed with the City
Clerk, the candidate shall only be required to file a statement of no activity,
which shall be notarized, in lieu of a full report when the report would
otherwise be due and shall not be required to file a full report until the next
required filing date.
      3.   The second report shall be filed not later than 12:00 noon, fifteen
(15) calendar days preceding the date of the election.
      4.   The third report shall be filed not later than thirty (30) days
after an election for both certified and uncertified candidates. This is the
final report for uncertified candidates.
      5.   A final report shall be filed any time after an election but no
later than six (6) months after date of election if no debt remains.
      6.   Candidates having debt or contributions on hand in their campaign
shall file a report one (1) year after an election and every six (6) months
thereafter, so long as debt remains or contributions have not been exhausted.
Once the debts and/or contributions are resolved, the candidate shall file a
final report.
      7.   The City Clerk shall notify all candidates, via email, when a report
is due at least ten (10) working days in advance.
   B.   By the date of the final report, any remaining contributions not
expended on the campaign shall be disposed of, at the option of the candidate,
by one (1) of the following methods:
      1.   Returned to the person(s) who made the contribution(s);
      2.   Placed in the City of Sunland Park's General Fund for future
election costs;
      3.   Donated to a 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) organization as evidenced by
certificate from the organization; or
      4.   Donated to another candidate seeking election to municipal office.
   C.   The final campaign report shall reflect the final disposition of such
contributions.
   D.   Late filing:
      1.   If any candidate or campaign treasurer of a political committee
fails to submit any required report to the City Clerk of expenditures and
contributions by the deadlines outlined in this section, the candidate or
campaign treasurer shall pay to the City of Sunland Park's General Fund, which
designated for future election costs, the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day
for each regular working day until the complete report is filed up to a maximum
of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for not more than ninety (90)
days or both.
      2.   It is unlawful for a candidate or campaign treasurer of a political
committee to knowingly and willfully file a false report of expenditures and
contributions.
      3.   Any elected candidate who fails or refuses to file a report of
expenditures and contributions in the manner within the time required by this
Chapter shall not be issued a certificate of election until such candidate
files the report of expenditures and contributions. (Ord. 2017-2, 8-15-2017)
1-10-8: ELECTION FINANCIAL RECORDS:
   A.   Upon being notified of the formation and existence of any political
committee, the City Clerk shall furnish by registered mail to the chairman or
moderator, or head of this committee a copy of the Campaign Finance Code, and
identify the requirements for reporting contributions and expenditures by the
committee as provided for in this Chapter. It is recognized that an affirmative
duty rests on the officials of this committee to be aware of the provisions of
the Campaign Finance Code, and accordingly, such officials shall prepare and
file the required statements without a request from the office of the City
Clerk.
   B.   Within ten (10) days of receipt of this registered notification from
the City Clerk, the political committee shall prepare and file with the office
of the City Clerk a statement signed by the head of the committee acknowledging
receipt of the Campaign Finance Code, setting forth the following:
      1.   The exact name of the committee;
      2.   The official address (no P.O. boxes allowed) and phone number;
      3.   The membership and officials thereof; and,
      4.   An acknowledgment and receipt of a copy of the Campaign Finance Code
and of the requirements regarding filing of reports. It is recognized that an
affirmative duty rests on the officials of such political committee to be aware
of the provisions of the Campaign Finance Code, and, accordingly, such
officials shall prepare and file the required statements without a request from
the office of the City Clerk.
   C.   All campaign finance reports and statements shall be open to inspection
and/or audit by the City Clerk, his her designated representative, or the
auditor for the City of Sunland Park.
   D.   The City Clerk shall create an electronic database for all campaign
reporting required in this Chapter and make that information available for
public inspection. (Ord. 2017-2, 8-15-2017)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION 1
SECTION:
2-1-1: Membership; Appointment; Terms of Office; and Removal From Office
2-1-2: Powers and Duties
2-1-3: Organization and Meetings
2-1-4: Appeals
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10, Chapter 3 of this Code, Zoning Board of Adjustment consists
  of Planning and Zoning Commission members.
2-1-1: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE; AND REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
   A.   The Commission shall consist of seven (7) members who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council. Members shall be
residents of the planning and platting jurisdiction of the City. The two (2)
members may be drawn from the City's urbanized territory or from business
owners who have a business in the City but do not reside in the City.
   B.   On the first Commission, a majority of the members shall be appointed
for one- (1) year terms and the balance of the members shall be appointed for
two- (2) year terms. Each subsequent term of a member on the Commission shall
be for two (2) years or less in order to maintain the original staggering of
terms of membership. A vacancy in the membership of the Commission shall be
filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   C.   After a public hearing and for cause stated in writing and made part of
the public record, the Mayor with the approval of the City Council may remove a
member of the Commission. (Ord. 2016-1, 4-19-2016)
2-1-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Commission shall have such powers and duties as are necessary to:
   A.   Fulfill and perform its functions, promote municipal planning, and
carry out the purposes of NMSA 1978, §§ 3-19-1 through 3-19-12, as amended,
which Sections are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this
Chapter; and,
   B.   Promulgate and enforce regulations governing the subdivision of land
within the planning and platting jurisdiction of the City as provided by NMSA §
3-196 and §§ 3-20-1 through 3-20-16, as amended, which Sections are hereby
incorporated by reference and made a part of this Chapter; and,
   C.   To promulgate and enforce regulations governing zoning within the
platting and planning jurisdiction of the City as provided in NMSA 1978 §§ 3-
21-1 through 3-21-11, as amended, which Sections are hereby incorporated by
reference and made a part of this Chapter; and,
   D.   Perform such other functions as the City Council may from time to time
grant to the Commission for the purpose of promoting health, safety, moral or
general welfare of the City. (Ord. 2016-1, 4-19-2016)
2-1-3: ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS:
The following rules and regulations shall apply to:
   A.   Officers: The Commission shall elect one (1) of its members as chairman
for a one (1) year term, and create and fill any other offices as it may deem
appropriate.
   B.   Conduct of Business: The Commission shall adopt and publish such rules
and regulations for the conduct of business as it deems appropriate.
   C.   Meetings: The Commission shall hold regularly scheduled meetings at
least once a month. All meetings shall be held in accordance with the New
Mexico Open Meetings Act.
   D.   Quorum: A quorum of the Commission shall be a majority of its members.
   E.   Records: A public record shall be kept of all transactions, findings,
resolutions, determinations and actions of the Commission. All public records
shall be open to inspection as provided by the Inspection of Public Records
Act.
   F.   Reports: The Commission shall submit to the City Council at its regular
monthly meeting a copy of the minutes of its monthly meetings.
   G.   Conflict of Interest: A Commission member having any potential conflict
of interest on any policy, decision, or determination before the Commission
shall disclose to each of the other members the nature of his potential
conflict as provided by NMSA § 3-10-5, as amended, and by the New Mexico
Government Conduct Act. The Disclosure shall be recorded in the Commission's
minutes.
   H.   Penalty: Failure to disclose a conflict of interest shall be punishable
by a fine not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment not
exceeding ninety (90) days or both a fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 2016-1, 4-19-
2016)
2-1-4: APPEALS:
   A.   A person aggrieved by any decision of the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall have the right to appeal the decision of the Planning and
Zoning Commission to the City Council no later than twenty (20) days after the
decision. The notice shall be filed with the Chairperson of the Commission and
the Mayor of the City of Sunland Park. The notice shall specify the grounds for
the appeal and the relief requested. Upon receipt of the notice, the Commission
shall submit the record of the proceedings being appealed to the City Clerk.
   B.   A person aggrieved by the determination of the City Council after its
review of the Planning and Zoning Commission's decision may appeal the City
Council's decision to the Third Judicial District Court as allowed by NMSA §
39-1-1.1.
   C.   The City Council may determine it is necessary to form a Board of
Adjustment to hear appeals from the Planning and Zoning Commission. In the
event of such a determination, the City Council shall adopt an ordinance
delegating its authority to hear appeals from the Planning and Zoning
Commission to the Board of Adjustment. (Ord. 2016-1, 4-19-2016)
CHAPTER 2
LIBRARY ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Establishment Of Library
2-2-2: Creation Of Library Advisory Board
2-2-3: Advisory Board Membership
2-2-4: Officers
2-2-5: Duties Of Officers
2-2-6: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Library Advisory Board
2-2-7: Advisory Board Meetings
2-2-8: Library Personnel
2-2-9: Duties of the Librarian
2-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF LIBRARY:
There is hereby established in the City of Sunland Park a free access community
library known as the "Sunland Park community library." Such library is hereby
declared to be a proper and legitimate object of expenditure and operation
within the City of Sunland Park.
There is hereby created within the municipal budget of the City of Sunland
Park, a library fund which shall be administered by the city clerk-treasurer as
are other funds of the city. The city will initially supply this account with
monies for library materials on the following schedule: two hundred dollars
($200.00) year one; four hundred dollars ($400.00) year two; six hundred
dollars ($600.00) year three; eight hundred dollars ($800.00) year four; one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) year 5; in accordance with the basic requirements
of the State Library of New Mexico for developing libraries (rule 93-1).
(Ord. 01-03, 6-5-2001; amd. Ord. 2021-4, 5-18- 2021)
2-2-2: CREATION OF LIBRARY ADVISORY BOARD:
An advisory board is hereby created for the City of Sunland Park community
library, hereinafter referred to as the "library advisory board" and shall act
in an advisory capacity and appointed by the mayor and city council. The
library advisory board will serve to assist the librarian to ensure proper and
efficient administration of operational policies and procedures. (Ord. 01-03,
6-5-2001; amd. Ord. 2006-03, 4-4-2006; amd. Ord. 2021-4, 5-18- 2021)
2-2-3: ADVISORY BOARD MEMBERSHIP:
The library advisory board shall consist of seven board members appointed by
the governing body of the City of Sunland Park. The mayor and city council will
appoint board members. Board members must be residents of New Mexico to include
the City of Sunland Park and surrounding areas within a twenty- five (25) mile
radius of Sunland Park City limits. Must be paying members of the Sunland Park
community library and hold an active library card. The library advisory board
members will serve for two (2) years with a term limit of two (2) consecutive
terms. Each member shall remain in office until a successor is appointed. In
the event of a vacancy on the board due to resignations, removal, or death, and
otherwise, the mayor, giving consideration to the recommendation of the library
board, shall appoint the successors to the board to serve the remainder of the
regular term.
No member of the library board may be removed from office except for sufficient
cause and by two-thirds (2/3) vote of the entire membership. All library
advisory board members shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 01-03, 6-5-2001;
amd. Ord. 2021-4, 5-18-2021)
2-2-4: OFFICERS:
The library advisory board when first appointed shall meet and organize their
body by electing one of their members as chair, another as vice-chair, another
as secretary. Board members shall follow the Roberts Rules of Order in
conducting their business meetings. (Ord. 01-03, 6-5-2001; amd. Ord. 2021-4, 5-
18-2021)
2-2-5: DUTIES OF OFFICERS:
The chair of the board shall preside at all meetings. The vice-chair shall act
and serve in his/her place at all times when the chair is unable to perform
his/her duties. The secretary shall keep a complete and accurate record of all
matters of the library board. (Ord. 01-03, 6-5-2001; amd. Ord. 2021-4, 5-18-
2021)
2-2-6: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LIBRARY ADVISORY BOARD:
The chair of the board shall preside at all meetings. The vice-chair shall act
and serve in his/her place at all times when the chair is unable to perform
his/her duties. The secretary shall keep a complete and accurate record of all
matters of the library board.
   A.   Give advice on problems relating to the library;
   B.   Recommend such plans and programs as will best promote the library;
   C.   Work with the library administration and the mayor in developing the
library;
   D.   Investigate and consult with any agency that may aid or assist in the
growth of the library; and
   E.   Recommend by-laws, rules and regulations for the operation of the
library.(Ord. 01-03, 6-5-2001; amd. Ord. 2006-03, 4-4-2006; amd. Ord. 2021-4,
5-18-2021)
2-2-7: ADVISORY BOARD MEETINGS:
The library advisory board shall meet a minimum of two (2) times per year.
Meeting dates shall be designated by the library advisory board, provided
however, that special meetings may be called at any time upon written request
by three (3) members of the library board to the chair, or by the librarian and
with written notice to all members. (Ord. 04-06, 4-6-2004; amd. Ord. 2006-03,
4-4-2006; amd. Ord. 2021-4, 5-18-2021)
All meetings whether regular or special shall be open to the public and subject
to the open meetings act of the State of New Mexico, and in accordance with
City of Sunland Park policies and procedures. A majority of the whole
membership of the library advisory board shall constitute a quorum and no
action can be had in the absence of a quorum present of the library advisory
board. (Ord. 01-03, 6-5-2001; amd. Ord. 2021-4, 5-18-2021)
2-2-8: LIBRARY PERSONNEL:
Duly qualified staff shall be hired to operate and maintain the Sunland Park
community library. The library advisory board shall ensure that the librarian
meets the qualifications required by the state library of New Mexico (grade I
certification) as a minimum. The library advisory board shall establish
qualifications for library personnel and make recommendations to the mayor as
to library personnel. (Ord. 01-03, 6-5-2001; amd. Ord. 2006-03, 4-4-2006; amd.
Ord. 2021-4, 5-18-2021)
2-2-9: DUTIES OF THE LIBRARIAN:
The duties of the librarian shall be as are usually imposed on like persons in
like employment, and the librarian shall be considered the executive officer of
the library advisory board and shall have sole charge of the daily
administration of the library under the advise and review of the library
advisory board. The librarian will attend all library advisory board meetings
and will serve as liaison between the library advisory board and the mayor.
(Ord. 01-03, 6-5-2001; amd. Ord. 2006-03, 4-4-2006; Ord. 2013- 07, 11-5-2013;
amd. Ord. 2021-4, 5-18-2021)
CHAPTER 3
METROPOLITAN REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
2-3-1: Metropolitan Redevelopment Agency Established
2-3-2: MRA Governing Body; Powers and Duties
2-3-3: Annual Report/Audit
2-3-4: Mayor’s Duties
2-3-5: MRA Governing Body; Compensation
2-3-6: Limitations on Powers of the MRA Governing Body
2-3-1: METROPOLITAN REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY ESTABLISHED:
In the interest of efficiency, the governing body chooses to select the
mechanism of an agency (hereinafter referred to as the Metropolitan
Redevelopment Agency) which shall operate pursuant to this Chapter which is
hereby declared to be non-repealable and not subject to amendment so long as
any MRA bond remains unredeemed. (Ord. 2012-05, 12-5-2012)
2-3-2: MRA GOVERNING BODY; POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   In the interest of efficiency, the Mayor shall appoint with the advice
and consent of the City Council an advisory committee which shall function as
the Board of Commissioners (hereinafter referred to as the MRA governing body)
of the MRA. The MRA shall have and exercise all powers of the City of Sunland
Park and may exercise such powers in the same manner as though the powers were
conferred on the MRA instead of the City of Sunland Park.
   B.   The Mayor shall designate a chairman and vice chairman from among the
members of the Committee.
   C.   The MRA governing body may employ and determine the qualifications,
duties and compensation of an executive director, technical experts and such
other agents and employees, permanent and temporary, as the MRA may require.
For such legal services as the MRA may require, in the interest of efficiency
the MRA governing body may only employ or retain for the MRA legal counsel or
legal staff Counsel to the City of Sunland Park or the City legal staff.
   D.   MRA may not budge any funds for expenditures or incur any obligations
for expenditure of public funds except on approval of a budget by the City
Council and the Local Government Division of the Department of Finance and
Administration (LGD/DFA) except that MRA may solicit and accept personal or in
kind goods or services from any source for purposes of startups while it is
arranging for funding.
   E.   The City Council hereby declares its intent to seek approval of LGD/DFA
for funding MRA out of the Border Crossing Fund which is appropriate because
one mission of the MRA is to create a source of financing for public
infrastructure for the proposed International Border Crossing. (Ord. 2012-05,
12-5-2012)
2-3-3: ANNUAL REPORT/AUDIT:
The MRA shall file annually with the City Council a report of its activities
for the preceding fiscal year, which report shall include a complete financial
statement setting forth its assets, liabilities, income and operating expenses
as of the end of such fiscal year. The MRA shall be subject to the annual audit
requirements of the State Auditor and its governing body shall comply with the
Open Meetings, Inspection of Public Records, Procurement, Per Diem and Mileage
and Public Funds Acts. (Ord. 2012-05, 12-5-2012)
2-3-4: MAYOR'S DUTIES:
In the interest of efficiency, the Mayor shall serve as the Executive Director
of the MRA until a Director is employed by the Committee. (Ord. 2012-05, 12-5-
2012)
2-3-5: MRA GOVERNING BODY; COMPENSATION:
   A.   The MRA governing body shall consist of five (5) individuals initially
appointed to serve staggered terms as follows from the date of their
appointment:
      1.   Two (2) members for three- (3) year terms;
      2.   Two (2) members for two- (2) year terms; and
      3.   One (1) member for a one- (1) year term.
Thereafter, members of the MRA governing body shall be appointed for terms of
five (5) years each.
   B.   An MRA governing body member shall receive no compensation for services
to the MRA but shall be entitled to the necessary expenses, including traveling
expenses, incurred in the discharge of his duties. Each member of the MRA
governing body shall hold office until his successor has been appointed and
qualified. A certificate of the appointment or reappointment of any member of
the MRA governing body shall be filed with the City Clerk and the certificate
shall be conclusive evidence of the due and proper appointment of the member of
the MRA governing body. A member of the MRA governing body may with or without
cause be removed from office at any time by the Mayor.
   C.   The powers of the MRA shall be exercised by the MRA governing body. A
majority of the appointed MRA governing body shall constitute a quorum for the
purpose of conducting business and exercising the powers of the agency and for
all other purposes. Action may be taken by the agency upon a vote of a majority
of the MRA governing body present at a lawful meeting, unless in any case the
bylaws shall require a larger number.
   D.   Monthly, a summary of all activities of MRA staff and contracted
professionals shall be submitted to the Mayor and City Council as well as the
minutes of the last meeting of the MRA governing body. Except on majority vote
of the City Council supported by substantial evidence supporting a finding that
such MRA activities were done arbitrarily, capriciously or not in compliance
with the redevelopment law, such MRA activities shall be deemed approved as if
performed fully within the authority of the City Council. (Ord. 2012-05, 12-5-
2012)
2-3-6: LIMITATIONS ON POWERS OF THE MRA GOVERNING BODY:
With respect to the following powers, the City Council retains onto itself the
power to:
   A.   Acquire, whether by construction, purchase, gift, devise, lease or
sublease; to improve and equip; and to finance, sell, lease or otherwise
dispose of one (1) or more projects or part thereof.
   B.   Issue revenue bonds as provided by the Metropolitan Redevelopment Code
(NMSA §§ 3-60A-1 to 3-60A-13, 3-60A-14 to 3-60A-48) to finance or acquire
projects within the City and within a metropolitan redevelopment area;
   C.   Enter into financing agreements with others for the purpose of
providing revenues to pay the bonds authorized by the Redevelopment Bonding Law
(NMSA §§ 3-60A-26 to 3-60A-46); to lease, sell or otherwise dispose of any or
all of its projects to others for such revenues and upon such terms and
conditions as the City Council may deem advisable; and to grant options to
renew any lease or other agreement with respect to the project and to grant
options to buy any project at such price as the City Council deems desirable;
   D.   Issue revenue bonds for the purpose of defraying the cost of financing,
acquiring, improving and equipping any project, including the payment of
principal and interest on such bonds for a period not to exceed three (3) years
and all other incidental expenses incurred in issuing such bonds; and
   E.   Secure payment of such bonds as provided in the Redevelopment Bonding
Law. (Ord. 2012-05, 12-5-2012)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS REGISTRATION AND LICENSING
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Business Registration
3-1-3: Business Licensing
3-1-4: Revocation Of License
3-1-5: Effect Of Other Licensing Provisions
3-1-6: Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended, the
words and phrases used shall have the following meanings:
   AMUSEMENT HALL: Any arcade, building or premises having as its primary
business the providing of mechanical or electronic amusement devices,
including, but not limited to, the following: pinball machines, electronic or
video games of skill or chance, claw or scoop machines, jukeboxes, or coin-
operated table games. Any establishment having less than three (3) mechanical
or electronic amusement devices shall not be defined as "amusement hall" for
the purpose of this Chapter.
   BUSINESS: Any profession, trade or occupation and all and every thing of
calling whether or not carried on for profit, except those organizations exempt
from the Federal income tax pursuant to section 501(c)(3) of the United States
Internal Revenue Code, as amended or renumbered; provided however, "business"
shall include an "unrelated trade or business" of such organizations as the
latter terms are defined in section 513 of the City of Sunland Park United
States Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended or renumbered.
   BUSINESS LICENSE: The authorization to conduct a business from a permanent
physical location, as described in Section
3-1-2 of this Chapter.
   CANVASSER, SOLICITOR OR PEDDLER: Persons who sell either goods or services
or goods for the purpose of resale without a permanent physical location within
the City. This shall include temporary stands and door-to-door sales. This does
not include the activities of persons who sell solely to other businesses.
   COMMUNITY-WIDE EVENT: A community celebration which, by long standing custom
or by mayoral proclamation, is characterized by outdoor and indoor retail
special sales throughout the community.
   CONDUCT; CARRY ON: Engage in, carry on, own, maintain, manage or operate any
business, trade, art, profession, calling, employment, occupation or any
commercial, industrial or professional pursuit, vocation or enterprise in this
City.
   KIDDY RIDE CARNIVAL AND EXHIBITS: Any carnival or exhibits consisting
exclusively of rides and exhibits for children with no amusement devices other
than such rides, nor games of chance or skill, and not operating past the hour
of one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
   OUTDOOR SPECIAL EVENT: A temporary sales event of not more than three (3)
days by an individual business or group of businesses held outdoors and
adjacent to the building or buildings from which the sales are normally
conducted.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any location, building or portion thereof, or premises in
which or from which a business is carried on. The term includes, but is not
limited to, an office, warehouse, yard, location where books and records are
kept, the location from which business is solicited.
   RED TAG: A notice located on a business establishment to notify the general
public that the business or building is hazardous to the health, safety and
welfare of the occupant or the community. Business may not be conducted until
the public hazard is removed from the premises, or a hearing is held to
consider revocation of permit.
   RUMMAGE SALE: The sale of used goods or hand-crafted goods donated to or by
a church, school or fraternal organization or preschool exempt from taxation as
nonprofit, conducted on the premises of the entity involved.
   SPECIAL EVENT: An event for business or community promotion sponsored by one
or more businesses or organizations for a period not to exceed two (2) weeks,
where the promoter or promoters provide adequate parking, private patrol
officers or police protection, and a list of participants to the City Clerk-
Treasurer. The term includes arts and crafts fairs, producers or farmers'
markets, animal shows, automobile shows and the like, and outdoor sales at
community-wide events.
   TEMPORARY OUTSIDE DISPLAYS AND SALES: The display or sale of goods or
merchandise not in or from an enclosed permanent building to be conducted for a
limited period of time, subject to the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance
(Title 10 of this Code). The restricted time period does not apply to fireworks
sales during the allowable sales periods. Fireworks are permitted to be sold
from temporary outside display and sales areas during the time period defined
by the fireworks ordinance (Title 4, Chapter 5 of this Code).
   TENT SALES OR ACTIVITIES: "Tent sales" are those under a canopy, temporary
structure, enclosure or shelter constructed of fabric or pliable material.
Tents, canopies and temporary membrane structures shall not be used for a
period of more than one hundred eighty (180) days within a twelve (12) month
period on a single premises.
   YARD SALES: The sale of household personal property at sales identified as
yard sales, garage sales, moving sales, etc. Such sales are permitted no more
than five (5) times per year. There is no charge for this type of outdoor sale.
(Ord. 1997-06, 12-8-1997; amd. 2000 Code)
3-1-2: BUSINESS REGISTRATION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to provide for the registration
of businesses within the City.
   B.   Business Registration Fee:
      1.   Prorating Prohibited: Business registration fees shall not be
prorated.
      2.   Registration Fees: The business registration fee shall be set by
City Council resolution. (Ord. 2005-02, 4-5-2005)
   C.   Exemptions:
      1.   No business registration fee shall be imposed on any business which
is licensed as a business pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-
38-1, and as listed in the schedule in subsection
3-1-3E of this Chapter. Any person who operates under the same name, two (2) or
more businesses, one or more of which requires a business license and one or
more of which does not require a business license, shall obtain a separate
registration or license and shall pay a separate fee for each business.
      2.   Those businesses which are otherwise exempt by law.
      3.   A person who is a sanctioned and registered athletic official who
officiates for any association or organization which regulates any public
school activity and whose rules and regulations are approved by the State Board
of Education.
      4.   A business which has no place of business located inside the
boundaries of the City even though the business may do business within the
City.
   D.   Term Of Registration: A business registration is effective until the
last day of the month one year from issuance. Renewal is required within six
(6) weeks from the expiration date, without penalty.
   E.   Application To Do Business:
      1.   Application And Fee Requirement: Any person proposing to engage in
business within the City limits shall apply for and pay a business registration
fee for each outlet, branch, location, or place of business within the City
prior to engaging in business, unless such person is required to obtain a
business license.
      2.   Information Required: Any person filing an application for issuance
or renewal of any business registration or license shall include the following
information:
         a.   The exact nature or kind of business for which a license is
requested.
         b.   The form of business enterprise under which the business is to be
conducted, i.e., sole proprietorship, partnership, limited partnership or
corporation.
         c.   The place where such business is to be carried on, and if the
same is not to be carried on at any permanent place of business, the places of
residence of the owners of the same.
         d.   The name or names, other than the name of the applicant, which
the business will be operating, if any.
         e.   The time of operation during the full twenty four (24) hour
period and days of week.
         f.   The names and places of residence of all owners of the business;
if the owner is a corporation or partnership, the application shall state the
names and places of residence of the officers or general partners thereof.
         g.   The applicant's current revenue division taxpayer identification
number or evidence of application for a current revenue division taxpayer
identification number.
         h.   Such further information as the Clerk-Treasurer's office may deem
necessary, including square footage of building and number of employees, to
enable them to issue the applied for certificate.
   F.   Registration Not Transferable: No registration issued pursuant to this
Section shall be transferable from one business to another, nor from one person
conducting business to a succeeding person conducting the same business. A
family-owned business, transferred to an immediate family member, is an
exception and may be transferred during the calendar year.
   G.   Renewal: Six (6) weeks after expiration of a business registration, any
person with a place of business in the City and subject to this Chapter shall
apply for renewal of the business registration with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   H.   Late Registration Or Renewal; Penalty: If any business fails to obtain
the appropriate registration pursuant to the terms of this Chapter, or fails to
renew an existing registration shall pay a late fee of ten dollars ($10.00).
This penalty shall be in addition to all other fees imposed by this Chapter. No
business registration shall be issued until the person applying for such
registration has paid all prior registration fees due to the City.
   I.   Registration Or License To Be Displayed:
      1.   Place Of Business: The City Clerk-Treasurer shall provide a suitable
certificate of registration or license to be furnished to each place of
business included in this Chapter. Such certificate of registration or license
shall be displayed at the place of business for which such registration or
license is issued.
      2.   Solicitors To Carry License: Solicitors and similar licensees shall
carry the license on their person while engaging in the business for which such
license is issued.
   J.   Proper Business Location:
      1.   Provide Address: No registration or license shall be issued unless
and until the applicant for such license provides the City Clerk-Treasurer with
the address of the proposed location from which business will be conducted.
(Ord. 1997-06, 12-8-1997)
      2.   Inspection For Compliance With Requirements: The Clerk-Treasurer
shall cause inspection of the facilities and buildings at the location listed
to determine if such facilities and buildings meet all applicable building and
fire codes and zoning restrictions currently in force within the City.
Businesses shall not be permitted to open until all City department inspections
are complete and fees have been paid. (Ord. 1997-06, 12-8-1997; amd. 2000 Code)
      3.   Issuance Of Temporary Registration: The Clerk-Treasurer may issue a
temporary registration to a business while the applicant is bringing a location
to current building, zoning or fire code requirements, i.e., parking lot delay.
      4.   Revocation Of Registration: Registration may be revoked if applicant
cannot correct the deficiency.
   K.   Offenses; Penalties; Procedure Not Exclusive:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry
on any business or occupation within the City without first registering the
same or obtaining a license therefor, and without first paying the fees
required.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly file an application
for issuance or renewal of any business registration or license on which any of
the information required has been falsified.
      3.   Any person violating the provisions of this Section shall be
notified by Codes Enforcement that they are in violation of this Section.
      4.   A notice may be placed on the entrance of any business stating that
the business is in violation of the business registration ordinance, to notify
the public on the status of the business.
      5.   A red tag of the business can be issued, if the building is deemed
hazardous to the health, safety and welfare of the occupants or the community.
      6.   The remedies provided in this Section are not exclusive; and if any
person engages in business in the City without obtaining the required
registration or license for such business, the City may proceed in any manner
authorized by law, including specifically, but not limited to, the procedures
set forth in New Mexico Statutes Annotated sections 3-38-5 and 3-38-6. (Ord.
1997-06, 12-8-1997; amd. Ord. 2005-02, 4-5-2005)
3-1-3: BUSINESS LICENSING:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to provide for the licensing
and regulation of certain businesses within the City.
   B.   Applicability Of Provisions: All provisions of Section
3-1-2 of this Chapter, and any other provision which by its terms can apply
only to businesses subject to registration fees and not subject to licensing,
shall apply in full force and effect to the businesses which are licensed under
this Section.
   C.   Business License Required: All persons engaged in the pursuits,
businesses and occupations listed in this Section shall, before commencing
business, secure a license from the City under the procedures set forth in this
Chapter, and shall pay the license fees set forth in this Section in connection
with each pursuit, business or occupation.
   D.   Investigation Of Applicant: Upon receipt of an application for business
license under this Section, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall determine whether
the proposed operation conflicts with any ordinance. The City Clerk-Treasurer
or designee may investigate the application of the proposed business to
determine how such business will affect the public, the level of supervision
such business may require, the degree to which such business may attract crowds
or children, the accessibility of the proprietors of such business when
complaints are made to the City and the possibility of illegal activity at the
place of business. If, as a result of such investigation, the City Clerk-
Treasurer determines that the issuance of a business license conflicts with any
ordinance or is not in the interest of the health, safety and general welfare
of the public, the application shall be denied. (Ord. 1997-06, 12-8-1997; amd.
2000 Code; amd. Ord. 2005-02, 4-5-2005)
   E.   Late Registration Or Renewal; Penalty:
      1.   If any business fails to obtain the appropriate license pursuant to
the terms of this Chapter, or fails to renew an existing license when due, the
business shall pay a late fee as established by City Council resolution. This
penalty shall be in addition to all other fees imposed by this Chapter.
      2.   No business license shall be issued until the person applying for
such license has paid all prior license fees due to the City. (Ord. 1997-06,
12-8-1997; amd. Ord. 2005-02, 4-5-2005)
3-1-4: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Cause For Revocation:
      1.   In any case where a person is required to obtain a license or
registration as provided in this Chapter and has violated any of the provisions
of this Chapter or any other City ordinance relating thereto, or whenever, in
the judgment of the City Clerk-Treasurer or designee, the public welfare shall
require it, any license issued to such person by the City may be revoked.
      2.   If a business has a red tag, and the building is deemed hazardous to
the health, safety, and welfare of the occupant or the community, business
shall not be conducted during the appeal process unless and until the public
hazard has been eliminated from the premises.
   B.   Notice; Hearing: No such license shall be revoked until the City Clerk-
Treasurer notifies the holder of the license in writing that the revocation is
pending and will become final in thirty (30) days, unless said revocation is
stayed by filing a request for a hearing with the City Clerk-Treasurer to
appeal the decision. The City Council will act as the board for hearing such
license hearing appeals. If no appeal request is filed within the thirty (30)
day notification period, the revocation decision shall become final. (Ord.
1997-06, 12-8-1997)
3-1-5: EFFECT OF OTHER LICENSING PROVISIONS:
Whenever other licensing provisions of this Code differ from the provisions of
this Chapter, the provisions in this Code applicable to the specific type of
license addressed shall take precedence. (Ord. 1997-06, 12-8-1997)
3-1-6: PENALTY:
The violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be punishable as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day shall constitute a separate offense in any case of
continuing violation. (Ord. 1997-06, 12-8-1997; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Municipal Gross Receipts Tax
3-2-2: Municipal Environmental Services Gross Receipts Tax
3-2-3: Municipal Infrastructure Gross Receipts Tax
3-2-4: Municipal Hold Harmless Gross Receipts Tax
3-2-1: MUNICIPAL GROSS RECEIPTS TAX:
   A.   Imposition Of Tax: There is imposed on any person engaging in business
in the City for the privilege of engaging in business in the City an excise tax
equal to one-fourth of one percent (.25%) of the gross receipts reported or
required to be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico Gross Receipts
and Compensating Tax Act 1  as it now exists or as it may be amended. The tax
imposed under this Section is pursuant to the Municipal Gross Receipts Tax Act
as it now exists or as it may be amended and shall be known as the "Municipal
gross receipts tax".
   B.   General Provisions: This Section hereby adopts by reference all
definitions, exemptions and deductions contained in the Gross Receipts and
Compensating Tax Act as it now exists or as it may be amended.
   C.   Specific Exemptions: No Municipal gross receipts tax shall be imposed
on the gross receipts arising from:
      1.   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor
vehicle, air transportation or any other means from one point within the City
to another point outside the City;
      2.   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a state gross receipts tax distribution is
made pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated subsection C of section 7-1-6.4;
or
      3.      Direct broadcast satellite services.
   D.   Dedication: Revenue from the Municipal gross receipts tax will be used
for recreation related programs, recreation related capital improvements,
operations and maintenance of recreation programs and activities.
   E.   Effective Date: The effective date of the Municipal gross receipts tax
shall be either January 1 or July 1, whichever date occurs first after the
expiration of three (3) months from the date this Section is adopted, unless an
election is held on the question of approving this Section, in which case the
effective date shall be either January 1 or July 1, whichever date occurs first
after the expiration of three (3) months from the date when the results of the
election are certified to be in favor of this Section's adoption and the
adopted Section is delivered or mailed to the Taxation and Revenue Department.
(Ord. 1990-03, 6-20-1990; amd. 2000 Code; amd. Ord. 2010-02, 3- -2010)
 
Notes
1 1 NMSA § 7-9-1 et seq.
3-2-2: MUNICIPAL ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES GROSS RECEIPTS TAX:
   A.   Imposition Of Tax: There is imposed on any person engaging in business
in the City for the privilege of engaging in business in the City an excise tax
equal to one-sixteenth of one percent (1/16%) of the gross receipts reported or
required to be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico Gross Receipts
and Compensating Tax Act 1  as it now exists or as it may be amended. The tax
imposed under this Section is pursuant to the Municipal Environmental Services
Gross Receipts Tax Act as it now exists or as it may be amended and shall be
known as the "Municipal environmental services gross receipts tax".
   B.   General Provisions: This Section hereby adopts by reference all
definitions, exemptions and deductions contained in the Gross Receipts and
Compensating Tax Act as it now exists or as it may be amended.
   C.   Specific Exemptions: No Municipal environmental services gross receipts
tax shall be imposed on the gross receipts arising from:
      1.   The transmission of messages by wire or other means from one point
within the City to another point outside the City;
      2.   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor
vehicle, air transportation or any other means from one point within the City
to another point outside the City; or (Ord. 1991-02, 1-16-1991)
      3.   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a gross receipts tax distribution is made
pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated subsection A(3) of section 7-1-6.4.
   D.   Dedication: Revenue from the Municipal environmental services gross
receipts tax will be used for the purposes listed below:
   For the acquisition, construction, operation and maintenance of solid waste
facilities, water facilities, wastewater facilities, sewer systems and related
facilities.
   E.   Effective Date: The effective date of the Municipal environmental
services gross receipts tax shall be July 1, 1991, unless an election is held
pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 7-19-12 on the question of
disapproving this Section, in which case the effective date shall be either
July 1 or January 1, whichever date occurs first after the expiration of three
(3) months from the date when the results of the election are certified to be
in favor of this Section's adoption. (Ord. 1991-02, 1-16-1991; amd. 2000 Code)
 
Notes
1 1 NMSA § 7-9-1 et seq.
3-2-3: MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE GROSS RECEIPTS TAX:
   A.   Imposition Of Tax: There is imposed on any person engaging in business
in the City for the privilege of engaging in business in the City an excise tax
equal to one-eighth of one percent (1/8%) of the gross receipts reported or
required to be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico Gross Receipts
and Compensating Tax Act' as it now exists or as it may be amended. The tax
imposed under this Section is pursuant to the Municipal Infrastructure Gross
Receipts Tax Act as it now exists or as it may be amended and shall be known as
the "Municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax".
   B.   General Provisions: This Section hereby adopts by reference all
definitions, exemptions and deductions contained in the Gross Receipts and
Compensating Tax Act as it now exists or as it may be amended.
   C.   Specific Exemptions: No Municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax
shall be imposed on the gross receipts arising from:
      1.   The transmission of messages by wire or other means from one point
within the City to another point outside the City;
      2.   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor
vehicle, air transportation or any other means from one point within the City
to another point outside the City; or (Ord. 1992-01, 3-25-1992)
      3.   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a gross receipts tax distribution is made
pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated subsection A(3) of section 7-1-6.4.
(Ord. 1992-01, 3-25-1992; amd. 2000 Code)
   D.   Dedication: Revenue from the Municipal infrastructure gross receipts
tax will be used for the general Municipal purposes.
   E.   Effective Date: The effective date of the Municipal infrastructure
gross receipts tax shall be either January 1 or July 1, whichever date occurs
first after the expiration of at least three (3) months from the date this
Section is adopted. (Ord. 1992-01, 3-25-1992)
3-2-4: MUNICIPAL HOLD HARMLESS GROSS RECEIPTS TAX:
   A.   Imposition of Tax: There is imposed on any person engaging in business
in this municipality for the privilege of engaging in business in this
municipality and excise equal to three-eights of one percent (.375%) of the
gross receipts reported or required to be reported by the person pursuant to
the New Mexico gross Receipts and Compensating Tax Act as it now exists or as
it may be amended. The tax imposed under this Section is pursuant to the
Municipal Local Option Gross Receipts Taxes Act as it now exists or as it may
be amended and shall be known as the “municipal hold harmless gross receipts
tax.”
   B.   General Provisions: This Section hereby adopts by reference all
definitions, exemptions and deductions contained in the Gross Receipts and
Compensating Tax Act as it now exists or as it may be amended.
   C.   No municipal hold harmless gross receipts tax shall be imposed on the
gross receipts arising from:
      1.   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor
vehicle, air transportation or any other means from one (1) point within the
municipality to another point outside the municipality.
      2.   A business located outside the boundaries of a municipality on land
owned by that municipality for which a state gross receipts tax distribution is
made pursuant to NMSA § 7-1-6.4(C); or
      3.   Direct broadcast satellite services.
   D.   Dedication: Revenue from the municipal hold harmless gross receipts tax
will be used for any specific purpose or area of municipal government services,
including but not limited to police protection, public transportation or street
repair and maintenance. (Ord. 2014-07, 11-18-2014; amd. Ord. 2015-01, 2-3-2015)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Effective License Period
3-3-3: License Required; Tax Rates
3-3-4: Sunday Sales Licenses
3-3-5: Operation Without License; Closure
3-3-6: Liquor In Parks; Public Celebrations
3-3-7: Prohibited Acts
3-3-8: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
   CLUB: Any nonprofit group, including an auxiliary or subsidiary group,
organized and operated under the laws of the State, with a membership of not
less than fifty (50) members who pay membership dues at the rate of not less
than five dollars ($5.00) per year and who, under the constitution and bylaws
of the club, have all voting rights and full membership privileges, and which
group is the owner, lessee, or occupant of premises used exclusively for the
club purposes and which group the Director finds is operated solely for
recreational, social, patriotic, political, benevolent, or athletic purposes.
   DEPARTMENT: The State Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.
   DIRECTOR: The State Director of the Department.
   DISPENSER: Any person licensed under the provisions of the Liquor Control
Act 1 selling, offering for sale or having in his possession with the intent to
sell alcoholic beverages both by the drink for consumption on the licensed
premises and in unbroken packages for consumption and not for resale off the
licensed premises.
   GOVERNING BODY: The Mayor and elected Council members of the City.
   PERSON: An individual, corporation, firm, partnership, copartnership,
association or other legal entity.
   RESTAURANT: Any establishment having a New Mexico resident as a proprietor
or manager which is held out to the public as a place where meals are prepared
and served primarily for on-premises consumption to the general public in
consideration of payment and which has a dining room, a kitchen, and the
employees necessary for preparing, cooking, and serving meals; provided, that
"restaurant" does not include establishments as defined in regulations
promulgated by the Director serving only hamburgers, sandwiches, salads, and
other fast foods.
   RETAILER: Any person licensed under the provisions of the Liquor Control Act
selling, offering for sale or having in his possession with the intent to sell
any alcoholic beverages in unbroken packages for consumption and not for resale
off the licensed premises. (Ord. 1993-05, 6-7-1993; amd. 2000 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 7-24-1 et seq.
3-3-2: EFFECTIVE LICENSE PERIOD:
Pursuant to the provisions of New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 7-24-1, the
Governing Body, by ordinance, shall set the rates, and the dates and manner of
license tax payment on or before June 1 of each year. The rate set shall apply
from July 1 through and including June 30 of the following year. (Ord. 1993-05,
6-7-1993; amd. 2000 Code)
3-3-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; TAX RATES:
   A.   Pursuant to the provisions of New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 7-
24-1, on or after the effective date hereof, no person who has been issued a
State license from the Department shall be given possession of the license by
the City or a City license until the person has paid the City license tax in
full and in advance of issuance of the licenses.
   B.   The tax rate shall be:
Type Of License      Tax Amount
Retailer's license      $250.00
Dispenser's license      250.00
Club license         250.00
Restaurant license      250.00
Canopy         250.00
(Ord. 1993-05, 6-7-1993)
3-3-4: SUNDAY SALES LICENSES:
   A.   Additional Fee Imposed: Per the provisions of New Mexico Statutes
Annotated section 60-7A-1C, license holders seeking to use their license
privileges on Sunday must pay (in the event Sunday sales are authorized by the
voters) to the City an additional fee of: (Ord. 1993-05, 6-7-1993; amd. 2000
Code)
Type Of License      Tax Amount
Retailer's license      $250.00
Dispenser's license      250.00
Club license         250.00
Restaurant license      250.00
Canopy         250.00
   B.   Advance Payment In Full: Such fee shall be paid in full and in advance
of issuance of a license. (Ord. 1993-05, 6-7-1993)
3-3-5: OPERATION WITHOUT LICENSE; CLOSURE:
Failure of any person holding a retailer's, dispenser's, club, restaurant or
canopy license to pay such license tax on the date(s) and in the manner imposed
by this Chapter, shall be subject to appropriate action by the Governing Body
of the City as provided by New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 7-24-
3 relating to the closing of establishments. (Ord. 1993-05, 6-7-1993)
3-3-6: LIQUOR IN PARKS; PUBLIC CELEBRATIONS:
   A.   Prohibited In Parks, Exception: It is unlawful for any person to sell,
serve, consume, possess or permit the consumption of alcoholic beverages in or
on any public parks, streets, public parking lots or public areas, unless done
during and as part of any public celebration.
   B.   Permit For Public Celebration:
      1.   Definition: A "public celebration" is any State fair, County fair,
community fair, community fiesta, cultural or artistic performance or
professional athletic competition of a seasonal nature, any historical
performance or pageant, or any public activity held on an intermittent basis.
      2.   Permit Required: Only persons holding dispenser's licenses within
the City may dispense alcoholic beverages at a public celebration. Such persons
may do so only upon receiving permission and a permit from the City and upon
receiving a "special dispenser's permit" from the Director of the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Department.
      3.   Permit Fees: In addition to the State fee required for issuance of a
special dispenser's permit, the permittee shall pay the City the amount of ten
dollars ($10.00) per day for each day the permittee dispenses alcoholic
beverages at the public celebration.
      4.   Compliance With State Laws: The permittee shall be subject to all
State laws and regulations and all local laws and regulations regulating
dispenser's privileges and liabilities, and the permit shall be valid for no
more than twelve (12) hours. (Ord. 1988-02, 2-16-1988)
3-3-7: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Consumption In Licensed Premises Only: It is unlawful for any person to
consume alcoholic beverages in any public establishment unless the
establishment is licensed to sell and serve alcoholic beverages.
   B.   Liquor Sales Without License Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person
not a legal licensee of a liquor establishment, or any person not holding the
appropriate liquor license, to sell, serve or permit the consumption of
alcoholic beverages in a public establishment.
   C.   Open Container Of Alcohol On Public Ways: It is unlawful for any person
to be in possession of any glass, can or open container containing alcoholic
beverage on any public street, alley, sidewalk, parking lot, or other public
way or thoroughfare, unless it is in an area of a public celebration as
permitted by Section
3-3-6 of this Chapter. (Ord. 1988-02, 2-16-1988)
3-3-8: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this Chapter
shall be subject to punishment as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, and each time this Chapter is violated shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 1988-02, 2-16-1988; amd. Ord. 1993-05, 6-7-1993; 2000
Code)
CHAPTER 4
HOME OCCUPATIONS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose And Intent
3-4-2: Conditions For Allowing In Residential Zoning District
3-4-3: Permitted Home Occupations And Conditions
3-4-4: Parking Requirements And Conditions
3-4-5: Permit Approval
3-4-6: Permit Revocation
3-4-7: Revocation Of Registration By City Council
3-4-8: Penalty
3-4-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The use of a home occupation permit is to allow home occupations which are
compatible with the neighborhood in which they are located. The specific intent
of a home occupation permit is to:
   A.   Protect residential areas from any negative impacts associated with
home occupations.
   B.   Allow residents a broad choice in the use of their homes as a place for
income and livelihood.
   C.   Establish criteria and standards for conducting home occupations within
residential zoning districts. (Ord. 1997-05, 12-8-1997)
3-4-2: CONDITIONS FOR ALLOWING IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT:
A home occupation is permitted in a residential zoning district subject to the
following conditions:
   A.   Occupant Residing On Premises: No person other than an occupant
residing on the premises shall be engaged in a home occupation.
   B.   Incidental And Subordinate: The home occupation use of a dwelling shall
be clearly incidental and subordinate to its residential use and not more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling's gross floor area, not to exceed
five hundred (500) square feet, shall be used in conducting the home
occupation.
   C.   Storage Enclosed: Storage in connection with any home occupation shall
be totally enclosed within the dwelling and limited to items which are
necessary to conduct the home occupation or have been ordered by a customer,
but have not been delivered to the customer.
   D.   Retail Sales: There shall be no direct sale of products off display
shelves or racks. Retail sales shall only be conducted if product orders are
placed earlier by telephone or at sales party. Sales to customers shall be
arranged by appointment and scheduled so that not more than one customer
vehicle is at the dwelling. This requirement shall include the sale of
firearms.
   E.   Outside Appearance: There shall be no change in the outside appearance
of the building or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of a home
occupation, and there shall be no open storage of business related equipment or
supplies. Company owned vehicles which are three-fourths (3/4) ton truck or
smaller which are also used for personal transportation purposes shall be
exempt from this condition.
   F.   Signs: Signs shall not be permitted to advertise a business or its
products, except a name plate one square foot in size, nonilluminate, mounted
flush against the home.
   G.   Performance Standards; Hours: No equipment or process shall be used in
a home occupation which creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odor or
electrical interference detectable in adjacent areas, and no equipment or
process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference for any
radio or television receivers on and near the premises, which exceeds that
normally found in a residential area. Hours of operation of such equipment
shall be limited to those hours between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M.
   H.   Toxic Or Flammable Materials: There shall be no toxic (pesticides,
herbicides, rodenticides), explosive, highly flammable, combustible, corrosive,
etiologic, radioactive or other restricted materials used or stored on the
premises of a home occupation beyond the amount kept at a normal residential
dwelling or on hand to operate or maintain equipment, and permitted by the
National Fire Protection Association as adopted by the State of New Mexico.
   I.   Utility Usage: No home occupation shall cause an increase in the use of
any one or more public utility (water, sewer, electricity or garbage
collection). The combined utility usage of the dwelling and home occupation
shall not exceed the average residential usage.
   J.   Business Registration Required: All home occupations shall be required
to obtain a business registration from the City Clerk-Treasurer's office. (Ord.
1997-05, 12-8-1997)
3-4-3: PERMITTED HOME OCCUPATIONS AND CONDITIONS:
Permitted home occupations shall be classified into categories of similar uses.
For the purpose of this Section, the use categories shall be professional
office, professional service, instructional service, home artisan business and
repair service home occupations. If a proposed home occupation is not
specifically identified in a use category, a certificate of zoning shall be
requested from and prepared by the Planning and Zoning Commission stating if
the proposed use is permitted as a home occupation. (Ord. 1997-05, 12-8-1997;
amd. 2000 Code)
   A.   Professional Office: A professional office shall be considered an
office for accountants, appraisers, architects, attorneys, contractors,
engineers, financial planners, insurance agents, consulting services, real
estate and similar office uses. Dentist and medical doctor offices shall not be
considered permitted home occupation as a professional office.
   B.   Professional Service:
      1.   A professional service shall be considered computer programming,
beautician, barbershop, direct distribution (Amway, Avon, Tupperware, etc.),
maid service, mail order, massage therapy, ironing, pet grooming, telephone/fax
answering, word processing and similar service use. Beauticians, barbershops,
and massage therapist licensed by the State shall be limited to one customer
station. (Ord. 1997-05, 12-8-1997)
      2.   The following professional service businesses shall be prohibited as
home occupations; these uses are fortunetelling, health and exercise
facilities, massage parlors, palm reading and tattoo parlors. (Ord. 1997-05,
12-8-1997; amd. 2000 Code)
   C.   Instructional Service: An instructional service use shall be considered
educational tutoring, music lessons and similar instructional services. A
maximum of five (5) students may be at the dwelling at any one time. No music
instruments may be amplified.
   D.   Home Artisan Business: A home artisan business shall be considered
artist's studios, cabinet making, dress making, engraving, furniture making,
hobby crafts, jewelry making, sewing, tailor, writing studio and similar uses.
   E.   Small Item Repair Service: A small item repair service shall be
considered locksmith repair, watch repair, tool repair, shoe repair and similar
repair services. Auto repair, small appliance repair, small engine repair and
similar large item repair shall not be considered a small item repair service
home occupation. (Ord. 1997-05, 12-8-1997)
3-4-4: PARKING REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS 1 :
The parking requirements for home occupations shall conform to the following
conditions:
   A.   Maintain Residential Appearance: On-street parking near a home
occupation for customers or clients shall be permitted to maintain the
residential appearance of a neighborhood.
   B.   Number Restricted: No more than two (2) client or customer vehicles per
hour shall frequent a home occupation, except for lessons. For those home
occupations involving teaching (music, tutoring, etc.) the maximum number of
clients shall be five (5) at any one time.
   C.   Delivery Trucks: Delivery trucks in connection with home occupations
shall be limited to:
      1.   No more than two (2) deliveries per week from a two (2) axle, six
(6) tire vehicle;
      2.   No more than one delivery per month from a three (3) axle vehicle;
      3.   No delivery vehicles with four (4) or more axles;
      4.   On-street parking near a home occupation by delivery truck for
delivery purposes only.
   D.   Vehicle Size: Vehicles larger than two (2) axle, six (6) tire vehicles
shall not be used by the business operation as a home occupation.
   E.   Requirement For Dwelling: A home occupation shall not cause the
elimination of any required off-street parking for the main dwelling.
   F.   Commercial Vehicle: No more than one commercial vehicle shall be parked
overnight on the premises of a home occupation. (Ord. 1997-05, 12-8-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 10-13-1 E of this Code.
3-4-5: PERMIT APPROVAL:
Home occupations shall be approved through the City business registration and
licensing process' as administered by the City Clerk-Treasurer's office.
   A.   Application:
      1.   Submission To Clerk-Treasurer's Office: Application for a business
registration and home occupation permit shall be submitted to the City Clerk-
Treasurer's office. The City Clerk-Treasurer or designee shall provide the
appropriate forms.
      2.   Review Of Application; Inspection Of Location: The complete
application shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission and the
Fire Department for compliance with applicable City codes and regulations. The
location may be inspected by either the Planning and Zoning Commission or Fire
Department if deemed necessary.
   B.   Permit Denial Or Issuance:
      1.   Applications for home occupation permits which do not meet the
requirements of this Chapter shall be denied.
      2.    Applications for home occupation permits which do meet the
requirements of this Chapter shall be approved and issued a business
registration from the City Clerk-Treasurer's office.
   C.   Renewal: A home occupation permit shall be automatically renewed each
year, provided no provisions of this Chapter have been violated. (Ord. 1997-05,
12-8-1997; amd. 2000 Code)
3-4-6: PERMIT REVOCATION:
   A home occupation permit may be revoked by the City for nonconformance with
this Chapter. The following process shall be followed for the revocation of a
home occupation permit:
   A.   Scope: The City may revoke any home occupation permit for noncompliance
with the requirements of this Chapter. Any home occupation permit which is
revoked or not renewed shall become null and void and such use shall cease.
   B.   Home Occupation Inspections: Home occupation recipients shall allow
reasonable inspection of their premises at any time by officials of the City to
determine compliance with the requirements set out in Section
3-4-5 of this Chapter.
   C.   Revocation Process: The procedure to be followed by the City to revoke
a home occupation permit includes:
      1.      A home occupation permit shall be revoked for the following
reasons:
         a.   A change in home occupation use.
         b.   A failure to renew the business registration and/or license for
the home occupation.
         c.   A failure to permit the City to inspect the premises of a home
occupation.
         d.   The providing of false information on the home occupation permit
application.
         e.   A failure to meet any of the requirements of Section
3-4-2 of this Chapter or any other section of this Code or other City
ordinance.
      2.   The steps followed by the City to revoke a home occupation permit
shall include:
         a.   A maximum thirty (30) day time period to abate the violation to
Section
3-4-2 of this Chapter. Violations impacting health, safety and welfare may be
given a time period less than thirty (30) days for abatement.
         b.   A description of further action the City will take if the
violation is not abated.
   D.   City Actions: The City shall take all necessary actions to enforce this
Chapter. (Ord. 1997-05, 12-8-1997; amd. 2000 Code)
3-4-7: REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION BY CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Revocation Authorized: In any case where a person is required to obtain
a registration as provided in this Chapter and has violated any of the
provisions of this Chapter or any other City ordinance relating thereto, or
whenever, in the judgment of the City Clerk-Treasurer or designee, the public
welfare shall require it, any registration issued to such person by the City
may be revoked. No business shall be conducted during the appeal process unless
and until the public hazard has been eliminated from the premises.
   B.   Notice; Hearing: No such registration shall be revoked until the City
Clerk-Treasurer notifies the holder of the registration in writing that the
revocation is pending and will become final in thirty (30) days, unless said
revocation is stayed by filing a request for a hearing with the City Clerk-
Treasurer to appeal the decision. The City Council will act as the board for
hearing such license hearing appeals. If no appeal request is filed within the
thirty (30) day notification period, the revocation decision shall become
final. (Ord. 1997-05, 12-8-1997)
3-4-8: PENALTY:
The violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be punishable as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day shall constitute a separate offense in any case of
continuing violation. (Ord. 1997-05, 12-8-1997; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 5
DISTRESS SALES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: License Required
3-5-3: Application For License
3-5-4: Investigation Of And Grounds For Denial Of License
3-5-5: Issuance Of License; Conditions
3-5-6: License Fee
3-5-7: Confidentiality Requirements
3-5-8: Revocation Of License
3-5-9: Penalty
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended, the
words and phrases used shall have the following meanings:
   DISTRESS MERCHANDISE SALE: Any offer to sell to the public, or sale to the
public, of goods, wares or merchandise on the implied or direct representation
that such sale is in anticipation of the termination of a business at its
present location or that the sale is being held other than in the ordinary
course of business. Distress merchandise sales shall include, but are not
limited to, any sale advertised either specifically or in substance as a "fire
sale", "smoke and water damage sale", "adjustment sale", "liquidation sale",
"creditor's sale", "insolvent sale", "trustee's sale", "bankrupt sale", "save
us from bankruptcy sale", "insurance salvage sale", "mortgage sale",
"assignee's sale", "adjuster's sale", "must vacate sale", "going out of
business sale", "quitting business sale", "receiver's sale", "loss of lease
sale", "forced out of business sale", "removal sale", "change of ownership
sale", or "new location sale".
   PERSON: Any individual, estate, trust, receiver, cooperative association,
association, club, corporation, company, firm, partnership, joint venture,
syndicate or other entity. (Ord. 1997-06, 12-8-1997)
3-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise or conduct a distress
merchandise sale without having first obtained a license to do so in accordance
with the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 1997-06, 12-8-1997)
3-5-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring to conduct a distress merchandise sale shall make written
application to the City Clerk-Treasurer if the sale is to be held within the
City boundaries, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the sale,
unless the merchandise to be sold consists of perishable goods, or goods
damaged by smoke, fire or water, in which case the fifteen (15) day time period
is waived. Each application shall contain the following:
   A.   Name and address of the owner of the merchandise to be sold;
   B.   Description of the location of the sale;
   C.   Nature of the occupancy of the place where such sale is to be held, and
effective date of the termination of the premises;
   D.   Beginning and ending dates of the distress merchandise sale;
   E.   Full and complete statement of the facts regarding the reason why the
distress merchandise sale is being held, the manner of conduct of the sale, the
means of advertising, together with content of proposed advertisement or copies
thereof;
   F.   If a terminated business is involved, the name and address of the
business and owner or former owner;
   G.   Complete and detailed inventory of the merchandise including goods
received on consignment to be offered at the sale, the terms and conditions of
the acquisition of the merchandise, amount and description of the merchandise,
location of merchandise at the time of filing application;
   H.   Statement that the applicant has not, within ninety (90) days prior to
filing application, in contemplation of the distress sale ordered, purchased or
received on consignment any merchandise for the purpose of selling them at
sale;
   I.   A statement that no goods will be added to the inventory after the
application is made or during the sale;
   J.   A statement that the applicant or its principal officers have not been
convicted of a violation of the Distress Sales Ace or had a license issued
under said Act revoked within five (5) years of the filing of this application.
(Ord. 1997-06, 12-8-1997)
3-5-4: INVESTIGATION OF AND GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
The City Clerk-Treasurer may, upon the filing of an application, investigate
the applicant and examine his affairs in relation to the proposed sale and may
examine the inventory and records of the applicant. No license shall be issued
if it is found that:
   A.   The applicant has held a sale submitted to regulations under the
Distress Sales Act at the location described in the application within three
(3) years from the date of the application; or
   B.   The application states that the applicant or any of its principal
officers or agents have been convicted of a violation of the Distress Sales Act
or has had a license issued under said Act revoked within five (5) years of the
filing of this application; or
   C.   The inventory submitted with the application includes merchandise
purchased or held on consignment by the applicant or added to his stock in
contemplation of such sale and for the purpose of selling the stock at distress
sale; or
   D.   The applicant, in ticketing the merchandise for sale, has
misrepresented the original retail price or value thereof; or
   E.   The advertisements are false, fraudulent, deceptive or misleading in
any respect; or
      1.   NMSA §§ 57-10-1 to 57-10-12.
   F.   The sales methods used by the applicant in conducting the sale will
work a fraud upon the purchasers; or
   G.   The information in the application is insufficient; or
   H.   Representations made in the application are false; or
   I.   The applicant has acquired bankrupt stock or other distress sale
merchandise from another area, either within or outside the State, within six
(6) months of the application. (Ord. 1997-06, 12-8-1997)
3-5-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; CONDITIONS:
   A.   Conditions For Issuance: If the application which has been submitted
complies with the provisions of the Distress Sales Act and the required license
fee has been paid, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue the applicant a license
to advertise and conduct the sale described in the application subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   The sale shall be held at the place named in the application;
      2.   The sale shall be held by the licensee for a period of not more than
ninety (90) days following the date set forth in the license;
      3.   Only merchandise included in the inventory attached to the
application shall be displayed on the premises and sold at the sale;
      4.   The license shall be prominently displayed at the location of the
sale at all times;
      5.   The licensee shall keep accounting records at the sale location
which shall be open for inspection by the City Clerk-Treasurer during normal
business hours.
   B.   Current Business Registration Cancellation: Issuance of a distress
sales license cancels the current business registration or license currently
held by the business. (Ord. 1997-06, 12-8-1997)
3-5-6: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Fee Imposed: The fee for any license issued pursuant to the Distress
Sales Act shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) or one-fourth of one percent ('/4%) )
of the inventory cost value of the merchandise to be sold at the sale,
whichever is more. In no case shall the license fee exceed two hundred dollars
($200.00).
   B.   Extension Of License Period: If, during the period the license is in
effect, it appears that all the merchandise in the original inventory have not
been sold, the City Clerk-Treasurer may, upon application and for good cause
shown, extend the license for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days. (Ord.
1997-06, 12-8-1997)
3-5-7: CONFIDENTIALITY REQUIREMENTS:
The filing of an application for a license, the contents of the application and
the issuance of the license shall be confidential information and no disclosure
thereof shall be made except that which is necessary in the administration of
this Chapter. Disclosure of the information may be made with the written
consent of the applicant. The filing of the application and the issuance of the
license shall not be confidential after public notice of the proposed sale has
been given by the applicant. (Ord. 1997-06, 12-8-1997)
3-5-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The City Council shall revoke any license issued pursuant to the Distress Sales
Act if it is found that the licensee has:
   A.   Violated any provision of the Distress Sales Act; or
   B.   Violated any condition of the license; or
   C.   Made any material misstatement in the application for the license; or
   D.   Failed to include in the inventory required by the Distress Sales Act
all the merchandise being offered for sale; or
   E.   Offered or permitted to be offered at sale any merchandise not included
in the inventory attached to the application; or
   F.   Failed to keep suitable records of the sale; or
   G.   Made or permitted to be made false or misleading statements or
representations in advertising the sale or in displaying, ticketing or pricing
merchandise offered for sale; or
   H.   Been guilty of any fraudulent practice in the conduct of the sale
authorized by the license. (Ord. 1997-06, 12-8-1997)
3-5-9: PENALTY:
The violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be punishable as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day shall constitute a separate offense in any case of
continuing violation. (Ord. 1997-06, 12-8-1997; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN
SECTION:
3-6-1: Local Economic Development Plan
3-6-2: Authority
3-6-3: Purpose
3-6-4: Definitions as Used in the Local Economic Development Act
3-6-5: Restrictions on Public Expenditures or Pledges of Credit
3-6-6: Economic Development Project Applications
3-6-7: Project Participation Agreement; Duties and Requirements
3-6-8: Project Revenues; Special Fund; Annual Audit
3-6-9: Plan and Project Termination
3-6-1: LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
This Chapter may be cited as the "Local Economic Development Plan Ordinance."
(Ord. 2014-08, 12-16-2014)
3-6-2: AUTHORITY:
The Local Economic Development Plan Ordinance is enacted pursuant to the
statutory authority conferred upon municipalities and counties to allow public
support of economic development (NMSA §§ 5-10-1 to 5-10-13). This Chapter is
adopted as part of Sunland Park's Economic Development Plan. (Ord. 2014-08, 12-
16-2014)
3-6-3: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of the Local Economic Development Plan Ordinance is to
allow public support of economic projects to foster, promote and enhance local
economic development efforts while continuing to protect against the
unauthorized use of public money and other public resources. Further, the
purpose of the ordinance is to allow the City of Sunland Park to enter into one
(1) or more joint powers agreement with other local governments to plan and
support regional economic development projects.
   B.   Local Economic Development Act: Local governments are allowed to
provide direct or indirect assistance to qualifying business for furthering or
implementing economic development plan and projects, furthermore local and
regional governments have the authority to contribute assets to development
projects. Counties may impose county infrastructure gross receipts tax and
dedicate the revenue for economic development projects. A total of 0.25% tax
(in four increment of 0.0625%) may be imposed. Municipalities may impose
municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax and dedicate the revenue for
economic development projects. Cities may impose up to .1255% in two .0625
increments. The imposition of a tax must be approved by the voters in
referendum. (Ord. 2014-08, 12-16-2014)
3-6-4: DEFINITIONS AS USED IN THE LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ACT:
   ARTS AND CULTURAL DISTRICT: A developed district of public and private uses
that is created pursuant to the Arts and Cultural District Act (NMSA §§ 15-5A-
1 through 15-5A-7).
   CULTURAL FACILITY: A facility that is owned by the state, a county, a
municipality or a qualifying entity that serves the public through preserving,
educating and promoting the arts and culture of a particular locale, including
theaters, museums, libraries, galleries, cultural compounds, educational
organizations, performing arts venues and organizations, fine arts
organizations, studios and media laboratories and live-work housing facilities.
   DEPARTMENT: The economic development department.
   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT OR PROJECT: The provision of direct or indirect
assistance to a qualifying entity by a local or regional government and
includes the purchase, lease, grant, construction, reconstruction, improvement
or other acquisition or conveyance of land, buildings or other infrastructure;
public works improvements essential to the location or expansion of a
qualifying entity; payments for professional services contracts necessary for
local or regional governments to implement a plan or project; the provision of
direct loans or grants for land, buildings or infrastructure; technical
assistance to cultural facilities; loan guarantees securing the cost of land,
buildings or infrastructure in an amount not to exceed the revenue that may be
derived from the municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax or the county
infrastructure gross receipts tax; grants for public works infrastructure
improvements essential to the location or expansion of a qualifying entity;
grants or subsidies to cultural facilities; purchase of land for a publicly
held industrial park or a publicly owned cultural facility; and the
construction of a building for use by a qualifying entity.
   GOVERNING BODY: The city council, city commission or board of trustees of a
municipality or the board of county commissioners of a county.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT: A municipality or county.
   MUNICIPALITY: An incorporated city, town or village.
   PERSON: An individual, corporation, association, partnership or other legal
entity.
   QUALIFYING ENTITY: A corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
joint venture, syndicate, association or other person that is one or a
combination of two (2) or more of the following:
      A.   An industry for the manufacturing, processing or assembling of
agricultural or manufactured products;
      B.   A commercial enterprise for storing, warehousing, distributing or
selling products of agriculture, mining or industry, but, other than as
provided in Section
3-6-5 or Section
3-6-9 of this Chapter, not including any enterprise for sale of goods or
commodities at retail or for distribution to the public of electricity, gas,
water or telephone or other services commonly classified as public utilities;
      C.   A business in which all or part of the activities of the business
involves the supplying of services to the general public or to governmental
agencies or to a specific industry or customer, but, other than as provided in
Section
3-6-5 or Section
3-6-9 of this Chapter, not including businesses primarily engaged in the sale
of goods or commodities at retail;
      D.   An Indian nation, tribe or pueblo or a federally chartered tribal
corporation;
      E.   A telecommunications sales enterprise that makes the majority of its
sales to persons outside New Mexico;
      F.   A facility for the direct sales by growers of agricultural products,
commonly known as farmers' markets;
      G.   A business that is the developer of a metropolitan redevelopment
project;
      H.   A cultural facility; and
      I.   A retail business.
   REGIONAL GOVERNMENT: Any combination of municipalities and counties that
enter into a joint powers agreement to provide for economic development
projects pursuant to a plan adopted by all parties to the joint powers
agreement.
   RETAIL BUSINESS: A business that is primarily engaged in the sale of goods
or commodities at retail and that is located in a municipality with a
population of ten thousand (10,000) or less. (Ord. 2014-08, 12-16-2014)
3-6-5: RESTRICTIONS ON PUBLIC EXPENDITURES OR PLEDGES OF CREDIT:
   A.   No local or regional government shall provide public support for
economic development projects as permitted pursuant to Article 9, Section 14 of
the constitution of New Mexico except as provided in the Local Economic
Development Act or as otherwise permitted by law.
   B.   The total amount of public money expended and the value of credit
pledged in the fiscal year in which that money is expended by a local
government for economic development projects pursuant to Article 9, Section 14
of the constitution of New Mexico and the Local Economic Development Act shall
not exceed ten percent (10%) of the annual general fund expenditures of the
local government in that fiscal year. The limits of this subsection shall not
apply to:
      1.   The value of any land or building contributed to any project
pursuant to a project participation agreement;
      2.   Revenue generated through the imposition of the municipal
infrastructure gross receipts tax pursuant to the Municipal Local Option Gross
Receipts Taxes Act (NMSA Chapter 7, Article 19D) for furthering or implementing
economic development plans and projects as defined in the Local Economic
Development Act or projects as defined in the Statewide Economic Development
Finance Act (NMSA Chapter 6, Article 25); provided that no more than the
greater of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or ten percent (10%) of the revenue
collected shall be used for promotion and administration of or professional
services contracts related to the implementation of any such economic
development plan adopted by the governing body;
      3.   Revenue generated through the imposition of a county infrastructure
gross receipts tax pursuant to the County Local Option Gross Receipts Taxes Act
(NMSA Chapter 7, Article 20E) for furthering or implementing economic
development plans and projects as defined in the Local Economic Development Act
or projects as defined in the Statewide Economic Development Finance Act;
provided that no more than the greater of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or
ten percent (10%) of the revenue collected shall be used for promotion and
administration of or professional services contracts related to the
implementation of any such economic development plan adopted by the governing
body;
      4.   The proceeds of a revenue bond issue to which municipal
infrastructure gross receipts tax revenue is pledged;
      5.   The proceeds of a revenue bond issue to which county infrastructure
gross receipts tax revenue is pledged; or
      6.   Funds donated by private entities to be used for defraying the cost
of a project.
   C.   A regional or local government that generates revenue for economic
development projects to which the limits of subsection B.2. of this Section do
not apply shall create an Economic Development Fund into which such revenues
shall be deposited. The Economic Development Fund and income from the Economic
Development Fund shall be deposited as provided by law. Money in the Economic
Development Fund may be expended only as provided in the Local Economic
Development Act or the Statewide Economic Development Finance Act.
   D.   In order to expend money from an economic development fund for arts and
cultural district purposes, cultural facilities or retail businesses, the
governing body of a municipality or county that has imposed a municipal or
county local option infrastructure gross receipts tax for furthering or
implementing economic development plans and projects, as defined in the Local
Economic Development Act, or projects, as defined in the Statewide Economic
Development Finance Act, by referendum of the majority of the voters voting on
the question approving the ordinance imposing the municipal or county
infrastructure gross receipts tax before July 1, 2013 shall be required to
adopt a resolution. The resolution shall call for an election to approve arts
and cultural districts as a qualifying purpose and cultural facilities or
retail businesses as a qualifying entity before any revenue generated by the
municipal or county local option gross receipts tax for furthering or
implementing economic development plans and projects, as defined in the Local
Economic Development Act, or projects, as defined in the Statewide Economic
Development Finance Act, can be expended from the economic development fund for
arts and cultural district purposes, cultural facilities or retail businesses.
      1.   The governing body shall adopt a resolution calling for an election
within seventy-five (75) days of the date the ordinance is adopted on the
question of approving arts and cultural districts as a qualifying purpose and
cultural facilities or retail businesses as a qualifying entity eligible to
utilize revenue generated by the Municipal Local Option Gross Receipts Taxes
Act or the County Local Option Gross Receipts Taxes Act for furthering or
implementing economic development plans and projects as defined in the Local
Economic Development Act or projects as defined in the Statewide Economic
Development Finance Act.
      2.   The question shall be submitted to the voters of the municipality or
county as a separate question at a regular municipal or county election or at a
special election called for that purpose by the governing body. A special
municipal election shall be called, conducted and canvassed as provided in the
Municipal Election Code (NMSA Chapter 3, Articles 8 and 9). A special county
election shall be called, conducted and canvassed in substantially the same
manner as provided by law for general elections.
      3.   If a majority of the voters voting on the question approves the
ordinance adding arts and cultural districts and cultural facilities or retail
businesses as an approved use of the local option municipal or county economic
development infrastructure gross receipts tax fund, the ordinance shall become
effective on July 1 or January 1, whichever date occurs first after the
expiration of three months from the date of the adopted ordinance. The
ordinance shall include the effective date. (Ord. 2014-08, 12-16-2014)
3-6-6: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Any qualifying entity meeting the definition set forth above may
propose an economic development project to the City of Sunland Park. Meeting
the definition of a qualifying entity does not create any obligation on the
part of the City of Sunland Park.
   B.   Applications from qualifying entities shall be submitted to the City of
Sunland Park on forms provided by the City of Sunland Park.
   C.   The City of Sunland Park's evaluation of an application shall be based
on the provisions of the economic development plan, the financial and
management stability of the qualifying entity, the demonstrated commitment of
the qualifying entity to the community, a cost-benefit analysis of the project
and any other information deemed necessary for a full review of the economic
development project application.
   D.   The City of Sunland Park may negotiate with a qualifying entity on the
type or amount of assistance to be provided or on the scope of the economic
development project.
   E.   Projects shall be approved by ordinance. (Ord. 2014-08, 12-16-2014)
3-6-7: PROJECT PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT; DUTIES AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The qualifying entity shall enter into a project participation
agreement with the City of Sunland Park.
   B.   Public support provided for an economic development project shall be in
exchange for a substantive contribution from the qualifying entity. The
contribution shall be of value and may be paid in money, in-kind services,
jobs, expanded tax base, property or other thing or service of value for the
expansion of the economy.
   C.   The qualifying entity shall provide security to each local or regional
government, the state or any other New Mexico governmental entity providing
public support for an economic development project. The security shall secure
the qualifying entity's obligations based on terms stated in the project
participation agreement with the local or regional government and shall reflect
the amount of public support provided to the qualifying entity and the
substantive contribution expected from the qualifying entity.
   D.   If a qualifying entity fails to perform its substantive contribution,
each local or regional government shall enforce the project participation
agreement to recover that portion of the public support for which the
qualifying entity failed to provide a substantive contribution. The recovery
shall be proportional to the failed performance of the substantive contribution
and shall take into account all previous substantive contributions for the
economic development project performed by the qualifying entity, based on the
terms stated in the project participation agreement. The project participation
agreement for an economic development project that uses public support provided
by the state to a local or regional government shall include a recapture
agreement for the state.
   E.   The project participation agreement at a minimum shall set out:
      1.   The contributions to be made by each party to the participation
agreement;
      2.   The security provided to each governmental entity that provides
public support for an economic development project by the qualifying entity in
the form of a lien, mortgage or other indenture and the pledge of the
qualifying business's financial or material participation and cooperation to
guarantee the qualifying entity's performance pursuant to the project
participation agreement;
      3.   A schedule for project development and completion, including
measurable goals and time limits for those goals; and
      4.   Provisions for performance review and actions to be taken upon a
determination that project performance is unsatisfactory. (Ord. 2014-08, 12-16-
2014)
3-6-8: PROJECT REVENUES; SPECIAL FUND; ANNUAL AUDIT:
   A.   Local or regional government revenues dedicated or pledged for funding
or financing of economic development projects shall be deposited in a separate
account. Separate accounts shall be established for each separate project.
Money in the special account shall be expended only for economic development
project purposes, which may include the payment of necessary professional
services contract costs.
   B.   In the case of a regional government, revenues of each local government
dedicated or pledged for economic development purposes shall be deposited in a
special account of that local government and may be expended only by that local
government as provided by the regional government's economic development plan
and joint powers agreement.
   C.   The local or regional government shall provide for an annual
independent audit in accordance with the Audit Act (NMSA §§ 12-6-1 to 12-6-14)
of each special fund and project account. The audit shall be submitted to the
local or regional government. The audit is a public record. (Ord. 2014-08, 12-
16-2014)
3-6-9: PLAN AND PROJECT TERMINATION:
   A.   At any time after approval, the governing body of the City of Sunland
Park may enact an ordinance terminating the economic development plan and
dissolving or terminating any or all projects. An ordinance repealing an
economic development plan shall not be effective unless the ordinance provides
for satisfying existing contracts and the rights of the parties arising from
those contracts.
   B.   Any unexpended and unencumbered balances remaining in any project fund
or account upon repeal of a plan and termination or dissolution of a project
may be transferred to the general fund of the local government holding the fund
or account. In the case of funds or accounts of a regional government, the
unexpended and unencumbered balances shall be divided among the local
governments as provided in the joint powers agreement. (Ord. 2014-08, 12-16-
2014)
CHAPTER 7
STREET VENDORS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Short Title
3-7-2: Purposes
3-7-3: Authority
3-7-4: Definitions
3-7-5: Permit Required
3-7-6: Permit; Temporary
3-7-7: Exceptions
3-7-8: Application
3-7-9: Fee
3-7-10: Photographing/Fingerprinting
3-7-11: Approval Authority
3-7-12: Multiple Businesses
3-7-13: Permit Identification Card Required
3-7-14: Location Restrictions
3-7-15: Operating Standards
3-7-16: Vehicle Tags
3-7-17: Special Use Permit
3-7-18: "No Solicitors" Signs
3-7-19: Sale Of Sexually Oriented Material
3-7-20: Appeals
3-7-21: Impounding
3-7-22: Misdemeanor Violation
3-7-23: Modifications, Suspension And/Or Revocation Of Validly Issued Permit
And/Or License
3-7-24: Additional Penalties
3-7-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the "Street Vendor Regulations of the City of
Sunland Park". (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-2: PURPOSES:
The purpose of the Street Vendor Regulations of the city is to control the
undesirable effects of the street vending industry in order to protect the
health, welfare and safety of the residents of the city; and promote the order,
comfort and convenience of the city and its inhabitants. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-
2005)
3-7-3: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to Sections 3-17-1 (B) and 3-21-1 (A) and (B)
NMSA 1978. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, certain words and phrases shall be defined as
set forth in this section, unless it is apparent from the context that a
different meaning is intended. Any word not defined herein shall be used as
defined in this code. If the word is not defined in this code, the word shall
be used as defined in Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, latest edition.
   APPROVED LOCATION: A site approved by the city planner from which a vendor
operating from a pushcart or vehicle may sell his/her products.
   AUTHORITY: The city planner or those persons assigned by the city planner to
perform in his or her stead or such other persons appointed by the mayor.
   CITY: The City of Sunland Park, New Mexico.
   FOOD: A prepared edible product that can be eaten at the location of the
sale of said product. This definition excludes natural products such as fruit,
vegetables and herbs.
   HAWKER: A peddler who carries goods for sale and seeks purchasers either by
shouting or by attracting notice and attention to the goods for sale by bells,
the sound of a horn, or other means.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The applicable state or county government department
responsible for regulating food vendors.
   OWNER: Any person who owns or controls one (1) or more pushcarts and:
      A.   Conducts or permits or causes the operation of such vehicles vending
food, beverage or other product;
      B.   Owns, operates, controls, manages or leases such vehicles; or
      C.   Contracts with persons to vend food, beverage or other product from
such vehicles.
   PEDDLER: Any person who goes from house to house or from place to place
seeking to make concurrent sale and delivery of the goods, wares and
merchandise of any nature whatsoever.
   PUSHCART: Any human- or animal-propelled wheeled conveyance which contains
food items, goods, wares or merchandise, or other nonfood items sold or
solicited.
   SOLICITOR: A drummer or canvasser or any other person who goes from place to
place or from house to house taking or attempting to take orders from the sale
of goods, wares or merchandise of any nature whatsoever for future delivery or
services of any nature whatsoever to be furnished or performed in the future,
whether or not such individual has a sample and whether or not he or she is
collecting advance payments.
   STREET VENDOR: A generic term that includes all vendors, hawkers, peddlers,
solicitors, food vendors, pushcart vendors, foot vendors, catering truck
vendors, transient merchants and itinerant merchants as defined herein.
   TRANSIENT OR ITINERANT MERCHANT: Any person who establishes himself or
herself in business with the intention to remain in business for a short period
of time only, whether such period is a definite or indefinite one, or until a
particular stock of goods, wares or merchandise is disposed of, or until the
local market for the goods, wares or merchandise handled by the dealer has been
exhausted, and who for such limited period engages or occupies a building or
other place for the exhibition and sale of the goods, wares or merchandise.
   VEHICLE: Any truck, trailer, pushcart, cart, wagon, conveyance or structure
not permanently fixed to a permanent foundation and which may be moved under
its own power, towed by a motor vehicle or carried upon or in a motor vehicle
or trailer. This definition includes those vehicles known as CATERING TRUCKS.
   VENDING: The business of selling or causing to be sold for cash or
consideration of any items such as nonfood, food or food products or edibles of
any type, whether hot, cold, freshly prepared, or packaged.
   VENDING EQUIPMENT: Tools, machines, umbrellas, chairs, tables, food or food
products, etc., related to vending.
   VENDOR: A person who is in the business of vending and/or his or her
employee(s).
   VEND or VENDING: Offering food, beverage or product of any kind for sale
from a vehicle on any sidewalk, street, alley, highway or unenclosed place open
to the public, whether publicly or privately owned.
   VENDOR'S PERMIT: The permit issued to any person who operates as a street
vendor on any sidewalk, street, alley, highway, or public place within the
city. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person, whether or not the person maintains or is employed at an
established place of business or by a person who is permitted pursuant to this
chapter, shall engage in the business of street vendor without first obtaining
a vendor's permit.
   B.   A vendor's permit is not transferable and shall be valid for not more
than one (1) year from the date of issuance.
   C.   The authority shall not issue a vendor's permit to a food vendor until
the applicant for a vendor's permit provides proof to the city that he/she/it
has obtained a health department permit for the vehicle to be used. (Ord. 2005-
03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-6: PERMIT; TEMPORARY.
The authority may issue temporary permits for short duration sales under the
following criteria:
   A.   No temporary permit may be issued for a period longer than thirty (30)
days.
   B.   No more than three (3) temporary permits may be issued per year to the
same applicant.
   C.   The applicant for a temporary permit must comply with all the
requirements in this chapter except section 3-7-10. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-7: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to wholesale salespersons who
sell to established places of business. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-8: APPLICATION:
Any person desiring to obtain a vendor's permit required by this chapter shall
appear personally before the authority and make a written application to the
authority stating the following information:
   A.   The name and description of the applicant or organization with proper
identification;
   B.   The permanent home address of the applicant and/or the address of the
organization;
   C.   A complete and detailed description of the business to be conducted;
   D.   The name and address of the employee, or individuals designated as
street vendors if any;
   E.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any felony, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed;
   F.   A statement as to the number of vehicles to be used in conducting the
business. The statement shall include the make, model, year, vehicle license
number, and registered owner's name and address;
   G.   Location where vendor intends to store the vehicle and/or vending
equipment;
   H.   Plans for provisions to collect and store litter and dispose of it;
   I.   A dimensioned drawing indicating the size of the vending equipment, and
vehicle the applicant proposes to use;
   J.   The applicant must show proof that the vehicle (if it is a vehicle as
defined by the state Vehicle Code) that is to be used for vending is properly
registered in the State of New Mexico or other state and has the minimum
liability insurance required by the State of New Mexico;
   K.   The driver of the vehicle in subsection J. above must show proof that
he/she is legally licensed to drive the type of vehicle in question;
   L.   The applicant for a vendor's permit that is to be located (with
approval of an SUP) on private property must show written proof that the
property owner has granted permission to the applicant to locate the vehicle on
said property.
   M.   Vendors wishing to locate a vehicle on private property on a
semipermanent basis (with approval of an SUP) may only do so on property zoned
C-2, M-1 or M-2. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-9: FEE:
The fee for obtaining any permit required by this chapter shall be established
by resolution of the city council. Fees are payable to the issuing authority
upon acceptance of the application. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-10: PHOTOGRAPHING/FINGERPRINTING:
Applicants shall personally appear at the police department of the city for
photographing and fingerprinting and produce proof that the required
application fee has been paid and present the application containing the
information and supporting documentation required by this chapter. (Ord. 2005-
03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-11: APPROVAL AUTHORITY:
If the authority finds that the application complies with all the requirements
of this chapter, the vendor's permit shall be approved. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-
2005)
3-7-12: MULTIPLE BUSINESSES:
   A.   Every person who is required to obtain a permit pursuant to this
chapter must obtain a permit for each business if more than one (1) business is
being conducted.
   B.   A permittee shall not engage in any business not designated on the
permit and shall not engage in any business for an employer not designated on
the permit, unless and until the permittee obtains another permit for that
business or employer. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-13: PERMIT IDENTIFICATION CARD REQUIRED:
Every person who is required to obtain a permit pursuant to this chapter must
wear an identification card (hereafter called "card") issued by the authority,
while engaged in the business for which he/she/it is permitted. The card must
be worn on the upper left hand portion of the torso, clipped or attached to the
outer garment, and shall remain visible at all times. The card shall exhibit
the person's photograph and pertinent permitted information deemed appropriate
by the authority. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-14: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No person required to obtain a permit pursuant to this chapter shall
conduct the business for which they are permitted within one thousand (1,000)
feet of any public or private school or church, or five hundred (500) feet from
any government building, government facility or public park.
   B.   The prohibition of this section does not apply to any person invited in
writing to call upon any elementary or secondary public or private school by
the principal of the school.
   C.   Street vendors are allowed to operate in or on city facilities when
invited to do so by the city for special events. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-15: OPERATING STANDARDS:
No vendor shall stop, stand or park any vehicle from which non-food and or
foodstuffs are displayed, offered for sale or sold, upon any portion of any
public street, alley or highway within the city except as allowed by a special
use permit or in compliance with all of the following:
   A.   Stopping To Sell – Time Limit: Street vendors shall stand or park only
at the request of a bona fide customer or purchaser and for a period of time
not exceeding five (5) minutes at any one (1) place. The time limit may be
waived by the city when the vendor has been invited by the city to participate
in a special event on or off city property.
   B.   Stopping To Sell – Posted Speed Limit: No street vendor shall stand or
park when the posted speed limit on the public street, alley or highway is
thirty-five (35) miles per hour or greater.
   C.   Stopping To Sell – Position of Vehicle: No street vendor shall stand or
park or engage in vending when:
      1.   Any part of the vehicle other than the side of the vehicle next to
the right side of the street, alley or highway is open to prospective
customers;
      2.   The vehicle is not stopped, parked or standing on the extreme right
of the street, alley or highway;
      3.   The prospective customer is located on or in that portion of the
street, alley or highway which is open to vehicular traffic.
   D.   The prospective customer is in a standing vehicle, or sitting in or
operating another vehicle.
   E.   The vehicle is stopped, standing or parked not in violation of any
other provision of this code or the New Mexico Vehicle Code.
   F.   The position or location of the vehicle does not interfere with the
free passage of any vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   G.   Vehicle – Weight Limit: Vending vehicles shall have a gross weight of
less than five thousand (5,000) pounds.
   H.   Vehicles – Noise Making Devices: Noise emitted from vending vehicles
shall conform to title 4 of this code requirements. No vendor shall use noise
making devices after 8:00 p.m. in residential zones.
   I.   Vehicles - Lights Flashing, Blinking And Moving: Vehicles may be
illuminated provided that they do not make use of lights to convey the effect
of movement or flashing intermittent or variable intensity. Lighting shall not
be used to call attention to the vehicle.
   J.   Hours Of Operation: The permitted hours for operation of street vendors
are as follows:
      1.   In commercial/industrial zones 6:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
      2.   In residential zones 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
   K.   Vehicle – Operation: Each individual who drives, operates or vends from
a food vending vehicle shall not allow any minors to ride in or on the vehicle
while it is in operation; allow more than two (2) individuals to be in or on
the vehicle while it is in operation; nor attempt to back up the vehicle to
make a sale. All motorized vehicles shall have a sign which states "CAUTION
CHILDREN." The sign shall have yellow letters which are at least eight inches
(8") high on a white background and shall be located at the rear and front of
the vehicle.
   L.   Refuse: A refuse container of at least one (1) cubic foot shall be
provided in or on the vehicle. All vendors are responsible for keeping the area
within one hundred feet (100') of their vehicle free of trash. In the case of a
semi-permanently located food vending vehicle with an approved SUP the
applicant must provide at least one (1) thirty (30) gallon trash receptacle
which must be emptied every day in the commercial trash bin provided by the
host property owner or another approved location.
   M.   No vendor shall cause more than two (2) vehicles to assemble, gather,
collect or otherwise join for any purpose on any street, sidewalk, highway or
public place within twenty feet (20') of each other. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-16: VEHICLE TAGS:
Every person who is required to obtain a permit by this chapter shall obtain a
vehicle tag (from the authority) for each vehicle used for vending purposes at
the time the permit is issued. All vehicles for which tags are issued shall
display the tag on the exterior lower rear right hand portion of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-17: SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Street vendors may request in writing to the authority that a special
use permit be issued to allow vendor vehicles to stop for longer periods of
time than specified herein.
   B.   When a special use permit (SUP) has been duly applied for, it shall be
processed in the same manner as specified in title 10 of this code.
   C.   When a special use permit is approved by the authority, the conditions
of approval of the special use permit shall take into consideration the
regulations and standards of this chapter. However, the special use permit may
supersede said regulations and standards at the discretion of the planning and
zoning commission ("PCZ"). If the commission supercedes the regulations
contained herein, they shall make specific findings related to the rationale
used to vary from said regulations.
   D.   Special use permits may be granted for a period of time as specified by
the PCZ. Subsequent special use permits shall be required to submit a new
application and related fees. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-18: "NO SOLICITORS" SIGNS:
It is unlawful for any solicitor or other street vendor to solicit business on
private property that has a "No Solicitors" sign prominently displayed. (Ord.
2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-19: SALE OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATERIAL:
Sale of sexually oriented material or products from a vehicle or through a
street vendor license is prohibited. This code regulates the sale of such
material, see title 10. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-20: APPEALS:
   A.   The decision of the authority to revoke the vendor's permit of any
street vendor may be appealed to the city council. The appeal shall be made in
writing and filed with the city clerk within ten (10) working days following
receipt of the written revocation decision from the authority.
   B.   The authority shall, upon receipt of such appeal, set the matter for
hearing before the city council not less than ten (10) nor more than thirty
(30) days following the filing of the appeal. Notice of meeting shall be given
by deposit in the United States mail or by personal delivery at least five (5)
days prior to the meeting.
   C.   At the time and place of meeting, the city council shall hear and
consider all relevant evidence including, but not limited to, the report of the
authority and any written or oral testimony. The meeting may be continued at
the discretion of the city council.
   D.   Upon the conclusion of the public meeting, the city council shall, on
the basis of the evidence presented at the meeting, determine whether the
street vendor's permit shall be revoked. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-21: IMPOUNDING:
A vehicle may be impounded by a police officer, or by any other person(s)
authorized to enforce this chapter pursuant to this chapter, in the course of
an arrest of the operator for a violation of this chapter when the vehicle is
to be used as evidence of the violation. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-22: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION:
Pursuant to title 1, chapter 4 of this code, unless a lesser maximum penalty or
a specific penalty is established by ordinance for a particular offense, the
maximum penalty for violation of this chapter shall be a fine of not more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for not more than ninety (90)
days or both. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-23: MODIFICATIONS, SUSPENSION AND/OR REVOCATION OF VALIDLY ISSUED PERMIT
AND/OR LICENSE:
A violation of this chapter by the holder of any city permit and/or city
license validly issued pursuant to this or any other chapter shall constitute
grounds for modification, suspension and/or revocation of said permit and/or
license. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
3-7-24: ADDITIONAL PENALTIES:
Nothing in this chapter shall preclude the city from pursuing the remedies
provided by this code, including but not limited to, as applicable, denial or
revocation of certificates of occupancy, issuance of stop work orders and
injunctive relief. (Ord. 2005-03, 4-5-2005)
CHAPTER 8
CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: Business Registration
3-8-3: Cannabis Consumption Areas
3-8-4: Minimum Distances from Schools and Daycare Centers
3-8-5: Hours of Operation
3-8-6: Personal Use Cultivation and Production
3-8-7: Enforcement
3-8-8: Cannabis Zoning
3-8-9: Retail Sales of Cannabis to Motor Vehicles
 
3-8-10: Penalty
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS: 
Unless the context clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended, the
words and phrases used shall have the following meanings:
CANNABIS: All parts of the plant genus Cannabis containing a delta-9-
tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than three-tenths (0.3) percent on a
dry weight basis, whether growing or not; the seeds of the plant; the resin
extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant, its seeds or its resin; and
does not include:
   A.   The mature stalks of the plant; fiber produced from the stalks; oil or
cake made from the seeds of the plant; any other compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of the mature stalks, fiber, oil or cake; or
the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of germination; or
   B.   The weight of any other ingredient combined with cannabis products to
prepare topical or oral administrations, food, drink or another product.
CANNABIS CONSUMPTION AREA: An area, licensed by the New Mexico Cannabis Control
Division, where cannabis products may be served and consumed.
CANNABIS COURIER: A person that transports cannabis products to qualified
patients, primary caregivers or reciprocal participants or directly to
consumers.
CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   A cannabis testing laboratory;
   B.   A cannabis manufacturer;
   C.   A cannabis producer;
   D.   A cannabis retailer;
   E.   A cannabis research laboratory;
   F.   A vertically integrated cannabis establishment;
   G.   A cannabis producer microbusiness; or
   H.   An integrated cannabis microbusiness
CANNABIS MANUFACTURER: A person that:
   A.   Manufactures cannabis products;
   B.   Packages cannabis products;
   C.   Has cannabis products tested by a cannabis testing laboratory; or
   D.   Purchases, acquires, sells or transports wholesale cannabis products to
other cannabis establishments
CANNABIS PRODUCER: A person that:
   A.   Cultivates cannabis plants;
   B.   Has unprocessed cannabis products tested by a cannabis testing
laboratory;
   C.   Transports unprocessed cannabis products only to other cannabis
establishments; or
   D.   Sells cannabis products wholesale.
CANNABIS PRODUCER MICROBUSINESS: A cannabis producer at a single licensed
premises that possesses no more than two hundred (200) total mature cannabis
plants at any one time.
CANNABIS PRODUCT: A product that is or that contains cannabis or cannabis
extract, including edible or topical products that may also contain other
ingredients.
CANNABIS RESEARCH LABORATORY: A facility that produces or possesses cannabis
products and all parts of the plant genus Cannabis for the purpose of studying
cannabis cultivation, characteristics or uses.
CANNABIS RETAILER: A person that sells cannabis products to qualified patients,
primary caregivers or reciprocal participants or directly to consumers.
CANNABIS TESTING LABORATORY: A person that samples, collects and tests cannabis
products and transports cannabis products for the purpose of testing.
DAYCARE: A facility required to be licensed by the State of New Mexico that
provides care, services, and supervision for less than twenty-four (24) hours a
day to children.
INTEGRATED CANNABIS    MICROBUSINESS: A person that is authorized to conduct
one or more of the following:
   A.   Production of cannabis at a single licensed premises; provided that the
person shall not possess more than two hundred total (200) mature cannabis
plants at any one time;
   B.   Manufacture of cannabis products at a single licensed premises;
   C.   Sales and transportation of only cannabis products produced or
manufactured by that person;
   D.   Operation of only one retail establishment; and
   E.   Couriering of cannabis products to qualified patients, primary
caregivers or reciprocal participants or directly to consumers.
SCHOOL: That part of a school district that is a single attendance center in
which instruction is offered by one or more teachers and is discernible as a
building or group of buildings generally recognized as either an elementary,
middle, junior high or high school or any combination of those and includes a
charter school.
VERTICALLY INTEGRATED CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT: A person that is authorized to
act as any of the following:
   A.   A cannabis courier;
   B.   A cannabis manufacturer;
   C.   A cannabis producer; and
   D.   A cannabis retailer. (Ord. 2021-8, 9-7-2021)
3-8-2: BUSINESS REGISTRATION:  
All businesses operating within city limits are required by City Code Section
3-1-2 to apply for a business registration with the city and to pay a business
registration fee. Business registrations shall not be issued to any cannabis
establishment, cannabis consumption area, or cannabis courier unless the
applicant has a provisional license issued by the New Mexico Cannabis Control
Division. Upon receipt of the full license, the applicant or business must
provide confirmation of it to the city. Failure to provide confirmation of
receipt of a full license will result in recission of the applicant's business
registration. (Ord. 2021-8, 9-7-2021)
3-8-3: CANNABIS CONSUMPTION AREAS:
   A.   The smoking of cannabis in public is prohibited within city limits,
except in cannabis consumption areas.
   B.   A cannabis consumption area may be located inside any cannabis
retailer; provided, however, that smoking of cannabis products in such
consumption areas is only allowed if the cannabis consumption area occupies a
standalone building from which smoke does not infiltrate other indoor
workplaces or other indoor public places where smoking is otherwise prohibited
pursuant to the Dee Johnson Clean Indoor Air Act, NMSA 1978, Chapter 24,
Article 16.
   C.   Unless licensed pursuant to the Lynn and Erin Compassionate Use Act,
cannabis consumption areas shall be restricted to persons twenty-one (21) years
of age and older. (Ord. 2021-8, 9-7-2021)
3-8-4: MINIMUM DISTANCES FROM SCHOOLS AND DAYCARE CENTERS:
   A.   No cannabis establishment or cannabis consumption area may be located
within two hundred (200) feet of a school or daycare center in existence at the
time the cannabis establishment, integrated cannabis microbusiness or cannabis
consumption area was licensed.
   B.   For the purpose of this section, all measurements for determining the
location of a cannabis establishment or cannabis consumption area, in relation
to schools or daycare centers shall be the shortest direct line between the
actual limits of the real property of the school or daycare center and the
actual limits of the real property of the proposed cannabis establishment or
cannabis consumption area.
   C.   Any cannabis establishment or cannabis consumption area legally
existing within the city by virtue of a license issued by the New Mexico
Cannabis Control Division prior to the effective date of this chapter shall not
be required to comply with these minimum distance requirements. (Ord. 2021-8,
9-7-2021; amd. Ord. 2022-10, 6-21-2022)
3-8-5: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Cannabis products may only be served and consumed within cannabis
consumption areas between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. on the following
day.
   B.   Cannabis retailers, including vertically integrated cannabis
establishments and integrated cannabis microbusinesses involved in retail, may
only sell cannabis products for consumption off-premises between the hours of
7:00 a.m. until midnight Monday through Saturday and 8:00 a.m. to midnight on
Sundays.
   C.   Nothing in the section is meant to prohibit the lawful consumption of
cannabis products outside of cannabis consumption areas as permitted under this
chapter and pursuant to the Act. (Ord. 2021-8, 9-7- 2021)
3-8-6: PERSONAL USE CULTIVATION AND PRODUCTION: 
Cannabis cultivation and production for personal use in quantities and as
permitted by the Cannabis Regulation Act and Lynn and Erin Compassionate Use
Act is allowed anywhere in the city subject to the following:
   A.   Cannabis cultivation and production for personal use must not be
visible from a public right-of-way.
   B.   Any person cultivating or producing cannabis must take reasonable
precautions to prevent the theft of any cannabis or cannabis products by
keeping the cannabis in a locked enclosure. (Ord. 2021-8, 9-7- 2021)
3-8-7: ENFORCEMENT: 
The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the city's code enforcement
officer or a law enforcement officer tasked with enforcing the city's code.
(Ord. 2021-8, 9-7-2021)
3-8-8: CANNABIS ZONING:
   A.   A cannabis establishment shall be considered a "special use" under
Title 10 Chapter 10 of the City Code and may only operate upon receipt of a
special use permit from the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   B.   Subject to receipt a special use permit, cannabis establishments may
operate within the zoning districts reflected in Figure 1, Cannabis Zoning
Matrix (below).
   C.   Cannabis retailers which seek to operate a retail location out of
manufactured home or modular dwelling unit, as those terms are defined in
Sunland Park City Code Section
10-1-1, shall be permitted by a special use permit provided:
      1.   The manufactured home or modular dwelling unit will be located on
real property zoned C-1 Light Commercial or C-2 General Commercial;
      2.   The manufactured home or modular dwelling unit will serve as a
temporary retail site while a permanent, site-built location is constructed;
      3.   The cannabis retailer has obtained a retail license from the State
Cannabis Control Division for the manufactured home or modular dwelling unit;
and
      4.   The special use permit shall be limited to a maximum duration of two
(2) years.
 
CANNABIS ZONING MATRIX
 Districts
CANNABIS ZONING MATRIX
               Districts
Cannabis       C1            C2            M1            M2  Entertainment
License Types                                                District
Cannabis       Class 1-3 Yes Class 1-3 Yes Class 1-3 Yes Yes Class 1-3 Yes
Manufacturer
               Yes, if       Yes, if                         Yes, if
               associated    associated                      associated
Cannabis       with a        with a        Yes           No  with a
Producer       vertically    vertically                      vertically
               integrated    integrated                      integrated
               license       license                         license
                                                             Yes, if
Cannabis                                                     associated
Producer       Yes           Yes           Yes           No  with a
Microbusiness                                                vertically
                                                             integrated
                                                             license
Cannabis       Yes           Yes           No            No  Yes
Retailer
Vertically
Integrated     Yes           Yes           No            No  Yes
Cannabis
Establishment
Testing        No            Yes           Yes           Yes No
Laboratories
Consumption    Yes           Yes           Yes           No  Yes
Lounges
Four Types of
Manufacturer                                              
Licenses:
Class I: A
licensee that
only packages
or repackages
cannabis
products, or                                              
labels, or
relabels the
cannabis
product
container.
Class II: A
licensee that
conducts Class
I activities,
and
manufactures
edible
products or
topical
products using
infusion                                                  
processes, or
other types of
cannabis
products other
than extracts
or
concentrates,
and does not
conduct
extractions.
Class Ill: A
licensee that
conducts Class
I and Class II
activities,
and extracts                                              
using
mechanical
methods or
nonvolatile
solvents.
Class IV: A
licensee that
conducts Class
I, Class II,
and Class Ill
activities,                                               
and extracts
using volatile
solvents or
super critical
CO2.
 
(Ord. 2022-1, 1-4-22; amd. Ord. 2022-10, 6-21-2022)
3-8-9: RETAIL SALES OF CANNABIS TO MOTOR VEHICLES: 
A cannabis retailer may sell cannabis products to customers located in motor
vehicles through a drive-up window whereby the customer remains in the motor
vehicle during the transfer of the cannabis product so long as the following
criteria are met:
   A.   The window where sales take place must constitute part of the retail
area of the retailer's licensed premises.
   B.   The driveway where the drive-up window is located must comply with all
local and state construction standards.
(Ord. 2022-10, 6-21-2022)
3-8-10: PENALTY: 
Any violation of this chapter may be enforced in any court of competent
jurisdiction. The maximum penalty per violation of this chapter, unless
otherwise indicated, shall be three hundred dollars ($300) or thirty (30) days
in jail or both. Each day during the time in which a violation occurs shall be
deemed a separate violation. Nothing herein shall prevent the city from seeking
injunctive relief, if appropriate. (Ord. 2021-8, 9-7-2021)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
ARTICLE A. TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE; INVENTORY
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Definitions
4-1A-2: Exceptions
4-1A-3: Vehicles Used For Carrying; Travel Routes
4-1A-4: Parking
4-1A-5: Inventory And Disclosure Statement
4-1A-6: Declaration Of Inventory
4-1A-7: Misstatement On Inventory; Penalty
4-1A-8: Site Inspection
4-1A-9: Adoption Of Standards; Enforcement
4-1A-10: Applicability Of Standards To Facilities
4-1A-11: Certification Of Compliance
4-1A-12: Violation; Penalty
4-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Article,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CLASS A POISONS: Extremely dangerous poisonous gases or liquids of such
nature that a very small amount of gas, or vapor of the liquid, mixed with air
is dangerous to life.
   CLASS B POISONS: Less dangerous poisonous liquids or solids (including
pastes or semiliquids) that are less dangerous than Class A poisons and that
are chiefly dangerous by external contact with the body or by being taken
internally, as in contaminated foods or feeds. The vapors of some of this class
of poison are also offensive and dangerous, but to a lesser extent than Class A
poisons.
   CLASS C POISONS: Tear gas or irritating substances in liquid or solid form
which give off dangerous or intensely irritating fumes when exposed to air or
upon contact with fire.
   CLASS D POISONS: Radioactive material and substances which spontaneously
emit radiations which are capable of penetrating and severely damaging living
tissues and surrounding shipments.
   COMPRESSED GAS: Any material or mixture having in the container a pressure
exceeding forty (40) pounds per square inch at seventy degrees Fahrenheit
(70°F); or a pressure exceeding one hundred four (104) pounds per square inch
at one hundred thirty degrees Fahrenheit (130°F); or any liquid flammable
material having a vapor pressure exceeding forty (40) pounds per square inch at
one hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100°F).   I
   CORROSIVE EXPLOSIVE: Any liquid or solid which will cause severe damage to
living tissue and to freight by chemical action when in contact therewith.
Liquids which may also cause fire when in contact with organic matter or
certain chemicals. Any chemical compound, mixture or device, the primary or
common purpose of which is to function by explosion.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS: Any liquid which gives off flammable vapors.
   FLAMMABLE SOLIDS: Solids, other than explosives, which are liable to cause
fires through friction, through absorption of moisture, through spontaneous
chemical changes, or as a result of retained heat from the manufacturing or
processing of the commodity.
   OXIDIZING MATERIAL: Substances that yield oxygen readily to stimulate the
combustion of organic matter.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is composed of a chassis, or frame
with wheels, which either has its own mode of power or is drawn by another
vehicle and a camping body primarily designed or converted for use as temporary
living quarters for recreation, camping or travel activities. (Ord. 1992-08,
10-23-1992)
4-1A-2: EXCEPTIONS:
This Article shall not apply under the following conditions and circumstances:
   A.   Delivery To Customers Located Within City: When any truck, trailer,
motor vehicle or any other form of vehicle is carrying any of the material
defined in Section
4-1A-1 of this Article to commercial consumers, domestic consumers, gasoline
service stations or bulk stations located within the corporate limits of the
City.
   B.   Propelling Vehicle: When any truck, trailer, motor vehicle or any other
form of vehicle is carrying any of the materials defined in Section
4-1A-1 of this Article for the sole purpose of propelling the truck, trailer or
motor vehicle.
   C.   Necessary Repairs While Loaded; Notify Police: When any truck, trailer,
motor vehicle or any other form of vehicle loaded or partly loaded with any of
the products defined in Section
4-1A-1 of this Article has stopped on any of the streets or highways designated
as provided in Section
4-1A-3 of this Article at a gasoline service station or garage for necessary
repairs. Under this circumstance the vehicle shall not remain at the gasoline
service station or garage longer than thirty (30) minutes unless the Police
Department is notified that it is necessary to remain for a longer period than
thirty (30) minutes.
   D.   Forced Stoppage; Conditions Allowing Repairs On Street: When any truck,
trailer, motor vehicle or any other form of vehicle used for carrying any of
the products defined in Section
4-1A-1 of this Article has broken down, has a flat tire, needs repair, needs
gasoline for its own propulsion to the extent that it cannot be propelled with
its own power, then the necessary repairs can be made where the vehicle has
been forced to stop, provided the vehicle can be repaired within a period of
two (2) hours. The driver of the vehicle shall immediately notify the Police
Department of the forced stoppage and during the period allowed for repair, a
policeman or someone designated by him shall remain at the place of stoppage to
warn other persons using the street or highway of the danger.
   E.   Immediate Repair Of Empty Vehicle: When any truck, trailer, motor
vehicle or any other form of vehicle needs immediate repairs and is not loaded
or partially loaded with any of the products defined in Section
4-1A-1 of this Article and is on direct route to a garage or to the private
property or place of business of the owner of the vehicle or the owner's place
of business exclusively controlled by the owner.
   F.   Breakdown Requiring Towing; Police Direction: When any truck, trailer,
motor vehicle or any other form of vehicle is loaded or partially loaded with
any of the products defined in Section
4-1A-1 of this Article; the vehicle has broken down and is in need of repair to
the extent that the vehicle cannot be repaired within two (2) hours. The Police
Department shall be notified that the vehicle is being removed from the place
of stoppage or breakdown to a garage or some other place within the corporate
limits of the City and shall only be moved under the direction of the Police
Department.
   G.   Owner With Place Of Business Within City: When any person who is
engaged in the business of hauling any of the materials defined in Section 4-
1A-1 of this Article has his place of business within the corporate limits of
the City, he shall have a right to convey the truck, trailer, motor vehicle or
any other form of vehicle to his place of business without police protection.
(Ord. 1992-08, 10-23-1992)
4-1A-3: VEHICLES USED FOR CARRYING; TRAVEL ROUTES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or cause to be driven or operate
or maintain any motor vehicle, truck, trailer or any other vehicle except
recreational vehicles having thereon or attached thereto a tank or other
receptacle used for the carrying of any of the materials defined in Section
4-1A-1 of this Article over any street, highway or alley within the corporate
limits of the City, except: (Ord. 1992-08, 10-23-1992)
   A.   Those streets shown on Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 1992-08, on file
in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer, and incorporated herein by
reference. (Ord. 1992-08, 10-23-1992; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Other streets officially marked. Other streets may be traveled upon
when, in the opinion of the Chief of Police, the safety of the property and its
citizens demands it and when they are designated with the approval of the Chief
of Police by visible markers and signs. (Ord. 1992-08, 10-23-1992)
4-1A-4: PARKING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or cause to be parked on
the highway, street or alley within the corporate limits of the City any truck,
trailer, motor vehicle or other form of vehicle except recreational vehicles
having thereon or attached thereto a tank or other receptacle used for carrying
any of the materials defined in Section 4-1A-1 of this Article, whether loaded,
partially loaded or empty of such products. This subsection shall not apply to
the stopping of any vehicle on any of the streets and highway designated in
Section 4-1A-3 of this Article at filling stations for service or because of
breakdown of the vehicle on the designated streets or highways.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or cause to be parked or to
maintain any truck, trailer, motor vehicle or any other form of vehicle except
recreational vehicles having thereon or attached thereto a tank or other
receptacle filled or partially filled with any of the materials defined in
Section 4-1A-1 of this Article on any street, alley, public place or at any
place within the corporate limits of the City. (Ord. 1992-08, 10-23-1992)
4-1A-5: INVENTORY AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or keep on any premises within
the City any hazardous materials and chemicals that shall have been defined as
such by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or the State
Environmental Improvement Division, or both. The Fire Chief or his designee
shall be responsible, on or before December 1 of every year, to acquire from
the New Mexico Department of Public Safety and the Environmental Improvement
Division information with regard to chemicals and products defined by them as
being hazardous and shall make such information available, without charge, to
all citizens of the City and to all persons or entities doing business within
the City limits. Such information shall be recorded with the City Clerk-
Treasurer on or before December 10 of each year, and the list shall be in
effect for the following year, but no list shall become obsolete until its
successor is recorded. (Ord. 1992-08, 10-23-1992; amd. 2000 Code)
4-1A-6: DECLARATION OF INVENTORY:
   A.   Report To Fire Department Annually: All persons, businesses or other
entities possessing any of the products on the above-referenced list must
declare their inventory of such chemicals or products with the Fire Chief on or
before March 15 of each year, commencing in 1992. An updated report of new or
additional chemicals added to inventory within the year must be reported to the
Fire Chief within fifteen (15) days of chemical acquisition.
   B.   Business Registration Applicant; Provide Inventory: Any person filing
for business registration shall complete the inventory at that time, such list
to be filed with the Fire Chief on a form to be approved by him/her. (Ord.
1992-08, 10-23-1992; amd. 2000 Code)
   C.   Indicate Manner Of Disposal: Any person or entity so filing shall also
indicate the method by which such hazardous waste or chemicals or any hazardous
waste or chemicals generated on site therefrom are to be disposed of.
   D.   No Filing Fee Required: There shall be no filing fee for the filing of
such declarations. (Ord. 1992-08, 10-23-1992)
4-1A-7: MISSTATEMENT ON INVENTORY; PENALTY:
Knowing or reckless misstatement on the declaration is declared to be a
violation of this Article and is punishable to the maximum extent permitted
under laws of the State. Each separate occurrence shall be a separate
violation. Provided that such violation is not knowing, intentional or
reckless, the maximum punishment for a violation for the first year after the
effective date hereof shall be a fine equal to the costs to the City of the
enforcement action in question, not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00)
per occurrence. (Ord. 1992-08, 10-23-1992)
4-1A-8: SITE INSPECTION:
Inspection of each site on which materials are stored or disposed of shall be
made at least annually by the Chief of Police or his designee. The City
Council, by ordinance, may adopt regulations establishing classification of
materials by the nature of the material, the quantity stored, the area in which
stored, and the potential for contamination of ground water or any other
significant factor which would increase the frequency of inspection according
to the characteristics detailed in the regulations. (Ord. 1992-08, 10-23-1992)
4-1A-9: ADOPTION OF STANDARDS; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Adoption Of Standards And Amendments: The standards of the National
Fire Protection Agency (NFPA) Rule 704, are specifically adopted and
incorporated herein by reference. Amendments, revisions or other updates of
this rule may be adopted by resolution by the City Council.
   B.   Enforcement: The standards adopted herein and such amendments, updates
or revisions thereof as may be adopted by resolution of the City Council shall
be enforced by the Chief of Police. (Ord. 1992-08, 10-23-1992)
4-1A-10: APPLICABILITY OF STANDARDS TO FACILITIES:
The standards shall be applicable to all facilities, as follows:
   A.   Those facilities which commence storage, manufacture or use of
hazardous materials after February 15, 1992, must comply with the standards
upon the effective date hereof.
   B.   Those facilities which expand their physical plant for storage,
manufacture or use of hazardous materials after February 15, 1992, or which add
additional hazardous materials or increase their inventory or output of
hazardous materials by at least fifteen percent (15%) after February 15, 1992,
must comply with the standards upon the date of such expansion, addition or
increase.
   C.   Those facilities which, before February 15, 1992, were of the type
covered by the standards adopted herein but which do not come under subsection
A of this Section must comply with the standards adopted herein within ninety
(90) days of the effective date hereof. (Ord. 1992-08, 10-23-1992)
4-1A-11: CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE:
It is the responsibility of persons in control of all facilities subject to
this Article to file a certification of compliance with this Article with the
Fire Chief on or before the March 15 for each calendar year or within thirty
(30) days of the commencement of activities bringing the facility under this
Article. Such certification shall be on a form acceptable to the Fire Chief and
such forms shall be made available as in subsection
4-1A-6B of this Article. There shall be no charge for the filing of this
certification, which shall be filed with the Fire Chief. (Ord. 1992-08, 10-23-
1992; amd. 2000 Code)
4-1A-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Violations of this Article as it pertains to NFPA Rule 704 standards or to any
certifications or filings required under this Article shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 1992-08, 10-23-1992)
ARTICLE B. INVENTORY; DISCLOSURE; MEDICAL WASTE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
4-1B-1: Title
4-1B-2: Annual Declaration Of Inventory
4-1B-3: Definitions
4-1B-4: Hazardous Medical Wastes Identified
4-1B-5: Business Facilities Involving Medical Wastes Identified
4-1B-6: Forms For Inventory Lists
4-1B-7: Disclosure Of Disposal Method Required
4-1B-8: Appropriate Methods For Disposal; Tracking Procedure
4-1B-9: Appropriate Procedures Regarding Medical Waste
4-1B-10: No Filing Fee Required
4-1B-11: Inspections Required
4-1B-12: Statement Of Compliance Required
4-1B-13: NFPA 704 Standards
4-1B-14: Penalties
4-1B-1: TITLE:
This Article shall be known as the CITY OF SUNLAND PARK HAZARDOUS MATERIAL/
CHEMICAL INVENTORY/DISCLOSURE AND MEDICAL WASTE TRACKING AND DISPOSAL
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 1993-09, 9-20-1993)
4-1B-2: ANNUAL DECLARATION OF INVENTORY:
All persons, businesses or other entities, possessing any of the products on
the referenced lists under Sections
4-1B-3 and 4-1B-4 of this Article must declare their inventory of such
chemicals, products, or wastes on or before March 15 of each year, commencing
in 1994, and an updated report reference to new or additional chemicals added
to the inventory within the year must be reported within fifteen (15) days.
(Ord. 1993-09, 9-20-1993)
4-1B-3: DEFINITIONS:
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL/CHEMICAL: This Article shall apply to hazardous materials
and chemicals that shall have been defined by the Environmental Protection
Agency of the United States Government, or the State of New Mexico Environment
Department, or both. The City Clerk-Treasurer, or the designee of such official
(herein called the "responsible official"), shall be responsible, on or before
December 1 of every year, to acquire from the New Mexico Department of Public
Safety and the New Mexico Environment Department, a list of chemicals and
products defined by them as being hazardous, and shall make such information
available, without charge, to all citizens of the City of Sunland Park, and to
all persons or entities doing business within the City of Sunland Park. Such
information shall be recorded with the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer on or
before December 10 of each year, and the list so recorded shall be in effect
for the following year, but no list shall become obsolete until its successor
is recorded.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: This Article shall apply to "hazardous waste" as defined in
the Hazardous Waste Act 1 and to be any solid waste or combination of solid
wastes which because of their quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics may: a) cause or significantly contribute to an
increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating
reversible illness; or b) pose a substantial present or potential hazard to
human health or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of or otherwise managed. The term "hazardous waste" does not include
any of the following, until the New Mexico Environment Department Board
determines that they are subject to subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act, as amended (42 USC 6921 et seq.): drilling fluids, produced
waters and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or
production of crude oil or natural gas or geothermal energy, any fly ash waste,
bottom ash waste, slag waste, flue gas emission control waste generated
primarily from the combustion of coal or other fossil fuels, solid waste from
the extraction, beneficiation or processing of ores and minerals, including
phosphate rock and overburden from the mining of uranium ore or cement kiln
dust waste.
MEDICAL WASTE: Any solid waste which is generated in the diagnosis, treatment
(e.g., provision of medical services), or immunization of human beings or
animals, in research pertaining thereto, or in the production or testing of
biologicals. The term does not include any hazardous waste identified or listed
under 40 CFR part 261 or any household waste as defined in 40 CFR subsection
261.4(b)(1). (Ord. 1993-09, 9-20-1993; amd. 2000 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 74-4-1 et seq.
4-1B-4: HAZARDOUS MEDICAL WASTES IDENTIFIED:
The focus is on wastes which have been improperly managed and are most likely
to pose a substantial threat to human health and the environment. However, any
additional waste that a health care professional believes may pose a risk
should be handled as a hazardous medical waste. This Article covers the
following items:
   A.   Biologicals: Preparations made from living organisms and their
products, including vaccines, cultures, etc., intended for use in diagnosing,
immunizing, or treating humans or animals, or in related research.
   B.   Blood Products: Any product derived from human blood, including, but
not limited to, blood plasma, platelets, red or white blood corpuscles, and
other derived licensed products such as interferon in a quantity over fifty
milliliters (50 ml); this includes blood soaked material or dressings.
   C.   Animal Waste: Contaminated animal carcasses, body parts, and bedding of
animals that were known to have been exposed to infectious agents during
research in veterinary hospitals, production of biologicals, or testing of
pharmaceuticals.
   D.   Human Pathological Wastes: Include tissues, organs, and body parts that
are removed during surgery or autopsy or other medical procedures.
   E.   Sharps: Sharps that have been used in animal or human patient care or
treatment or in medical, research, or industrial laboratories. These include
hypodermic needles, Pasteur pipettes, scalpel blades, blood vials, needles with
attached tubing, and culture dishes (regardless of presence of infectious
agents). Also included are other types of broken or unbroken glassware that
were in contact with infectious agents, such as used slides and cover slips.
   F.   Infectious Agent: Any organism (such as a virus or a bacteria) that is
capable of being communicated by invasion and multiplication in body tissues
and capable of causing disease or adverse health impacts in humans.
   G.   Infectious Waste: A limited class of substances that carry a risk of
transmitting disease, including, but not limited to: microbiological laboratory
wastes, including cultures and stocks of infectious agents from clinical
research and industrial laboratories, and disposable culture dishes;
pathological wastes, including human or animal tissues, organs and body parts,
removed during surgery, autopsy or biopsy; blood and blood products over fifty
milliliters (50 ml), including waste blood, blood serum, and plasma; used
sharps, including used hypodermic needles, scalpel blades, Pasteur pipettes and
broken glass; and contaminated animal carcasses, body parts, especially those
intentionally exposed to pathogens in research, in the production of biological
or in the "in vivo" testing of pharmaceuticals.
   H.   Cultures And Stocks: Of infectious agents and associated biologicals,
including: cultures from medical and pathological laboratories; cultures and
stocks of infectious agents from research and industrial laboratories; wastes
from the production of biologicals; discarded live and attenuated vaccines; and
culture dishes. (Ord. 1993-09, 9-20-1993)
4-1B-5: BUSINESS FACILITIES INVOLVING MEDICAL WASTES IDENTIFIED:
The following are identified as business facilities involving medical wastes:
physician and dental offices; veterinarians; blood/plasma centers; laboratories
and research laboratories; funeral homes; health maintenance organizations;
acupuncturists; dialysis, free, community, employee, surgical, eye and urgent
care clinics; laundry facilities; acute psychiatric hospitals; in-patient care
facilities for the developmentally disabled; skilled nursing facilities or
convalescent hospitals; intermediate care facilities; general acute care
hospitals; and medical waste transporting, storage, treatment and disposal
facilities. (Ord. 1993-09, 9-20-1993)
4-1B-6: FORMS FOR INVENTORY LISTS:
The list of the inventory shall be filed on a form to be approved by the
responsible official and made available, at no charge, to members of the
public. Appropriate tracking forms for medical wastes and the hazardous
material/chemical waste disposal form will also be made available by the office
of the City Clerk-Treasurer, at no charge to members of the public. (Ord. 1993-
09, 9-20-1993)
4-1B-7: DISCLOSURE OF DISPOSAL METHOD REQUIRED:
Any person or entity so filing shall also indicate the method and/or provide
supporting documentation as mentioned under Section 4-1B-6 of this Article, by
which such hazardous waste, chemicals, or medical waste generated therefrom are
to be disposed of appropriately. (Ord. 1993-09, 9-20-1993)
4-1B-8: APPROPRIATE METHODS FOR DISPOSAL; TRACKING PROCEDURE:
A tracking form which accompanies the waste is signed and a copy is retained by
a representative of the waste generator and each transporter, transfer station,
and treatment, destruction, and disposal facility handling it. When the final
disposer (the destination facility) accepts the waste, a copy of the signed
tracking form is returned to the generator. In this way the generator is
assured that the waste was received for disposal. The tracking system includes
"exception" and "discrepancy" reporting to alert if wastes are not being
handled properly. An appropriate tracking form can be obtained from the office
of the City Clerk-Treasurer. (Ord. 1993-09, 9-20-1993)
4-1B-9: APPROPRIATE PROCEDURES REGARDING MEDICAL WASTE:
   A.   Management Plan: Every person who generates, transports, stores,
treats, or disposes of infectious waste must prepare and maintain on file, a
management plan for the waste that identifies the type of waste the person
generates or handles, the segregation, packaging, labeling, collection,
storage, and transportation procedures to be implemented, the treatment or
disposal methods that will be used, the transporter and disposal facility that
will be used, and the person responsible for the management of the infectious
waste.
   B.   Disposal Procedures: All material which has been rendered noninfectious
may be handled as noninfectious waste, provided it is not an otherwise
regulated hazardous, special, or radioactive waste and is not subject to the
requirements of this Article. The following procedures are applicable to any
producer of infectious medical waste, without regard to the quantity:
      1.   Containment shall be in a manner and location which affords
protection from animal intrusion, does not provide a breeding place or a food
source for insects and rodents, and minimizes exposure to the public;
      2.   Infectious waste shall be segregated by separate containment from
other waste at the point of origin;
      3.   Except for sharps, shall be contained in plastic bags inside rigid
containers. The bags shall be securely tied to prevent leakage or expulsion of
solid or liquid wastes during storage, handling or transport;
      4.   Sharps shall be contained for storage, transportation, treatment and
disposal in leakproof, rigid, puncture-resistant containers which are taped
closed or tightly lidded to preclude loss of contents;
      5.   All bags used for containment purposes shall be red or orange and
clearly identified as specified in 29 CFR 1910.145(f)(4). Rigid containers
shall be labeled "biomedical waste", or otherwise conspicuously labeled as
holding infectious waste, or placed in disposable bags used for other
infectious waste;
      6.   If other waste is placed in the same container as regulated
infectious waste, then the generator must package, label and mark the container
and its entire contents as infectious waste;
      7.   Infectious waste containers may be reused for infectious or
noninfectious waste if they are thoroughly washed and decontaminated each time
they are emptied and the surfaces of the containers have been completely
protected from contamination by disposable, unpunctured or undamaged liners,
bags, or other devices that are removed with the infectious waste, and the
surfaces of the containers have not been damaged or punctured;
      8.   Storage and containment areas must protect infectious waste from the
elements, be ventilated to the outdoors, be only accessible to authorized
persons, and be marked with prominent warning signs on, or adjacent to, the
exterior doors or gates. The warning signs must be easily read during daylight
from a distance of twenty five feet (25'); and
      9.   Compactors, grinders or similar devices shall not be used to reduce
the volume of infectious waste before the waste has been rendered
noninfectious. (Ord. 1993-09, 9-20-1993)
4-1B-10: NO FILING FEE REQUIRED:
There shall be no filing fee for the filing of such declarations mentioned
under Section
4-1B-2 of this Article. (Ord. 1993-09, 9-20-1993)
4-1B-11: INSPECTIONS REQUIRED:
Inspection of each site on which such materials are stored or disposed of shall
be made at least annually by the responsible official or his designee. The City
Council, by resolution, may adopt regulations establishing classification of
materials, by the nature of the potential for contamination of ground water or
any other significant factor which would increase the frequency of inspection
according to the characteristics detailed in the regulations. (Ord. 1993-09, 9-
20-1993)
4-1B-12: STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It is the responsibility of all facilities subject to this Article to file a
certification of compliance with this Article on or before March 15 for each
calendar year, or within thirty (30) days of the commencement of activities
bringing the facility under this Article. Such certification shall be on a form
acceptable to the responsible official, and such forms shall be made available
as in Section 4-1B-8 of this Article. There shall further be no charge for the
filing of this certification, which shall be filed with the responsible
official. (Ord. 1993-09, 9-20-1993)
4-1B-13: NFPA 704 STANDARDS:
   A.   Adoption: The standards of the National Fire Protection Association
(NFPA) Rule 704 are specifically adopted and incorporated herein by reference.
Amendments, revisions, or other updates of this Rule may be adopted by
resolution by the City Council.
   B.   Enforcement: The standards herein adopted, and such amendments,
updates, or revisions thereof as may be adopted by resolution of the City
Council, shall be enforced by the "responsible official" as that term is
defined in Section 4-1B-3 of this Article, definition of "hazardous material/
chemical".
   C.   Applicability: The standards shall be applicable to all facilities
which commence storage, manufacture or use of hazardous materials after
November 28, 1989, which must comply with the standards adopted herein within
ninety (90) days of the effective date hereof. (Ord. 1993-09, 9-20-1993)
4-1B-14: PENALTIES:
   A.   False Statements On Declaration: Making of material false statements,
representations or omissions on the declaration is a violation of this Article
and is punishable by a penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, per misstatement for violation of this Article.
   B.   Violations Pertaining To NFPA Rule 704: Violations of this Article as
it pertains to NFPA Rule 704 standards, or to any violation not covered by
subsection A of this Section, shall be punishable by a penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each occurrence or each day of a continuing violation,
shall be a separate violation. For disposal of any hazardous material/chemical/
medical waste in any manner other than that provided for in the Hazardous Waste
Act or this Article, the fine shall be as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each day of illegal disposal. Each day of illegal
disposal shall be a separate violation of the Article. (Ord. 1993-09, 9-20-
1993; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SOLID WASTE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Short Title
4-2-2: Authority and Purpose
4-2-3: State Law References
4-2-4: Definitions
4-2-5: Penalty
4-2-6: Authority to Provide Services
4-2-7: Additional Prohibited Practices
4-2-8: Administration of Services
4-2-9: Storage and Treatment of Garbage
4-2-10: Residential Collection
4-2-11: Commercial Collection
4-2-12: Special and Bulk Collections
4-2-13: Frequency of Collection; Special Pickups
4-2-14: Removal to Designated Place
4-2-15: Fees
4-2-16: Lien; Foreclosure
4-2-17:
4-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter may be cited as the "Solid Waste Ordinance of the City of Sunland
Park, New Mexico." (Ord. 2017-3, 9-19-2017)
4-2-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Authority: This Chapter is adopted pursuant to the enabling provisions
of NMSA §§ 3-48-1 et seq. and § 3-17-1, as amended.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to establish regulation for
solid waste collection, transfer, transport, and disposal for all the
residential and commercial properties within the municipal boundaries of the
City of Sunland Park, New Mexico. (Ord. 2017-3, 9-19-2017)
4-2-3: STATE LAW REFERENCES:
Collection and Disposal of Refuse (NMSA §§ 3-48-1 et seq.); Solid Waste Act
(NMSA §§ 74-9-1 et. seq.); Recycling and Illegal Dumping Act (NMSA §§ 74-13-
1 et. seq.) (Ord. 2017-3, 9-19-2017)
4-2-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
APPLIANCES: Large household appliances such as refrigerators, stoves, washing
machines, air conditioners, swamp coolers, and the like over one and one half
(1.5) cubic feet, that are received as waste by the City.
ASHES: The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, or other combustible
materials.
BACKYARD COMPOSTING: Composting household solid waste in a confined space
within personal property boundaries.
BURNING: Any form of incineration of solid waste in the open air except as
otherwise provided by state law.
COLLECTION: The systematic and regular removal of solid waste from property and
its transport to a designated solid waste facility for disposal or for transfer
and transport to a solid waste facility for final disposal.
COMPOST: Organic matter produced from solid waste which has undergone a
controlled process of decomposition and pathogen reduction, and has been
stabilized to a degree which is potentially beneficial to plant growth and
which is used as a soil amendment, growing medium amendment or other similar
uses.
COMPOSTING: The process by which biological decomposition of organic solid
waste occurs under controlled conditions. The process stabilizes the organic
fraction into a material, which can be easily and safely stored, handled and
used in an environmentally acceptable manner.
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS: Materials generally considered not to be
water soluble and which are nonhazardous in nature including, but not limited
to, steel, glass, brick, concrete, asphalt roofing materials, pipe, gypsum
wallboard and lumber from the construction or destruction of a structure
project.
   A.   The term "construction and demolition debris" includes rocks, soil,
tree remains, trees and other vegetative matter that normally results from land
clearing.
   B.   The term "construction and demolition debris" does not include asbestos
or liquids including, but not limited to, waste paints, solvents, sealers,
adhesives or potentially hazardous materials.
CONTAINER: Authorized public or private receptacles designed for the
intermediate storage of solid waste until such time as the refuse is collected.
The term "container" shall be synonymous with the term "dumpster." The term
"container" includes dumpsters provided by the Contractor as well as containers
designated for the intermediate storage of recyclable materials.
CUSTOMER: A property owner whose property receives solid waste disposal service
from the City Contractor.
DAY: A calendar day unless otherwise described.
DEBRIS: The unwanted or unusable remains of something broken down or destroyed.
DUMPING:
   A.   Disposing of solid waste or any other discarded material on property
within the City which is private including, but not limited to, privately owned
or controlled dumpsters, residential refuse containers, parking lots and vacant
lots;
   B.   Disposing of solid waste or discarding any other items on a public
place or on public property or facility, which shall include, but is not
limited to, the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained for the purpose of vehicular travel;
   C.   Allowing refuse to collect or accumulate on any privately owned lot or
other premises within the City.
DUMPSTER: A large solid waste receptacle having a capacity greater than ninety-
five (95) gallons, capable of being lifted and dumped by a Contractor-operated
automated system.
FACILITY: Real estate or buildings used for a particular function.
GARBAGE: Unwanted or unusable waste products or unused materials to include,
but not limited to, food, offal, ashes, waste paper, trash, rubbish, and waste
or unwholesome materials generated during the consumption of resources.
GOVERNING BODY: The City Council of the City of Sunland Park, New Mexico.
GREEN WASTE: Vegetative or green organic matter resulting from landscaping,
land maintenance and land clearing operations.
   A.   The term "green waste" includes yard waste.
   B.   The term "green waste" does not include dirt, rocks, asphalt, cactus or
concrete chips.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Waste which because of its concentration or physical, chemical
or infectious characteristics, may pose a substantial present or potential
hazard to human health or the environment when improperly treated, stored,
transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
HOT WASTE: Any waste which is on fire, smoldering or in excess of one hundred
eighty (180) degrees Fahrenheit.
INFECTIOUS WASTE: Waste containing pathogens or biologically active material
which because of its type, concentration or quantity, is capable of
transmitting disease to persons exposed to the waste.
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL: Residential apartment or condominium dwelling units,
consisting of four (4) or more separate units.
NONRESIDENTIAL RECYCLABLES: Recyclables generated by stores,
offices,restaurants, hotels or motels, warehouses, and other manufacturing and
nonmanufacturing activities.
NONRESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE:
   A.   The term "nonresidential solid waste" means all types of solid waste
generated by, but not limited to, stores, offices, restaurants, hotels, motels,
warehouses, and other manufacturing and nonmanufacturing activities.
   B.   The term "nonresidential waste" does not include household and
hazardous solid wastes.
ORDINANCE: Ordinance No. 2017-3.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, limited partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint-stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. The term "person" includes all federal, state or local governmental
entities.
PROCESSING:
   A.   The term "processing" means techniques to change the physical, chemical
or biological character or components of solid waste.
   B.   The term "processing" does not include composting.
PUTRESCIBLE: Organic material subject to decomposition by microorganisms.
RECYCLABLE MATERIAL: Items, which can be reused, or reprocessed for reuse. Such
items may include, but are not limited to, corrugated cardboard, paper,
aluminum, steel, metals, glass, wood, plastic, and cloth.
RECYCLING: Any process by which recyclable materials are collected, separated,
processed and reused or returned to use in the form of raw materials or
products.
REFUSE: See “Solid Waste”.
REFUSE RATE AND FEE SCHEDULE: The listing of fees and charges for solid waste
collection, transfer, transport and disposal services provided by the City's
Contractor and which is adopted and incorporated by reference as if fully set
forth in this Chapter.
RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE: Any solid waste or garbage derived from households,
including single and multiple residents, bunkhouses, ranger stations, crew
quarters, campgrounds, picnic grounds and day use recreation areas.
RESIDENTIAL UNIT: A dwelling unit.
SCAVENGING: The removal of any solid waste or recyclables from a transfer
facility or from private or public containers in a manner not authorized by the
City.
SERVICE AREA: That area within the city limits and any additional area beyond
those limits within which the City Council authorizes the collection of solid
waste.
SOLID WASTE:
   A.   The term "solid waste" means garbage, refuse, litter, yard waste,
construction and demolition debris and other discarded solid materials,
including those from industrial, commercial and agricultural operations and
from community activities.
   B.   The term "solid waste" does not include solids or dissolved materials
in domestic sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as
silt, dissolved or suspended solids in industrial wastewater effluents,
dissolved materials in irrigation return flow nor hazardous, infectious,
radioactive materials which the City is prohibited by law from accepting.
   C.   Solid waste facility means any real estate or structure or group of
structures designated to facilitate the collection, processing, treatment,
handling, transfer, transport and disposal of municipal solid waste.
   D.   Transfer facility means a facility in which various types of solid
waste are received and then placed in other vehicles for transport to another
solid waste facility for disposal.
TRASH: See “Solid waste”.
USER: See “Customer”.
VERMIN: All noxious, objectionable, or disgusting animals; especially those of
a small size that are difficult to control, e.g. rats, mice, flies, and
cockroaches. (Ord. 2017-3, 9-19-2017)
4-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to
an administrative fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). Each day of a violation shall
be considered a separate offense. All fees shall be payable to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2017-3, 9-19-2017)
4-2-6: AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE SERVICES:
   A.   The City Council may, by resolution, and as it deems in the best
interests of the health and safety of the City's inhabitants, hire a contractor
("the Contractor”) which shall have the exclusive right within the service area
to collect, remove, or dispose of solid waste, with the exception of
nonresidential recyclables, commercially compacted items, dead animals,
construction and demolition debris, hazardous wastes and other such materials
which the City is prohibited by law from collecting or disposing. No person or
organization may sell within the service area any services for the systematic
and routine collection, transportation or disposal of garbage, trash or refuse
except for residential recyclables, commercially compacted items, dead animals,
construction and demolition debris, hazardous wastes and other such materials
which the City is prohibited by law from collecting or disposing.
   B.   The City and its duly authorized agents shall have the exclusive right
to collect or gather residential curbside recyclables, except that the City may
hire a contractor for such services.
   C.   The City reserves the right at any time to refuse to collect or receive
waste, if, in the City Manager's judgment, such collection is deemed to be
harmful, hazardous or in violation of City and state regulations governing type
of waste, weight or waste constituents. The City shall inform the person
responsible for such waste and shall require compliance with this Chapter.
(Ord. 2017-3, 9-19-2017)
4-2-7: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITED PRACTICES:
The following actions with regard to solid waste are hereby prohibited and,
notwithstanding Section
4-2-5 herein, each person who commits these violations shall be subject to an
administrative fee of one-hundred dollars ($100.00); each day of a violation
shall be considered a separate offense:
   A.   Burning;
   B.   Dumping;
   C.   Placing solid waste in any container or areas other than those
specifically designated or approved by the City for collection or disposal;
   D.   Scavenging;
   E.   Depositing of hot waste in excess of one hundred eighty (180) degrees
Fahrenheit into any container or enclosure designated for refuse collection;
   F.   Presenting to the City for disposal infectious waste, hazardous waste,
flammable or explosive refuse, radioactive waste or other contaminated
materials which by law or regulation must be properly disposed by a specially
licensed or equipped person or requires a solid waste facility specifically
authorized for this purpose;
   G.   Placing furniture, mattresses, large tree limbs, tires, engine parts,
appliances, or other large items at the curbside or in waste containers for
routine weekly collection;
   H.   Depositing, dumping or burying dead animals, or any substance condemned
by the state or City, or any other deleterious or offensive substances, except
as provided for in this chapter. Dead rodents, fish, and birds shall be double-
bagged and sealed;
   I.   Willfully destroying or damaging Contractor-provided garbage
receptacles; and
   J.   Willfully parking or placing obstacles so as to interfere with or
prevent the automated collection of garbage receptacles. (Ord. 2017-3, 9-19-
2017)
4-2-8: ADMINISTRATION OF SERVICES:
The Contractor hired to provide services, shall attend to all requests for new
or additional collection service, cancellation or reduction of service. (Ord.
2017-3, 9-19-2017)
4-2-9: STORAGE AND TREATMENT OF GARBAGE:
No person owning or occupying any building, lot or premises in the City shall
suffer, allow or permit to remain upon the lot or premises any garbage or
trash; provided, however, that this provision shall not be construed as
preventing backyard composting, or the deposit and spreading of rotten manure
upon any lawn or garden provided the same shall be reasonably free from
offensive odors and is not so deposited or spread as to constitute a nuisance.
Except as provided for in this Chapter, garbage or trash, whether in containers
or not, shall not be placed in the City's rights-of-way, in any alley, upon any
street, or curbside during intervals between regular collections. Failure to
observe this prohibition shall constitute a public nuisance and be subject to
all remedies at law and in equity. (Ord. 2017-3, 9-19-2017)
4-2-10: RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION:
   A.   All single-family dwellings and multiple-family dwellings of four (4)
or fewer dwellings on a single site shall be required to deposit garbage
containers supplied by the Contractor. Garbage and refuse not enclosed in
containers supplied by the Contractor will not be collected, unless otherwise
provided for in this Chapter. Such uncollected garbage and refuse shall not be
permitted by the owner or occupant of the premises to remain in the City's
rights-of-way, in any alley, upon any street, or curbside for more than twelve
(12) hours after refusal of the Contractor to collect such garbage and refuse.
   B.   Customers shall keep all refuse and garbage within their private
premises until the time when receptacles are placed for collection. Residential
garbage shall be placed out for collection no earlier than 5:00 p.m. on the day
prior to the regularly scheduled day for collection. No resident may leave a
receptacle after collection for more than twenty-four (24) hours after that
collection in the right-of-way.
   C.   Residential garbage shall be placed as close to the front curb as
possible but shall not be placed on the sidewalk and shall be clear of
pedestrian and vehicular traffic. Where a curb does not exist, the refuse
receptacle shall be placed on the property side, outside the traffic boundaries
of the road. The garbage receptacle shall be clearly visible and accessible to
collection crews and free from any obstructions including, but not limited to,
trees, power poles, mailboxes, shrubbery, walls, fences and vehicles. Neither
the Contractor nor its agents will enter upon private land in order to make
collections and pickups. The garbage receptacle shall be placed forward facing
the street or alley, with the hingetop being located on the side immediately
adjacent to the owner's property.
   D.   Garbage and refuse shall not be stacked so that it rises above the rim
of the receptacle, nor shall garbage and refuse be stacked on top of the closed
container. The customer shall cleanup refuse spills around the receptacle
within twenty-four (24) hours of the spill.
   E.   All garbage receptacles shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition
by the owner or person using the same, and all receptacles shall be tightly
covered at all times except when garbage is being deposited therein or removed
thereof, and shall at all times be proofed against access by vermin to the
contents thereof. The garbage shall be bagged prior to depositing it into the
receptacle. (Ord. 2017-3, 9-19-2017)
4-2-11: COMMERCIAL COLLECTION:
   A.   Apartment houses, sites where there are more than four (4) residential
units on a single parcel, business houses or other nonresidential premises,
shall be required to use dumpsters supplied by the Contractor.
   B.   The Contractor is authorized to designate the location of all
containers for commercial collection, taking into consideration the convenience
to collection crews and to customers, traffic hazards and other hazardous
conditions.
   C.   All garbage receptacles shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition
by the owner or person using the same, and all garbage receptacles shall be
tightly covered at all times except when garbage is being deposited therein or
removed thereof, and shall at all times be proofed against access by vermin to
the contents thereof. The garbage shall be bagged prior to depositing it into
the receptacle or dumpster. (Ord. 2017-3, 9-19-2017)
4-2-12: SPECIAL AND BULK COLLECTIONS:
At intervals to be determined by the City Manager, the Contractor shall provide
for special and bulk collections of refuse, garbage, lawn and tree clippings,
appliances, and other items not collected during normally scheduled pickup
service, but not construction debris. Items for such collection shall be placed
at curbside no earlier than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the scheduled
pickup, unless otherwise coordinated with the City Manager, and in no event
will the Contractor's personnel enter upon private lands without the customer's
permission to collect or pickup special or bulk items. The items for collection
shall be placed so as not to interfere with traffic or pedestrians, and shall
be clearly visible to the collector. (Ord. 2017-3, 9-19-2017)
4-2-13: FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION; SPECIAL PICKUPS:
   A.   Residential and apartment collections from containers shall be at least
once weekly.
   B.   Commercial collections shall be at least once weekly, but not more
often than five (5) days a week.
   C.   Other collections may be made as deemed necessary by the City Manager
or the Contractor. In the case of special, unscheduled pickups, the charge, if
any, to the requesting party shall be determined by the appropriate commercial
fee schedule. (Ord. 2017-3, 9-19-2017)
4-2-14: REMOVAL TO DESIGNATED PLACE:
   A.   All garbage removed from any premises within the City, shall be taken
to a place designated by resolution of the City Council.
   B.   For the preservation of the public health and general welfare, it is
hereby declared to be unlawful for any person, including public employees, to
gather, remove, dump or dispose of garbage in any other place. All scavenging
in and removal of all classes of garbage, trash, refuse and debris from
containers provided and maintained by the Contractor is prohibited. (Ord. 2017-
3, 9-19-2017)
4-2-15: FEES:
   A.   The rates that shall apply to residential and commercial garbage
collection shall be set in the contract for services between the City and the
Contractor.
   B.   The City shall have authority to impose a franchise fee upon the
Contractor in return for the Contractor's exclusive right to collect municipal
solid waste. (Ord. 2017-3, 9-19-2017)
4-2-16: LIEN; FORECLOSURE:
The failure to pay for garbage collection services shall result in a lien upon
the property, and the Contractor shall be authorized to take whatever steps
necessary to perfect and foreclose upon said lien. (Ord. 2017-3, 9-19-2017)
CHAPTER 3
LITTERING; HANDBILLS; BUILDING DEBRIS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Littering
4-3-2: Dangerous Building Or Debris Removal
4-3-3: Penalty
4-3-1: LITTERING:
   A.   Streets: No person shall throw or deposit litter in or on any street,
sidewalk or other public place within the City except in public receptacles, in
authorized private receptacles or in the City sanitary landfill.
   B.   Placing In Receptacles: Persons placing litter in public receptacles or
in authorized private receptacles shall do so in such manner as to prevent it
from being carried or deposited by the elements on any street, sidewalk or
other public or private place.
   C.   Sweeping In Gutter; Cleaning Sidewalks: No person shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public or private place within the City
the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or
private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep
the sidewalk, planter strips and driveways abutting their premises clean and
free of litter.
   D.   Throwing From Vehicles: No person while a driver or passenger in a
vehicle shall throw or deposit litter on any private property, any street or
other public place within the City.
   E.   Construction, Loading Of Vehicle: No person shall drive or move any
truck or other vehicle within the City unless the vehicle is so constructed or
loaded as to prevent its load or contents from being blown or deposited on any
street, alley or other private or public place.
   F.   Parks: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the
City except in public receptacles and in such manner that the litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements on any part of the
park or on any street or other private or public place. Where public
receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the
park by the person responsible for its presence, and properly disposed of
elsewhere.
   G.   Fountains; Rivers: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any
fountain, pond, river, stream or any other body of water in a park or elsewhere
in the City.
   H.   Handbills 1 :
      1.   Handbills On Sidewalks; Distribution: No person shall throw, deposit
or affix any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any sidewalk,
street, or other public place within the City. Nor shall any person hand out,
distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public place.
      2.   Depositing Handbills In Vehicles: No person shall throw or deposit
any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any vehicle.
      3.   Distribution; Residential Premises:
         a.   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or on residential premises which are inhabited except
as provided herein. No handbill shall be placed on posted premises. In the case
of inhabited premises which are not posted, the distributor, unless requested
by anyone on the premises not to do so, shall have the authority to place or
deposit any noncommercial handbill in or on the inhabited premises if the
handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent it from being blown
or drifted about the premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places;
providing, further, that mailboxes may not be used when so prohibited by
Federal postal law or regulations. No handbills shall be distributed or
deposited on uninhabited property.
         b.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to the
distribution of mail by the United States or to newspapers.
   I.   Littering From Aircraft: No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop
or deposit within the City any litter, handbill or any other object.
   J.   Posting Of Notices: No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or
other object to any lamppost, public utility pole or shade tree, or on any
public structure or building except as may be authorized or required by law.
   K.   Private Property; Receptacles: No person shall throw or deposit litter
on any occupied or vacant private property within the City, whether owned by
such person or not, except that the owner or person in control of private
property may maintain authorized private receptacles in such a manner that
litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements on any
street, sidewalk or other public place or on any private property.
   L.   Premises Kept Free From Litter And Refuse: The owner or person in
control of any private property shall maintain the premises free of litter and
refuse; provided, that this subsection shall not prohibit the storage of litter
and refuse in authorized private receptacles.
   M.   Disposition On Vacant Private Property:
      1.   The City Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to notify the owner of any
open or vacant private property within the City, or the agent of the owner, to
properly dispose of litter located on the owner's property. Such notice shall
be by certified mail, addressed to the owner or agent at his last known address
or by personal delivery.
      2.   On the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner or agent so notified
to properly dispose of the litter within five (5) days after receipt of written
notice or within ten (10) days after the date of such notice in the event the
same is returned to the post office, the City Attorney is authorized to cause a
complaint to be filed in the Municipal Court for violation of this provision.
   N.   Declaration Of Nuisance; Penalties: The littering of private property,
whether it be occupied, inhabited or vacant, by any means whatsoever and the
distribution of handbills, unless done pursuant to an exception or exceptions
provided for in the ordinances of the City are nuisances. Nuisances defined
herein may be abated by any method authorized by law or ordinance and the
choice of a particular method shall not be deemed an election of remedies
barring subsequent choice of another remedy or prohibiting pursuing different
or inconsistent remedies simultaneously. (Ord. 1984-11, 8-7-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section 5-1C-4 of this Code.
4-3-2: DANGEROUS BUILDING OR DEBRIS REMOVAL:
   A.   Removal Of Condemned Buildings:
      1.   City Authority To Require Removal: Whenever any building or
structure is ruined, damaged and dilapidated, or any premises is covered with
ruins, rubbish, wreckage or debris, the Governing Body may, by resolution, find
that the ruined, damaged and dilapidated building, structure or premises is a
menace to the public comfort, health, peace or safety and require the removal
from the City of the building, structure, ruins, rubbish, wreckage or debris.
      2.   Notice To Owner; Posting On Premises: A copy of the resolution shall
be served on the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the building or
premises. If the owner, as shown by the real estate records of the County
Clerk, occupant or agent in charge of the building, structure or premises
cannot be served within the City, a copy of the resolution shall be posted on
the building, structure or premises and a copy of the resolution shall be
published one time in the regular manner as are proposed ordinances and one
time in a newspaper of general circulation in the City.
      3.   Time Limit For Removal: Within ten (10) days of the receipt of a
copy of the resolution or of the posting and publishing of a copy of the
resolution, the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the building, structure
or premises shall commence moving the building, structure, ruin, rubbish,
wreckage or debris, or file a written objection with the City Clerk-Treasurer
asking for a hearing before the Governing Body of the City.
      4.   Action On Written Objection; Hearing: If a written objection is
filed as required, the Governing Body shall:
         a.   Fix a date for a hearing on its resolution and objection;
         b.   Consider all evidence for and against the removal resolution at
the meeting; and
         c.   Determine if its resolution should be enforced or rescinded.
      5.   Appeal To District Court: Any person aggrieved by the determination
of the Governing Body may appeal to the District Court as provided in New
Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-18-5.
      6.   Failure To Remove; City Abatement; Costs: If the owner, occupant or
agent in charge of the building, structure or premises fails to commence
removing the building, structure, ruins, rubbish, wreckage or debris:
         a.   Within ten (10) days of being served a copy of the resolution or
of the posting and publishing of the resolution;
         b.   Within five (5) days of the determination of the Governing Body
that the resolution shall be enforced; or (Ord. 1984-11, 8-7-1984)
         c.   After the District Court enters judgment sustaining the
determination of the Governing Body, the City may remove the building,
structure, ruins, rubbish, wreckage or debris at the cost and expense of the
owner. The reasonable cost of removal shall be a lien in favor of the City as
provided in New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-18-5. The lien shall be
foreclosed in the manner provided in New Mexico Statutes Annotated sections 3-
36-1 through 3-36-7. (Ord. 1984-11, 8-7-1984; amd. 2000 Code)
      7.   Payment Of Removal Costs; Title To Salvageable Materials: The City
may pay for the costs of removal of any condemned building, structure,
wreckage, rubbish or debris by granting the person removing such materials, the
legal title to all salvageable materials in lieu of all other compensation.
      8.   Condition Of Premises Following Removal: Any person removing any
condemned building, structure, wreckage, rubbish or debris shall leave the
premises from which the material has been removed in a clean, level and a safe
condition suitable for further occupancy or construction and with all
excavations filled.
   B.   Clearing Premises After Demolition Of Building: When any building has
been demolished, the person demolishing it shall promptly clear the premises
and all adjacent streets, sidewalks and alleys of all debris, refuse and loose
material resulting from the demolition.
   C.   Repair Of Building: Any existing building within the City, which may be
damaged by fire, decay or otherwise, to an extent in which repair will exceed
one-half (½) of the building's value at the time of this damage, exclusive of
the foundation, shall not be repaired or rebuilt   1 but shall forthwith be
removed by the owner or owner's representative within sixty (60) days after
notification in writing by certified mail from the City Building Inspector to
the owner or owner's representative.
   D.   Building Material In Public Right Of Way Or Gutters:
      1.   No person shall place any stone, brick, lumber, debris or other like
material in the public right of way except for the purpose of building. Such
material shall not be allowed to remain in the public right of way after the
completion of the building nor shall it be allowed to occupy or obstruct more
than one-half (½) of any public right of way. Immediately on the completion of
every such building, the dirt and debris shall be removed by the owner or
contractor.
      2.   The gutter of any street shall not at any time be obstructed by
building material which prevents the free passage of water along the gutter.
(Ord. 1984-11, 8-7-1984)
4-3-3: PENALTY:
Any violation of this Chapter is punishable as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that any violation occurs or continues constitutes
a separate offense punishable separately. (Ord. 1984-11, 8-7-1984; amd. 2000
Code)
CHAPTER 4
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
4-4-1: Short Title
4-4-2: Intent
4-4-3: Definitions
4-4-4: Noises Prohibited
4-4-5: Zone District Noise Levels; Maximum; Correction
4-4-6: Sound Level Measurement
4-4-7: Exemptions
4-4-8: Permit Requirements
4-4-9: Motor Vehicle Noise
4-4-10: Penalty
4-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter may be cited as the NOISE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 1997-03A, 10-20-1997)
4-4-2: INTENT:
It is the intent of the Governing Body of the City to ensure its citizens an
environment free from such excessive sound as may jeopardize their health,
welfare and safety, or degrade the quality of life. (Ord. 1997-03A, 10-20-1997)
4-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
All terminology used in this Chapter and not defined shall be in conformance
with the American National Standards Institute Publication, Acoustical
Terminology, SI.1-1960, revised 1971, or other American National Standards
Institute Publication. As used in this Chapter:
A-WEIGHTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: The sound pressure level as measured with a
sound level meter using the "A-weighting" etwork. The standard notation is db
(A) or dBA.
AMBIENT SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: The sound pressure level of the all encompassing
noise associated with a given environment, usually a composite of sounds from
many sources. It is also the "A-weighted" sound pressure level exceeded ninety
percent (90%) of the time based on a measurement period which shall not be less
than ten (10) minutes.
CONTINUOUS SOUND: Any sound which exists, essentially without interruption, for
a period of ten (10) minutes or more.
DECIBEL: A logarithmic and dimensionless unit of measure often used in
describing the amplitude of sound. Decibel is denoted as dB.
DEVICE: Any mechanism which is intended to produce, or which actually produces,
noise when operated or handled.
EMERGENCY WORK: Work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a public calamity, or work required to protect persons or property
from an imminent exposure to danger.
EQUIVALENT SOUND LEVEL (Leq): A level of steady sound which, in a stated time
period and stated location, has the same A-weighted sound energy as the time
varying sound. Leq shall be calculated using approved Federal Highway
Administration noise projection models.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from batteries or from overhead trolley
wire, but not operated on rails.
MUFFLER: An apparatus consisting of a series of chambers or baffle plates
designed for the purpose or transmitting gases while reducing sound emanating
from such apparatus.
NOISE DISTURBANCE: Any sound which annoys or disturbs reasonable persons with
normal sensitivities, or which injures or endangers the public health, welfare
or safety.
NOISE SENSITIVE ZONE: Any land use, including, but not limited to, dwellings,
residentially zoned properties, schools, daycares, health care facilities,
churches, recreational facilities, libraries, or similar land use that may have
a diminished use when subjected to excessive noise.
PERCENTILE SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: Includes:
   A.   Tenth percentile noise level which is the A-weighted sound pressure
level that is exceeded ten percent (10%) of the time in any measurement period,
such as the level that is exceeded for a total of over one minute in a ten (10)
minute period, and is denoted L10; and
   B.   Ninetieth percentile noise level which is the A-weighted sound pressure
level that is exceeded ninety percent (90%) of the time in any measurement
period, such as the level that is exceeded for a total of nine (9) minutes in a
ten (10) minute period, and is denoted L90.
PERSON: Any human being, firm, association, organization, partnership,
business, trust, corporation, company, contractor, supplier, installer, user,
owner or operator, including any municipal corporation or its officers or
employees.
PLAINLY AUDIBLE NOISE: Any noise for which the information content of that
noise is unambiguously transferred to the listener, such as, but not limited
to, understanding or spoken speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised
or normal, or comprehension of musical rhythms.
PROPERTY BOUNDARY: An imaginary line exterior to any enclosed structure, at the
ground surface, and its vertical extension, which separates the real property
owned by one person from that owned by Another person.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway or alley or similar
place which is owned or controlled by a public governmental entity.
RETARDER, JAKE BRAKE AND ENGINE BRAKE: Any exhaust and/or engine device used as
braking power to slow down a motor vehicle’s rate of speed. When activated, a
retarder, Jake brake or engine brake creates noise through the motor vehicle’s
exhaust system.
SOUND: A temporal and spatial oscillation in pressure, or other physical
quantity, in a medium with interval forces that causes compression and
rarefaction of that medium, and which propagates at finite speed to distant
points.
SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument, including a microphone, amplifier, output
meter and visual display and frequency weighting networks, that is sensitive to
pressure fluctuations. The instrument reads sound pressure level when properly
calibrated and is of Type II or better, as specified in American National
Standards Institute Publication, Specifications for Sound Level Meters, ASI IS
4-1971.
SOUND PRESSURE: The instantaneous difference between the actual pressure and
the average or barometric pressure at a given point in space due to sound.
SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: Twenty (20) times the logarithm to the base ten (10) of
the ratio of the root mean square to the reference pressure, which shall be
twenty (20) micropascals, denoted pressure level (LP) or sound pressure level
(SLP).
STATIONARY NOISE SOURCE: Any device, fixed or movable, which is located or used
on property other than a public right of way.
ZONE DISTRICT: Those districts established by the City Zoning Ordinance (Title
10 of this Code).
(Ord. 1997-03A, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2020-8, 10-6-2020)
4-4-4: NOISES PROHIBITED:
   A.   General Prohibition: In addition to the specific prohibitions outlined
in subsection B of this Section and Sections
4-4-5 and
4-4-9 of this Chapter, it is unlawful for any person to make, continue, or
cause to be made or continued any noise disturbance within the City limits.
   B.   Violations Enumerated: The following are in violation of this Chapter:
      1.   Horn Or Signalling Device: The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any truck, automobile, motorcycle, emergency vehicle or other vehicle
on any street or public place within the City, except as a danger warning
signal as provided in the State Motor Vehicle Code, or the sounding of any such
signaling device for an unnecessary period of time.
      2.   Radio, Television: Using, operating or permitting the use or
operation of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, television,
phonograph, drum or other machine or device for the production or reproduction
of sound, except as provided for in subsection B3 of this Section:
         a.   Which violates the zone district noise levels set out in Section
4-4-5 of this Chapter, or causes a noise disturbance;
         b.   Between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. the following day in such a manner as to be plainly audible at the
property boundary of the source: or 1) is plainly audible at fifty feet (50')
or fifteen meters (15 m) from such device when operated within a vehicle parked
on a public right of way; or 2) is plainly audible through partitions common to
two (2) occupants within a building or structure.
      3.   Loudspeaker Or Sound Amplifier: Using or operating a loudspeaker or
sound amplifying equipment in a fixed or movable position or mounted upon any
sound vehicle in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, park, place, public or
private property for the purpose of commercial advertising, giving
instructions, directions, talks, addresses, lectures, or transmitting music to
any persons or assemblages of persons in a manner which violates Section
4-4-5 of this Chapter or causes a noise disturbance, unless a permit as
provided by Section
4-4-8 of this Chapter has been obtained.
      4.   Construction Equipment: Operating, or causing to be used or
operated, any equipment used in construction, repair, alteration or demolition
work on buildings, structures, streets, alleys or appurtenances thereto:
         a.   In residential or commercial zone areas between the hours of nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day; and
         b.   In any other areas of the City where such operation exceeds the
sound level limits for an industrial land use as set forth in Section
4-4-5 of this Chapter.
      5.   Power Equipment: Operating or permitting to be operated any power
equipment rated five (5) horsepower or less used for home or building repair or
grounds maintenance, including, but not limited to, power saws, sanders, lawn
mowers, garden equipment or snow removal equipment, in residential or
commercial zoned areas:
         a.   Outdoors between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day; and
         b.   Which emits a sound pressure level in excess of eighty (80) dBA
measured at a distance of twenty five feet (25') or seven and five-tenths
meters (7.5 m).
      6.   Chain Saws, Pavement Breakers: Operating or permitting to be
operated any power equipment, except construction equipment used for
construction activities, rated more than five (5) horsepower, including, but
not limited to, chain saws, pavement breakers, log chippers and powered hand
tools:
         a.   In residential or commercial zoned areas between the hours of
nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day; and
         b.   In any other areas of the City, if such equipment emits a sound
pressure level in excess of eighty eight (88) dBA measured at a distance of
twenty five feet (25') or seven and five-tenths meters (7.5 m).
      7.   Public Entertainment; Warning Sign: Operating or permitting to be
operated in any place of public entertainment any loudspeaker or other source
of sound which produces, at a point that is normally occupied by a customer,
maximum sound pressure levels of one hundred (100) dBA as read with the slow
responses on a sound level meter, unless a conspicuous and legible sign at
least two hundred twenty five (225) square inches in area is posted near each
public entrance stating: "Warning: Sound Levels May Cause Hearing Impairment".
This provision shall not be construed to allow the operation of any loudspeaker
or other source of sound in such a manner as to violate Section
4-4-5 of this Chapter.
      8.   Vehicle In Disrepair: Operating or permitting to be operated or used
any truck, automobile, motorcycle or other motor vehicle which, by virtue of
disrepair or manner of operation, violates Section
4-4-5 of this Chapter or causes a noise disturbance. (Ord. 1997-03A, 10-20-
1997)
      9.   Refuse Compacting Vehicle: Operating or causing or permitting to be
operated any refuse compacting vehicle which creates a sound pressure level in
excess of seventy nine (79) dBA at twenty five feet (25') or seven and five-
tenths meters (7.5 m) from the vehicle. (Ord. 1997-03A, 10-20-1997; amd. 2000
Code)
      10.   Operation Of Vehicle: Operating or causing or permitting to be
operated any motor vehicle or any auxiliary equipment attached thereto in a
manner which violates Section
4-4-5 of this Chapter or causes a noise disturbance for a consecutive period
longer than ten (10) minutes during which such vehicle is stationary in a
residential zone.
      11.   Near Schools, Hospitals: Creating noise in excess of the
residential standard as defined in Section
4-4-5 of this Chapter within the vicinity of any school, hospital, institution
of learning, court or other designated area where exceptional quiet is
necessary, while the same is in use, provided conspicuous signs are displayed
in the streets indicating a quiet zone.
      12.   Electronic Signals; Alarms; Chimes: Sounding, operating or
permitting to sound or operate an electronically amplified signal from any
burglar alarm, bell, chime or clock, including, but not limited to, bells,
chimes or clocks in schools, house of religious worship or governmental
buildings, which fail to meet the standards set forth in Section
4-4-5 of this Chapter for more than fifteen (15) minutes in any hour.
      13.   Recreational Vehicle: Operating a recreational vehicle or
snowmobile in a manner which violates Section
4-4-5 of this Chapter or causes a noise disturbance.
      14.   Use of Retarders, Jake Brakes And Engine Brakes. The use and/or
sounding of retarders, Jake brakes or engine brakes, except in an emergency
situation where extra braking power is required to avert the danger of bodily
harm to a person or damage to property when the emergency situation is not
caused by the driver using the device. Conspicuous signs shall be placed at or
near the City's limits notifying motorists of this prohibition.
(Ord. 1997-03A, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2020-8, 10-6-2020)
4-4-5: ZONE DISTRICT NOISE LEVELS; MAXIMUM; CORRECTION:
   A.   Time Periods And Sound Levels:
      1.   Specific Limitations: It is a violation of this Section for any
person to operate or permit to be operated any stationary source of sound in
such a manner as to create a ninetieth percentile sound pressure level (L90)
for a measurement period of ten (10) minutes or more unless otherwise provided
in this Section, which exceeds the limits set forth for the following receiving
zones. The location for measuring exterior sound level shall be at least one
foot (1') inside the property line of the affected property and three to six
feet (3 to 6') above ground level and at least four feet (4') from walls and
other reflective surfaces.
 
Zone District                   9:00 P.M.      7:00 A.M.
                                To 7:00 A.M.  To 9:00 P.M. 
Residential
R-7, RC-5, RC-8, RM, RAC, AC,   50 dBA         55 dBA R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5,
PRC, PRRC, HZ, Mobile Home Park
Commercial                      55 dBA         60 dBA
C-1, C-2, C-4, SC, BCD
Industrial-Agricultural         70 dBA         75 dBA
1-1,1-2, IP
 
      2.   Noise Measured In More Than One District: When a noise source can be
identified and its noise measured in more than one land use category, the
limits of the more restrictive use shall apply at the boundaries between
different zones.
   B.   Exceeding Sound Level Limits; Measurement Period:
      1.   It is a violation of this Section for any person to operate, or
permit to be operated, any stationary source of sound within any area of the
City which creates a tenth percentile sound pressure level (L10) of ten (10)
dBA greater than the levels set forth of the receiving zones in subsection A of
this Section for any measurement period. Such measurement period shall not be
less than ten (10) minutes.
      2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection B of this Section, it
is a violation of this Section for any person to operate or permit to be
operated, any stationary source of sound within any area of the City which
creates a tenth percentile sound pressure level (L10) greater than fifteen (15)
dBA above the ambient sound pressure level (L90) of any measurement period.
Such measurement period shall not be less than ten (10) minutes. (Ord. 1997-
03A, 10-20-1997)
4-4-6: SOUND LEVEL MEASUREMENT:
Sound level measurements shall be made with a sound level meter using the "A-
weighted" scale, in accordance with standards promulgated by the American
National Standards Institute or other reasonable standards adopted and tested
by the City Clerk-Treasurer or appointed designee. (Ord. 1997-03A, 10-20-1997)
4-4-7: EXEMPTIONS:
The following uses and activities shall be exempt from noise level regulation:
   A.   Noise of safety signals, warning devices and emergency pressure relief
valves;
   B.   Noise resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle when responding
to an emergency call or acting in time of emergency;
   C.   Noise resulting from emergency work;
   D.   Noise resulting from lawful fireworks and noisemakers used for a
celebration of an official holiday; and
   E.   Noise resulting from activities of temporary duration permitted by law
for which a license or permit has been approved by the City Clerk-Treasurer or
appointed designee in accordance with Section
4-4-8 of this Chapter. (Ord. 1997-03A, 10-20-1997)
4-4-8: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application For Permit: Application for a permit for relief from the
noise restrictions in this Chapter on the basis of undue hardship may be made
to the City Clerk-Treasurer or appointed designee. The application shall be in
writing and set forth the conditions as specified in subsections A1, A2 or A3
of this Section entitling the appellant to the relief requested. Any permit
granted by the City Clerk-Treasurer or appointed designee shall contain all
conditions upon which the permit has been granted, including, but not limited
to, the effective dates, any time of day, location, sound pressure level or
equipment limitation. The relief requested may be granted upon good and
sufficient showing:
      1.   That additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or
modify his activity or operation to comply with this Section; or
      2.   That the activity, operation or noise source will be of temporary
duration and cannot be done in a manner that would comply with this Section;
and
      3.   That no reasonable alternative is available to the applicant.
   B.   Conditions: The City Clerk-Treasurer or appointed designee may
prescribe reasonable conditions or requirements deemed necessary to minimize
adverse effects upon a community or the surrounding neighborhood.
   C.   Permit Denial; Appeal: Any person denied a permit by the City Clerk-
Treasurer or appointed designee shall have the right to appeal the denial to
the Governing Body. The appeal shall not be entertained unless it is in the
form of a verified petition, in writing, filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer
within five (5) calendar days of the denial, setting forth the condition, as
specified in subsections A1, A2, or A3 of this Section entitling the appellant
to the relief requested. (Ord. 1997-03A, 10-20-1997)
4-4-9: MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE:
   A.   Vehicle Categories; Noise Level Limitation: No persons shall drive,
move, cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved, a motor vehicle or
combination of vehicles in a manner which exceeds the following noise limits
for the category of motor vehicle shown below. Noise shall be measured at a
distance of at least twenty five feet (25') or seven and five-tenths meters
(7.5 m) from the near side of the nearest lane being monitored and at a height
of at least four feet (4') or one and two-tenths meters (1.2 m) above the
immediate surrounding surface:
 
Sound Pressure Level, dBA Speed Limit  Speed Limit 45 MPH Or Less Over 45 MPH
Motor vehicles with a manufacturer's
gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) or
gross combination weight rating (GCWR) 90                         94
of 10,000 pounds or more, or any
combination of vehicles towed by such
motor vehicle
Any other motor vehicle or any
combination of vehicles towed by any   77                         81
motor vehicle
 
   B.   Applicability Of Section: This Section applies to the total noise from
a vehicle or combination of vehicles and shall not be construed as limiting or
precluding the enforcement of any other provisions of this Chapter relating to
motor vehicle mufflers for noise control.
   C.   Exhaust System Requirements: No person shall operate or cause to be
operated any motor vehicle unless the exhaust system of such vehicle is:
      1.   Free from defects which affect sound reduction;
      2.   Equipped with a muffler or other noise dissipative device;
      3.   Not equipped with any cut-out, by-pass or similar device; and
      4.   Not modified in a manner which will amplify or increase the noise
emitted by the motor of such vehicle above that emitted by a muffler of the
type originally installed on the vehicle. (Ord. 1997-03A, 10-20-1997)
4-4-10: PENALTY:
Upon conviction for violation of any provisions of this Chapter, the defendant
shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day during which there is a violation may be charged
as a separate offense. (Ord. 1997-03A, 10-20-1997; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 5
RESERVED
CHAPTER 6
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
4-6-1: Adoption Of Fire Code
4-6-2: Enforcement
4-6-3: Availability For Inspection
4-6-4: Amendments
4-6-1: ADOPTION OF FIRE CODE:
The City of Sunland Park hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the
conditions, provisions, limitations, and terms of the 2021 International Fire
Code and all referenced standards and appendices, including appendices B, C, D,
E, F, G, H, I, K, L, and N but excluding appendices A, M and J thereto,
published by the International Code Council (ICC). (Ord. 2023-10, 10-17-2023)
4-6-2: ENFORCEMENT:
City staff is hereby authorized to do all deeds necessary to carry out the
provisions of the 2021 International Fire Code as adopted herein. (ICC). (Ord.
2023-10, 10-17-2023)
4-6-3: AVAILABILITY FOR INSPECTION:
A copy of the 2021 International Fire Code, as adopted herein, shall be made
available for inspection in the City Clerk's Office at 1000 McNutt Rd, Sunland
Park, New Mexico 88063 during the normal and regular business hours of the City
Clerk. (Ord. 2023-10, 10-17-2023)
4-6-4: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections of the 2021 International Fire Code shall be amended and
written as follows:
   CHAPTER 1 Scope and Administration
      Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of
the City of Sunland Park, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
      Section 101.2 Scope. This section of the IFC shall not apply. 10.25.5.2
NMAC defines the scope of this rule and states as follows:
      10.25.5.2 SCOPE:
      A.   This rule applies to structures, processes, premises, and safeguards
regarding:
         (1)   the hazard of fire and explosion arising from the storage,
handling or use of structures, materials, or devices; and
         (2)   conditions hazardous to life, property, or public welfare in the
occupancy of structures or premises; and
         (3)   fire hazards in the structure or on the premises from occupancy
or operation; and
         (4)   matters related to the construction, extension, repair,
alteration, or removal of fire protection systems; and
         (5)   conditions affecting the safety of firefighters and emergency
responders during emergency operations.
      B.   This rule does not apply to detached, one- and two-family dwellings
and townhouses not more than three stories above the grade plane in height with
a separate means of egress and their accessory structures not more than three
stories above grade in height built to the New Mexico Residential Building Code
except for those being used as commercial properties. (NMAC)
      C.   Other agencies have adopted rules that may apply and that are not
affected by these rules.
         (1)   The construction industries division of the New Mexico
regulation and licensing department (CID) adopts regulations for all
construction pursuant to Title 14 NMAC, Housing and Construction, Chapter 5
through 10 NMAC, setting forth the state's minimum requirements that include
provisions on fire prevention.
         (2)   The New Mexico environmental improvement board has adopted rules
for aboveground and underground storage tanks containing petroleum or hazardous
substances and rules governing hazardous waste administered by the environment
department in Title 20, Chapter 5 NMAC.
         (3)   The board of licensure for professional engineers and surveyors
has adopted rules for the design of fire protection and alarm systems in Title
16, Chapter 39 NMAC.
         (4)   CID has jurisdiction over all contractors and journeymen
installers of fire protection systems and establishes the minimum requirements
for licenses and certificates pursuant to the Construction Industries Licensing
Act and to Title 14, Chapter 6, Part 6 NMAC on CID license classification and
scopes.
      D.   AHJ's [authorities having jurisdiction] may adopt fire protection
requirements that are more stringent or comprehensive than 10.25.5 NMAC,
provided such requirements do not conflict with this rule. The authority for
administration and interpretation of construction-related sections of the NMFC,
defined below, that apply to construction projects requiring a building permit
is the responsibility of the chief building official or the AHJ. The FM,
defined below, shall have authority for the administration and interpretation
of fire protection systems and chief building official of an AHJ shall have the
authority for the administration and interpretation of building codes other
than fire protection systems.
      Section 101.2.1 Appendices. The provisions in appendices B, C, D, E, F,
G, H, I, K, L and N shall apply as specifically adopted in the Ordinance.
      Section 103 Code Compliance Agency. Added to read as follows:
      Section 103.1 Creation of agency. The Sunland Park Fire Department's
Community Risk Reduction Division is hereby created and the Fire Marshal, who
oversees said division, shall be known as the fire code official. The function
of the Community Risk Reduction shall be the implementation, administration,
and enforcement of the provisions of this code.
      Section 103.2 Appointment. The fire code official shall be appointed by
the City of Sunland Park Fire Chief.
      Section 103.3 Deputies. In accordance with the prescribed procedures of
this jurisdiction and within the concurrence of the appointing authority, the
fire code official shall have authority to appoint a deputy code official,
other related technical officers, inspectors, and other employees. Such
employees shall have powers as delegated by the fire code official.
      Section 104.6 Official Records. The fire code official shall keep
official records as required by Sections 104.6.1 through 104.6.4. Such records
shall be retained in accordance with the record retention requirements
established by the City of Sunland Park and the State of New Mexico in NMSA
1978 Sections 14-2-1 through 14-2-12; the provisions of the Inspections of
Public Records Act shall control.
      Section 104.11.1 Assistance from other agencies. The Fire Marshal will
work in conjunction with Sunland Park Police CID, State Fire Marshal
Investigations, and other enforcement agencies in the investigation of fires
and/or explosions when requested to do so.
      104.12.2 Obstructing Operations. No person shall obstruct the operations
of the fire department in connection with the extinguishment or control of any
fire, or actions relative to other emergencies, non-emergency incidents, or
training, or disobey any lawful command of the fire chief or officer of the
fire department in charge, or any part thereof, or any lawful order of a police
officer assisting the fire department.
      Section 105.1 General. Permits required by the fire code official shall
be in accordance with Section 105.
      Exception: Permits that are issued by the Sunland Park Fire Department
and the City of Sunland Park Community Development Department (CD) in
accordance with City Ordinances and the 2018 International Building Code (IBC).
      Section 105.2.4 Actions on Application. The fire code official shall
examine or cause to be examined applications for permits and amendments thereto
within 21 business days after filing. If the application or the construction
documents do not conform to the requirements of pertinent laws, the fire code
official shall reject such application in writing, stating the reason,
therefore. If the fire code official is satisfied that the proposed work or
operation conforms to the requirements of this code and laws and ordinances
applicable thereto, the fire code official shall issue a permit therefore as
soon as practical.
      Section 105.5 Required Operational Permits. The fire code official is
authorized to issue operational permits for the operations set forth in
Sections 105.5.1 through 105.5.52. The fire code official will establish
requirements for permit issuance. Operational permit fees shall apply.
      Section 105.6 Required Construction Permits.
       The fire code official is authorized to issue construction permits for
work as set forth in Sections 105.6.1 through 105.6.24. Such permits shall be
processed through Sunland Park Community Development (CD) Department and shall
be in conformance with the requirements established by this code and the
Community Development Department.
      Section 105.6.1.1 Design Safety Margin. Shall be added as follows
      Unless otherwise approved by the fire code official, all automatic
sprinkler systems shall be designed with a minimum 10 psi safety margin.
      Section 105.6.1.2 Hydraulic Calculations Required. Shall be added as
follows When required by the fire code official, hydraulic calculations shall
be provided for modification to an existing automatic fire-extinguishing system
requiring the installation of additional heads with either of the following
occur:
      1.   Number of heads being added exceeds 10.
      2.   Number of heads being added is greater than 10 percent of the total
heads for the system.
      The fire code official may require hydraulic calculations be submitted
for any modifications to an existing system when deemed necessary to adequately
evaluate the impact on the system.
      Section 106.1 Submittals. Construction documents shall be in accordance
with this section and the requirements set forth by the City of Sunland Park
and the State of New Mexico.
      (a)   One (1) set of construction documents shall be submitted to the
Sunland Park Fire Department Fire Marshal's Office (FMO) electronic or hard
copy via Community Development (CD).
      (b)   All construction documents shall be submitted following the Fire
Marshal's Office (FMO) plan submittal guidelines with the applicant's
certificate of fitness, permit application, and permit number or building
official unique identifier and shall comply with the approval process provided
in 10.25.5.16 NMAC.
      Section 109.6 Overcrowding. Overcrowding or admittance of any person
beyond the approved capacity of a building or portion thereof shall not be
allowed. The fire code official, upon finding overcrowding conditions or
obstructions in aisles, passageways, or other means of egress, or upon finding
any condition that constitutes a life safety hazard, shall be authorized to
immediately cause the event to be stopped until such conditions or obstructions
is corrected. The following shall apply:
      (a)   Fire Marshal is to establish applicable minimum penalties for
overcapacity in accordance with Federal, State, and local laws and that forbid
the overcrowding or admittance of any persons beyond the approved capacity of
any place of public assemblance which creates a hazardous condition or is a
serious menace to life. A violation of overcrowding is a Misdemeanor punishable
by a fine of not more than $500.00 dollars or by imprisonment not to exceed 90
days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
      (b)   Fire Marshal is to require a posted sign stating the Maximum
Occupancy as determined by the occupant load listed in the construction
documents in new construction/tenant improvements or by 2021 IFC Chapter 10
Section 1004 Occupant Load Table 1004.5 Maximum Floor Area Allowance Per
Occupant. Maximum Occupancy sign requirement "Maximum Occupancy (Number) By
Order of the Fire Marshal"
      Section 110.1 Authority to disconnect service utilities. The fire code
official shall have the authority to authorize the disconnection of utility
service to the building, structure, or system in order to eliminate the
immediate hazard. The fire code official shall notify the serving utility and,
where possible, the owner or the owner's authorized agent and the occupant of
the building, structure, or service system of the decision to disconnect prior
to taking action. If not notified prior to the disconnection, then those
previously mentioned shall be notified in writing as soon as practical
thereafter. Once service has been disconnected to a building, structure, or
system it is the utility's responsibility to reconnect service, not that of
Sunland Park Fire Department.
      Section 112.4 Violation Penalties.
      Persons who shall violate a provision of this code or shall fail to
comply with any of these requirements thereof or who shall erect, install,
alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved construction documents or
directive of the fire code official, or of a permit or certificate used under
the provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, Punishable by a
fine of not more than $500.00 dollars or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days,
or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day a violation continues after due
notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense. 59A-52-24 and 59A-
52-25 NMSA 1978 shall apply.
      Section 113.4 Failure to Comply. Any person who shall continue any work
after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that
person is directed to perform to remove a violation or an unsafe condition,
shall be considered to be a violation of this code and shall be subjected to
the penalties as set forth in section 112.4.
      Section 114.1 General. If within the City of Sunland Park during an
inspection of a premises, a building or structure, or any building system, in
whole or in part, constitutes a clear and inimical threat to human life, safety
or health, the fire code official shall immediately issue such notice or orders
to remove or remedy the conditions as shall be deemed necessary in accordance
with this section, and shall refer the building to the Sunland Park Police
Department Codes Officer and Building Official for any repairs, alterations,
remodeling, removing, or demolition required.
   CHAPTER 2 Definitions
      Section 202 General Definitions. Shall be added as follows
      Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ): An organization, office, or
individual responsible for enforcing the requirements of a code or standard, or
for approving equipment, materials, an installation, or a procedure. For the
purpose of this code, the Fire Chief is the Authority Having Jurisdiction in
the City of Sunland Park, New Mexico.
      Fire Marshal (FM): The fire code official who is appointed the authority
to inspect buildings, issue permits of fire systems, be responsible for
implementation, administration, and enforcement of the fire code as adopted by
the City of Sunland Park.
      Jurisdiction. This code shall be applicable to all property within the
corporate limits of the City of Sunland Park, New Mexico.
      Record Drawings: mean "as builts" that document the location of all
appurtenances of fire protection systems to include any corrections incurred
during final acceptance.
      Standpipe System, Classes Of. Standpipe system classes are as follows:
      Class II System. A system providing 1.5-inch (38mm) hose station to
supply water for use primarily by the building occupants or by the fire
department during initial response. 1.5-inch hoses and hose cabinets shall not
be provided, unless required by the fire code official
      Class III System. A system providing 1.5-inch (38mm) hose stations to
supply water for use by building occupants and 2.5-inch (64mm) hose connections
to supply a larger volume of water for use by fire departments and those
trained in handling heavy fire streams. 1.5-inch hoses and hose cabinets shall
not be provided, unless required by the fire code official.
   CHAPTER 3 General Requirements
      Section 301.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the
occupancy and maintenance of all structures and premises for precautions
against fire and the spread of fire and general requirements for fire safety.
The provisions of this chapter apply as mandated by the local Authority Having
Jurisdiction.
      Section 301.2 Permits. Permits shall only apply to the extent mandated by
the Authority Having Jurisdiction for activities and uses regulated by Sections
306, 307, 308, 315, and 320.
      Section 304.1.2 Vegetation. Weeds, grass, vines, or other growth that is
capable of being ignited and endangering property, shall be cut down and
removed by the owner or occupant of the premises. Vegetation clearance
requirements in the urban-wildland interface areas shall be in accordance with
the International Wildland Urban Interface Code. This section will apply to the
extent mandated by the Authority Having Jurisdiction and City of Sunland Park
Ordinance 2023-5, An Ordinance Defining and Prohibiting Nuisances.
      Section 307.1 General. A person shall not kindle or maintain or authorize
to be kindled or maintained any open burning unless conducted and approved in
accordance with Sections 307.1.1 through 307.5. This section of the
International Fire Code applies only to the extent mandated by the local
Authority Having Jurisdiction. The Sunland Park Fire Department requires
issuance of a bum permit from the location of the prospective burn prior to
allowing open burning to occur. Failure to obtain a bum permit prior to burning
is consistent with illegal burning and subject to citation in accordance with
20.2.60 NMAC Open Burning.
      Section 307.1.2 Prohibited Materials. Shall be added as follows in
accordance with 20.2.60.110 NMAC
      The burning of the following materials is prohibited:
         (a)   Natural or synthetic rubber products. including tires;
         (b)   Waste oil or used oil filters;
         (c)   Insulated wire or copper wiring;
         (d)   Plastics, including polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe, tubing, and
connectors;
         (e)   Tar, asphalt, asphalt shingles, or tar paper;
         (f)   Railroad ties;
         (g)   Wood, wood waste, or lumber which has been painted or which has
been treated with preservatives containing arsenic, chromium,
pentachlorophenol, or creosote;
         (h)   Batteries;
         (i)   Motor vehicle bodies or interiors;
         (j)   Pathogenic wastes;
         (k)   Asbestos or asbestos containing materials.
      Section 307.2 Permit Required. A permit shall be obtained from the fire
official in accordance with Section 105.5 prior to kindling a fire. This permit
will be issued within the district the burn is being requested at. Application
for such approval only be presented by and permit issued to the owner of the
land to which the fire is to be kindled. Fire personnel are required to
complete a site visit to issue the permit to allow for visual observation of
compliance with permit requirements.
      Section 307.2.1 Authorization. Where required by state or local law or
regulations, open burning shall only be permitted with prior approval from the
state or local air and water quality management authority, provided that all
conditions specified in the authorization are followed. Verification by fire
personnel that the conditions allow open burning to proceed qualify as
authorization in accordance with permitting procedure.
      Section 307.3 Extinguishing Authority. When open burning creates or adds
to a hazardous situation, or a required permit for open burning has not been
obtained, the fire code official or fire official is authorized to immediately
order the extinguishment of the open burning operation.
      Section 308.1.6.3 Sky lanterns. A person shall not release or cause to be
released an untethered sky lantern unless approved by the local AHJ.
      Section 308.3 Group A Occupancies Exception #2. Heat-producing equipment
complying with Chapter 6 Building Services and Systems and the New Mexico
Mechanical Code.
      Section 313.1.1 Removal. The fire code official is authorized to
immediately order the removal of fueled equipment from locations where the
presence of such equipment is determined by the fire code official to be
hazardous.
      Section 315.3.3 Equipment Rooms. Combustible materials shall not be
stored in boiler rooms, mechanical rooms, elevator machine rooms, electrical
equipment rooms, equipment rooms, water heater closets, or in the fire command
center as specified in Section 508.1.5.
   CHAPTER 4 Emergency Planning and Preparedness
      Section 401.3.2 Alarm activations. Upon activation of a fire alarm
signal, employees or staff shall immediately notify the fire department of each
occurrence.
      Section 401.3.3 Delayed notification. A person shall not, by verbal or
written directive, require any delay in the reporting of a fire to the fire
department. This includes fires that occur in facilities which have been
extinguished by the occupants. The fire department shall still be notified.
TABLE 405.3
FIRE AND EVACUATION DRILL FREQUENCY AND PARTICIPATION
GROUP OR OCCUPANCY FREQUENCY PARTICIPATION
GROUP OR OCCUPANCY                   FREQUENCY                  PARTICIPATION
Group A                              Quarterly                  Staff
Group B                              Annually                   All occupants
Group B (Ambulatory care facilities) Quarterly on each shift    Staff
Group B (Clinic, outpatient)         Annually                   Staff
Group E                              Monthly                    All occupants
Group F                              Annually                   Employees
Group H                              Quarterly                  Staff
Group I-1                            Semiannually on each shift All occupants
Group I-2                            Quarterly on each shift    Staff
Group I-3                            Quarterly on each shift    Staff
Group I-4                            Monthly on each shift      All Occupants
Group R-1                            Quarterly on each shift    Employees
Group R-2                            Four annually              All occupants
Group R-4                            Semiannually on each shift All occupants
 
      Section 405.6 Record keeping. Records shall be maintained of required
emergency evacuation drills and include the following information:
         1.   Identity of the person conducting the drill.
         2.   Date and time of the drill.
         3.   Notification method used.
         4.   Employees on duty and participating.
         5.   Number of occupants evacuated.
         6.   Special conditions simulated
         7.   Problems encountered and corrective actions for the problems
encountered.
         8.   Weather conditions when occupants were evacuated.
         9.   Time required to accomplish complete evacuation.
   CHAPTER 5 Fire Service Features
      Section 503.3.1 Citations. added to read as follows:
      The fire code official shall have the power and authority to issue
citations for parking violations in designated fire lanes, obstructed exits,
fire escapes, fire hydrants, or for other hazards being created by parking of a
motor vehicle.
      Section 503.3.1.1 Citation Procedure. added to read as follows:
      The suspected violator's signature needs not be required on a citation,
but only the description of the vehicle, license plate number, date, section of
ordinance violated and location. The citation may be placed under the
windshield wiper or affixed to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
      Section 503.3.1.1.2 Removal of vehicles. added to read as follows:
      Any vehicle stopped or parked within a fire lane established, designated,
and marked in accordance with this subsection, or within fifteen feet (15') of
a fire hydrant, or parked on a sidewalk so as to obstruct an entrance or exit,
may be removed at the expense of the vehicle owner. The person in lawful
possession of the property shall keep designated fire lanes free of vehicles
and all other obstructions.
      Section 503.2.4 Turning radius. Changed to read as follows:
      The required turning radius of a fire apparatus access road shall be
determined by the fire code official. For all commercial and multi-residential
buildings, the roads and curbing must meet the following minimum turning
radiuses to meet the requirements of the fire apparatus:
         (1)   Inside turning radius of at least 25 feet.
         (2)   Curb to curb turning radius of at least 41 feet.
         (3)   Wall to wall turning radius of at least 48 feet.
      Section 505.1 Address identification. added to read as follows: New and
existing buildings shall be provided with approved address identification. The
address identification shall be legible and placed in a position that is
visible from the street or road fronting the property. Address identification
characters shall contrast with their backgrounds. Address numbers shall be
Arabic numbers or alphabetical letters. Numbers shall not be spelled out. Each
character shall not be less than 4 inches (102mm) high with a minimum stroke
width of ½ inch (12.7mm). Where required by the fire code official, address
identification shall be provided in additional approved locations to facilitate
emergency response. Where access is by means of a private road and the building
cannot be viewed by a public way, a monument, pole or other sign or means shall
be used to identify the structure. Address identification shall be maintained.
Address identification shall also conform to Title 9 Building Regulations -
Chapter 2 Uniform Addressing System of the Sunland Park City Code.
      Section 507.5.1.2 Fire protection. is added to read as follows:
      Recreational vehicle, mobile home, and manufactured housing parks, sales
lots and storage lots shall provide and maintain fire hydrants and access roads
in accordance with Sections 503 and 507.
      Section 507.5.7 Hydrant reflectors. is added to read as follows:
      When new hydrants are required, an approved reflective marker shall be
installed in fire department access roadways to make hydrants more discernible
to approaching apparatus. The placement and location of the markers shall be
determined by the fire code official, and the work completed by contractors or
property owners or their representatives.
   CHAPTER 6 Building Services and Systems
      Section 605.9 Gas meters. Above-ground gas meters, regulators, and piping
subject to damage shall be protected by a barrier complying with Section 312 or
otherwise protected in an approved manner as required by the fire code
official.
   CHAPTER 9 Fire Protection Systems
      Section 903.3.8.5 Calculations. Hydraulic calculations in accordance with
NFPA 13 shall be provided to demonstrate that all available water flow and
pressure are adequate to supply all sprinklers installed in any single fire
area with discharge densities corresponding to the hazard classification. A 10-
psi safety factor shall be added to all hydraulic calculations as mandated by
the AHJ.
      Section 903.4 Sprinkler system supervision and alarms. Valves controlling
the water supply for automatic sprinkler systems, pumps, tanks, water levels
and temperatures, critical air pressures and waterflow switches on all
sprinkler systems shall be electrically supervised by a listed fire alarm
control unit.
      Exceptions:
         1.   Automatic sprinkler system protecting one- and two-family
dwellings.
         2.   Limited area systems serving fewer than 20 sprinklers in other
than Group H and Group I occupancies.
         3.   Automatic sprinkler systems installed in accordance with NFPA
(National Fire Protection Association) 13R where a common supply main is used
to supply both domestic water and the automatic sprinkler system, and a
separate shut off valve for the automatic sprinkler system is not provided.
         4.   Jockey pump control valves that are sealed or locked in the open
position.
         5.   Control valves to commercial kitchen hoods, paint spray booths or
dip tanks that are sealed or locked in the open position.
         6.   Valves controlling the fuel supply to fire pump engines that are
sealed or locked in the open position.
         7.   Trim valves to pressure switches in dry, preaction and deluge
sprinkler systems that are sealed or locked in the open position.
         8.   Underground key or hub gate valves in roadway boxes.
      Section 903.4.4 Multi-story Buildings. Add to read as follows:
      When required by the fire code official, approved supervised indicating
valves shall be provided in multi-story buildings and attached tenant spaces.
For the purpose of this section a basement shall be considered a story.
      Section 904.13 Commercial cooking systems. The exception of the IFC shall
not apply. The replacement of commercial cooking equipment, including but not
limited to a stove, hood, deep fryer, grill, griddle, or any other device used
in the cooking process requires the simultaneous installation of an automatic
fire suppression system.
      Section 905.3.4.1 Hose and Cabinet. The 1½ inch (38mm) hose connection
shall be equipped with sufficient lengths of 1½ inch (38mm) hose to provide
fire protection for the stage area. Hose connections shall be equipped with an
adjustable fog nozzle and be mounted in a cabinet or on a rack. Unless required
by the fire code official, 1½ inch hoses (38mm) and hose cabinets are not
required for class II and class III standpipe systems.
      Section 913.4 Valve Supervision.
      Where provided, the fire pump suction, discharge and bypass valves, and
the isolation valves on the backflow prevention device or assembly shall be
supervised open by one of the following methods.
         1.   Central-station, proprietary, or remote-station signaling
service.
         2.   Local signaling service that will cause the sounding of an
audible signal at a constantly attended location when approved by the fire code
official.
         3.   Locking valves open.
         4.   Removed in its entirety.
   CHAPTER 10 Means of Egress
      Table 1004.5 add the following:
      New and existing correctional facilities and detention centers: the
occupant load for which the means of egress is calculated by the maximum number
of persons intended to occupy the floor or area, shall be no less than 60
square feet of gross floor area per person.
TABLE 1004.5
MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA ALLOWANCES PER OCCUPANT
FUNCTION OF SPACE OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
FUNCTION OF SPACE                                            OCCUPANT LOAD
                                                             FACTOR
Accessory storage areas, mechanical Equipment room           300 gross
Agricultural building                                        300 gross
Aircraft hangars                                             500 gross
Airport terminal
   Baggage Claim                                          20 gross
   Baggage handling                                       300 gross
   Concourse                                              100 gross
   Waiting areas                                          15 gross
Assembly
   Gaming floors (keno, slots, etc.)                      11 gross
   Exhibit gallery and museum                             30 net
Assembly with fixed seats                                    See Section 1004.6
Assembly without fixed seats
   Concentrated (chairs only - not fixed)                 7 net
   Standing space                                         5 net
   Unconcentrated (tables and chairs)                     15 net
Bowling centers, allow 5 persons for each lane including 15  7 net
feet of runway, and for additional areas
Business areas                                               150 gross
   Concentrated business use areas                        See Section 1004.8
Courtrooms - other than fixed seating areas                  40 net
Day care                                                     35 net
Dormitories                                                  50 gross
Educational
   Classroom area                                         20 net
   Shop and other vocational room areas                   50 net
Exercise rooms                                               50 gross
Group H-5 fabrication and manufacturing areas                200 gross
Industrial areas                                             100 gross
Institutional areas
   Inpatient treatment areas                              240 gross
   New and existing correctional facilities and detention 60 gross
centers
   Outpatient areas                                       100 gross
   Sleeping areas                                         120 gross
Kitchens, commercial                                         200 gross
Library
   Reading rooms                                          50 net
   Stack area                                             100 gross
Locker rooms                                                 50 gross
                                                             See Section
Mall buildings covered and open                              402.8.2 of the
                                                             International
                                                             Building Code
Mercantile                                                   60 gross
   Storage, stock, shipping areas                         300 gross
Parking garages                                              200 gross
Residential                                                  200 gross
Skating rinks, swimming pools
   Rink and pool                                          50 gross
   Decks                                                  15 gross
Stages and platforms                                         15 net
Warehouses                                                   500 gross
 
   CHAPTER 11 Construction requirements for existing buildings
      Section 1101.2.1 Existing building and structures is added to read as
follows:
      An owner or contractor is not required to renovate or adapt an existing
building or structure to comply with the 2021 International Fire Code but shall
comply with the requirements in place when the building or structure was
constructed. An existing structure or a part of a structure that changes its
occupancy classification or has a change of use, however done, must comply with
the 2021 International Fire Code. 10.25.5.19 NMAC
      An existing fire protection system that is replaced, repaired, or
altered, whose classification has not changed, shall comply with the 2021
International Fire Code. Fire protection systems constructed prior to November
15, 2007, which fall under NFPA 1, 1997 edition and NFPA 101, 1997 edition
shall be required to have a permit using the requirements of the 2021
International Fire Code. 10.25.5.19 NMAC
   CHAPTER 23 Motor Fuel-Dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages
      Section 2311.2.3 Drainage and disposal of liquids and oil-soaked waste.
Garage floor drains where provided shall drain to approved oil separators or
traps discharging to a sewer in accordance with the International Plumbing
Code. Contents of oil separators, traps and floor draining systems shall be
collected at sufficiently frequent intervals and removed from the premises to
prevent oil from being carried into the sewers. Applies as mandated by the
local AHJ.
   CHAPTER 56 Explosives and Fireworks
      Section 5601.1.3 Exceptions. Exception 2 shall be deleted in its
entirety.If there is any conflict between Chapter 56 of the IFC and the
Fireworks Licensing and Safety Act, Sections 60-2C-1 through 60-2C-11 NMSA
1978, the Fireworks Licensing and Safety Act shall control.
      Section 5601.1.3.1 Definitions. Shall be added to read as follows:
      The following terms are defined in 60-2C-2 NMSA 1978
         Aerial shell
         Aerial shell kit-reloadable tube
         Aerial spinner
         Bosque
         Chaser
         Cone fountain
         Crackling device
         Cylindrical fountain
         Display fireworks
         Firecracker
         Fireworks
         Flitter sparkler
         Ground audible device
         Ground spinner
         Helicopter
         Wheel
      Section 5601.1.3.2 Permissible fireworks. Shall be added to read as
follows:
      Pursuant to NMSA 1978, Section 60-2C-7 (C), within the City of Sunland
Park, New Mexico, permissible fireworks and ground and hand-held sparkling
devices, aerial, and ground audible devices including:
         a)   Cone fountains;
         b)   Crackling devices;
         c)   Cylindrical fountains;
         d)   Flitter sparklers;
         e)   Ground spinners;
         f)   Illuminating torches;
         g)   Wheels;
         h)   Aerial shell kit-reloadable tubes not to exceed 3 inches in
diameter;
         i)   Aerial spinners;
         j)   Helicopters;
         k)   Mines;
         I)   Multiple tube devices;
         m)   Roman candles;
         n)   Shells;
         o)   Stick-type rockets, except as provided in Section 3 below;
         p)   Chasers; and
         q)   Firecrackers
      Section 5061.1.3.3 Prohibited fireworks. Shall be added to read as
follows:
      Pursuant to NMSA 1978, Section 60-2C-7 (B), within the City of Sunland
Park, New Mexico, the following types of fireworks are not permissible
fireworks:
         1.   Stick-type rockets having a tube of less than five-eights (5/8")
inch outside diameter and less than three and one-half (3½") inches in height.
         2.   Fireworks intended for sale to the public that produce an audible
effect, other than a whistle, by a charge of more than one hundred thirty
(130mg) milligrams of explosive composition per report.
      Section 5601.1.3.4 Sales permit required. Shall be added to read as
follows:
         1.   Any person intending to sell, offer to sell or store for sale any
fireworks shall first obtain a permit by contacting the City Fire Marshal's
Office. The information form provided to the FMO shall include the name and
address of the retailer selling the fireworks and a list of each device to be
stored, handled, and sold within the City of Sunland Park. A fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) shall be paid to the City Treasurer and the Fire Marshal will
conduct a fireworks sales permitting inspection. Such permit shall expire on
the following February 1 after issuance and permit shall not be transferable in
name or location.
         2.   Fireworks may be sold at retail between June 20 and July 6 of
each year and three days preceding and including New Year's Day, Chinese New
Year, and Cinco de Mayo of each year, except that fireworks may be sold all
year in permanent retail stores whose primary business is tourism.
         3.   The Fire Marshal, designated representative, or any inspector
thereof may, at all reasonable hours enter and inspect the premise, building,
vehicle(s), (Motor on Mobile) or any structure temporary or permanent located
at the site designated for the sale, packaging or handling of fireworks, shown
on the permit event entry is denied, the Fire Code Official, designated
representative, or inspector may order the permit to be revoked.
         4.   Pursuant to 10.25.6.9 NMAC Fireworks Safety Inspections, the Fire
Code Official or designated representative shall inspect all retail locations
at least twice during each sales period listed above.
      Section 5601.1.3.5 Fireworks display permit required. Shall be added to
read as follows:
         1.   Any person, individual, association, partnership, corporation,
company, or organization wishing to use display fireworks shall secure a
written permit from the Governing Body and the display fireworks shall be
purchased from a distributor or display distributor licensed by the State Fire
Marshal and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms at the United States
Department of the Treasury.
         2.   The Governing Body shall consult with the Fire Chief in
determining whether to issue a written permit for display fireworks.
         3.   The applicant is required to obtain and provide proof of
sufficient liability coverage which holds harmless the City of Sunland Park and
all of its representatives.
         4.   The applicant is required to provide a site and safety plan for
the display area.
         5.   The Fire Department shall provide an on-site stand-by before,
during, and after the completion of the fireworks display. Off-duty personnel
will be utilized for the stand- by at time and a half overtime cost to the
applicant with a 3-hour minimum charge.
      Section 5601.1.3.6 Restrictions and guidelines. Shall be added to read as
follows:
         1.   No fireworks shall be sold except from within permanent structure
at a recognized business location or a suitable, temporary stand which will be
set up no more than five (5) days prior to the official sale date and removed
within five (5) days after each event. The construction or use of fireworks
outside of a permanent structure or mobile stand is prohibited.
         2.   All areas immediately adjacent to fireworks stands and fireworks
storage buildings and containers shall be maintained free of all trash, weeds,
and other readily combustible materials at all times.
         3.   No fireworks may be sold within twenty-five (25) feet of any
parked vehicle and/or permanent structure unless such fireworks as sold within
a permanent structure.
      Section 5601.1.3.7 Enforcement. Shall be added to read as follows:
         1.   The Fire Code shall be enforced by the Sunland Park Police
Department and Sunland Park Fire Department. Any Certified law enforcement
officer, the City Fire Marshal, or designated representative may require
persons to produce permits or licenses as required by the Act and this
Ordinance. If those permits or licenses are not produced, the Certified law
enforcement officer, the City Fire Marshal, or designated representative may
take action pursuant to this section and Section 5601.1.3.4 herein.
         2.   The Fire Marshal, designated representative, or any police
officer is authorized to seize any fireworks not held in compliance with this
Act or Ordinance found being sold or used or attempted to be sold or used
within the City limits of the City of Sunland Park or within 5,000 feet thereof
in violation of Section 5601.1.3.4. The Fire Marshal, designated
representative, or any police officer is authorized to destroy any such devices
or fireworks so obtained after complying with the following procedure. After
seizure of such fireworks, the Fire Marshal, designated representative, or any
police officer shall immediately notify the City Clerk and shall arrange for a
secure storage facility for the fireworks. The City Clerk shall notify in
writing (but if not, address is reasonably 18 available, verbally) the person
from whom the devices have been seized and inform the person that a hearing
will be held by the City Council at either a regular or special meeting at
which time the person shall have the right to appear in person or by legal
counsel for the purpose of showing cause, if he/she has any, why the fireworks
should not be destroyed. The City Council shall conduct said hearing and make a
decision as to whether or not the devices should be returned to the individual
or should be ordered destroyed. Provided, however, confiscated devices may be
destroyed immediately upon a written finding and determination by the Fire
Marshal or designated representative that such destruction is necessary to
protect the public health, welfare, and safety.
         3.   If a person is found guilty of violating the provision of this
Ordinance, that person's license or permit may be revoked or suspended.
      Section 5601.1.3.8 Sale to children under sixteen or intoxicated persons
prohibited. Shall he added to read as follows: It is unlawful to offer for sale
or to sell any fireworks to children under the age of sixteen (16) years or to
any intoxicated person.
      Section 5601.1.3.9 Igniting and exploding certain devices authorized for
limited purposes. Shall he added to read as follows:
      No person shall ignite or explode any flammable or explosive device or
chemical composition or substance, including, but not limited to dynamite,
railroad torpedoes, blasting powder, dynamite caps, flashlight powder, signal
lights, or gun powder except in the use of such devices, compositions, or
substances for industrial, commercial, professional, scientific or other
practical purposes and only as otherwise authorized by law.
      Section 5601.1.3.10 Fire extinguishers. Shall he added to read as
follows:
      All fireworks permittees and licensees shall keep and maintain upon the
premises a fire extinguisher bearing an Underwriters Laboratories Inc (UL)
rated capacity of at least 5 ABC per five hundred square feet of space used for
firework sales or storage. The fire extinguisher(s) must have a current service
tag.
      Section 5601.1.3.11 Personnel - Licenses or permits. Shall he added to
read as follows:
      Certification is required that no person under the age of sixteen (16)
years shall be permitted to package, handle, or sell fireworks. All personnel
packaging, handling, and selling fireworks must have in his/her possession a
valid identification card. Proof of age is the responsibility of the vendor.
      Section 5601.1.3.12 Prohibited discharge. Shall be added to read as
follows:
         1.   No fireworks shall be discharged within one hundred fifty (150)
feet of any fireworks retail sales location.
         2.   No person shall ignite any fireworks within a motor vehicle or
throw fireworks from a motor vehicle, nor shall any person place or throw any
ignited article of fireworks into or at a motor vehicle or at or near any
person or group of people.
         3.   Fireworks shall not be sold or used on State forestland, wild
lands, or a bosque.
      Section 5601.1.3.13 Civil liability. Shall be added to read as follows:
      Nothing in this Ordinance shall relieve any person from any civil
liability in connection with the storage, possession, sale or use of fireworks
or other devices, compositions, or substances referred to herein.
      Section 5601.1.3.14 Gasoline or other flammable liquids. Shall be added
to read as follows:
         1.   No fireworks shall be stored, possessed or used within three
hundred (300) feet of gasoline or other flammable liquids unless such liquids
are sealed in metal containers of not more than one (1) gallon capacity.
         2.   At all places where fireworks are stored, sold or displayed, the
words "NO SMOKING" in English and Spanish shall be posted in letters at least
four (4) inches in height. Smoking, open flames and any ignition source are
prohibited within twenty-five (25) feet of any fireworks stock.
      Section 5601.1.3.15 Emergency declaration of drought. Shall be added to
read as follows:
      In the event of a State Declaration by the Governor of City Proclamation
by the Mayor of severe and extreme drought conditions, 60-2C-8.1 NMSA 1978, the
Fireworks Licensing and Safety Act Extreme or severe drought conditions;
restricted sale and use shall control.
      Section 5601.1.3.16 Penalty. Shall be added to read as follows:
      Penalties listed in Section 112.4 Violation penalties herein shall apply.
      (Ord. 2023-10, 10-17-2023)
CHAPTER 7
NUISANCE ABATEMENT
SECTION:
4-7-1:   Title
4-7-2:   Purpose
4-7-3:   Definitions
4-7-4:   Littering
4-7-5:   Nuisances Generally
4-7-6:   Exceptions
4-7-7:   Enforcement
4-7-1:   TITLE: 
This Chapter shall be known as the "Sunland Park Nuisance Abatement Ordinance."
(Ord. 2023-5, 4-4-2023)
4-7-2:   PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to help ensure that the City of Sunland Park
remains clean, orderly, and attractive for the benefit of its residents and
visitors through the prohibition and abatement of littering, disturbing noise,
and public nuisances. (Ord. 2023-5, 4-4-2023)
4-7-3:   DEFINITIONS: 
 
                 A passenger car or truck which is at least 35 years old and is
ANTIQUE VEHICLE: being preserved or restored for historical purposes or other
                 such special-interest purposes.
ANTIQUE    A passenger car or truck which is at least 35 years old and is being
VEHICLE:   preserved or restored for historical purposes or other such special-
           interest purposes.
           A triangle 35 ft by 35 ft measured from the face of curb, or 25 ft by 25
           ft measured from the property boundary. See Figure below. It also
CLEAR      specifies vertically that no such obstruction to view between three and
SIGHT      eight feet above the gutterline shall be placed or maintained within a
TRIANGLE : triangular area at the street corner.
           [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
           7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/IMAGES/0-0-0-1871.png]
           All putrescible food or other organic wastes and other such worthless or
GARBAGE:   offensive matter commonly genera ted by house holds and businesses, the
           accumulation of which may create a nuisance or be deleterious to public
           health or offensive to the senses; also referred to as "trash."
           Any solid, liquid, semisolid or gaseous material which may pose a
HAZARDOUS  substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment
WASTE:     when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise
           managed.
INOPERABLE A motor vehicle which, by reasons of dismantling, disrepair, accident or
MOTOR      other cause is incapable of being propelled under its own power.
VEHICLE:
JUNK       A trailer which has been continuously inoperable for at least one hundred
TRAILER:   twenty (120) calendar days; or which has been wrecked; or which has been
           fully or partially dismantled for ten (10) calendar days or more.
           A motor vehicle other than an antique or special interest vehicle which
JUNK       has been continuously inoperable for at least one hundred twenty (120)
VEHICLE:   calendar days; or which has been wrecked; or which has been fully or
           partially dismantled for ten (10) calendar days or more.
JUNK       A vessel which has been continuously inoperable for at least one hundred
VESSEL:    twenty (120) calendar days; or which has been wrecked; or which has been
           fully or partially dismantled for ten (10) calendar days or more.
LITTERING: Throwing, dropping or discarding any solid waste in any public or private
           place within the City except in authorized waste receptacles.
           Every vehicle that is self-propelled and every vehicle that is propelled
MOTOR      by electric power obtained from batteries. This includes but is not
VEHICLE:   limited to cars, trucks, vans, tractors, motor homes, recreational
           vehicles, all-terrain vehicles, golf carts, motor cycles and mopeds.
OUT DOOR   The storage of any materials subject to the provisions of this Chapter in
STORAGE:   a setting that is not entirety within an enclosed structure.
PERSON:    A human being or business entity.
           Any real property within the City. When a portion of privately owned
           property abuts on a public right-of-way or easement, the responsibility of
           the person in control for purposes of this Chapter shall extend to the
PROPERTY : center of the public alley or easem ent or back of street curb tine, or
           edge of payment, or at the edge of dirt roads; however this shall not
           restrict in any manner the maintenance of the right of way or easement by
           the City.
           Non-putrescible solid waste such as cold ashes, waste paper, rags, wooden,
REFUSE:    cardboard or paper boxes, bottles, broken ware, tin cans, plastics and
           similar residential and commercial waste materials; also referred to as
           "trash."
RUBBISH:   Waste or rejected material; anything worthless or valueless in its present
           form; garbage; trash.
SOLID      Garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash or yard waste.
WASTE:
SPECIAL    A motor vehicle of any age which, because of its significance, is being
INTEREST / collected, preserved, restored or maintained by a person as a leisure
HISTORIC   pursuit.
VEHICLE:
           All anonautomotive vehicle designed to be hauled by road and includes, but
TRAILER:   is not limited to, campers, concessions trailers, dry vans, flatbed
           trailers, horse trailers, livestock trailers, lowboys, and non-motorized
           recreational vehicles.
           Water craft, other than a seaplane, normally used as a means of
VESSEL:    transportation on water. This includes sailboats, motor boats, paddle
           boats, and jet skis.
WEEDS:     All plant growth at any stage of maturity which:
              A.Exceeds 12 inches in height, except healthy shrubs, healthy native
           vegetation flowers, herbs or produce for human consumption grown in a
          tended and cultiv ated garden; unless the vegetation by its density or
           location, constitutes a detriment to the health, benefit and welfare of
           the public and community, or a hazard to traffic, or creates a fire
           hazard, or otherwise interferes with the removal of weeds;
             B. Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
           accumulation of refuse or trash;
             C. Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors; and
             D. Is dead or diseased.
           This definition of "weeds" does not include indigenous vegetation which
          remains in an undisturbed state on undeveloped lots or large parcels of
           land.
YARD       Yard clippings, grass cuttings, yard cleanings, fallen trees, tree limbs,
WASTE:     slash, leaves or pine needles.
 
(Ord. 2023-5, 4-4-2023)
4-7-4:   LITTERING:
   A.   Littering is prohibited within the City. This prohibition includes the
throwing or discarding of any solid waste or hazardous waste from a vehicle.
   B.   Open loads in vehicles. No person shall drive or move any truck or
other vehicle with materials of any kind in an open bed unless the vehicle is
so constructed, loaded or secured as to prevent its load or contents from being
inadvertently discharged from the vehicle. (Ord. 2023-5, 4-4-2023)
4-7-5:   NUISANCES GENERALLY: 
In the interests of the health, safety and welfare of residents and visitors to
the City, the following property conditions are declared to be public
nuisances, and it shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of real property
to create, allow or maintain any of these conditions.
   A.   Unsanitary or hazardous premises, consisting of, but not limited to:
      1.   Solid waste or hazardous waste;
      2.   Wastewater, stagnant water, sewage or any conglomeration of residue
thereof that emits odors or serves as a feeding or breeding place for flies,
insects, spiders, rodents or other vermin;
      3.   Weeds, brush or other wild, uncontrolled growth of vegetation; or
      4.   Dead animals, except for household pets properly buried at a depth
of three (3) feet or more, measured from the finished grade to the highest
profile elevation of the animal.
   B.   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit or structurally dangerous for human habitation, or
kept in such an unsanitary condition that it is a menace to the health of
people residing in the vicinity thereof, or that presents a more than
ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the vicinity where it is located.
   C.   Any condition that is attractive and dangerous to the public, such as a
vacant, accessible building; buildings with broken or missing windows or doors;
excavations; dilapidated walls or fences; wood piles other than stacked
firewood; debris; or other materials or conditions creating a public hazard.
   D.   The outdoor storage of salvage materials, junk, abandoned or unused
furniture, appliances, sinks, toilets, cabinets, or other household fixtures.
   E.   The outdoor storage of junk vehicles, junk vessels, or junk trailers
subject to the exceptions specified in Section
4-7-6, below.
   F.   The outdoor storage of motor vehicle parts, vessel parts, trailer
parts, discarded or broken equipment or tools, or used or damaged lumber.
   G.   All disagreeable or noxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of odors and stenches.
   H.   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders in such quantities as
to escape the property and unreasonably affect other properties or persons.
   I.   Any building, structure or other place or location where any activity
in violation of local, state or federal law is conducted, performed or
maintained. Examples of unlawful activity include, but are not limited to,
prostitution, manufacture, use or distribution of controlled substances, and
gambling.
   J.   Any visual obstruction of clear-sight triangles as defined herein.
(Ord. 2023-5, 4-4-2023)
4-7-6:   EXCEPTIONS: 
The prohibition on outdoor storage of certain motor vehicles, vessels, trailers
and their parts does not apply to:
   A.   A motor vehicle, vessel, trailer or part thereof which is stored or
parked in a lawful manner in accordance with an approved site plan on private
property in connection with the business of a licensed motor vehicle, vessel,
or trailer dealer or junkyard;
   B.   An inoperable antique vehicle or special interest/historic vehicle
stored by a person on that person's property or by agreement with the property
owner, provided that the vehicle and the outdoor storage areas are maintained
in such a manner that they do not constitute a health hazard and are screened
from ordinary public view and view from adjoining properties by means of a
solid fence, trees, shrubbery, landscaping or combination thereof or other
appropriate means; or
   C.   Any motor vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or
constructed for racing. (Ord. 2023-5, 4-4-2023)
4-7-7:   ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Code Enforcement Officer. The Code Enforcement Officer or any law
enforcement officer shall enforce the provisions of this Chapter. Enforcement
may be facilitated by, but shall not be dependent upon, a complaint by a
resident of the City or other person to the Code Enforcement Officer or a law
enforcement officer.
      1.   For the purpose of this section, hereinafter the Code Enforcement
Officer and any law enforcement officer enforcing this Chapter shall be
referenced either collectively or singularly as "enforcing officer."
   B.   Methods of Enforcement. The enforcing officer shall enforce this
Chapter by any of the following methods, which shall be utilized at the
enforcing officer's discretion according to the severity of the violation and
the potential for abatement:
      1.   Written warnings and an opportunity to cure;
      2.   Filing complaints in Municipal Court; and
      3.   Service of notices to abate public nuisances.
      The use of one of the above methods of enforcement does not preclude the
use of another method.
   C.   Responsible Party. Complaints may be filed and notices to abate may be
served against any person who violates any provision of this Chapter as well as
any person responsible for the property upon which a violation of this Chapter
occurs, including:
      1.   Owners of the real property or their agents; or
      2.   Occupants of the real property exercising actual control thereon.
   D.   Separate Violations. Each day in which a violation of this Chapter
continues shall constitute a separate violation of this Chapter.
   E.   Penalty.
      1.   Upon the municipal court finding a person responsible for a
violation of this Chapter, the court shall impose a fine in an amount not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each violation and order the immediate abatement of any ongoing violation.
   F.   Abatement of Public Nuisances.
      1.   Notice to abate public nuisance issued by an enforcing officer shall
consist of the following:
         a.   A description of the public nuisance on the premises;
         b.   Instructions for abating the public nuisance;
         c.   A warning that if the public nuisance is not cured or abated
within ten (10) calendar days, the City will abate it without further notice;
and
         d.   Instructions for appealing the enforcing officer's finding of a
public nuisance.
      2.   Service of Notice. Notice to abate a public nuisance shall be served
on the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the premises. If service cannot be
made within the City, a copy of the Notice will be posted on the premises and
published once either by posting in six public places or printing in a
newspaper of general circulation.
      3.   Appealing a Notice.
         a.   Within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of an enforcing
officer's Notice, the recipient may file a written appeal of the Notice with
the City Clerk, at which time the City Clerk shall:
            (1)   Notify the enforcing officer to stay all abatement actions;
            (2)   Fix a date for a quasi-judicial hearing before the Planning
and Zoning Commission;
            (3)   Issue notice vis U.S. Certified Mail of the date, time, place
and subject matter of the quasi-judicial hearing to the appellant, the
enforcing officer, and the property owners within 100 feet of the premises
where the alleged public nuisance is located.
         b.   At the quasi-judicial hearing before the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the Commission shall:
            (1)   Consider all relevant evidence to determine whether a public
nuisance exists on the premises; and
            (2)   Issue a final determination as to the existence of a public
nuisance that should be abated.
            The determination of the Planning and Zoning Commission on the
existence of a public nuisance shall be the final determination of the City.
         c.   Any person aggrieved by the determination of the Planning and
Zoning Commission may appeal to the district court.
      4.   Removal of a Public Nuisance by the City. If the owner, occupant or
agent in charge of a premises upon which a public nuisance exists fails to
correct, remedy or remove the nuisance.
         a.   Within ten (10) calendar days of being served a copy of the
notice or of the posting and publishing of the notice; or
         b.   Within five (5) calendar days of the determination by the
Planning and Zoning Commission that a public nuisance exists and should be
abated; or
         c.   After the district court enters judgment sustaining the
determination of the Planning and Zoning Commission, then the City may remove
the public nuisance at the cost and expense of the owner, occupant or agent in
charge of the premises.
      5.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City in removing any building,
structure, ruins, rubbish, wreckage, debris, or other conditions constituting a
public nuisance shall constitute a lien upon against the material so removed
and against the lot or parcel of land from which it was removed.
         a.   Alternatively, the City may pay for the costs of removal of any
public nuisance by granting to the person removing such materials, the legal
title to all salvageable materials in lieu of all other compensation.
      6.   Once the removal has taken place and the reasonable costs of removal
incurred by the City can be calculated, the City Clerk shall prepare a "Notice
of Lien" for filing in the office of the County Clerk which shall contain the
following information:
         a.   The number of the ordinance under which the lien is established;
         b.   The fact that a lien is established;
         c.   The general purpose of the lien;
         d.   The name of the owner of the property against which the lien is
established as determined from the records of the county assessor;
         e.   A description of the property against which the lien is
established;
         f.   The amount of the lien; and
         g.   If the lien is for more than one period of time, the date for
which the lien is established.
      7.   Following the recording of the Notice of Lien, the Governing Body
may declare the full amount due and payable and proceed with foreclosure
proceedings on the subject property in the manner provided in NMSA 1978,
Sections 3-36-1 through 3-36-6.
      8.   If the lien is paid off at any time prior to foreclosure, including
any accrued interest, the City Clerk shall release the lien in the manner
specified in NMSA 1978, Section 3-36-3. (Ord. 2023-5, 4-4-2023)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
CRIMINAL CODE; NUISANCES
ARTICLE A. TITLE; DEFINITIONS; PENALTY
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Title
5-1A-2: Definitions And Rules Of Construction
5-1A-3: Amendments
5-1A-4: Penalty
5-1A-1: TITLE:
This Chapter, including Articles A through F, is called and may be cited as the
CRIMINAL CODE ORDINANCE ON GENERAL OFFENSES for the City. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-
1984)
5-1A-2: DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
In the construction of the Criminal Code Chapter, the following definitions and
rules of construction shall be observed unless it shall be otherwise expressly
provided in any section of this Chapter, or unless inconsistent with the
manifest intent of this Chapter:
ACCUSED: Any person charged with the violation of any ordinance of the City
that imposes a penalty.
ANOTHER, OTHER: Any other human being or legal entity, whether incorporated or
unincorporated, including the United States, the State of New Mexico or any
subdivision thereof.
ANYTHING OF VALUE: Any conceivable thing of the slightest value, tangible or
intangible, movable, corporeal or incorporeal, public or private. The term is
not necessarily synonymous with the traditional legal term "property."
BATTERY: The unlawful, intentional touching or application of force to the
person of another, when done in a rude, insolent or angry manner.
BET: A bargain in which the parties agree that, dependent upon chance, even
though accompanied by some skill, one stands to win or lose anything of value
specified in the agreement. A bet does not include:
   A.   Bona fide business transactions which are valid under the laws of
contracts, including, without limitation:
      1.   Contracts for the purchase or sale, at a future date, of securities
or other commodities; and
      2.   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance,
including, without limitation, contracts for indemnity or guarantee and life,
health and accident insurance.
   B.   Offers of purses, prizes or premiums to the actual contestants in any
bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or endurance
or to the bona fide owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest.
   C.   A "lottery" which is defined as an enterprise wherein, for a
consideration, the participants are given an opportunity to win a prize, the
award of which is determined by chance, even though accompanied by some skill.
As used in this definition, "consideration" means anything of pecuniary value
required to be paid to the promoter in order to participate in such enterprise.
   D.   Betting otherwise permitted by law.
CARRYING A DEADLY WEAPON: Being armed with a deadly weapon by having it on the
person, or in close proximity thereto, so that the weapon is readily accessible
for use.
DEFENDANT: Any person accused of a violation of any ordinance of the City that
imposes a penalty.
DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Engaging in violent, abusive, indecent, profane,
boisterous, unreasonably loud or otherwise disorderly conduct which tends to
disturb the peace, or maliciously disturbing, threatening or, in an insolent
manner, intentionally touching any house occupied by any person.
GOVERNING BODY: The city council or city commission of a city, the board of
trustees of a town or village.
HE OR SHE: "He" or "him" or "she" shall not be construed to be mandatory
distinctions of gender if not expressly stipulated.
LAWFUL CUSTODY The holding of any person pursuant to lawful authority,
including, without limitation, actual or constructive custody of prisoners
temporarily outside a penal institution, reformatory, jail, prison farm or
ranch.
MAYOR: The chief executive officer of municipalities having the mayor-council
form of government.
MINOR: Any unmarried person who has not reached his or her eighteenth birthday,
except that under application of the Alcohol Beverage Control Act 1 , or any
alcohol-related division of this Chapter, "minor" means any person under twenty
one (21) years of age.
MUNICIPALITY OR CITY: Any incorporated city, town or village, whether
incorporated under general act, special act or special charter.
OFFICIAL PROCEEDING: A proceeding heard before any legislative, judicial,
administrative or other governmental agency or official authorized to hear
evidence under oath, including any referee, hearing examiner, commissioner,
notary or other person taking testimony or depositions in any proceeding.
PERSON: Any human being or legal entity, whether incorporated or
unincorporated.
PUBLIC EMPLOYEE: Any public official or public officer vested by law with a
duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for crimes, whether that duty
extends to all crimes or is limited to specific crimes.
PUBLIC GROUND: Any real property owned or leased by a municipality.
PUBLIC OFFICER: Any elected or appointed officer of the State or any of its
political subdivisions, serving with or without remuneration for his services.
POLICE OFFICER, LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER, PEACE OFFICER OR OFFICER: Any person
receiving remuneration for regular services rendered to the State or any of its
political subdivisions.
PROSTITUTION: Knowingly engaging in or offering to engage in sexual intercourse
for hire.
SHALL/MAY: "Shall" is mandatory and "may" is permissive.
STREET: Any thoroughfare that can accommodate pedestrian or vehicular traffic,
is open to the public and is under the control of the City.
(Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 7-24-1 et seq.
5-1A-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendments to this Chapter shall be adopted as ordinances as required by
State law, and when passed in such form as to indicate the intention to make
the same a part thereof, shall be incorporated into this Chapter so that
reference to it as "the Criminal Code Ordinance On General Offenses" shall be
understood as including such amendments. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1A-4: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this Chapter
shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, and each day this Chapter is violated shall constitute a
separate offense; provided, however, that if a specific penalty is provided
therefor, in any particular and individual section of this Chapter, then the
specific penalty shall prevail.
(Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984; amd. 2000 Code)
ARTICLE B. PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY
SECTION:
5-1B-1: Assault And Battery
5-1B-2: Trespass
5-1B-3: Prowling
5-1B-4: Disturbing The Peace
5-1B-5: Disorderly Conduct
5-1B-6: Unlawful Assembly
5-1B-7: Vagrancy
5-1B-8: Obstructing Movement
5-1B-9: Removal Of Barricades
5-1B-10: Deadly Weapons
5-1B-11: Failure To Report
5-1B-12: Treatment Of Wounds
5-1B-13: Propelling Of Missiles
5-1B-14: Possession Of Burglary Tools
5-1B-15: False Alarms Or Reports Offenses Relating To Officers
5-1B-16: Escape Of Prisoners
5-1B-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   Assault: It is unlawful for any person to commit a battery upon the
person of another, nor shall any person, by any unlawful act, threat or
menacing conduct, cause another person to believe he is in danger of receiving
an immediate battery, nor shall any person, by the use of insulting language
toward another, impugn his honor, delicacy or reputation.
   B.   Battery: It is unlawful for any person to beat, strike, wound, inflict
violence or apply force to the person of another, nor shall a person
intentionally touch or apply force to the person of another in a rude,
insolent, angry or hostile manner except in connection with an exhibition duly
authorized and licensed under law, or in lawful self defense, or in the line of
duty as a duly authorized police officer as circumstances warrant.
   C.   Aggravated Battery: It is unlawful for any person to commit aggravated
battery upon the person of another, nor shall any person unlawfully touch or
apply force to the person of another with intent to injure that person or
another, or inflict an injury to the person which is not likely to cause death
or great bodily harm, but does cause painful temporary disfigurement or
temporary loss or impairment of the functions of any member or organ of the
body. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1B-2: TRESPASS:
It is unlawful to enter or remain, with malicious intent, on the property of
another knowing that consent to enter or remain has been denied or withdrawn by
the owner or occupant thereof.
(Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1B-3: PROWLING:
It is unlawful for any person to loiter or prowl in a place, at a time, or in a
manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under circumstances that warrant
alarm for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such alarm is
warranted is the fact that the actor takes flight upon appearance of a peace
officer, refuses to identify himself, or manifestly endeavors to conceal
himself or any object. Unless flight by the actor or other circumstance makes
it impracticable, a peace officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense
under this Section, afford the actor an opportunity to dispel any alarm which
would otherwise be warranted, by requesting him to identify himself and explain
his presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
Section if the peace officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the actor was true and, if
believed by the peace officer at the time, would have dispelled the alarm.
(Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1B-4: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It is unlawful for any person to disturb or aid in disturbing the peace of
others by violent, tumultuous, offensive, or obstreperous conduct, and no
person shall knowingly permit such conduct upon any property owned by him or
under his control or supervision. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1B-5: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
Disorderly conduct is unlawful. A person is guilty of disorderly conduct if he
or she:
   A.   Creates a disturbance of the public order by an act of violence or by
any act likely to produce violence.
   B.   Engages in fighting, or in violent, threatening or tumultuous behavior.
   C.   Makes any unreasonably loud noise.
   D.   Addresses abusive language or threats to any person present which
creates a clear and present danger of violence.
   E.   Causes likelihood of harm or serious inconvenience by failing to obey a
lawful order of dispersal by a police officer, where three (3) or more persons
are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity.
   F.   Damages, befouls or disturbs public property or property of another so
as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive condition.
   G.   Commits a trespass on residential property or on public property.
"Trespass" for the purpose of this Article shall mean:
      1.   Entering upon, or refusing to leave, any residential property of
another, either where such property has been posted with "No Trespassing"
signs, or where immediately prior to such entry, or subsequent thereto, notice
is given by the owner or occupant, orally or in writing, that such entry, or
continued presence, is prohibited.
      2.   Entering upon, or refusing to leave, any public property in
violation of regulations promulgated by the official charged with the security,
care or maintenance of the property and approved by the governing body of the
public agency owning property, where such regulations have been conspicuously
posted or where immediately prior to such entry, or subsequent thereto, such
regulations are made known by the official charged with the security, care or
maintenance of the property, his agent or a police officer.
   H.   Makes a telephone call with intent to annoy another, whether or not
conversation ensues.
   I.   Assembles together with two (2) or more persons with intent to do any
unlawful act with force or violence against the person or property of another,
and who makes any overt act to carry out such unlawful purpose.
   J.   Disturbs, threatens, or in any insolent manner intentionally touches
any house or vehicle occupied by any person.
(Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1B-6: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY:
It is unlawful for three (3) or more persons to assemble with intent to do any
unlawful act by force or violence against the person or property of another and
to make any overt act to carry out such unlawful purpose. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-
1984)
5-1B-7: VAGRANCY:
The following acts comprise the crime of vagrancy, and their commission is
unlawful:
   A.   Waiting or remaining within a public, private or parochial school
building or upon school grounds, not having any reason or relationship
involving custody of or responsibility for a student, without the written
permission of a school official, or in violation of posted rules or
regulations.
   B.   Occupying, lodging or sleeping in any vacant or unoccupied barn, house,
car, shed, shop or other building or structure or in any automobile, truck,
railroad car or other vehicle without owning the same or without the permission
of the owner or person entitled to possession thereof or sleeping in any vacant
lot.
   C.   Begging from door to door, to private houses or commercial business
establishments or placing oneself in or upon any public way or public place to
beg. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1B-8: OBSTRUCTING MOVEMENT:
It is unlawful to hinder, annoy or molest persons passing along any street,
sidewalk, crosswalk or other public way, or to lie, sit or stand around the
entrance of any church, theater, public building, or other place of public
assemblage in any manner so as to unreasonably obstruct such entrance or to
place or erect upon any public way an obstruction of any type except temporary
barriers or warning signs placed for the purpose of safeguarding the public
against any hazard. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1B-9: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
It is unlawful to remove, destroy or interfere with any barrier, guard or light
placed before or in any dangerous place near the streets, sidewalks or other
public ways of the City for the purpose of warning or protecting travelers from
injury or danger; provided, that removal after the danger has ceased and
temporary removal to allow the passage of a vehicle with immediate subsequent
replacement shall not be considered unlawful. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1B-10: DEADLY WEAPONS:
   A.   Carrying Of Deadly Weapons: It is unlawful to carry within the City a
concealed, loaded firearm or other weapon capable of producing death or great
bodily harm including, but not restricted to, any types of daggers, brass
knuckles, switchblade knives, bowie knives, poniards, butcher knives, dirk
knives, chains, can openers, ice picks, and all such weapons with which
dangerous cuts or punctures can be inflicted, including swordcanes and any kind
of sharp pointed canes, also slingshots, bludgeons or any other weapon with
which dangerous wounds can be inflicted, except in a person's residence or on
real property belonging to him as owner, lessee, tenant or licensee or in a
private automobile or other private means of conveyance for lawful protection
of one's person or property while traveling or for other lawful purposes. (Ord.
1984-20, 12-18-1984)
   B.   Discharge Of Firearms: It is unlawful to discharge within the City
limits any pistol, revolver, rifle or shotgun which may be used for the
explosion of cartridges.
   C.   Air And BB Guns; Other Weapons: It is unlawful for anyone to shoot
within the City any air rifle, air gun or BB gun or any gas-operated gun or any
device used for propelling missiles, or any slingshot or missile propelling
device, or any bow made for the purpose of throwing or projecting missiles of
any kind by any means whatsoever, whether any instrument is called by any name
set forth above or by any other name. Parents who permit the violation of this
subsection shall be deemed guilty of a violation of Section 5-1 B-5 of this
Article. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984; amd. 2000 Code)
   D.   Exception For Peace Officers: The provisions set forth above shall not
be construed to forbid police officers from carrying, wearing or discharging
such weapons as shall be necessary in the proper discharge of their duties.
   E.   Exposing Others To Danger: It is unlawful to endanger the safety of
another or his property by using a firearm or other deadly weapon in a
negligent manner or to carry a firearm while under the influence of any
intoxicant or narcotic, intoxicant or to sell, loan or furnish any deadly
weapon to persons under the influence of any intoxicant or narcotic or to any
incompetent person.
   F.   Prohibited Weapons: It is unlawful to manufacture, cause to be
manufactured, possess, display, offer, sell, or lend any knife which has a
blade which opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or
other device or any knife having a blade which opens, falls or is ejected into
position by the force of gravity or by any outward or centrifugal thrust or
movement.
   G.   Sales To Minors: It is unlawful to give, sell, trade, barter or
exchange for anything of value any deadly weapon, air rifle, air gun or BB gun,
or ammunition for any firearm to any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years; provided, that this subsection shall not be construed to prevent any
parent or legal guardian from purchasing firearms or ammunition for his child
or ward.
(Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984; amd. 2000 Code)
5-1B-11: FAILURE TO REPORT TREATMENT OF WOUNDS:
It is unlawful for any physician, surgeon or other practitioner of the healing
arts licensed by the State to fail to immediately report to the Police
Department his treatment of any person in the City for a wound inflicted by a
deadly weapon of any kind. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1B-12: PROPELLING OF MISSILES:
It is unlawful for any person to shoot, sling or throw any stone, rock or other
propellant, missile or substance in any manner as to be reasonably likely to
cause injury to any person or property. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1B-13: POSSESSION OF BURGLARY TOOLS:
It is unlawful to possess any lock pick, skeleton key or key to be used with a
bit or bits, jimmy, sledge hammer, pry bar, cold chisel, dynamite,
nitroglycerine, blasting caps, or any other burglary instrument or instruments
commonly used by burglars unless such possession is for a lawful purpose. (Ord.
1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1B-14: FALSE ALARMS OR REPORTS:
   A.   False Alarms: It is unlawful for any person to make, turn in or give a
false alarm of fire or of need for police or ambulance assistance, or to
interfere with the proper functioning of an alarm system, or to aid or abet the
commission of such an act.
   B.   False Reports: It is unlawful for any person to maliciously make or
file with the Police Department any false, misleading or unfounded report or
statement concerning the commission or alleged commission of any crime. (Ord.
1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1B-15: OFFENSES RELATING TO OFFICERS:
   A.   Interference With Officers: It is unlawful to resist, abuse, molest,
hinder, obstruct or refuse to obey or assist when called upon to do so, any
police officer, firefighter, emergency medical personnel or judge while in the
discharge of his duty.
   B.   Impersonating An Officer: It is unlawful for any person other than a
duly commissioned police officer to wear or carry the uniform, apparel, badge,
identification card or other insignia of office, the same, similar or a
colorable imitation of that adopted and worn or carried by duly commissioned
police officers, unless acting in the course of regular business and with the
permission of the City, or, without authority, to exercise or attempt to
exercise the functions of, or pretend to be, a peace officer or judge.
   C.   Assault Upon Peace Officer: It is unlawful for any person to commit
assault upon a peace officer. Assault upon a peace officer consists of:
      1.   An attempt to commit a battery upon the person of a peace officer
while he is in the lawful discharge of his duties; or
      2.   Any unlawful act, threat or menacing conduct which causes a peace
officer while he is in the lawful discharge of his duties to reasonably believe
that he is in danger of receiving an immediate battery.
   D.   Unauthorized Use Of Certain Words And Insignia: It is unlawful to
display on any vehicle or sign, without authority of the City, the words
"police", Police Department", "Fire Department", or words or insignia of
similar import, whose design or form is such that it appears to be an official
vehicle or sign of the Fire or Police Departments of the City; provided, that
nothing contained herein shall apply to any State or County vehicle. (Ord.
1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1B-16: ESCAPE OF PRISONERS:
   A.   Escape From Jail Or Custody: It is unlawful for any person, while a
prisoner of the City or otherwise in the custody of or confined by the City to
escape or, attempt to escape or to assist other prisoners to escape or attempt
to escape from such custody or confinement.
   B.   Assisting Escape: It is unlawful for any person to assist, attempt to
assist or offer to assist any person in custody of or confined under the
authority of the City to escape from jail, place of confinement or custody.
(Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
ARTICLE C. PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-1C-1: Destroying Or Defacing Property
5-1C-2: Library Property
5-1C-3: Scattering Trash, Rubbish
5-1C-4: Advertising Matter
5-1C-5: Petty Larceny; Fraud
5-1C-6: Receiving Stolen Property
5-1C-7: Shoplifting
5-1C-8: Issuing Worthless Checks
5-1C-9: Falsely Obtaining Services Or Accommodations
5-1C-10: Wrongful Use Of Public Property
5-1C-11: Removal Of Earth
5-1C-1: DESTROYING OR DEFACING PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully, maliciously or wantonly destroy,
injure, remove, tamper with or deface real property or improvements thereto or
personal property, either public or private. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1C-2: LIBRARY PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to carry away without authority, misuse, cut,
write upon, injure, deface, tear or destroy any book, periodical, map,
newspaper or any other property devoted to public library use. (Ord. 1984-20,
12-18-1984)
5-1C-3: SCATTERING TRASH, RUBBISH:
It is unlawful for any person to throw or permit to be deposited or scattered
upon any sidewalk, alley, street or public property or upon the private
property of another, any rubbish, waste, trash or other disposed material of
any kind. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1C-4: ADVERTISING MATTER':
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to distribute any commercial advertising
such as showcards, posters, brochures, circulars or handbills upon any public
street or way.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to distribute, place or post in or upon
any private property, including utility poles, any showcard, poster, handbill
or other announcement or advertisement without the express consent of the owner
or occupant of the property.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to post or affix any poster, handbill or
other form of advertisement upon the surface of any public structure or
building without the express consent of the public official having charge of
said public structure or property. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1C-5: PETTY LARCENY; FRAUD:
It is unlawful for any person to steal, convert, embezzle or acquire by fraud
the property of another including any money, goods, chattels, bank notes,
bonds, promissory notes, bills of exchange, other bills, orders, certificates
or any books of account for or concerning money due or to become due and to be
delivered. If the property stolen, converted, embezzled or acquired by fraud
exceeds the value of one hundred dollars ($100.00), the matter shall be
referred to the District Attorney. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1C-6: RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY:
It is unlawful to buy, procure, receive or conceal anything of value knowing
the same to have been stolen, converted, embezzled or acquired by fraud. (Ord.
1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1C-7: SHOPLIFTING:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully take possession of or conceal
any merchandise valued at not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) offered
for sale with the intention of converting it without paying for it or to
wilfully alter any label, price tag or marking upon any merchandise, or
transfer any merchandise from one container to another with the intention of
depriving the merchant of all or part of the value of the merchandise.
      1.   See also subsection 4-3-1H of this Code.
   B.   Any person who wilfully conceals merchandise on his person or on the
person of another or among his belongings or the belongings of another or on or
outside the premises of the store shall be prima facie presumed to have
concealed the merchandise with the intention of converting it without paying
for it.
   C.   If any merchandise is found to be concealed on any person or among his
belongings, it shall be prima facie evidence of wilful concealment. Any offense
concerning merchandise valued at more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall
be turned over to a higher authority. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1C-8: ISSUING WORTHLESS CHECKS:
It is unlawful to issue in exchange for anything of value with intent to
defraud any check, draft, or order for the payment of money in the amount of
one dollar ($1.00) to twenty five dollars ($25.00) upon any bank or other
depository knowing, at the time of such issue that insufficient funds or credit
exists with the bank or other depository for the payment in full by such check,
draft or order. Any person convicted of issuing worthless checks shall be
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Offense of issuance of fraudulent check in excess of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) shall be turned over to a higher authority. (Ord. 1984-
20, 12-18-1984; amd. 2000 Code)
5-1C-9: FALSELY OBTAINING SERVICES OR ACCOMMODATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to falsely obtain services or accommodations, or
for any person to obtain any service, food, entertainment or accommodations
without paying therefor, and with the intent to cheat or defraud the owner or
person supplying such service, food, entertainment or accommodations. Any
offense concerning falsely obtaining services or accommodations when the value
of the service, food, entertainment or accommodations is in excess of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be turned over to a higher authority. (Ord.
1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1C-10: WRONGFUL USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to commit unlawful use of public property by
knowingly entering any public property without permission of the lawful
custodian or his representative when the public property is not open to the
public, or remaining in or occupying any public property after having been
requested to leave by the lawful custodian, or his representative, who has
determined that the public property is being used or occupied contrary to its
intended or customary use or that the public property may be damaged or
destroyed by the use. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1C-11: REMOVAL OF EARTH:
It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to move, distribute or take away any
earth, stone or other material from any public street, way, alley, park or
public ground. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
ARTICLE D. PUBLIC MORALS
SECTION:
5-1D-1: Lewd, Immoral Or Obscene Acts
5-1D-2: Sale Or Distribution Of Obscene Materials
5-1D-3: Window Peeping
5-1D-4: Gambling
5-1D-5: Aiding Illegal Activity
5-1D-6: Cannabis Possession and Unlawful Distribution
5-1D-1: LEWD, IMMORAL OR OBSCENE ACTS:
The following acts are lewd, immoral or obscene and their commission is
unlawful:
   A.   Alcoholic Beverages:
      1.   Being present in any establishment where alcoholic beverages are
sold and engaging in the practice of or for the purpose of soliciting others to
purchase alcoholic beverage; provided, that this provision does not apply to
one employed as a bartender, waitress or waiter.
      2.   As the owner or operator of any establishment where alcoholic
beverages are sold, to knowingly permit the presence in such establishment of
any person who violates the provisions of subsection Al of this Section.
   B.   Prostitution And House Of Prostitution:
      1.   Prostitution, which means knowingly engaging in or offering to
engage in sexual intercourse for hire.
      2.   Entering or remaining in a house of prostitution with intent to
engage in sexual intercourse with a prostitute.
      3.   Knowingly hiring a prostitute to engage in sexual intercourse.
      4.   Knowingly establishing, owning, maintaining or managing a house of
prostitution or participating in the establishment, ownership, maintenance or
management thereof.
      5.   Knowingly permitting any place to be used as a house of
prostitution.
      6.   Procuring a prostitute for a house of prostitution.
      7.   Inducing another to become a prostitute.
      8.   Living wholly or partly upon the earnings of prostitution.
      9.   Knowingly soliciting a patron for a prostitute or for a house of
prostitution.
      10.   Knowingly procuring a prostitute for a patron.
      11.   Knowingly procuring transportation for, paying for the
transportation of, or transporting a person within the City with the intention
of aiding that person to engage in prostitution.
      12.   Knowingly being employed by a house of prostitution or to perform
any function which constitutes promoting prostitution.
   C.   Indecent Exposure: Knowingly and intentionally exposing the primary
genital area to public view. "Primary genital area" means the mons pubis,
penis, testicles, mons veneris, vulva or vagina. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1D-2: SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF OBSCENE MATERIALS:
   A.   Definitions:
      1.   "Sale" or "distribution", is an offense committed when a person
sells, lends, rents, leases, gives, advertises, publishes, exhibits or
otherwise disseminates to any person any obscene material of any description,
knowing the obscene nature thereof, or who offers to do so, or who possesses
such material with the intent to do so.
      2.   Material is "obscene" if taken as a whole, applying contemporary
community standards, its predominant appeal is to prurient interests, that is,
a shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex or excretion, and utterly without
redeeming social value and if, in addition, it goes substantially beyond
contemporary community standards of candor in describing or representing such
matters.
      3.   A person is a "minor" if unmarried and has not reached the
eighteenth birthday.
   B.   Illegal Acts; Penalty:
      1.   It is unlawful to possess with intent to sell or distribute, or sell
or distribute, obscene material in the City. (Ord. 1984-12, 8-7-1984)
      2.   Any person found guilty of violating this Section shall be subject
to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each separate day of a continuing violation shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1984-12, 8-7-1984; amd. 2000 Code)
   C.   Enforcement: The City Attorney is hereby directed to take such action
as is necessary to enforce the provisions of this Section including criminal
prosecution and civil actions for declaratory judgment or injunction.
   D.   Reference To State Statute: This Section is adopted and enforced
pursuant to the authority granted the City in New Mexico Statutes Annotated
section 3-18-17 and is applied to adults and not to minors. The reason this
Section only applies to adults is because the legislature in New Mexico
Statutes Annotated section 30-37-8 prohibits the City from protecting minors
with this Section. In the event any City employee or official has reason to
believe that a violation of this Section is occurring but that the violation
relates to a minor, the employee or official shall report the violation to the
District Attorney for action by him. (Ord. 1984-12, 8-7-1984)
5-1D-3: WINDOW PEEPING:
It is unlawful for any person to enter upon any private property and look,
peer, or peep into or be found around or within the view of any window or other
means of viewing into any occupied building, other than his own residence, with
the intent of observing a person or persons undressed, dressing or undressing
or engaging in sexual acts. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1D-4: GAMBLING:
   A.   Engaging In Gambling: It is unlawful for any person to make a bet,
enter or remain in a gambling place with intent to make a bet, participate in a
lottery or play a gambling device or to conduct a lottery or possess facilities
with intent to conduct a lottery.
   B.   Commercial Gambling: It is unlawful to participate in the earnings of
or to operate a gambling place; or to receive, record, forward or possess
facilities with the intent to receive or forward bets or offers to bet or
become a custodian of anything of value bet or offered to be bet; or to conduct
a lottery or possess facilities with the intent to conduct a lottery where both
the consideration and the prize are money; or to set up for use for the purpose
of gambling, or operate any gambling device or collect the profits therefrom.
   C.   Permitting Use Of Premises: It is unlawful for any person to knowingly
permit any property owned or occupied by him or under his control to be used as
a gambling place or to knowingly permit a gambling device to be set up for the
purpose of gambling in a place under his control.
   D.   Dealing In Gambling Devices: It is unlawful to manufacture,
commercially transfer or possess with the intent to commercially transfer any
device which he knows evidences, purports to evidence or is designed to
evidence a gambling purpose or any device which he knows is designed
exclusively as a subassembly or essential part of such device including, but
not limited to, gambling machines, numbers, jars, punchboards or roulette
wheels. Proof of possession of any device designed exclusively for gambling
purposes other than in a gambling place and not set up for use is prima facie
evidence of possession with intent to transfer commercially.
   E.   Exceptions:
      1.   Lottery: Nothing in this Section shall be construed to apply to any
sale or drawing of any prize at any fair held in the State for the benefit of
any church, public library or religious society if such benefit shall be
expended in the State for the benefit of such church, public library, religious
society or charitable purposes. A lottery may be operated for the benefit of
the organization or charitable purpose only when the entire proceeds of the
lottery go into the organization for charitable purposes and no part of such
proceeds go to any individual member or employee thereof.
      2.   Prizes For Advertising Purposes: Nothing in this Section shall be
held to prohibit any motion picture theater from offering prizes of cash or
merchandise for advertising purposes in connection with such business whether
or not any consideration other than monetary in excess of the regular price of
admission is exacted for participation in drawings for prizes.
      3.   On-Track Pari-Mutuel Betting: Nothing in this Section shall be
construed to prohibit on-track pari-mutuel betting as authorized by New Mexico
Statutes Annotated section 60-1-11. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1D-5: AIDING ILLEGAL ACTIVITY:
It is unlawful to be found in any place where gambling or prostitution is being
conducted with knowledge of such activity or to give or attempt to give any
signal intended to give warning of the approach of any police officer to any
person in or about any place where any illegal activity is being conducted.
(Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1D-6: CANNABIS POSSESSION AND UNLAWFUL DISTRIBUTION:
   A.   A person younger than twenty-one (21) years of age shall not possess
cannabis products except as authorized under the Lynn and Erin Compassionate
Use Act. A person who violates this subsection is guilty of civil violation and
shall be subject to four (4) hours of community service.
   B.   A person twenty-one (21) years of age or older shall not possess more
than two (2) ounces of cannabis, sixteen (16) grams of cannabis extract and
eight hundred (800) milligrams of edible cannabis in public. A person who
violates this subsection is guilty of civil violation and shall be subject to
four (4) hours of community service.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person without a business permit from the
city and a license under the Cannabis Regulation Act or the Lynn and Erin
Compassionate Use Act, to intentionally sell or barter cannabis products.
      1.   A person under eighteen (18) who violates this section shall be
subject to four (4) hours of community service.
      2.   A person eighteen (18) or older who violates this section shall be
subject to a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500), ninety (90) days in
jail or both. (Ord. 2021-8, 9-7-2021)
ARTICLE E. MINORS
SECTION:
5-1E-1: Abandonment Of Children
5-1E-2: Cruelty To Children
5-1E-3: Enticement Of Child
5-1E-4: Unlawful Assistance To Minors
5-1E-5: Unlawful Presence In Liquor Establishments
5-1E-6: Offenses By Minors
5-1E-7: Failure Of Parental Responsibility
5-1E-8: Abandonment Of Dangerous Objects
5-1E-9: Certain Glues Or Cements Restricted
5-1E-10: Host Responsibility
5-1E-1: ABANDONMENT OF CHILDREN:
It is unlawful for the parent, guardian or custodian of a child to
intentionally leave the child or abandon him under the circumstances whereby
the child may suffer from neglect. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1E-2: CRUELTY TO CHILDREN:
It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having the care or
custody of any child to cause or permit any child to be placed in a situation
where the life or health of such child will be endangered, or to torture,
cruelly confine or cruelly punish such child or to wilfully or negligently
expose such child to the inclemency of the weather. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1E-3: ENTICEMENT OF CHILD:
It is unlawful to persuade any child under the age of sixteen (16) years to
enter a vehicle, building, room or secluded place with intent to commit an act
which would constitute a crime under article 9 of the Criminal Code 1 , or
having possession of a child under the age of sixteen (16) years to commit such
a crime. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 30-9-1 et seq.
5-1E-4: UNLAWFUL ASSISTANCE TO MINORS:
It is unlawful to assist minors to buy, procure, obtain, or be served any
alcoholic beverages or to induce any person to sell, serve or deliver any
alcoholic beverage to a minor by actual or constructive misrepresentation of
any facts calculated to cause, or by the concealment of any facts which are
calculated to cause, the person selling, serving or delivering such alcoholic
beverages to sell to a minor or to any person for ultimate delivery to a minor.
(Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1E-5: UNLAWFUL PRESENCE IN LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENTS:
It is unlawful for the owner or operator of any establishment serving alcoholic
beverages to permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) to attend, work
in, frequent or loiter in or about such premises unless such person is
accompanied by his parent or guardian. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1E-6: OFFENSES BY MINORS:
   A.   Curfew: It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets,
highways, alleys, parks, playgrounds, other public places or buildings, or
vacant lots between the hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and four
o'clock (4:00) A.M.; provided, however, that this Section shall not apply to a
minor accompanied by parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and
custody of such minor or where the minor is upon an emergency errand or
legitimate business directed by persons having the care or custody of him.
   B.   False Statement Or Identification: It is unlawful for any minor to make
false statements or to furnish, present or exhibit any fictitious or false
registration card, identification card or other instrument, or to furnish,
present or exhibit any document issued to another person, for the purpose of
gaining admission to prohibited places or for the purpose of procuring the
sale, gift or delivery of prohibited articles including, but not limited to,
alcoholic beverages.
   C.   Procuring Unlawful Services: It is unlawful for any minor to engage or
authorize the services of any other person to procure for such minor any
article which the minor is prohibited by law to purchase. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-
1984)
5-1E-7: FAILURE OF PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other adult person having the care
and custody of a minor to knowingly permit such minor to violate the provisions
of subsection
5-1B-10C of this Chapter, or Section
5-1E-4,
5-1E-5 or
5-1E-6 of this Article.
(Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1E-8: ABANDONMENT OF DANGEROUS OBJECTS:
   A.   Containers: It is unlawful to abandon, discard or keep in any place
accessible to children any refrigerator, icebox, freezer, airtight container,
cabinet or similar container of a capacity of one and one-half (02) cubic feet
or more which is no longer in use without sealing or removing the doors or
other entrances so as to make it impossible for any child to be imprisoned
therein, or being the owner, lessee or operator of any premises to permit such
articles to remain upon such premises in a condition whereby a child may be
imprisoned therein.
   B.   Plastic Bags: It is unlawful for any person to abandon, expose, leave
in any place accessible to children or permit upon premises under his control
any plastic bag without first tearing the same sufficiently to render it no
longer dangerous to a child. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1E-9: CERTAIN GLUES OR CEMENTS RESTRICTED:
   A.   Definitions:
      AEROSOL: Does not include any aerosol spray product or other chemical
substance used for legitimate medicinal purposes and obtained either on a
prescription basis or for medicinal purposes by a person over the age of
eighteen (18).
      GLUE: Shall mean what is commonly referred to as plastic or model
airplane cement and includes any cement containing hexane, benzene, toluene,
xylene, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, ethylene dichloride, acetone,
cyclohexanone, methyl ethyl ketone, methyl isobutyl ketone, amyl acetate, butyl
acetate, ethyl acetate, tricresyl phosphate, butyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol,
isopropyl alcohol, methylcellosolve acetate, trichloroethane or ether.
   B.   Prohibited Conveyance: It is unlawful to sell, offer for sale, deliver
or give to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years any glue; provided,
however, such is not unlawful when the glue or cement is sold, delivered or
given simultaneously with and as part of a kit used for the construction of
model airplanes, model boats, model automobiles, model trains or other similar
models.
   C.   Prohibited Use: No person shall intentionally smell, sniff or inhale
the fumes or vapors from a glue, aerosol spray product or other chemical
substance for the purpose of causing a condition of or inducing symptoms of
intoxication, elation, euphoria, dizziness, excitement, irrational behavior,
exhilaration, stupefaction or dulling of the senses, or for the purpose of in
any manner changing, distorting or disturbing the audio, visual or mental
processes and no person shall intentionally possess a glue, aerosol spray
product or other chemical substance for any such purpose. (Ord. 1988-06, 5-4-
1988)
   D.   Penalties:
      1.   Penalty Imposed: Any person found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of this Section shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, and each time this Section is violated shall constitute a
separate offense.
      2.   Mandatory Fee: Any person convicted of a violation of the provisions
of this Section shall be assessed, in addition to any other fee or fine, a fee
of twenty five dollars ($25.00) to defray the costs of chemical and other
analyses of controlled substances and the money collected shall be transmitted
to the administrative office of the courts. All fees collected under this
Section shall be subject to an audit by the State Auditor. (Ord. 1988-06, 5-4-
1988; amd. 2000 Code)
5-1E-10: HOST RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Definitions: The terms used in this chapter have the meaning expressly
provided herein.
      ADULT: Any person over the age of twenty-one (21) years.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Includes any liquid or solid material intended to be
ingested by a person which contains ethanol, also known as ethyl alcohol,
drinking alcohol, or alcohol, including, but not limited to, intoxicating
liquor, malt beverage, beer, wine, spirits, liqueur, whiskey, rum, vodka,
cordials, gin, and brandy, and any mixture containing one (1) or more alcoholic
beverages. Alcoholic beverage includes a mixture of one (1) or more alcoholic
beverages whether found or ingested separately or as a mixture.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: A drug or substance the possession and use of which
is regulated under the federal controlled substances act. Such term does not
include any drug or substance for which the individual found to have consumed
such substance has a valid prescription issued by a licensed medical
practitioner authorized to issue such a prescription.
      FAMILY GATHERING: A gathering where each underage person present is
directly supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person who is lawfully vested with the power and
charged with the duty of taking care of an underage person.
      UNDERAGE PERSON: Any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
      PARENT: Any person who is a natural parent, an adoptive parent, a foster
parent, or a step-parent.
      PRIVATE RESIDENCE OR OTHER PRIVATE PROPERTY: A home, yard, apartment,
condominium, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting room, whether
occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling,
party or other social function, and whether owned, leased, rented, or used with
or without compensation, including contiguous properties, and/or any buildings,
structures or other improvements situated thereon or affixed thereto.
      REASONABLE COSTS: The salaries of the responding Police Officers, Fire
personnel or other city emergency personnel, at the salary then in effect for
each classification of each individual officer or fireman, for the amount of
time actually spent in responding to or remaining at the party, or
investigating the gathering or event; appropriate overhead; the actual cost of
any medical treatment to injured officers; the cost of repairing any damaged
City equipment or property, the cost of towed vehicles, the cost of Fire
Department vehicle response, and the cost of court overtime associated directly
with the incident.
      RESPONSIBLE PERSON: A person or persons with a right of possession in the
private residence or other private property on which an underage or unruly
gathering is conducted, including, but not limited to:
      A.   The person(s) who own, rent, lease or otherwise has direct control
of the premises where the underage or unruly gathering occurs;
      B.   A tenant(s) or lessee(s) of the residence or other private property;
      C.   Any other person(s) in charge of the private residence or other
private property; and
      D.   The person(s) who organizes or supervises or conducts the event or
any other person(s) accepting responsibility for such a gathering.
      UNDERAGE GATHERING: A party or gathering of two (2) or more persons at a
private residence or other private property at which alcoholic beverages are
being furnished to, consumed by, or in possession of any underage person.
      UNRULY GATHERING: A party or gathering of two (2) or more persons at a
private residence or other private property where conduct is occurring that
constitutes a substantial disturbance of the quiet enjoyment of private or
public property. Such conduct includes but not limited to:
      A.   Unlawful consumption of alcohol or alcoholic beverages;
      B.   Use of a controlled substance by any person at the gathering;
      C.   Excessive noise as defined by (relevant local ordinance);
      D.   Excessive traffic that is significantly in excess of the normal
amount of pedestrian and vehicle traffic for the zoning district;
      E.   Obstruction of public streets and/or the presence of unruly crowds
that have spiffed into public streets;
      F.   Assaults, batteries, fights, domestic violence, sexual assault, or
other disturbances of the peace;
      G.   Vandalism;
      H.   Litter; or
      I.   Any other conduct which constitutes a threat to the public health,
safety, quiet enjoyment of residential property or the general welfare. An
unruly gathering shall constitute a public nuisance.
   B.   Violations:
      1.   It shall be a petty misdemeanor for any responsible person to
conduct, aid, allow, permit, or condone an underage or unruly gathering, at any
private residence, other private property, public place, or any place open to
the public.
      2.   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the serving of
alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively between an underage person and his
or her parent or legal guardian, as permitted by New Mexico state statute, NMSA
§ 60-7B-1.
   C.   Mandatory Penalties:
      1.   First violation: two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) fine.
      2.   Second offense within twelve (12) months: five hundred dollars
($500.00) fine.
      3.   Third and any subsequent offense within twelve (12) months: five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and up to ninety (90) days in jail.
   D.   Recovery of Response Costs:
      1.   When the Police Department, Fire Department and/or other city
emergency responder responds to a Social Host Ordinance violation with a given
address in the city, the responsible persons in direct control of those
premises remains responsible for, jointly and severally liable for the City's
reasonable costs for that response.
      2.   These costs are wholly separate from any other penalties imposed for
a violation of this Section. The City may pursue to recover these costs under a
separate action as permitted by law. (Ord. 2017-1, 7-18-2017)
ARTICLE F. NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1F-1: Public Nuisance
5-1F-2: Nuisance Declared
5-1F-3: Notice Of Nuisance
5-1F-4: Corn plaint
5-1F-5: Removal Of Nuisance
5-1F-6: Injunctions
5-1F-1: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
It is unlawful to commit public nuisance. Public nuisance consists of knowingly
creating, performing or maintaining anything affecting any number of citizens
without lawful authority which is either: injurious to public health, safety,
morals or welfare, or interferes with the exercise and enjoyment of public
rights including the right to use public property. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1F-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
In the interest of the inhabitants of the City, it is necessary to prohibit the
accumulation of junk, trash and refuse on property within the corporate limits
of the City by declaring such accumulation a nuisance. The following are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance:
   A.   Unoccupied Premises: It shall be unlawful for any reason for any person
to sweep, place or throw, solid waste or other waste materials in or upon any
sidewalk, street, alley or unoccupied premises. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
   B.   Unsanitary Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or
cause to remain in or about his premises any solid waste, weeds, motor vehicles
not in operating condition, waste water or any conglomeration of residue
thereof, which emits odors or serves as a feeding or breeding place for flies,
insects or rodents; and which in the opinion of the code enforcement officer is
unsanitary, or injurious to public health. The accumulation of building
materials, pipes, lumber or boxes may be maintained on said premises if said
accumulation is evenly piled and stacked for a reasonable length of time to be
determined by the code enforcement officer. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984; amd.
2000 Code)
   C.   Hazardous Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person to permit in or
about his premises weeds, briars, brush or any other solid waste to become in
any way hazardous or injurious to public health or to obstruct pedestrian and
vehicular traffic.
   D.   Solid Waste:
      1.   Accumulation:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any solid waste to
accumulate upon premises, owned, leased, rented or occupied by him during
intervals between collection thereof, except in the manner herein provided.
         b.   It shall be unlawful to deposit any solid waste in or upon the
streets, alleys, sidewalks, gutters, curbing, storm sewers, parkways or vacant
lots within the City, except in the manner and in the receptacles or container
as provided in subsection D2 of this Section.
      2.   Solid Waste Receptacles: All solid waste receptacles shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition by the owner or person using the
receptacle and such receptacles shall be located only in such places as shall
be readily accessible for removing and emptying the same, but shall not be
placed in such place or position as may constitute a nuisance or obstruction to
vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   E.   Outdoor Vehicle Storage:
      1.   Definitions: As used in this subsection the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
      DISMANTLED OR PARTIALLY DISMANTLED VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which
some part or parts which are ordinarily a component thereof have been removed
or are missing.
      INOPERATIVE OR INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle which by
reason of dismantling, disrepair or other cause is incapable of being propelled
under its own power.
      MOTOR VEHICLE: Any wheeled vehicle which is self-propelled or intended to
be self-propelled.
      2.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to store on, place on, or
permit to be stored or placed on, or allowed to remain on any occupied or
unoccupied land within the City limits, a dismantled, partially dismantled or
inoperative motor vehicle, or any parts of a motor vehicle, except in areas
where such activity is within the contemplated purposes of duly licensed
businesses and are kept in a wholly enclosed garage or structure.
      3.   Exceptions: Any person, being owner or tenant, may store, permit to
be stored or allow to remain upon his premises, any dismantled, partially
dismantled or inoperative motor vehicle, or parts thereof, for a period not to
exceed one week if such motor vehicle is registered in his name; and provided
further that any such owner or tenant may, in the event of hardship, secure
permission from the City to extend such period of time.
      4.   Additional Provisions: This subsection shall be construed as being
supplementary to any sections of this Chapter relating to rubbish, litter,
refuse, and shall not be construed to permit the parking or placing of
dismantled, partially dismantled or inoperable motor vehicles on any public
street. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1F-3: NOTICE OF NUISANCE:
The Code Enforcement Officer or designee, upon observing any violation of this
Article, shall issue a notice directed to the owner of record of the property
on which the nuisance occurs, or to the occupant or tenant of the property, or
both. The notice shall describe the violation and shall establish a reasonable
time limit for abatement thereof by the owner or occupant or tenants, which
limit shall be not less than two (2) days or more than thirty (30) days after
service of the notice. The notice may be served either personally or by
registered mail at the owner's or occupant's last known address. (Ord. 1984-20,
12-18-1984; amd. 2000 Code)
5-1F-4: COMPLAINT:
In the event the owner or occupant of the property where the nuisance violation
of this Article exists, has failed, within the prescribed time, to abate the
nuisance, then the Code Enforcement Officer or designee shall file a complaint
charging violation of this Article with the Municipal Court demanding that the
owner of the property, or the occupant thereof, or both, be held to answer to
the Court for the violation of this Article. (Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1F-5: REMOVAL OF NUISANCE:
In the event that a person is convicted of violating this Article and still
refuses to remove the junk, trash or refuse, the City may enforce this Section
in any manner consistent with law. Should the person refuse or fail to pay the
assessment, the City shall collect such assessment as provided by law. (Ord.
1984-20, 12-18-1984)
5-1F-6: INJUNCTIONS:
The Chief of Police, when a nuisance exists as set forth in this Article, may
maintain a complaint in the name of the City, perpetually, to enjoin all
persons from maintaining or permitting the nuisance and to abate the same.
(Ord. 1984-20, 12-18-1984)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Short Title
5-2-2: Authority, Purpose, And Goals
5-2-3: Definitions
5-2-4: Joint Agreement With Animal Humane Society
5-2-5: Animal Control Officer
5-2-6: Animal Control Authority
5-2-7: Animals To Be Personal Property
5-2-8: Animals Running At Large
5-2-9: Animal Fighting Prohibited
5-2-10: Disturbing Peace: Prohibited; Nuisance
5-2-11: Impounding Strays; Procedure
5-2-12: Livestock, Other Animals
5-2-13: Licensing And Vaccinations Required
5-2-14: Rabid Animals
5-2-15: Vicious Or Dangerous Animals
5-2-16: Destruction Of Animals
5-2-17: Housing Of Animals
5-2-18: Wild Animals
5-2-19: Service Animals Allowed In Public Places
5-2-20: Restraint Of Animals
5-2-21: Penning Female Animals
5-2-22: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-2-23: Cruelty To Animals Prohibited
5-2-24: Permitted Premises
5-2-25: Violation Penalty
5-2-1: SHORT TITLE:   
This chapter may be cited as the "Animal Control Ordinance of the City of
Sunland Park". (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-2: AUTHORITY, PURPOSE AND GOALS:
   A.   Authority: This chapter is adopted pursuant to the enabling provisions
of Section 3-17-1 and Section 3-18-3, NMSA, 1978, as amended.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations and
general guidelines for the ownership, control, registration, licensing,
housing, vaccination, health, safety and care of animals, the impounding and
disposition of animals running at large, and the prevention of cruelty to
animals.
   C.   Goals: The goals of this chapter are to:
      1.   Protect the citizens of the city and their property;
      2.   Regulate, restrain and prohibit the running at large of any animal
within the boundary of the city;
      3.   Regulate the ownership, control, registration, and licensing of
animals;
      4.   Encourage the vaccination of all animals;
      5.   Protect the health and safety of animals;
      6.   Reduce animal nuisances;
      7.   Provide for the control of dangerous or vicious animals; and
      8.   Prohibit the cruelty to animals. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, phrases, and their    derivations shall have the
following meanings:
   ABANDONED: Where an owner has relinquished all right, title, claim and
possession of an animal with the intent of not reclaiming it or resuming its
ownership, possession or enjoyment.
   ADOPTION: To take possession by choice and assume responsibility for proper
care and keeping of an animal in accordance with this chapter.
   ANIMAL: A dog, cat, poultry, bird, reptile, insect, arachnid, fish or any
other vertebrate, excluding the human species and those animals under the
jurisdiction of the New Mexico Department of Game and Fish.
   ANIMAL CONTROL CENTER OR ANIMAL CONTROL SHELTER: Any establishment or
facility authorized by the City of Sunland Park, New Mexico, for the care and
custody of impounded animals.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The person(s) appointed by the mayor pursuant to
section 5-2-5 of this chapter to assume and carry out the powers, authority,
duties and responsibilities delegated to him or her by the governing body of
the City of Sunland Park, New Mexico, in section 5-2-6 of this chapter.
   APIARY OPERATION: The conduction of any activity where bees are raised or
kept for their honey or pollination.
   ARACHNID: Any of the various eight-legged arthropods, such as, but not
limited to, spiders, scorpions, mites and ticks.
   ARACHNID OPERATION: The conduction of any activity where arachnids are
raised or kept.
   ASTRAY: Any animal which shall be off and away from its home unattended and
running at large within the city.
   BITE: Any puncture or tear of the skin inflicted by the teeth of an animal.
   CITY: The land area within the boundaries of the City of Sunland Park, New
Mexico, as may be extended by future annexations from time to time, including
privately owned land and city, state and federal owned land.
   CONFINEMENT: The restriction of movement of an animal to the premises of its
owner, or to the premises of one charged with the care and control of the
animal.
   COUNCIL: The governing body of the City of Sunland Park, New Mexico.
   COUNTY: The County of Dona Ana, New Mexico.
   GUARD DOG: A dog that is used to defend, patrol, secure, or protect property
or persons.
   HOBBY BREEDER: A small-scale dog or cat breeder who owns no more than three
(3) breeding female dogs or cats (older than six (6) months), that are
registered with a recognized registry organization or association.
   IMPOUNDMENT: The taking into custody of a stray, vicious animal or an animal
alleged to be vicious, by an animal control officer, municipal police officer,
or duly authorized designee, and the detention of the animal in the animal
control center.
   IN SEASON OR IN HEAT: A period of time during which a female animal is
capable of being impregnated or conceiving.
   INSECT: Any of a class of usually winged invertebrate animals, such as, but
not limited to, flies, beetles, moths, bees, wasps, butterflies, grasshoppers,
lice, and flees, having three (3) pair of legs and a three-segmented body.
   INSECT OPERATION: The conduction of any activity where insects are raised or
kept.
   KENNEL: Any person, joint venture, partnership, limited liability company,
corporation or other business entity that is engaged in the maintenance and
shelter of animals not their own for profit, or that is engaged in breeding and
sale of animals for profit.
   LEASH: A chain, strap or cord of sufficient substance to hold under control
the animal attached thereto and shall be no longer than eight (8) feet.
   LIVESTOCK: Horses, cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, rabbits and/or poultry.
   MUNICIPAL POLICE: The police department of the City of Sunland Park, New
Mexico.
   NUISANCE: Means, but is not limited to, defecation, urination, disturbing
the peace, emitting noxious or offensive odors, or otherwise endangering or
offending the well-being of the inhabitants of the City of Sunland Park, New
Mexico.
   OWNER: A person who owns, possesses, harbors, keeps, or has custody or
control, or knowingly causes or knowingly permits an animal to be harbored or
kept or has an animal in his or her care, or who permits an animal to remain on
or about his or her premises.
   PETSHOP: Any person, joint venture, partnership, limited liability company,
corporation or other business entity that is engaged in the buying and selling
or grooming of animals for profit.
   PREMISES: A parcel of land and the structures thereon.
   REPTILE: Any of various cold-blooded, egg-laying vertebrates, such as, but
not limited to, snakes, crocodiles, lizards, frogs, turtles, iguanas, gekos,
salamanders, newts, and toads.
   RUN OR RUNNING AT LARGE: To be free of physical restraints and go beyond the
boundaries of the premises of the owner.
   SERVICE ANIMAL: An animal which has been trained by a recognized service
animal trainer to assist a blind person, a hearing impaired person, or a
mobility impaired person. The term shall also include an animal that is deemed
necessary by a physician licensed to practice medicine in the State of New
Mexico. The term shall also include an animal which has been trained and used
by law enforcement for legitimate law enforcement purposes.
   VETERINARIAN: A person with a doctor of veterinary medicine degree licensed
to practice in the State of New Mexico.
   VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any of the following:
      A.   Any animal which kills or severely injures (so as to result in
muscle tears or disfiguring, laceration, require multiple sutures, corrective
or cosmetic surgery) a person or domesticated animal within the city. It does
not include an animal which bites, injures, attacks or attempts to attack any
person or animal, which is unlawfully or without permission upon its owner's or
keeper's premises or which is provoked to attack or attempt to attack;
      B.   Any animal which, when unprovoked, engages in behavior that requires
a defensive action by a person to prevent bodily injury to a person or
domesticated animal within the city when the person and the domesticated animal
are off the owner's or keeper's property; or
      C.   Any animal which, because of its poisonous bite or sting, would
constitute a significant hazard to persons or domesticated animals within the
city.
      D.   No animal which bites, injures, attacks, or attempts to attack any
person or animal, which is unlawfully or without permission upon its owner's or
keeper's premises, or which is provoked to attack or attempt to attack, or
which is responding to pain or injury, protecting itself or its offspring, or
protecting or defending a human being, shall be deemed a vicious animal.
   WILD ANIMAL: Any of the various warm- or cold-blooded vertebrates, insects,
or arachnids living in a natural state, not domesticated, bred or raised,
including exotic species. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-4: JOINT AGREEMENT WITH ANIMAL HUMANE SOCIETY:
The mayor is authorized, with the consent of the governing body, to execute on
behalf of the city a joint powers agreement for animal control services with
the animal humane society or an equivalent organization so as to accomplish the
purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-5: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
The governing body of the city shall delegate the powers, authority, duties and
responsibilities set out in section 5-2-6 to the animal control officer,
municipal police, or any duly authorized designee appointed by the mayor, with
the consent of the governing body, to protect the citizens of the city and
their property. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-6: ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY:
   A.   Authority Granted To The Animal Control Officer, Municipal Police, Or
Duly Authorized Designee:
      1.   Duty To Protect The Health And Safety Of The Public: The animal
control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee shall be
concerned with the health and safety of the citizens of the city as affected by
animals and to protect the citizens of the city and their property.
      2.   Methods Authorized: The animal control officer, municipal police, or
duly authorized designee shall be authorized to use such methods, means and
equipment as are reasonably necessary to bring strays and other animals under
control and to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Entry On Premises Authorized: For the purposes of discharging his or
her duties imposed by this chapter, the animal control officer, municipal
police, or duly authorized designee shall be authorized to enter upon any
manned premises if he or she has reasonable cause to believe a violation of
this chapter has been committed; or if any provisions of this chapter or any of
the laws of the State of New Mexico relating to the care, treatment, control
and prevention of cruelty to animals has been or are being violated.
      4.   Entry On Private Land With A Search Warrant: If, however, the owner
or occupant of any dwelling or premises objects to inspection, as stated in
this section, a search warrant for the inspection of the dwelling and premises
shall be obtained and presented by the animal control officer, municipal
police, or duly authorized designee. A search warrant will be obtained from the
municipal court prior to inspection, when permission is denied.
   B.   Authority Of The Animal Control Officer, Municipal Police, Or Duly
Authorized Designee To Enter Private Land Without A Search Warrant:
      1.   Entry On Private Land Without A Search Warrant: For the purpose of
discharging his or her duties imposed by this chapter, the animal control
officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee shall be authorized and
it is declared to be their duty to enter upon private land without a search
warrant for the purpose of fresh pursuit or for impounding of any animal found
running at large. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-7: ANIMALS TO BE PERSONAL PROPERTY:
Dogs, cats and other animals shall be declared, deemed and considered personal
property of the owner thereof, and all remedies given for the recovery of
personal property and of damages for injuries thereto shall be extended to the
owners thereof. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-8: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Duty To Keep Animal On Owner's Premises Or Leashed: Any person owning
or having charge or control of any animal shall keep such animal on his or her
premises. No animal shall be running at large or unleashed on any street,
alley, side walk, vacant lot, public property (including public parks), or non-
enclosed space on private property not that of the owner of the animal.
   B.   Animals Running At Large Declared Nuisance And Menace To Public Health
And Safety: Any animal found running at large in violation of this section is
declared to be a nuisance, a menace to the public health and safety, and, if
observed by the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized
designee shall be taken up and impounded. Cats are not required to be leashed
but shall be required to remain confined within the owner's premises.
   C.   Unlawful To Chain Or Stake An Animal On Unenclosed Premises: It is
unlawful for any person to chain or stake any animal on any unenclosed premises
in such a manner that such animal may go beyond the property line. (Ord. 2006-
06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-9: ANIMAL FIGHTING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to promote, stage, hold, conduct, carry on, or
attend any game, exhibition, or fight in which one (1) or more animals is
engaged for the purpose of injuring, killing, maiming or destroying themselves
or any other animal, or to train or breed any animals for such purpose, and/or
to promote any of the activities in this section. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-10: DISTURBING PEACE: PROHIBITED; NUISANCE:
   A.   Animal Nuisance Prohibited: Any animal that habitually or continuously
barks, howls or otherwise disturbs the peace of the inhabitants of the city, or
is kept or maintained in such a manner or in such numbers as to disturb by
noxious or offensive odors or otherwise endanger the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city are declared to be an animal nuisance and shall be
prohibited. Complaints filed pursuant to this Section may be filed in writing
with the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee
and shall include the name of the complainant and the name and address of the
person(s) permitting the nuisance to occur and to continue.
   B.   Total Number Of Dogs And Cats Permitted: A person or household shall
own, harbor, or keep no more than the total number of dogs and cats over the
age of six (6) months permitted in the following schedule based on total
acreage owned:
 
Total Number of Dogs and Cats (in Acreage
any combination thereof)
three (3) dogs or three (3) cats  one-half (½) acre or less
four (4) dogs or four (4) cats    more than one-half (½) acre up to one (1)
                                  acre
five (5) dogs or five (5) cats    more than one (1) acre up to two (2) acres
six (6) dogs or six (6) cats      more than two (2) acres
 
If a person or household desires to own more than the total number of dogs and
cats permitted immediately above, such person or household must first qualify
as a kennel, guard dog operation, or hobby breeder operation as defined in this
chapter and obtain from the city a permit in accordance with section 5-2-24 of
this chapter to operate a kennel, guard dog operation or hobby breeder
operation and be subject to the regulations thereof and the regulations set out
in title 3 and title 10 of this code.
   C.   Private Criminal Complaints: Private criminal complaints may be filed
in municipal court by citizens affected by any animal that may be determined a
nuisance under subsection A. above. All complaints filed pursuant to this
section shall be in writing, stating the name and address of the complainant
and the person(s) permitting the nuisance to occur and to continue. (Ord. 2006-
06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-11: IMPOUNDING STRAYS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Duty To Impound: It is declared to be the duty of the animal control
officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee to take up and impound
or cause to be impounded any astray animals found in the city.
   B.   Astray Animals Displaying License Or Other Identification: If the
astray animal is wearing a license or bears other visual identification, the
animal control officer, municipal police or duly authorized designee will
attempt to notify the owner or his or her agent or representative of the
animals impoundment. If after one (1) business day the owner or his or her
agent or representative has not claimed the animal, the animal may be adopted,
sold or euthanized in a humane manner in that order of priority while in the
physical possession of the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly
authorized designee.
   C.   Astray Animals Not Displaying License Or Other Identification: If the
astray animal is not wearing a license or other visual identification, and
after one (1) business day no one has appeared to claim the animal, the animal
may be adopted, sold or euthanized in a humane manner in that order of priority
while in the physical possession of the animal control officer, municipal
police, or duly authorized designee.
   D.   City Not Liable For Disposition Of Unclaimed Animal After Notification:
If the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee
notified the owner or his or her agent or representative of the impoundment of
the owner's animal and if the owner or his or her agent or representative has
not appeared to claim the animal after one (1) business day, as specified in
this section, then the city or its duly authorized agents and representatives
shall not be held liable to the owner of the animal for the adoption, sale or
euthanization of the impounded animal.
   E.   City Not Liable For Disposition Of Unclaimed Animal Where Notification
Not Possible: If the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly
authorized designee is unable to notify the owner because the animal does not
have a license or other visual identification and the animal is not claimed
within one (1) business day, then the city or its duly authorized agents and
representatives shall not be held liable to the owner of the animal for the
adoption, sale or euthanization of the impounded animal.
   F.   Claiming Of Astray Animal: The astray animal may be claimed from the
pound by its owner or his or her agent or representative by payment to the city
for the impounding fee, transportation fee, quarantine fee, microchip fee, and
payment of the license fee for the current year (if the animal was unlicensed
and a license is required), payment of vaccination charges (if necessary), and
any medical expenses incurred by the impounding authority. The aforementioned
fees shall be those established by city resolution, as may be amended from time
to time. Any astray animal which is not claimed by its owner or his or her
agent or representative within one (1) business day, as specified in this
section, may be adopted by another person through the animal humane society by
payment to the city of the license fee for the current year (if the animal was
unlicensed and a license is required), payment of vaccination charges (if
necessary), and any medical expenses incurred by the impounding authority.
   G.   Records Maintained: The city shall maintain a record of all animals
impounded for a reasonable period of time. The record shall contain at least
the following information:
      1.   Description of the animal;
      2.   Manner, place and date of its acquisition;
      3.   Date and manner of its disposal;
      4.   Name, address, and phone number of person claiming the animal;
      5.   Copy of proof of identification of person claiming the animal (such
as, but not limited to, copy of a valid driver's license, social security card,
passport, utility bill);
      6.   All fees received; and
      7.   Medical expenses for the animal.
   H.   Public's Duty To Report Astray Animals: Any person finding any astray
animal shall notify the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly
authorized designee as soon as possible, and shall surrender the astray animal
to the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee
upon demand. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-12: LIVESTOCK, OTHER ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to permit livestock or other
animals to stray, wander or graze upon or along any traveled portion of any
highway or public way normally used by motor vehicles.
   B.   Owners Or Custodians Responsible: Owners or custodians of livestock or
other animals shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a penalty as
provided in section 5-2-25 of this chapter, upon conviction for violation of
this section.
   C.   Keeping Of Livestock And Other Farm Animals: The owning, possessing,
keeping or harboring of livestock and other farm animals shall also be
regulated by title 10 of this code. Nothing in this section shall be construed
to prohibit the owning, possessing, keeping or harboring of livestock and other
farm animals as prescribed or allowed in title 10 of this code unless the
livestock or other farm animals are declared or determined to be a nuisance or
vicious or dangerous under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-
2006)
5-2-13: LICENSING AND VACCINATIONS REQUIRED:
   A.   Vaccinations: All dogs and cats shall be vaccinated as required by
state law. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to comply with the
regulations prescribed by the New Mexico Department of Health. Dogs and cats
over the age of four (4) months must be vaccinated against rabies and so tagged
by a licensed veterinarian. Upon demand by the animal control officer,
municipal police, or duly authorized designee, the owner or his or her agent or
representative must present evidence or certificate of vaccination for dogs and
cats owned by him or her.
   B.   Licensing: Any person harboring or maintaining any dog or cat over the
age of six (6) months shall obtain a license for each such dog or cat. Persons
who are visiting or temporarily remaining within the city for less than thirty
(30) consecutive days shall be exempt from this licensing requirement. Licenses
may be issued only by the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly
authorized designee. Licenses shall expire one (1) year after the date of
issuance of the license. The animal control officer, municipal police, or duly
authorized designee shall keep a record of all licenses issued. A current
rabies vaccination certificate shall be presented at the time of application
for the license.
      1.   Affixing Tags: A current license tag number shall be affixed to the
licensed dog or cat at all times in a reasonable manner.
      2.   Fees: The annual license fee shall be three dollars ($3.00) for each
neutered or spayed dog or cat, and ten dollars ($10.00) for each unspayed or
unneutered dog or cat. Any person seeking to obtain a license for a neutered or
spayed dog or cat shall furnish written proof from a licensed veterinarian that
such dog or cat has been neutered or spayed. In the event a tag is lost, a
replacement tag shall be obtained for a charge of one dollar ($1.00). Each
kennel or petshop with ten (10) dogs or more in possession shall pay an annual
fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) in lieu of licensing individual dogs, and such
fee will cover all dogs kept by such business during the year.
      3.   Breeder Fees: The owner who intentionally or unintentionally breeds
dogs or cats must have a current hobby breeder's license or shall pay a litter
fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for each litter. The twenty-five dollar
($25.00) fee may be refunded at the time proof of sterilization of the female
dog or cat is submitted and verified by the animal control officer, municipal
police, or duly authorized designee but no later than two (2) months from the
time the female dog or cat delivers a litter. Each hobby breeder shall pay an
annual fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) in lieu of fees for individual litters,
and such fee will cover all litters during the calendar year. An owner shall
not advertise, sell, barter, exchange, or give away any dogs or cats within the
city boundaries unless the litter fee is displayed legibly. An owner shall
furnish the litter fee or hobby breeder permit number to any prospective
recipient requesting the number. Each hobby breeder shall be subject to the
regulations of this chapter and the regulations set out in title 3 and title 10
of this code. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-14: RABID ANIMALS:
   A.   Reporting Animals Showing Symptoms Of Rabies: It is unlawful to keep
any unvaccinated dog, cat, ferret or any animal which has shown any symptom of
rabies. Animals showing symptoms of rabies shall be reported to the animal
control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee who shall then
impound and confine the animal and send a sample for testing to determine
whether the animal is infected with rabies. If the test results show that the
animal is infected with rabies, the animal shall be destroyed. If the animal
has been determined not to be infected with rabies, the animal shall be
returned to its owner or his or her agent or representative. However, if the
animal has been determined not to be infected with rabies but has bitten a
human being, a determination of whether the animal is vicious shall be
conducted in accordance with section 5-2-15 of this chapter. If the animal is
determined not to be vicious, the animal shall be returned to its owner or his
or her agent or representative. If the animal dies during the confinement
period, all necessary laboratory inspections will be conducted by the district
health officer.
   B.   Interference With Officers: It shall be unlawful for any person to
interfere with the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized
designee in the execution of the provisions of this section. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-
18-2006)
5-2-15: VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Definition: A vicious or dangerous animal is one as defined in section
5-2-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Determination Of Viciousness: The municipal court shall conduct a
hearing to determine if the animal is vicious or dangerous as defined in
section 5-2-3 of this chapter. If the court determines, by clear and convincing
evidence, that the animal is vicious or dangerous, the court may impose a fine
or imprisonment or both of the owner of the animal and shall order the animal
destroyed in accordance with section 5-2-16 of this chapter.
   C.   Owning Or Keeping Vicious Animals Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person to own, keep, or harbor a vicious, dangerous, or ferocious animal in
the city.
   D.   Keeping Of Animals Or Trained Animals Liable To Attack And Injure Human
Beings Or Other Animals Prohibited Unless Securely Kept: It shall be unlawful
for any person to keep any animal or any trained animal liable to attack and
injure human beings or other animals, unless such animals are securely kept so
as to prevent injury to any persons or other animals. This section shall not
apply to animals that are used by law enforcement for legitimate law
enforcement purposes.
   E.   Repelling Attack By Animal: Any attack by any animal may be repelled by
the use of reasonable force. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-16: DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Request To Destroy Or Turn Over Vicious Or Dangerous Animal: The animal
control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee may request the
owner or keeper of a vicious or dangerous animal to destroy it humanely or turn
such animal over to the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly
authorized designee for humane destruction.
   B.   Failure Or Refusal To Destroy Or Turn Over Vicious Or Dangerous Animal:
Should the owner or keeper of the vicious or dangerous animal fail or refuse to
humanely destroy or turn the animal over to the animal control officer,
municipal police, or duly authorized designee, the animal control officer,
municipal police, or duly authorized designee shall cause a complaint to be
brought in municipal court against such owner or keeper for failure or refusal
to humanely destroy or turn the vicious or dangerous animal over.
   C.   Animals Wounding, Injuring, Or Killing Livestock Or Other Animals In
The Presence Of The Animal Control Officer, Municipal Police, Or Duly
Authorized Designee: The animal control officer, municipal police, or duly
authorized designee shall have the authority to destroy an animal if it is in
the act of wounding, injuring, or killing livestock or other animals or in the
act of attacking a human being. There shall be no liability on the animal
control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee in damages or
otherwise for such destruction.
   D.   Animals Wounding, Injuring, Or Killing Livestock Or Other Animals Not
In The Presence Of The Animal Control, Municipal Police, Or Duly Authorized
Designee:
      1.   Any person having knowledge that an animal has wounded, injured, or
killed livestock or other animals shall report this to the animal control
officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee. Upon receiving such
report or notice, the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly
authorized designee having reason to believe that the animal did wound, injure,
or kill livestock or other animals shall impound such animal. A complaint shall
then be filed with the municipal court and a hearing shall then be had within a
reasonable period of time to determine whether the animal did wound, injure, or
kill livestock or other animals.
      2.   Should the municipal court find that the animal in question did
wound, injure, or kill livestock or other animals, it shall order the animal
control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee to have the
animal destroyed in a humane manner.
   E.   Destruction Of Dogs Or Cats Running In Packs: The animal control
officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee shall be authorized to
destroy in a humane manner any astray dogs or cats within the city, which are
running in packs and who are potentially dangerous to humans, livestock, or
other animals, as reasonably determined by the animal control officer,
municipal police, or duly authorized designee. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-17: HOUSING OF ANIMALS:
Housing facilities for animals shall be structurally sound and constructed of
nontoxic materials. Interior floors shall be smooth and easily cleanable and
impervious to water. The premises shall be kept clean, sanitary and in good
repair in a manner which will protect the animals from overcrowding, disease,
and injury. Animals shall be provided the adequate space to allow each animal
to turn about freely, to stand, sit, and lie in a comfortable normal position,
and to walk in a normal manner. Outside housing shall protect the animal from
weather conditions (such as sunlight, rain, snow or cold or hot weather) that
may be detrimental to the health of the animals. Animals maintained in pens,
cages, or runs for periods exceeding twenty-four (24) hours must be provided
with adequate space for exercise for the comfort and health of the animal.
Sufficient lighting shall be provided by either natural or artificial means.
Disposal facilities shall be provided and operated so as to minimize vermin
infestation, odors, and disease hazards. Animals shall be provided with
sufficient fresh, clean and wholesome food and water. Food and water containers
must be kept clean. Every animal kept in a kennel must be observed daily and
diseased or injured animals shall be provided with care from a licensed
veterinarian. This section shall apply to all owners or keepers of animals in
the city, including the general public, kennels, guard dog operations, and
hobby breeder operations. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-18: WILD ANIMALS:
No person shall keep, harbor or maintain any poisonous reptiles, dangerous
carnivorous wild animals, or dangerous or poisonous insects or arachnids
whether they are trained or not, without having first registering such
reptiles, insects, arachnids, or other animals with the animal control officer,
municipal police and duly authorized designee. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-19: SERVICE ANIMALS ALLOWED IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning or maintaining any place or public
accommodation, public entertainment or amusement, restaurant, hotel, hospital,
swimming pool, store, theater, or who operates any public transportation
facility to exclude therefrom any service animal as defined in section 5-2-3 of
this chapter; provided, that such service animal be in the company of the
person for whom it was trained to assist. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-20: RESTRAINT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Penning On Premises: All persons owning or having charge, custody, care
or control of any animal shall keep such animal properly and securely penned in
his or her own premises.
   B.   Leashed Dogs: Dogs shall be permitted on the streets or public places
of the city only if they are secured on a leash not over eight (8) feet in
length, under the immediate physical control of the person having custody
thereof. The determination of whether the dog is under the immediate physical
control of a person having custody thereof shall be determined by the animal
control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee, as to what he
believes to be reasonable under the circumstances.
   C.   Animals Not Under Immediate Control: Any animal trespassing upon
private or public premises shall be deemed prima facie not to be under the
immediate control of a competent person and shall be reported for impounding to
the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee.
   D.   Dogs Not Allowed At City Sponsored Events: Dogs shall not be allowed at
city sponsored events. This restriction shall not apply to service animals as
defined in section 5-2-3 of this chapter or to animals which are authorized to
participate in such events. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-21: PENNING FEMALE ANIMALS:
The owner of a female animal shall cause such animal when in season or in heat
to be penned or enclosed during such period of time in a house, building or
secure enclosure so that other animals are not attracted to the animal in a
manner that will preclude occurrence of a public nuisance, but not tied. Such
enclosure shall be constructed so that no other animals may gain access to the
confined animal, except for intentional breeding purposes. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-
2006)
5-2-22: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, resist, or oppose the animal
control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee in the
performance of his or her duties or to secret any animal from him or her that
requires attention. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-23: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Killing Or Beating Animals Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to willfully or maliciously kill, destroy, maim, disfigure, torture,
beat with a stick, chain, club or other object, mutilate, burn, or scald with
any substance, overdrive, or otherwise cruelly set upon any animal except that
reasonable force may be employed to drive off vicious, dangerous, or
trespassing animals. It shall be unlawful to poison dogs, cats other
domesticated animals.
   B.   Overworking Animals Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
drive to work any animal cruelly when such animal is unfit for labor.
   C.   Slaughtering Wild Animals Excepted: The slaughtering of animals for
food or the killing of wild animals, such as authorized by law, shall not be a
violation of this section.
   D.   Duty To Provide Food And Shelter: It shall be unlawful for any person
to fail, refuse or neglect to provide any animal in his or her custody as owner
or otherwise, with proper food, drink, shade, shelter, care, medical treatment
or to carry any animal in or upon any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner, or
to keep any animal under unsanitary or unhealthful conditions.
   E.   Animals Without Proper Care: Whenever the animal control officer,
municipal police, or duly authorized designee finds that any animal is without
proper care, because of injury, illness, confinement or voluntary absence of
the owner or person responsible for the care of such animal, the animal control
officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee may impound such animal
for protective care. In the event of sickness or injury of the animal, upon the
advice of a licensed veterinarian, the animal control officer, municipal
police, or duly authorized designee may take such action as called for to
prevent undue pain and suffering, including immediate destruction of the
animal.
   F.   Abandoning Of Animal Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
abandon any animal in the city.
   G.   Discharging Firearms Or Fireworks At Any Animal Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful for any person to fire any BB gun, firearm or firework in the vicinity
of an animal unless used to repel an attack by an animal on a human being,
livestock or other animal or unless otherwise permitted pursuant to section 5-
2-16C. and E. of this chapter.
   H.   Animals On Unenclosed Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person to
stake out, graze, or herd any animal upon any unenclosed private lot or parcel
of land in a manner that such animal may be or go beyond the boundary of such
lot or land.
   I.   Keeping Of Infected Or Painfully Crippled Animals: It shall be unlawful
for any person to have, keep, or harbor any animal which is known or believed
to be infected with a dangerous or communicable disease or is painfully
crippled, wounded, or injured. All such animals shall be reported to the animal
control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee who will make
proper disposition of the animal. This Section shall not be construed to
include veterinary hospitals in which animals are being treated. (Ord. 2006-06,
4-18-2006)
5-2-24: PERMITTED PREMISES:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   No person shall operate a kennel, guard dog operation, hobby breeder
operation, apiary operation, arachnid operation, or insect operation without a
valid permit issued by the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly
authorized designee.
      2.   No person shall operate a kennel, guard dog operation or hobby
breeder operation without also obtaining a valid business license issued by the
city pursuant to title 3 of this code.
      3.   A minimum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) will be assessed for
any violations.
   B.   Permit Applications: Persons who wish to apply for a permit shall file
using forms provided by the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly
authorized designee. The application shall require information sufficient to
assure the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized
designee that the applicant and facilities are adequate, in compliance with
section 5-2-17 of this chapter, to care for the animals in a manner that
protects the public and the animals and located in an area zoned by the city
for such proposed use or facilities in compliance with the regulations set out
in title 10 of this code.
   C.   Permit Requirement: No permit is transferable from one person or place
to another person or place. A valid permit shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at each permitted premise. A permit holder shall notify the animal
control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee of any changes
in operations which may affect the status of the permit and shall keep the
animal control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee informed
of any changes in name, address, home and business telephone numbers. Both the
person in charge of the permitted premises and the owner of the permitted
premises shall be responsible for complying with this Section. At each
permitted premises a current record shall be kept which describes all animals
owned, purchased or received, after the date of issuance of the permit. An
application for renewal, accompanied by a current certificate of inspection
issued by the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized
designee shall be filed with the animal control officer, municipal police, or
duly authorized designee at least thirty (30) days but no more than sixty (60)
days before the date of expiration. Failure to renew the permit as specified
shall result in the expiration of the permit, or in the assessment of a late
fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for each day in violation after the date of
expiration in addition to the cost of renewing the permit.
   D.   Facilities And Care Applicable To Kennels, Guard Dog Operations, Hobby
Breeder Operations, Arachnid Operations, And Insect Operations: Housing
facilities for animals applicable to kennels, guard dog operations, hobby
breeder operations, arachnid operations, or insect operations shall be
constructed, repaired and maintained in compliance with section 5-2-17 of this
chapter and title 9 of this code.
   E.   Access To Permitted Premises: The animal control officer, municipal
police, or duly authorized designee shall be allowed to enter the premises,
following notification to the permit holder or applicant for the purpose of
inspection prior to issuance of permit, renewal of permit, or for investigation
of a complaint.
   F.   Suspensions And Revocations Of Permits: When the animal control
officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee discovers that a
permitted premises is in violation of this section or title 3, title 9, or
title 10 of this code, he or she shall give written notice of this violation to
the permit holder, operator, owner or person in charge by means of an
inspection report or other written notice. The notification shall state that
failure to comply with the provisions of this section may result in immediate
suspension or revocation of the permit. Permits may be suspended for thirty
(30) days to allow the permit holder to comply with the requirements of this
Section or other applicable laws, ordinances, or regulations. A permit shall be
surrendered to the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized
designee upon suspension or revocation. A person whose permit has been
suspended may apply for an inspection of the premises for the purpose of
reinstating the permit by filing an additional application for a permit on a
form required by the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly
authorized designee. Within five (5) business days after the application is
received by the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized
designee, he or she shall conduct an inspection of the premises proposed to be
permitted or re-permitted. If the applicant and the site are in compliance with
the all the applicable requirements of this section and all other applicable
laws, regulations, and ordinances, the permit shall be reinstated.
   G.   Guard Dog Operation: A person who wishes to conduct a guard dog
operation or business shall first obtain a guard dog permit in accordance with
this section and shall be subject to any and all other requirements therein
applicable. In addition to the facilities and care standard requirements of
permitted premises set forth in this section, the area where the guard dog is
housed, while not on duty, shall be secured in a manner which will prevent
their escape. The off-duty housing area shall be kept locked when not in use.
Premises where guard dogs are on duty or in use shall be posted with warning
signs at least twelve (12) inches long on each side. The warning sign shall
state "Guard Dog" or "Guardian" and shall show a picture of an aggressive dog.
The warning signs shall be posted not more than two hundred (200) feet apart on
the exterior of the fences or walls surrounding the site where such guard dogs
are on duty or in use, and shall be posted at the exteriors corners of said
site and every entrance of said site.
   H.   Apiary Operations, Arachnid Operations, And/Or Insect Operations: A
person who wishes to conduct an apiary operation, arachnid operation, and/or
insect operation or business shall first obtain a permit from the animal
control officer, municipal police, or duly authorized designee. To qualify for
such a permit, the person must demonstrate in the form of certification,
training, or education to the animal control officer, municipal police, or duly
authorized designee that such person or his or her agents or representatives
have the requisite or necessary knowledge, skill, or experience for the
identification and handling or controlling of such animals.
   I.   Exceptions To Permitted Premises: The following are not required to
obtain a permit under this section but shall remain subject to the regulations
set out in title 3, title 9, and title 10 of this code:
      1.   A veterinarian hospital or clinic operated by a licensed
veterinarian.
      2.   A bona fide research institution, using animals for research.
      3.   A publicly owned animal control center or shelter.
(Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
5-2-25: VIOLATION PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for
not more than ninety (90) days or both. Each day of a violation shall be
considered a separate offense.
   B.   Citations may be issued to the custodian or owner of the animal in
violation. The impounding fee shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for the
first impoundment within a twelve (12) month period, fifty dollars ($50.00)
upon a second impoundment within the same twelve (12) month period, seventy-
five dollars ($75.00) upon the third impoundment within the same twelve (12)
month period, and three hundred dollars ($300.00) upon every impoundment after
the third impoundment within the same twelve (12) month period. The fee for an
animal with no license tag shall be ten dollars ($10.00).
   C.   It shall be the duty of any person who is the owner or the keeper of
any vicious or dangerous animal, the keeping of which is unlawful, to cause
such animal to be destroyed in accordance with section 5-2-16 of this chapter.
Failure to comply with this section shall subject such owner or keeper to a
minimum fine of ten dollars ($10.00) plus costs. Each day's failure to comply
shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 2006-06, 4-18-2006)
CHAPTER 3
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-3-1: Policy
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Unlawful Practice
5-3-4: Discrimination in the Sale or Rental of Housing
5-3-5: Discrimination in Residential Real Estate-Related Transactions
5-3-6: Discrimination in the Provision of Brokerage Services
5-3-7: Exemption
5-3-8: Administration
5-3-9: Education and Conciliation
5-3-10: Enforcement
5-3-11: Investigations/Subpoenas/Giving of Evidence
5-3-12: Enforcement by Private Persons
5-3-13: Interference, Coercion or Intimidation
5-3-14: Separability of Provisions
5-3-15: Prevention of Intimidation in Fair Housing Cases
5-3-1: POLICY:
It is the policy of the City of Sunland Park to provide, within constitutional
limitations, for fair housing throughout Sunland Park, New Mexico. (Ord. 2010-
08, 7-7-2010)
5-3-2:   DEFINITIONS:
   AGGRIEVED PERSON: Includes any person who:
      A.   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice; or
      B.   Believes that they will be injured by a discriminatory housing
practice that is about to occur.
   CHIEF ELECTED OFFICIAL: The person who holds the highest elected position pf
the local unit of government and who is signatory to the Small Cities Community
Development Block Grant agreement with the Local Government Division.
   COMPLAINANT: The person (including the chief elected official) who files a
complaint under Section
5-3-10.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: An act that is unlawful under Sections
5-3-4,
5-3-5, or 5-3-6 of this Chapter.
   DWELLING: Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILIAL STATUS: One (1) or more individuals (who have not attained the age
of eighteen (18) years) being domiciled with:
      A.   A parent or another person having legal custody of such individual
or individuals; or
      B.   The designee of such parent or other person having such custody,
with the written permission of such parent or other person.
      The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial
status shall apply to any person who is pregnant, or is in the process of
securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of
eighteen (18) years.
   FAMILY: Includes a single individual.
   HANDICAP: With respect to a person:
      A.   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one (1)
or more of such person's major life activities;
      B.   A record of having such an impairment; or
      C.   Being regarded as having such an impairment, but such term does not
include current, illegal use of or addiction to, a controlled substance (as
defined in Section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act [21 U.S.C. 802]).
   PERSON: Includes one (1) or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   RESPONDENT:
      A.   The person or other entity accused in a complaint of an unfair
housing practice; and
      B.   Any other person or entity identified in the course of investigation
and notified as required with respect to respondents so identified under
Section
5-3-10.
   TO RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant. (Ord. 2010-
08, 7-7-2010)
5-3-3: UNLAWFUL PRACTICE:
Subject to the provisions of subsection B.1. of this Section and Section
5-3-7 of this Chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in Section
5-3-3 shall apply to:
   A.   All dwellings except as exempted by subsection B.1. below.
   B.   Nothing in Section
5-3-4 of this Chapter shall apply to:
      1.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; Provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three (3) such single-
family houses at any one (1) time; Provided further, that in the case of the
sale of any such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing
in such house at the time of such sale, or who was not the most recent resident
of such house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this subsection
shall apply only with respect to one (1) such sale within any twenty-four (24)
month period; Provided further, that such bona fide private individual owner
does not own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf,
under any express or voluntary agreement, title to, or any right to all or a
portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of, more than three (3) such
single-family houses at any one time; Provided further, that the sale or rental
of any such single-family house shall be excepted from the application of this
Chapter only if such house is sold or rented without the use in any manner of
the sales or rental facilities or the sales or rental services of any real
estate broker, agent or salesperson or of such facilities or services of any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent, salesperson or person, and without the
publication, posting or mailing, after notice of any advertisement or written
notice in violation of Section
5-3-4C. of this Chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      2.   Rooms or units in dwellings contained living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one (1) of such
living quarters as their residence.
   C.   For the purposes of subsection B. above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      1.   They have, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      2.   They have, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of their own personal residence in providing
sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      3.   They are the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five (5) or more families. (Ord. 2010-08, 7-7-
2010)
5-3-4: DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING:
As made applicable by Section
5-3-3 of this Chapter and except as exempted by Sections
5-3-3B.1. and 5-3-7 of this Chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   A.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   B.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   C.   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   D.   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   E.   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin. (Ord. 2010-08, 7-7-2010)
5-3-5:   DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS:
   A.   In General: It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose
business includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   B.   Definition: As used in this Section, the term "residential real estate-
related transaction" means any of the following:
      1.   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      2.   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   C.   Appraisal Exemption: Nothing in this Chapter prohibits a person engaged
in the business of furnishing appraisals of real property to take into
consideration factors other than race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial
status or national origin. (Ord. 2010-08, 7-7-2010)
5-3-6: DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES:
It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against them in
the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation because of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin. (Ord.
2010-08, 7-7-2010)
5-3-7: EXEMPTION:
Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association or
society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised or
controlled by, or in conjunction with, a religious organization, association or
society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, color, national origin or handicap.
Nor shall anything in this Chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to
the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members. (Ord. 2010-08, 7-7-2010)
5-3-8: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The authority and responsibility for administering this Chapter shall
be in the chief elected official of the City of Sunland Park.
   B.   The chief elected official may delegate any of these functions, duties
and powers to employees of the City of Sunland Park or to boards of such
employees, including functions, duties and powers with respect to
investigating, conciliating, hearing, determining ordering, certifying,
reporting or otherwise acting as to any work, business or matter under this
Chapter. The chief elected official shall by rule prescribe such rights of
appeal from the decisions of their hearing examiners, to other hearing
examiners or to other offices in the City of Sunland Park, to boards of
officers or to themselves, as shall be appropriate and in accordance with law.
   C.   All City of Sunland Park departments and agencies shall administer
their programs and activities relating to housing and community development in
a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this Chapter and shall
cooperate with the chief elected official to further such purposes. (Ord. 2010-
08, 7-7-2010)
5-3-9: EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION:
Immediately after the enactment of this Chapter, the chief elected official
shall commence such
educational conciliatory activities as will further the purposes of this
Chapter. They shall call conferences of persons in the housing industry and
other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of this Chapter
and the suggested means of implementing it and shall endeavor with their advice
to work out programs of voluntary compliance and enforcement. (Ord. 2010-08, 7-
7-2010)
5-3-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that they will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter "aggrieved
person") may file a complaint with the chief elected official. Complaints shall
be in writing and shall contain such information, and be in such form as the
chief elected official requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the chief
elected official shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or persons, who
have committed, or are about to commit, the alleged discriminatory housing
practice. Within thirty (30) days after receiving a complaint or within thirty
(30) days after the expiration of any period reference under subsection C.
below, the chief elected official shall investigate the complaint and give
notice in writing to the aggrieved person whether they intend to resolve it. If
the chief elected official decides to resolve the complaints, they shall
proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing
practice by informal methods of conference, conciliation and persuasion.
Nothing said or done in the course of such informal endeavors may be made
public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this Chapter
without the written consent of the persons concerned. Any employee of the chief
elected official who shall make public any information in violation of this
provision shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned not
more than one (1) year.
   B.   A complaint under subsection A. above shall be filed within one hundred
and eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice
occurred. Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which
the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may
be reasonably and fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer
to the complaint against him and with the leave of the chief elected official,
which shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may
amend his answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   C.   If within thirty (30) days after a complaint is filed with the chief
elected official, the chief elected official has been unable to obtain
voluntary compliance with this ordinance, the aggrieved person may, within
thirty (30) days thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of the
Department of Housing and Urban Development. The chief elected official will
assist in this filing.
   D.   If the chief elected official has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within thirty (30) days of the complaint, the aggrieved person may,
within thirty (30) days thereafter commence a civil action in any appropriate
court, against the respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights
granted or protected by this Chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the
subject of the complaint. If the court finds that a discriminatory housing
practice has occurred or is about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent
from engaging in such practice or order such affirmative action as may be
appropriate.
   E.   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this Section, the burden of proof
shall be on the complainant.
   F.   Whenever an action filed by an individual comes to trial, the chief
elected official shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary
compliance. (Ord. 2010-08, 7-7-2010)
5-3-11: INVESTIGATIONS/SUBPOENAS/GIVING OF EVIDENCE:
   A.   In conducting an investigation, the chief elected official shall have
access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and
other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and copy
such materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such persons
as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance or the investigation: Provided,
however, that the chief elected official first complies with the provisions of
the Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The chief
elected official may issue subpoenas to compel their access to, or the
production of, such materials, or the appearance of such persons and may issue
interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject to the same
limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or
served in aid of a civil action in the United States District Court for the
district in which the investigation is taking place. The chief elected official
may administer oaths.
   B.   Upon written application to the chief elected official, a respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in
the name of the chief elected official to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued by the chief elected official. Subpoenas
issued at the request of a respondent shall show on their face the name and
address of such respondent and shall state that they were issued at their
request.
   C.   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the chief elected official shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States District Courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by the respondent.
   D.   Within five (5) days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the chief elected official to revoke or modify the
subpoena. The chief elected official shall grant the petition if they find that
the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or
place, that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to any
matter under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient
particularity the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly
onerous, or for other good reason.
   E.   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena the chief elected
official, or other person at whose request it was issued, may petition for its
enforcement in the municipal or state court for the district in which the
person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served or transacts
business.
   F.   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify, or to
answer any lawful inquiry, or to produce records, documents or other evidence,
if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order of the
chief elected official shall be fined not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or imprisoned not more than one (1) year or both. Any person who,
with intent thereby to mislead the chief elected official, shall make or cause
to be made any false entry or statement of fact in any report, account, record
or other document submitted to the chief elected official pursuant to his
subpoena or other order, or shall willfully neglect or fail to make or cause to
be made full, true and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records or
other documents, or shall willfully mutilate, alter or by any other means
falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned not more than one (1) year, or both.
   G.   The City of Sunland Park attorney shall conduct all litigation in which
the chief elected official participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to
this Chapter. (Ord. 2010-08, 7-7-2010)
5-3-12: ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS:
   A.   The rights granted by Sections
5-3-3,
5-3-4, 5-3-5 and 5-3-6 of this Chapter may be enforced by civil actions in the
appropriate United States district, state or local court. A civil action shall
be commenced within one hundred and eighty (180) days after the alleged
discriminatory housing practice occurred; Provided, however, that the court
shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this Section or Section
5-3-10D. of this Chapter from time to time before bringing it to trial if the
court believes that the conciliation efforts of the chief elected official are
likely to result in satisfactory settlement of the alleged discriminatory
housing practice complained of in the complaint made to the chief elected
official and which practice forms the basis for the action in court; And
provided, however, that any sale, encumbrance or rental consummated prior to
the issuance of any court order issued under the authority of this Chapter and
involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrances or tenant without actual notice
of the filing of a complaint or civil action under the provisions of this
Chapter shall not be affected.
   B.   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) punitive damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney
fees in the case of a prevailing plaintiff: Provided, that the said plaintiff
in the opinion of the court is not financially able to assume said attorney's
fees. (Ord. 2010-08, 7-7-2010)
5-3-13: INTERFERENCE. COERCION OR INTIMIDATION:
It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by Sections
5-3-3,
5-3-4, 5-3-5, or 5-3-6 of this Chapter. This Section may be enforced by
appropriate civil action. (Ord. 2010-08, 7-7-2010)
5-3-14: SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
If any provision of this Chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid,
the remainder of the Chapter and the application of the provision to other
persons not similarly situated or to other circumstances shall not be affected
thereby. (Ord. 2010-08, 7-7-2010)
5-3-15: PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES:
Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of force
willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   A.   Any person because of their race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because they are or have been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or negotiating for the
sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any dwelling, or applying
for or participating in any service organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   B.   Any person because they are or have been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      1.   Participating, without discrimination because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or in any of the
activities, services organizations, or facilities described in subsection 5-3-
15A. of this Chapter; or
      2.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   C.   Any citizen because they are or have been, or in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection 5-3-
15A. of this Chapter, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to so participate-shall be fined not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisoned not more than one (1)
year or both; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than one
thousand dollars ($10,000.00), or imprisoned not more than ten (10) years or
both; and if death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of
years or for life and/or to other applicable local/state/federal laws. (Ord.
2010-08, 7-7-2010)
CHAPTER 4
GRAFFITI CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Title
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Prohibition of Graffiti
5-4-4: Enforcement Against Perpetrators
5-4-5: Duty to Remove Graffiti, Enforcement, Abatement, Lien, and Defenses
5-4-6: Sale and Display of Aerosol Spray Paint in Cans
5-4-7: Responsibility of Parent or Legal Guardian for Graffiti Vandalism Caused
by a Minor
5-4-8: Municipal Graffiti Removal Program
5-4-9: Graffiti Removal Fund
5-4-1: TITLE: 
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the City of Sunland Park
Graffiti Control Ordinance. Hereinafter, this law is sometimes referred to as
the "Chapter." (Ord. 2023-4, 4-4-2023)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS: 
The following words, terms, phrases, and their derivations shall have the
following meanings:
 
ABATE:    To permanently remove or cover graffiti.
          When used as a verb means intentionally and maliciously defacing any
          real or personal property with paint, spray paint, ink, marker,
GRAFFITI: crayon, charcoal or any other material without the consent or
          reasonable ground to believe that there is consent of the property
          owner.
GRAFFITI: When used as a noun means the visible result of the act of
          graffitiing.
PERSON:   A human being or business entity.
          Any real or personal property within the City. When a portion of
          privately owned real property abuts on a public right-of-way or
          easement, the responsibility of the person in control for purposes of
PROPERTY: this Chapter shall extend to the center of the public alley or
          easement or back of street curb line, or edge of payment, or at the
          edge of dirt roads; however, this shall not restrict in any manner
          the maintenance of the right of way or easement by the City.
 
(Ord. 2023-4, 4- 4-2023)
5-4-3: PROHIBITION OF GRAFFITI: 
Graffiti is a public nuisance and form of property damage which is harmful to
the welfare the City of Sunland Park and its residents. As such, it is unlawful
to graffiti public or private property within the City.
(Ord. 2023-4, 4-4-2023)
5-4-4: ENFORCEMENT AGAINST PERPETRATORS:
   A.   Accessory to Graffiti. A person may be charged with and convicted of
the crime of graffiti as an accessory if he or she procures, counsels, aids or
abets in its commission even if he or she did not directly commit the crime and
although the principal who directly committed such crime has not been
prosecuted or convicted, or has been convicted of a different crime or degree
of crime, or has been acquitted, or is a child under the children's code.
   B.   Community Service. Whoever commits the crime of graffiti may be
required as a condition of probation or a deferred or suspended sentence.
      1.   To perform mandatory community service within a continuous period
following conviction; and/or
      2.   To clean up, repair, or replace the defaced real or personal
property; and/or
      3.   To make restitution to the property owner or person responsible for
the defaced property for the cost of damages and restitution.
      4.   If a minor, to attend family counseling.
   C.   Penalty. Those convicted of graffitiing property may be punished by a
fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for a term
not to exceed ninety (90) days, or by both.
   D.   Enforcing Officer. This section of the Chapter will be enforced by the
City's law enforcement officers. (Ord. 2023-4, 4-4-2023)
5-4-5: DUTY TO REMOVE GRAFFITI, ENFORCEMENT, ABATEMENT, LIEN, AND DEFENSES:
   A.   Duty to Remove Graffiti. When graffiti is not removed by the
perpetrator, it is the duty of the person responsible for the defaced property
to remove the graffiti.
   B.   Prohibition Against Non-removal. It is unlawful for any person who
owns, possesses, or has primary responsibility for property that has been
defaced with graffiti, which is visible from a public right-of-way or City-
owned property, to allow the property to remain defaced for a period of thirty
(30) calendar days after written notification by the City of the presence of
graffiti.
   C.   Enforcing Officer. This Section of the Chapter may be enforced by the
Neighborhood Services Officer or any City law enforcement officer.
   D.   Methods of Enforcement. The enforcing officer may enforce this Section
by any of the following methods, which shall be utilized at the enforcing
officer's discretion according to the severity of the violation and the
potential for abatement:
      1.   Written warnings and an opportunity to cure;
      2.   Filing complaints in Municipal Court; and
      3.   Service of notices to abate graffiti.
   E.   Penalty. Upon the Municipal Court finding a person responsible for a
violation of this Section, the court shall impose a fine in an amount of up to
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five-hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation and order the immediate removal of any unremoved
graffiti.
   F.   Abatement of Graffiti.
      1.   Notice to abate graffiti issued by an enforcing officer shall
consist of the following:
         a.   A description of the graffiti;
         b.   Instructions for abating the graffiti;
         c.   A warning that if the graffiti is not abated within thirty (30)
days, the City will abate it without further notice;
         d.   Instructions for appealing the enforcing officer's finding of
graffiti; and
         e.   Information concerning the Municipal Graffiti Removal Program.
      2.   Service of Notice. Notice to abate a graffiti shall be served on the
person responsible for the defaced property. If service cannot be made within
the City, a copy of the Notice will be posted on the defaced property and
published once either by posting in six public places or printing in a
newspaper of general circulation.
      3.   Appealing a Notice.
         a.   Within ten (10) days of receipt of an enforcing officer's notice,
the recipient may file a written appeal of the notice with the City Clerk, at
which time the City Clerk shall:
            (1)   Notify the enforcing officer to stay all abatement actions;
            (2)   Fix a date for a quasi-judicial hearing before the Planning
and Zoning Commission;
            (3)   Issue notice vis U.S. Certified Mail of the date, time, place
and subject matter of the quasi-judicial hearing to the appellant, the
enforcing officer, and the property owners within one hundred (100) feet of the
premises where the alleged graffiti is located.
         b.   At the quasi-judicial hearing before the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the Commission shall:
            (1)   Consider all relevant evidence to determine (1) whether
graffiti exists on the property; and (2) whether the graffiti is visible from a
public right-of-way; and
            (2)   Issue a final determination as to the existence of the
graffiti that must be abated under this Chapter. The determination of the
Planning and Zoning Commission on the existence of graffiti that must be abated
shall be the final determination of the City.
         c.   Any person aggrieved by the determination of the Planning and
Zoning Commission may appeal to the district court.
      4.   Removal of Graffiti by the City. If the owner, possessor, or person
primarily responsible for the graffitied property fails to correct, remedy or
remove the graffiti;
         a.   Within thirty (30) days of being served a copy of the notice or
of the posting and publishing of the notice; or
         b.   Within five (5) days of the determination by the Planning and
Zoning Commission that graffiti exists and should be abated; or
         c.   After the district court enters judgment sustaining the
determination of the Planning and Zoning Commission, then the City may remove,
cover up, or otherwise abate the graffiti at the cost and expense of the owner,
possessor, or person primarily responsible for the graffitied property.
      5.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City in removing, covering or
otherwise abating graffiti shall constitute a lien upon against any real
property from which it was removed.
      6.   Once the removal has taken place and the reasonable costs of removal
incurred by the City can be calculated, the City Clerk shall prepare a "Notice
of Lien" for filing in the office of the County Clerk which shall contain the
following information:
         a.   The number of the ordinance under which the lien is established;
         b.   The fact that a lien is established;
         c.   The general purpose of the lien;
         d.   The name of the owner of the property against which the lien is
established as determined from the records of the county assessor;
         e.   A description of the property against which the lien is
established;
         f.   The amount of the lien; and
         g.   If the lien is for more than one period of time, the date for
which the lien is established.
      7.   Following the recording of the Notice of Lien, the Governing Body
may declare the full amount due and payable and proceed with foreclosure
proceedings on the subject property in the manner provided in NMSA 1978,
Sections 3-36-1 through 3-36-6.
      8.   If the lien is paid off at any time prior to foreclosure, including
any accrued interest, the City Clerk shall release the lien in the manner
specified in NMSA 1978, Section 3-36-3.
   G.   Defenses. It shall be a defense in a Municipal Court prosecution, or an
appeal of a Notice to Abate under this section that:
      1.   The party was not notified by the City in writing of the presence of
the graffiti;
      2.   The party authorized the identified markings and thus there is no
graffiti;
      3.   The party has removed graffiti from that particular property three
or more times within the preceding twelve (12) months;
      4.   Prior to being cited under this section, the party executed and
returned a written consent form provided by the City to allow the City to abate
the graffiti under the Municipal Graffiti Removal Program and the graffiti was
eligible for removal under that program. (Ord. 2023-4, 4-4-2023)
5-4-6: SALE AND DISPLAY OF AEROSOL SPRAY PAINT IN CANS:
   A.   Age Restrictions. No person shall sell aerosol spray paint in cans to
any person under eighteen (18) years of age. Proof of age may be shown by any
document which contains a picture of the person issued by a governmental agency
including but not limited to a motor vehicle operator's license or an
identification card issued to a member of the armed forces. Such document shall
be prima facie proof of age.
   B.   Posting of Notice. Any person who owns, manages, or operates a place of
business wherein aerosol spray paint in cans is sold shall conspicuously post a
copy of this section in such place of business in letters at least three-
eighths-inch high.
   C.   Securing Spray Paint. Any person who owns, manages, or operates a place
of business wherein aerosol spray paint in cans is sold, shall secure said
spray paint in a locked or other display area inaccessible to the public, such
as behind a counter.
   D.   Penalty. Any person who violates this section is guilty of a petty
misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine in an amount of up to two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) for each violation. (Ord. 2023-4, 4-4-2023)
5-4-7: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR LEGAL GUARDIAN FOR GRAFFITI VANDALISM CAUSED
BY A MINOR:
   A.   Parental Responsibility. A parent or legal guardian of a minor commits
an offense if he or she knowingly permits the minor to commit the offense of
graffiti as defined in this Chapter.
   B.   Penalty. A violation of this section may be punished by a fine not to
exceed five hundred ($500.00) or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed
ninety (90) days, or by both.
   C.   Community Service. Whoever commits this offense may also be required as
a condition of probation or a deferred or suspended sentence.
      1.   To perform mandatory community service with a continuous period
following conviction;
      2.   To clean up, repair, or replace the defaced real or personal
property; and/or
      3.   To make restitution to the property owner for the cost of damages
and restoration.
      4.   To attend family counseling. (Ord. 2023-4, 4-4-2023)
5-4-8: MUNICIPAL GRAFFITI REMOVAL PROGRAM:
   A.   Establishment and Authorization. The City hereby establishes a
Municipal Graffiti Removal Program and authorizes the City Manager to adopt
such regulations and to utilize City personnel and resources, available grants,
and volunteer service as may be necessary to accomplish its purpose.
   B.   Purpose. The purpose of the Municipal Graffiti Removal Program is to
ensure the prompt removal of graffiti from both public and private property
visible from public rights-of-way within the City's boundaries.
   C.   Program Features and Eligibility.
      1.   City Removal of Graffiti on Privately-Owned Real Property.
         a.   The owner or person responsible for graffitied property may
request, on a City-provided form, that the City remove, cover or otherwise
abate graffiti on the requester's real property.
         b.   The only graffiti that the City will remove, cover, or otherwise
abate is graffiti that is clearly visible from a public right-of-way. The
determination of whether graffiti is clearly visible is at the sole discretion
of City staff.
         c.   Before City staff may enter the real property of the requestor or
perform work thereon, the requestor must execute a consent form prepared by the
City (1) consenting to City staff entering the property; and (2) releasing both
the City and its staff from all claims relating to the work to be performed.
         d.   As soon as practicable after receipt of an executed written
consent form from the owner or responsible party, the City staff shall remove,
paint over or otherwise abate the graffiti damage at no cost to the requester.
            (1)   The City Manager, taking into account the resources available
to the City, shall determine whether it is practicable for the City to remove
graffiti from private property. If the Manager determines that the City cannot
practicably remove graffiti from a private property, he or his designee shall
inform the requestor.
         e.   The City will not undertake to provide for the painting or repair
of any more extensive an area than that where the graffiti is located, unless
the City Manager, or their designee, determines in writing that a more
extensive area is required to be repainted or repaired in order to avoid an
aesthetic disfigurement to the neighborhood or community, or unless the
property owner or responsible party agrees to pay for the costs of repainting
or repairing the more extensive area.
         f.   In abating graffiti on private property, the City may use its own
materials or those authorized by the property owner or responsible party.
            (1)   When painting over graffiti, the City will not guarantee a
paint match.
         g.   The City may accept donations given for graffiti removal
purposes, including cash, paint and paint removal supplies and equipment.
      2.   City Provision of Materials to the Public:
         a.   The City, when practicable, will provide certain graffiti
abatement materials and equipment to the public for the sole purpose of
graffiti abatement. These graffiti abatement materials include paint, paint
thinner, brushes, rollers, and any other equipment or materials which the City
Manager determines is appropriate for use by the general public. Reusable
equipment must be returned to the City in the same condition as it was
provided, with the exception of normal wear and tear.
         b.   The City will not provide any equipment to the public which due
to its cost, the potential for danger, or the need for expertise would be
inappropriate for use by the general public.
         c.   When the City provides graffiti abatement materials and equipment
to the public it will do so at no cost, except for deposits reasonably
necessary to ensure the return of reusable equipment.
         d.   Before receiving any graffiti abatement materials or equipment,
persons requesting such materials and equipment must execute a form prepared by
the City agreeing to defend, indemnify, and hold the City harmless for any
misuse of such equipment and materials.
         e.   The City shall disseminate information where residents may obtain
free graffiti abatement materials.
      3.   Coordination Efforts.
         a.   The City will coordinate with the Municipal Court concerning the
possible use of offenders to remove or paint over graffiti as a form of public
service.
         b.   The City will coordinate with residents, other public entities,
and non-governmental entities to organize community clean ups of graffiti
throughout the City.
      4.   Reporting.
         a.   The City Manager or their designee will develop a system for
residents to report sightings of graffiti within the City.
         b.   Annually, the City Manager or their designee will provide a
report to the Governing Body concerning:
            (1)   The number of graffiti incidents reported by the public in
the last year;
            (2)   The number of times graffiti incidents on private property
were abated by City staff in the last year;
            (3)   The annual cost of the Municipal Graffiti Removal Program.
(Ord. 2023-4, 4- 4-2023)
5-4-9: GRAFFITI REMOVAL FUND:
   A.   Creation. The revenues generated through enforcement of the provisions
of this Chapter shall be placed in a Graffiti Removal Fund.
   B.   Governing Body Approval. All expenditures from the Graffiti Removal
Fund must be approved by the Governing Body.
   C.   Scope of Expenditures. All expenditures from the Graffiti Removal Fund
must serve the purpose of preventing or abating graffiti within the City's
boundaries.
(Ord. 2023-4, 4-4-2023)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
UNIFORM TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Adoption Of Uniform Traffic Ordinance
6-1-2: Penalty
6-1-1: ADOPTION OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC ORDINANCE:
   A.   Code Adopted By Reference: The 2010 Compilation of the New Mexico
Uniform Traffic Code Ordinance, as amended through February 2020, is adopted by
reference pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978 section 3-17- 6A.(8).
   B.   Ordinance Available For Inspection: The 2010 Compilation of the New
Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance, as amended through February 2020—and as it
may hereafter be amended by the city—will be available for inspection at City
Hall, 1000 McNutt Rd, Sunland Park New Mexico 88063, during the normal and
regular business hours of the City Clerk.
   C.   Copies Of Ordinance Available; Fee: The 2010 Compilation of the New
Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance, as amended through February 2020—and as it
may hereafter be amended by the city—may be purchased from the City Clerk for
twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
   D.   Effective Date: This section shall be effective on October 19, 2021.
(Ord. 03-02, 7-1-2003; amd. Ord. 2011-08, 7- -2011; amd. Ord. 2015-4, 6-16-
2015; amd. Ord. 2016-3, 7-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-11, 10-19-2021)
6-1-2: PENALTY:
   A.   This section may be cited as the City of Sunland Park, NM Penalty
Assessment Program.
   B.   Penalty assessments:
      1.   As used in the New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance adopted by the
City of Sunland Park New Mexico, "penalty assessment misdemeanor" means
violation of the following listed sections of the New Mexico Uniform Traffic
Ordinance, for which the listed penalty assessment program is established:
Common Name of Offense Section Violated Penalty Assessment
Common Name of Offense                      Section Violated Penalty Assessment
1 to 10 over the speed limit                12-6-1.2         $64.00
11 to 15 over the speed limit               12-6-1.2         $79.00
16 to 20 over the speed limit               12-6-1.2         $94.00
21 to 25 over the speed limit               12-6-1.2         $169.00
26 to 30 over the speed limit               12-6-1.2         $189.00
31 to 40 over the speed limit               12-6-1.2         $239.00
41 or more over the speed limit (reckless   12-6-1.2         $269.00
driving)
Additional lighting equip. (neon light)     12-10-1.38       $64.00
Allowing unauthorized person (-18 yoa)      12-6-12.23       $79.00
Animals on street                           12-6-13.10       $25.00
Brake lamps                                 12-10-1.9        $59.00
Careless driving                            12-6-12.4        $89.00
Child passenger restraints                  12-6-13.2        $169.00
Coasting prohibited                         12-6-12.12       $25.00
Display of current valid registration plate 12-10-4          $25.00
Display of unauthorized signs, signals or   12-5-10          $25.00
markings
Drivers to exercise due care                12-6-14.8        $25.00
Driving on divided streets                  12-6-2.14        $25.00
Driving on mountain streets                 12-6-13.11       $25.00
Evidence of registration to be signed and   12-10-5          $10.00
exhibited on demand
Eye protection                              12-7-5           $69.00
Fail to signal                              12-6-5.8         $69.00
Failure to dim lights                       12-10-1.6        $69.00
Failure to yield                            12-6-4.1         $79.00
Failure to yield to emergency vehicle       12-6-7.4         $79.00
Flashing signals                            12-5-8           $25.00
Following too closely                       12-6-12.13       $69.00
Headlamps                                   12-10-1.5        $69.00
Immediate notice of accident                12-4-6           $89.00
Improper backing                            12-6-12.9        $69.00
Improper lane usage                         12-6-2.12        $79.00
Improper U-turn                             12-6-5.5         $79.00
Lamp or flag on projecting load             12-10-1.11       $10.00
Limitation on turning/u-turn                12-6-5.5         $69.00
Limitations on overtaking on the left       12-6-2.4         $10.00
Method of turning at intersection           12-6-5.1         $69.00
Mufflers, prevention of noise               12-10-1.10       $10.00
No passing zones & restrictions on passing  12-6-2.7         $25.00
One way                                     12-6-2.9         $69.00
Open Container                              12-6-13.14       $89.00
Overtaking vehicle on the left              12-6-2.3         $69.00
Parking in designated disabled parking      12-9-9           $250.00
spaces
Pedestrian control signals                  12-5-7           $25.00
Pedestrian violation                        12-6-14          $10.00
Pedestrians on streets                      12-6-14.5        $25.00
Pedestrians right of way in crosswalks      12-6-14.2        $25.00
Pedestrians to use right half of sidewalk   12-6-14.3        $25.00
Permitting unauthorized person to drive     12-6-12(23)      $99.00
Prohibited acts                             12-10-1.1        $25.00
Racing on Streets                           12-6-12.19       $269.00
Red light violation (vehicle or pedestrian) 12-5-6           $79.00
Red or blue lights to front of vehicle      12-10-1.44       $79.00
Restrictions on use of video in motor       12-6-12.11       $25.00
vehicles
Seatbelt                                    12-6-13.13       $89.00
Special stops required                      12-6-7           $25.00
Starting parked vehicle                     12-6-5.7         $10.00
Stop sign/failure to yield                  12-6-4.3         $89.00
Stopped vehicle not to interfere w/traffic  12-10-1.47       $74.00
Stopping for school bus/passing school bus  12-6-7.3         $254.00
Stopping, standing & parking                12-6-6           $25.00
Stopping/standing/parking (prohibited)      12-6-6.1         $74.00
Sun screening materials on windshields and  12-10-1.12A      $25.00
windows; requirements; violations penalty
Tail lamps                                  12-10-1.7        $89.00
Tail Lamps (license plate light)            12-10-1.7(C)     $74.00
Turning & stopping movements & required     12-6-5.8         $25.00
signals
Vehicle approaching or entering             12-6-4.1         $25.00
intersection
Vehicle turning left at intersection        12-6-4.2         $25.00
Vehicles equipped with reflectors           12-10-8          $25.00
When lighted lamps are required             12-10-1.3        $25.00
Window tint/sun screening material          12-10-1.12(A)    $75.00
Windshield must be unobstructed and
equipped with wipers; windows must be       12-10-1.12A      $25.00
transparent; exceptions
 
       2.   The term "penalty assessment misdemeanor" does not include any
violation which has caused or contributed to the cause of an accident resulting
in injury or death to any person.
      3.   When alleged violator of a penalty assessment misdemeanor elects to
accept a notice to appear in lieu of a notice of penalty assessment, no fine
imposed upon later conviction shall exceed the penalty assessment established
for the particular penalty assessment misdemeanor and no probation imposed upon
a suspended or deferred sentence shall exceed ninety (90) days.
      4.   The penalty assessment for speeding in violation of Section 12-6-1.2
(4) of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is twice the penalty assessment
established in subsection B. of this section for the equivalent miles per hour
over the speed limit.
      5.   In addition to the penalty assessment established for each penalty
assessment misdemeanor pursuant to this section, there shall be assessed the
following fees for each penalty assessment misdemeanor: a twenty-dollar ($20)
Corrections Fee; a six-dollar ($6) Court Automation Fee; and the three-dollar
($3) Judicial Education Fee.
   C.   Penalty assessment misdemeanors; option; effect:
      1.   Unless a warning notice is given, at the time of issuance for any
penalty assessment misdemeanor, the officer shall offer the alleged violator
the option of accepting a penalty assessment. The violator's signature on the
penalty assessment notice constitutes an acknowledgment of guilt of the offense
stated in the notice, and payment of the prescribed penalty assessment is a
complete satisfaction of the violation.
      2.   Payment of any assessment must be made by mail to the Municipal
Court, City of Sunland Park, New Mexico within ____ days from the date of
arrest. Payments of penalty assessments are timely if postmarked within the
time limits set from the date of arrest. The Municipal Court shall issue a
receipt when a penalty assessment is paid by currency, but checks tendered by
the violator upon which payment is received is sufficient receipt.
      3.   No record of any penalty assessment payment is admissible as
evidence in any court in any civil action.
   D.   Failure to pay penalty assessment:
      1.   If a penalty assessment is not paid within thirty (30) days from the
date of issuance, the violator shall be prosecuted for the violation charged on
the penalty assessment notice in a manner as if the penalty assessment notice
had not been issued. Upon conviction in such prosecution, the court shall
impose penalties as provided by the New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance
(Section 12-12-1.1), or other law relating to motor vehicles for the particular
offense charged, and the scheduled penalty assessments shall not apply.
      2.   In addition to the prosecution provided for in subsection D.4., it
is a misdemeanor for any person who has elected to pay a penalty assessment to
failure to do so within thirty (30) days from the date of issuance.
      3.   The Office of the Municipal court shall notify the Motor Vehicle
Division of the State of New Mexico when a person fails to pay a penalty
assessment within the required period of time. The Motor Vehicle Division shall
report the notice upon the driver's record and shall not renew the person's
license to drive until the municipal court notifies the Motor Vehicle Division
that the penalty assessment, or its equivalent, as well as any additional
penalties imposed are properly disposed of. (Ord. 2021-14, 11-16-2021)
CHAPTER 2
MISCELLANEOUS TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Vehicle Weight Limit On Certain Streets
6-2-1: VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMIT ON CERTAIN STREETS:
   GIBSON-VECK ROAD: it is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle
of more than seven thousand (7,000) pounds on Gibson-Veck Road between Sunland
Park Drive West to Frontera Road. The Public Works Director shall sign the
portion of the Gibson-Veck Road in question. Any person found guilty of
violating this provision shall be punished as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each trip across the Road in violation of this provision
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1993-11, 12-6-1993; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN CONTAINERS IN VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Short Title
6-3-2: Definitions
6-3-3: Possession Of Open Container While Driving
6-3-4: Possession Of Open Container While In Motor Vehicle
6-3-5: Storage Of Open Container Prohibited
6-3-6: Exceptions
6-3-7: Penalty
6-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter may be cited as the OPEN CONTAINER ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 1988-04, 2-16-1988, eff. retroactive to 1-15-1988)
6-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Distilled or rectified spirits, potable alcohol, brandy,
whisky, rum, gin and aromatic bitters bearing the Federal Internal Revenue
strip stamps or any similar alcoholic beverage, including all blended or
fermented beverages, dilutions or mixtures of one or more of the foregoing
containing more than one-half of one percent (0.5%) alcohol but excluding
medicinal bitters.
   BEER: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or
decoction of barley, malt and hops or other cereals in water, and includes
porter, beer, ale and stout.
   BUS: Every motor vehicle designed and used for the transportation of
persons; and every motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, designed and used for
the transportation of persons for compensation.
   CAMPER: A vehicle which is composed of a chassis, or frame with wheels,
which either has its own motive power or is drawn by another vehicle, and a
camping body primarily designed or converted for use as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel activities.
   CLERGYMAN: A person who is a member of the clergy and is ordained by a
recognized religion to perform pastoral or sacerdotal functions in a duly
organized setting.
   CONTAINER: A receptacle or holder of some specified substance. Receptacle or
holder includes, but is not limited to, bottle, can, cup, glass, or other
similar devices designed to hold or contain a quantity of some specified
substance.
   DOCTOR: A person who is duly licensed by New Mexico to practice medicine,
and is authorized by his profession to give medical treatment.
   DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle, including a motorcycle, upon a street (roadway) or who is exercising
control over or steering a vehicle being towed by a motor vehicle.
   FORTY EIGHT HOURS: Means that each offender shall be sentenced to a jail
term of not less than forty eight (48) consecutive hours which shall not be
suspended or deferred or taken under advisement.
   GLOVE COMPARTMENT: A storage cabinet in the dashboard or passenger
compartment of a motor vehicle.
   HOUSE TRAILER: Any vehicle without motive power designed or used as a mobile
home, office, shop, or as a recreational, camping or travel facility.
   HOUSECAR: A vehicle which is composed of a chassis, or frame with wheels,
which either has its own motive power or is drawn by another vehicle, and a
camping body primarily designed or converted for use as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel activities.
   LIMOUSINE: A larger than normal motor vehicle used in the transportation of
persons for hire; and a large luxurious often chauffeur-driven sedan that
sometimes has a glass partition separating the driver's seat from the passenger
compartment.
   LIVING QUARTERS: That area of the motor vehicle divided and separated from
the driving compartment of a motor vehicle which is a distinct and assigned
location for living accommodations when the vehicle is at rest.
   MEDICINAL PURPOSES: Means that a licensed physician or doctor of medicine
prescribes and designates the use of alcohol, including medicinal bitters for
use as a remedy.
   MOBILE HOME: A house trailer, other than one held as inventory for sale or
resale, that exceeds either the width of eight feet (8') or a length of forty
feet (40'), when equipped for the road.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from batteries or from overhead trolley
wires, but not operated upon rails. "Motor vehicle" includes, but is not
limited to, automobiles, cars, mopeds, motorcycles, motor-driven cycle, semi-
truck or trailer, including all other devices designed to travel on roadways.
   OPEN CONTAINER: A receptacle or holder which has been opened, or seal
broken, or the contents of which have been partially removed.
   PASSENGER(S): Every person who is physically in a motor vehicle, but who
does not have actual physical control of a motor vehicle upon a roadway and who
is not exercising control over or steering a vehicle.
   PASSENGER COMPARTMENT: That area embraced within the motor vehicle where the
driver and passengers normally participate as driver or passenger in a motor
vehicle which includes, but is not limited to, the front or rear seats of the
motor vehicle.
   PERSON: Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association, corporation,
or other legal entity.
   POSSESSION: The act of having or taking into control any alcoholic beverages
for any reason, including consumption on any street, roadway, or highway while
in a motor vehicle. The term does not apply to the possession of alcohol for an
established religious purpose or to the sale, handling, transport, delivering,
pursuant to the lawful employment of a person duly licensed by the
manufacturer, wholesaler, or retailer of alcoholic beverages.
   RECEPTACLE: Any container or holder that receives or contains an amount of
some specified substance. Receptacle includes, but is not limited to, bottle,
can, glass, cup, plastic container, or other similar devices designed to hold
or contain a quantity of some specified substance.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is composed of a chassis, or frame
with wheels, which either has its own motive power or is drawn by another
vehicle, and a camping body primarily designed or converted for use as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel activities.
   REGISTERED OWNER: A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or, in the
event a vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or
lease thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions
stated in the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or, in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a street
includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" as used herein
shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
   TAXICAB: A motor vehicle used in the transportation of persons for hire,
having a normal seating capacity of not more than seven (7) persons.
   TRAILER: Any vehicle, without motive power, designed for carrying persons or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, and so constructed that no
part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
   TRUNK: That area of the motor vehicle normally referred to as the luggage
compartment of a motor vehicle, which is separate and inaccessible from the
driver or passenger compartment of a motor vehicle.
   UTILITY COMPARTMENT: A storage area located in the dashboard or any other
area of the driver or passenger compartment of a motor vehicle.
   VAN: An enclosed wagon or motortruck used for transportation of goods or
animals; and a multipurpose enclosed motor vehicle having a boxlike shape, rear
or side doors, and side panels often with windows.
(Ord. 1988-04, 2-16-1988, eft. retroactive to 1-15-1988)
6-3-3: POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINER WHILE DRIVING:
No person shall have in his or her possession on his or her person, while
driving a motor vehicle upon a roadway within the City limits, any bottle, can,
glass, or other receptacle containing any alcoholic beverage which has been
opened, or a seal broken or the contents of which have been partially removed.
(Ord. 1988-04, 2-16-1988, eff. retroactive to 1-15-1988)
6-3-4: POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINER WHILE IN MOTOR VEHICLE:
No person shall have in his or her possession on his or her person, while in a
motor vehicle upon a roadway in the City limits, any bottle, can, glass, or
other receptacle containing any alcoholic beverage which has been opened, or a
seal broken, or the contents of which have been partially removed. (Ord. 1988-
04, 2-16-1988, eff. retroactive to 1-15-1988)
6-3-5: STORAGE OF OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED:
   A.   Storage In Trunk Or Utility Compartment: It is unlawful for the
registered owner of any motor vehicle, or the driver, if the registered owner
is not present in the vehicle, to keep in a motor vehicle, when the vehicle is
upon any roadway in the City limits, any bottle, can, or other receptacle
containing any alcoholic beverage which has been opened or a seal broken, or
the contents of which have been partially removed, unless the container is kept
in the trunk of the vehicle, or kept in some other area of the vehicle not
normally occupied by the driver or passengers, if the vehicle is not equipped
with a trunk. A utility compartment or glove compartment shall be deemed to be
within the area occupied by the driver and passengers. This subsection shall
not apply to the living quarters of a housecar or camper.
   B.   Storage In Passenger Compartment: It is unlawful for any person to keep
in the passenger compartment of a motor vehicle, when the vehicle is upon any
roadway in the City limits, any bottle, can or other receptacle containing any
alcoholic beverage which has been opened, or a seal broken, or the contents of
which have been partially removed. This subsection shall not apply to the
living quarters of a housecar or camper. (Ord. 1988-04, 2-16-1988, eff.
retroactive to 1-15-1988)
6-3-6: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   For-Hire Vehicles: Section
6-3-4 and subsection 6-3-5A of this Chapter shall not apply to passengers in
any bus, taxicab, or limousine for hire licensed to transport passengers
pursuant to proper local authority, or the living quarters of a housecar or
camper, nor shall subsection 6-3-5A of this Chapter apply to the driver or
owner of a bus, taxicab, or limousine licensed to transport passengers pursuant
to the proper local authority.
   B.   Physician Recommendation: Sections
6-3-3,
6-3-4 and 6-3-5 of this Chapter shall not apply to any person who, upon the
recommendation with proper documentation of a licensed physician, carries
alcoholic beverages in that person's motor vehicle for medicinal purposes.
   C.   Clergyman: Sections
6-3-3,
6-3-4 and 6-3-5 of this Chapter shall not apply to any clergyman who carries
alcoholic beverages in the clergyman's motor vehicle for religious purposes.
(Ord. 1988-04, 2-16-1988, eff. retroactive to 1-15-1988)
6-3-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating Section
6-3-3 of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Ord. 1988-04, 2-16-1988, eff. retroactive to 1-15-1988; amd. 2000 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Vehicle Loads To Be Secured
7-1-1: VEHICLE LOADS TO BE SECURED:
   A.   Preventing Load From Dropping: No vehicle shall be driven or moved on
any public street or highway unless the vehicle is so constructed, loaded,
secured or covered as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting,
leaking or otherwise escaping, except that sand may be dropped for the purpose
of securing traction or water or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway
in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
   B.   Secure Covering Of Load: No person shall operate on any public street
or highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles with any load unless the load
and any covering thereon are securely fastened so as to prevent the covering or
load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to other users of
the public street or highway.
   C.   Penalty: Any violation of this Section shall be punishable as provided
in Section
1-4-1 of this Code in the discretion of the court. (Ord. 1996-05; amd. 2000
Code).
CHAPTER 2
SPECIAL EVENTS PERMITS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Permit Required - Exceptions
7-2-3: Exceptions To Chapter
7-2-4: Business Licenses
7-2-5: Applications
7-2-6: Vendors
7-2-7: Permit Applications - Due Dates And Processing Fees
7-2-8: Safety Plans
7-2-9: Security Plans
7-2-10: Approval Authority - Application Approval
7-2-11: Appro val Authority - Issuance
7-2-12: Proof Of Insurance
7-2-13: Permit Conditions
7-2-14: Occupancy Of Certain Streets And Highways
7-2-15: Appeals
7-2-16: Permittee Requirements
7-2-17: Sanitation Plans - Related Costs
7-2-18: Barricades And Warning Devices
7-2-19: Use of Public Rights Of Way
7-2-20: Alcoholic Beverages
7-2-21: Violations
7-2-22: Revocation
7-2-23: Enforcement
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
APPROVAL AUTHORITY: In the case of any particular event, means the person or
entity that, by virtue of Section
7-2-10, is given the authority and responsibility for approving that type of
event.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The Director of Public Works or a designee.
PERMITTEE: The person to whom a special event permit has been issued pursuant
to this Chapter.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY: Includes a public street, public alley, public walkway, or
any combination thereof.
RESIDENTIAL BLOCK PARTY: An activity within a residential community that is
proposed or likely to:
   A.   Occupy a public right-of-way or portion thereof; and
   B.   Require barricading of some or all of that right-of-way in order to
protect the persons participating in the activity.
SAFETY PERSON OR SAFETY PERSONNEL: Refers to firefighters, EMTs, doctors,
nurses or other persons whose presence is designed to provide for safety and
medical needs of persons in and around the area of the special event.
SECURITY PERSON OR SECURITY PERSONNEL: Refers to police officers, licensed
private security officers, or other persons who are not licensed as security
officers but whose presence is designed to provide security for an event.
SECURITY REVIEW AUTHORITIES: The City Clerk (or a designee) and the Chief of
Police (or a designee).
SPECIAL EVENT: A temporary event or activity:
   A.   At which one hundred (100) or more persons are expected to attend;
   B.   Whose location would not normally permit such activity to take place by
means of applicable licensing regulations, zoning regulations, or other use-
related regulations applicable to the location; and
   C.   Which involves any one or more of the following:
      1.   The use of temporary structures;
      2.   The use of temporary electrical power and distribution;
      3.   The consumption of alcohol;
      4.   The presence of vendors; or
      5.   The creation of an impact upon any public right-of-way.
For informational purposes, the term includes Tier 1 special events, Tier 2
special events and Tier 3 special events (defined below). In addition to the
types of events and activities listed above, the term also includes a
residential block party and any other proposed event or activity that the City
Clerk, upon becoming aware of the proposal, determines should be classified as
a special event because of its likely impact. The term does not include an
event that is not open to the public and attendance at which is limited to
invitees listed on a predefined attendance roster.
SPECIAL EVENT PRODUCER: The person responsible for producing, promoting or
organizing a special event.
SPECIAL EVENT VENDOR: Any person who sells, offers for sale or solicits orders
for the sale of goods or services at a special event.
SPFD: The Sunland Park Fire Department.
SPPD: The Sunland Park Police Department.
TIER 1 SPECIAL EVENT: A special event, other than a residential block party or
a Tier 2 special event, at which fewer than three hundred (300) persons are
expected to attend.
TIER 2 SPECIAL EVENT: A special event, other than a residential block party, at
which fewer than two thousand (2,000) persons are expected to attend and which
involves one or more of the following:
   A.   The use of, or an impact upon, public right-of-way.
   B.   Any temporary structure, including any stage, bleachers, tent, fencing
or canopy.
   C.   The use of temporary electrical power and distribution.
   D.   Sound amplification.
TIER 3 SPECIAL EVENT: A special event, other than a residential block party, at
which two thousand (2,000) persons or more are expected to attend and which
involves one or more of the following:
   A.   The use of, or an impact upon, public right-of-way.
   B.   Any temporary structure, including any stage, bleachers, tent, fencing
or canopy.
   C.   The use of temporary electrical power and distribution.
   D.   Sound amplification. (Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-2: PERMIT REQUIRED - EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection C., no person shall conduct,
manage or operate any special event unless the City has issued a permit
therefor. The requirement for a special event permit is in addition to any
other applicable permit requirement, including without limitation:
      1.   Permits required under the Fire Code; and
      2.   Permits required under building-related technical codes.
   B.   No person shall conduct, manage, operate or participate in any special
event in violation of, or in any manner contrary to, the provisions of the
special event permit.
   C.   The requirement of a permit under subsection A. may be waived by the
City Clerk for any particular event upon a determination that other applicable
licenses, permits or approvals are or will be in place with respect to that
event and are sufficient to protect the interests of the City and the public.
(Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-3: EXCEPTIONS TO CHAPTER:
This Chapter does not apply to the following:
   A.   The sale, offer for sale or solicitation of orders at a temporary
event, convention or permanent trade show within an enclosed facility where the
attendance is restricted and the general public is not permitted, unless there
is an impact upon a public right-of-way.
   B.   An event, convention or trade show that is the subject of and governed
by a business license authorizing that event.
   C.   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, provided that such conduct is under the immediate
direction and supervision of the proper school authorities.
   D.   Participation in a special event by the City, or any other governmental
entity acting within the scope of its functions, except that the City Manager
or designee, in connection with that event, may impose any requirement in this
Chapter, or any other reasonable requirement, that is deemed necessary or
appropriate for public safety.
   E.   Sidewalk processions which observe and comply with traffic regulations
and control devices, utilizing that portion of the sidewalk nearest the street
but at no time more than one-half (1/2) of the sidewalk and at no time
interfering with pedestrians or traffic. (Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-4: BUSINESS LICENSES:
If applicable, a special event producer is responsible for obtaining any
business license that might be required by the city code. (Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-
2020)
7-2-5: APPLICATIONS:
With respect to any special event, the special event producer for that event
shall file a permit application with the approval authority. The application
shall be filed on a form furnished by the approval authority and shall be filed
by the due date set forth in Section
7-2-7 herein. The application form may be filed in hard copy version, either by
hand delivery or by US mail. If authorized by the approval authority, an
application form may also be filed by means of electronic mail or facsimile.
The application shall include or be accompanied by the following information:
   A.   The dates and hours of the event;
   B.   A description of the event;
   C.   The anticipated number of customers, spectators, participants and other
persons expected to attend the event for each day it is conducted;
   D.   The location and a map or diagram of the event including site plan,
route map, proposed street closures and public right-of-way use;
   E.   Information regarding the proposed means of complying with ADA
requirements, where proposed structures or event facilities may limit the
accessibility of public rights-of-way or City facilities;
   F.   The number and locations of special event vendors and temporary
improvements including tents and signs;
   G.   The locations of attendee parking;
   H.   Proof of how security will be provided in accordance with Section
7-2-9 herein;
   I.   Proof of how safety concerns, medical needs and sanitation requirements
will be addressed;
   J.   Proposed business activities, including any request for alcoholic
beverage sales or service;
   K.   Proposed entertainment activities;
   L.   The name, address and contact information for the special event
producer;
   M.   The name, address and contact information for the person or
organization to whom the permit is to be issued, if different from that of the
special event producer;
   N.   The times at which setup for the event is proposed to commence and tear
down proposed to be complete;
   O.   A description of the method of providing for neighborhood notification
and, in the case of a residential block party, the method of obtaining
neighborhood input from residents immediately adjacent to the affected right-
of-way;
   P.   Insurance coverage proposed to be provided; and
   Q.   Such other information as may be required by the approval authority.
(Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-6: VENDORS:
[RESERVED]
7-2-7: PERMIT APPLICATIONS - DUE DATES AND PROCESSING FEES:
   A.   Special event permit applications are subject to the provisions
regarding due dates and processing fees that are set forth in the following
matrix:
 
             Application Due Application    Application     Fee for Expedited
Event Type   Date            Processing Fee Processing Fee  Review
                                            (Non-profit)
Residential  5 days before   N/A            N/A             N/A
Block Party  event
Tier 1 Event 15 days before  $50.00         $25.00          $25.00
             event
Tier 2 Event 45 days before  175.00         90.00           90.00
             event
Tier 3 Event 90 days before  300.00         150.00          150.00
             event
 
   B.   The amount of the application processing fee must be paid at the time
of application or within such additional time as may be authorized by the
approval authority in writing. The City has no obligation to process an
application or issue a permit unless and until the application processing fee
is paid.
   C.   The application processing fee is separate from, and does not include,
fees chargeable by other departments and functions of the City for services
provided. As a courtesy, the City Clerk may provide an applicant a list of fees
and other requirements to be imposed by other departments and functions, but
the failure to do so creates no remedy.
   D.   In order to be eligible for the reduced processing fee set forth in the
matrix for non-profit organizations, the special event producer must provide
documentation regarding non-profit status that is satisfactory to the City
Manager or designee.
   E.   The application due dates set forth above shall be waived by the
Approval Authority if the special event for which a permit is sought is based
upon the occurrence of an identifiable event or decision, that date of which
could not have been predicted with certainty, including the announcement of
military action, an announcement of a court decision, or a death. If the Event
Organizer seeks this waiver, it must provide the Approval Authority with
information sufficient for the Approval Authority to determine that the waiver
applies. (Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-8: SAFETY PLANS:
As a follow-up to the safety-related information that is included in a permit
application pursuant to Section
7-2-5, the City Clerk may require the applicant to submit a comprehensive
safety plan to detail how the safety and medical needs of persons in and around
the area of the special event will be provided for. The safety plan:
   A.   Will take into account the number of streets and intersections to be
blocked and the impact on emergency service access to and egress from the site,
as well as access to fire hydrants; and
   B.   Must include a medical plan that takes into account the size, location,
date, time, duration of the event, as well as the type of event, venue surface
material, weather conditions, and presence, if any, of alcoholic beverages; and
   C.   Except as otherwise provided in, or determined pursuant to, Subsection
(E), the safety plan must be approved the Fire Chief and shall include the
number and character of safety personnel SPFD determines necessary for the
special event. The decision whether or not to approve a safety plan under this
Section shall be based on the considerations set forth in Subsections A. and B.
above.
   D.   In the case of a safety plan under this Section that includes or
requires the use of firefighters of the SPFD:
      1.   Funds to engage the specified number of firefighters, at an
appropriate hourly rate for firefighters, shall be deposited with SPFD at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of an event. The total necessary funds shall be
calculated by the SPFD Chief or his designee and calculation and the basis
thereof (SPFD's decision) shall be conveyed in writing to the applicant. Within
five (5) days of being notified of SPFD's decision, the applicant must respond
in writing whether it agrees to pay the deposit; or, alternatively, file a
request for review of SPFD's decision with the City Clerk as provided in
Section
7-2-8E. herein.
      2.   Firefighters engaged under this Subsection D. shall be under the
complete direction and control of SPFD.
   E.   An applicant may file a request for review concerning a decision by
SPFD under this Section in order to propose alternative safety measures. The
review will be conducted by the City Manager in consultation with the SPPD
Chief. Alternative security measures may be approved and implemented if the
City Manager determines that such measures will provide equivalent or
acceptable safety for the event. (Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-9: SECURITY PLANS:
   A.   As a follow-up to the security-related information that is included in
a permit application pursuant to Section
7-2-5, the City Clerk may require the applicant to submit a comprehensive
security plan to detail how order will be preserved and property protected in
and around the location where the event is to be conducted. The security plan
shall be based on the size, location, duration, time and date of the event; the
expected service and consumption, if any, of alcoholic beverages; the number of
streets and intersections blocked; and the need to detour or preempt vehicular
or pedestrian travel and use of public rights-of-way.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided in, or determined pursuant to, Subsection
D., a required security plan must first be approved by SPPD and shall include
the number and character of security personnel SPPD determines necessary for
the special event. The decision whether or not to approve a security plan under
this Section shall be based on the considerations set forth in Subsection A.
   C.   In the case of a security plan under this Section that includes the use
of police officers of SPPD:
      1.   Funds to engage the specified number of police officers, at an
appropriate hourly rate for police officers, shall be deposited with SPPD at
least ten (10) days prior to the date of an event. The total necessary funds
shall be calculated by the SPPD Chief or his designee and calculation and the
basis thereof (“SPPD's decision") shall be conveyed in writing to the
applicant.
         a.   Within five (5) days of being notified of SPPD's decision, the
applicant must respond in writing whether it agrees to pay the deposit; or,
alternatively, file a request for review of SPPD's decision with the City Clerk
as provided in Subsection D. herein.
      2.   Police officers engaged under this Subsection C. shall be under the
complete direction and control of SPPD.
   D.   An applicant may file a request for review concerning a decision by
SPPD under this Section in order to propose alternative security measures. The
review will be conducted by the City Manager in consultation with the SPFD
Chief. Alternative security measures may be approved and implemented if the
City Manager determines that such measures will provide equivalent or
acceptable security for the event. (Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-10: APPROVAL AUTHORITY - APPLICATION APPROVAL:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in Subsections D. and E. of this Section,
the approval authority is the City Clerk.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application, the approval authority shall review the
application as well as forwarding a copy to other departments as deemed
appropriate, which may include without limitation: (i) Public Works; (ii)
Community & Economic Development; (iii) SPFD; and (iv) SPPD.
      1.   Upon being provided the application, the departments shall recommend
approval or denial of the application and convey their position and reasons
thereof to the approval authority for its consideration.
      2.   In the event the application is reviewed by Public Works and Public
Works determines that the proposed event is likely to cause damage to City
infrastructure beyond normal wear and tear, Public Works shall (i) document the
basis for its belief (ii) develop a deposit amount for the applicant to provide
that will be sufficient to compensate the City for the costs of repairing the
anticipated damage, (iii) document how it calculated the proposed deposit; and
(iv) convey the foregoing information (collectively known as the "deposit
decision") to the approval authority in writing. The approval authority shall
notify the applicant of the deposit decision.
         a.   A deposit decision shall only be necessary if Public Works is
recommending approval of the application.
         b.   The full deposit amount must be deposited with Public Works ten
(10) days prior to the date of an event.
         c.   The applicant may file a request for review concerning a deposit
decision by Public Works under this Section in order to propose alternative
protections to City infrastructure. Such a request must be filed with the City
Clerk within five (5) days after notice of the deposit decision. The review
will be conducted by the City Manager. Alternative measures for protecting City
infrastructure may be approved and implemented if the City Manager determines
that such measures will provide equivalent or acceptable protections as the
deposit for the event.
   C.   Receipt of an application shall be acknowledged by or on behalf of the
approval authority shortly after receipt thereof. Action to approve, deny or
return the application as incomplete shall be taken by the approval authority,
and written notice thereof provided, within a reasonable time following receipt
of the application. The approval authority may consider information contained
in the application as well as additional information otherwise available.
   D.   The approval authority for a residential block party is the Director of
Public Works.
   E.   The approval authority for a Tier 3 special event that proposes the
closure of multiple streets on multiple days is the City Council. For purposes
of receiving and processing an application up until the time of Council action,
the City Clerk shall act on behalf of the City Council. (Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-11: APPROVAL AUTHORITY - ISSUANCE:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in Subsection B., the approval authority
shall issue a permit upon a finding that the following requirements have been
met, unless a particular requirement is waived by the approval authority:
      1.   The permit application has been reviewed by the appropriate
departments and approval has been recommended by those departments. If a
deposit is required by Public Works, the applicant has agreed, in writing, to
make the deposit;
      2.   The applicant has obtained and provided required satisfactory
evidence of insurance policies, bonds and other means of securing obligations;
      3.   The applicant has obtained all necessary permits and approvals from
other agencies, including the New Mexico Department of Transportation and other
agencies having jurisdiction in the case of a special event affecting State
rights-of-way;
      4.   The applicant has contracted with SPPD for any necessary security
services or has otherwise provided for adequate security. If a security plan
was required; the applicant has provided for security under the approved plan.
If a deposit is required by SPPD, the applicant has agreed, in writing, to make
the deposit;
      5.   The applicant has contracted with SPFD for any necessary safety and
medical services or has otherwise provided for adequate safety and medical
care. If a safety plan was required; the applicant has provided for safety
personnel under the approved plan. If a deposit is required by SPFD, the
applicant has agreed, in writing, to make the deposit;
      6.   Where required, the applicant has obtained approval of any necessary
temporary traffic control plan by the Director of Public Works;
      7.   The applicant has obtained or caused to be obtained all required
business licenses to conduct the activities proposed for the special event;
      8.   The applicant has complied with the provisions of this Chapter, paid
in advance all required fees, and agreed to comply with the conditions to be
imposed upon the permit;
      9.   The activities proposed for the special event will not violate
applicable noise restrictions;
      10.   The concentration of persons and equipment will not unduly
interfere with normal and proper fire and police protection services, ambulance
services, or with the orderly operation of public roadways, sidewalks,
hospitals, parks, schools, or other public and quasi-public institutions;
      11.   The applicant has provided reasonable means for informing all
interested persons or persons whose commercial interests may be adversely
impacted of the special event, and has an appropriate plan to inform persons
participating in the event of the terms and conditions of the permit and of
applicable laws; and
      12.   In the case of a residential block party or other similar
neighborhood event, the applicant has submitted a petition in favor of the
event signed by at least four-fifths (4/5) of the residents of the block or
area to be occupied by the event.
   B.   The approval authority may deny a permit upon an unfavorable
determination regarding any of the items described in Subsection A. In
addition, the approval authority may deny a permit if the applicant, in
connection with a previous special event permit issued to the applicant, has:
      1.   Violated a condition of that previous permit; or
      2.   Violated a provision of this Code in connection with the event
authorized by that permit.
   C.   Independent of any other provision of this Chapter, the approval
authority may deny or withhold further action on a permit application upon a
determination that:
      1.   The permit application is incomplete or a submittal required by this
Chapter has not been submitted in a timely manner; and
      2.   There is insufficient time remaining before the date of the proposed
special event for the application to be processed, reviewed and approved even
if the application is completed or the required submittals received. (Ord.
2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-12: PROOF OF INSURANCE:
   A.   At least ten (10) days before a special event, the applicant must
provide satisfactory proof of having secured insurance policies for commercial
general liability, automobile liability, and worker's compensation as the City
Clerk may require. Any such policies:
      1.   Must be issued by one or more insurance companies authorized to do
business in New Mexico, with coverage designated for the premises where the
special event will take place, including any public property, facility or
right-or-way belonging to the City.
      2.   Must name the City its agents and employees as additional insureds.
      3.   Must have policy limits in amounts determined by the City Attorneys.
   B.   This section shall be deemed to be incorporated in its entirety in any
application for any special event permit, other than one for a residential
block party.
   C.   By filing an application for a special event permit, the applicant
thereby represents, stipulates and agrees as follows:
      1.   If the application is submitted or executed on behalf of any other
person, organization, firm, or corporation, that the person so doing is fully
authorized to act and contract for such other person, organization, firm or
corporation; and
      2.   That the applicant, and any other persons, organizations, firms and
corporations on whose behalf the application is made, agrees that they will
jointly and severally indemnify and hold the City and its agents or employees,
harmless against liability for any and all claims for damages to property or
injury to or death of persons arising out of or resulting from the issuance of
the permit or the conduct of the special event or its participants. (Ord. 2020-
6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-13: PERMIT CONDITIONS:
Any permit granted under this Chapter may be made subject to any other
conditions reasonably calculated to reduce or minimize the dangers and hazards
to vehicular or pedestrian traffic and the public health, safety, tranquility,
morals and welfare. Such conditions may include without limitation conditions
regarding hours of operation, duration, number of participants, and levels of
sound. (Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-14: OCCUPANCY OF CERTAIN STREETS AND HIGHWAYS:
Any application for a special event that proposes to occupy any street or
highway under the control of the New Mexico Department of Transportation
“NMDOT”) must have the approval of that Department and any other agency having
jurisdiction. (Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-15: APPEALS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, an applicant or permittee
may appeal a decision under this Chapter by an approval authority other than
the City Council by filing a notice of appeal with the approval authority
within five (5) business days after the decision appealed from. The appeal
shall be heard by the City Manager or a designee. The designee may be an
independent hearing officer appointed by the City Manager for that purpose.
   B.   No appeal is available under this Section if the relief or remedy
sought by the appeal:
      1.   Is otherwise available under a specific provision of this Code; or
      2.   Would not be available under applicable law. (Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-16: PERMITTEE REQUIREMENTS:
Each permittee shall:
   A.   Comply with all local and State laws, including without limitation
those that pertain to Fire Department, business licensing and land use.
   B.   For each special event any part of which will take place after dark or
following which persons attending may remain on the premises after dark,
provide electrical illumination to ensure that occupied areas are lighted at
all times of occupancy.
   C.   Be responsible for the special event's compliance with applicable ADA
requirements, where proposed structures or event facilities may limit the
accessibility of public rights-of-way or City facilities. (Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-
2020)
7-2-17: SANITATION PLANS - RELATED COSTS:
   A.   As a follow-up to the sanitation-related information that is included
in a permit application pursuant to Section
7-2-5, the City Clerk may require the applicant to submit a sanitation plan to
detail how the applicant proposes to provide for the collection and removal of
litter, solid waste and other waste, and to address the need for toilet
facilities and other sanitary facilities. Such a plan must, at a minimum,
provide for the following at the permittee's own expense:
      1.   The collection and removal of litter and solid waste produced by or
arising out of the event.
      2.   Except with respect to a residential block party, water closet
facilities in numbers and types that correspond to the number of participants
or spectators expected to be in attendance.
      3.   Any additional personal sanitation facilities that may be required
as a condition of the special event permit under a sanitation plan approved by
the City.
      4.   If required by the Public Works Environmental Officer, a Stormwater
Pollution Prevention Plan.
   B.   Each permittee shall be responsible for reimbursing the City, upon
request, for additional sanitation-related costs incurred by the City as a
consequence of the special event. (Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-18: BARRICADES AND WARNING DEVICES:
Each permittee shall provide, at the permittee's own expense, such barricades
and warning devices as the City Public Works Director deems necessary for the
public safety. The City Public Works Director shall determine the types and
locations of required barricades and warning devices. (Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-19: USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY:
In the case of a special event in the nature of a parade, procession, race or
similar event that will move or proceed along any public right-of-way:
   A.   The permittee must also obtain written approval from SPPD and any other
appropriate agencies as contemplated in Section
7-2-14.
   B.   At least ten (10) days before the special event, the permittee must
provide a plan for adequate traffic control. If the plan will include
barricades, it must be prepared by a licensed barricade company.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided in this Subsection C., no person may drive
a vehicle between or among the persons or vehicles that are participating in
the parade, procession, race or similar event while it is in motion. The
preceding sentence shall not apply:
      1.   At intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic signals or
police officers;
      2.   To persons who are authorized participants in the parade,
procession, race or similar event; or
      3.   To the drivers of authorized emergency vehicles when such drivers
are responding to an emergency. (Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-20: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
[Reserved]
7-2-21: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person:
      1.   To violate any provision of this Chapter.
      2.   Who is in charge of, or responsible for the conduct of, a special
event to knowingly fail to comply with any condition of the permit.
      3.   To consume, sell or be in possession of an alcoholic beverage at the
location of a special event while it is taking place, except as expressly
authorized by a special event permit.
   B.   Unlawful acts under this Chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for not more than ninety
(90) days or both. Each day that an unlawful act hereunder continues shall be
considered a separate offense. (Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-22: REVOCATION:
A special event permit may be revoked by the City Clerk (or in the case of a
residential block party, the Director of Public Works) at any time when such
revocation is deemed necessary to protect the public health and safety or to
protect property from imminent harm. Permits shall also be revoked if the
applicant fails to timely pay any necessary deposits required by the City.
Nothing in this Section shall limit the ability of a department of the City to
take remedial or preventative action under authority of any ordinance or Code
provision that operates independently of this Chapter. (Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-2-23: ENFORCEMENT:
This Chapter may be enforced:
   A.   By the SPPD, the code enforcement function of the City, or any other
department or function of the City specifically assigned to its enforcement by
the City Manager; and
   B.   By means of either a criminal prosecution or a civil proceeding.
(Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
CHAPTER 3
CITY PARKS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Purpose
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Parks Property; Prohibited Acts
7-3-4: Park Operating Policy
7-3-5: Reservation Of Facilities
7-3-6: Enforcement; Penalty
7-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter shall be:
   A.   To preserve and maintain the environment and physical features of City
parks and public grounds consistent with the health and welfare of the public.
   B.   To provide for the reservation of parks, park facilities and
recreational facilities and to set forth the conditions and fees (if any) for
reservations. (Ord. 1992-06, 10-23-1992)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   MAYOR: The chief executive officer of the City. The Mayor may designate a
representative or agent for the purpose of enforcing this Chapter.
   PARKS: Any area of land designated and maintained by the City as a place of
beauty, recreation or both. (Ord. 1992-06, 10-23-1992)
7-3-3: PARKS PROPERTY; PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful to:
   A.   Attaching Rope Or Animal To Plants: Attach any rope, chain or similar
device to any plant for any reason or attach any animal to any vegetation.
Exception is made to any authorized person acting under the authority of the
Mayor.
   B.   Being On Property Inappropriately; Climb, walk, stand or sit upon any
property not designed or customarily used for such purposes.
   C.   Polluting Bodies Of Water: Place in any fountain or other body of water
in or adjacent to any park any substance which may pollute such water.
Exception is made for park employees when acting within their official duties.
   D.   Riding Bicycles: Ride any bicycle in any park except on paved vehicular
roads or bike paths. Bicyclists shall be permitted to walk or push a bicycle
over any grassy area, wooded trail or areas reserved for pedestrian use.
   E.   Horseback Riding: Ride horseback in any park except on designated
bridle trails.
   F.   Roller Skating: Roller skate in any park except in designated areas.
   G.   Hitting Golf Balls: Hit golf balls in any park except in designated
areas.
   H.   Selling Merchandise In Or Near Park:
      1.   Offer for sale any merchandise or service. Exceptions are made for
any licensed vendor operating under another City ordinance and authorized
within a park by written authorization of the Mayor.
      2.   Offer for sale any merchandise or service on any streets or public
parking lots outside the park area within three hundred feet (300') of a park
operating concession.
   I.   Calling Out To Public: Call to the public attention in any way any
article or service for sale or hire. Exceptions are made for any party or group
by written authorization of the Mayor.
   J.   Posting Signs: Post or erect any sign on City property unless
authorized by the Mayor. (Ord. 1992-06, 10-23-1992)
7-3-4: PARK OPERATING POLICY:
   A.   Opening And Closing Hours:
      1.   City parks shall be open from five o'clock (5:00) A.M. until ten
thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. except for emergencies, permitted special events
and in parks where hours are posted differently from those operating under the
normal operating time.
      2.   Use of City parks shall not be allowed during closing times unless
authorized by permit.
      3.   The Mayor has the authority to change opening and closing hours of
parks.
      4.   Parks Department employees or police employees are not restricted by
the opening and closing hours when in performance of their duties.
   B.   Alcoholic Beverages: Consumption of alcoholic beverages in any park is
prohibited. Exceptions may be made with appropriate permits from the City and
the State Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control. (Ord. 1992-06, 10-23-1992)
7-3-5: RESERVATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Permit Required: Anyone desiring to reserve a park, portions thereof or
a park facility for exclusive use must obtain a permit from the Mayor.
   B.   Application For Permit: A person wishing a permit shall submit a
completed permit application form to the Mayor.
   C.   Conditions For Issuance Of Permit: A permit may be issued when:
      1.   The proposed exclusive use will not unreasonably interfere with
general public enjoyment of the parks; and the proposed activity will not
interfere with the promotion of public health, welfare, and safety of the
citizens of Sunland Park.
      2.   The proposed activity is not anticipated to incite violence, crime
or disorderly conduct.
      3.   The proposed activity will not entail unusual City expenses.
      4.   The facilities desired have not been reserved for other use at the
time requested in the application.
      5.   The facility desired is suitable for the activity.
   D.   Fees And Deposits:
      1.   Fees Set By Council Action; On File With Mayor:
         a.   All fees, deposits and/or other charges required pursuant to this
Chapter shall be set from time to time by City Council action but only after
receiving a recommendation from the Mayor concerning said fees and deposits.
         b.   Applicable fees and deposit rates are available in the Mayor's
office.
      2.   Cleanup Deposit: If food and drink are involved, a refundable clean-
up deposit will be required. This deposit will be refunded when the Mayor
determines that the park was cleaned by the permit holder. If the park has not
been cleaned within twenty four (24) hours of use, the deposit will be retained
by the City.
      3.   Key Deposit: If a City key is required for a facility, a refundable
key deposit will be required. All keys must be returned within twenty four (24)
hours for refund of the deposit. An exemption shall be given to league
officials requiring keys on a seasonal basis; however, the refundable deposit
will be required for each key.
      4.   Ball Field Light Fee: If ball field lights are required for
activities not approved and budgeted by the City, this charge will be computed
from an approved light fee schedule.
      5.   Permit Denial; Appeal To Council: An appeal from denial of a permit
must be in writing to the City Council and must be received within five (5)
working days after the permit has been denied. The City Council shall consider
the application and sustain or overrule the Mayor's decision at the next
special or regular City Council meeting.
      6.   Permittees Bound By Park Rules: All permittees shall be bound by all
park rules, regulations and policies and all applicable ordinances as though
they were inserted in the permit.
      7.   Liability Of Permittee: The person to whom a permit is issued shall
be liable for any loss, damage or injury sustained by any person whatever by
reason of the negligence of the permittee.
      8.   Authority To Revoke Permit: The Mayor shall have the authority to
revoke a permit upon finding a violation of any rule or ordinance or upon good
cause being shown.
   E.   If the proposed use of a City park constitutes a “special event” as
that term is defined in this Title, then the applicant must obtain a special
event permit prior to using a park for such an event. If a special event permit
is obtained, it shall not be necessary to obtain a separate park reservation
permit. (Ord. 1992-06, 10-23-1992; amd. Ord. 2020-6, 9-1-2020)
7-3-6: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY:
   A.   Eject Persons From Park: The Mayor and other appropriate City officials
shall have the authority to eject from any park any person acting in violation
of this Chapter.
   B.   Penalty: Violation of this Chapter is a petty misdemeanor punishable as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 1992-06, 10-23-1992; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 4
STREET NAMES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Method Of Naming
7-4-3: Inter-Governmental Cooperation Policy
7-4-4: Policy On Naming New Streets
7-4-5: Changing Names Of Streets
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
ALLEY: A public way used primarily as service access to the rear or side of a
property which abuts a street.
ARTERIAL: A major street or thoroughfare that carries, or will carry, a
considerable volume of traffic of more than neighborhood character and also
serves abutting properties.
COLLECTOR STREET: A street that serves as a connection between a thoroughfare
and several minor streets. This term includes the principle entrance street of
a residential development and streets for major circulation within such a
development.
CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street with only one outlet and culminated by a turnaround
at a dead end. A cul-de-sac is considered a form of local street.
LOCAL STREET: A street of relatively short length that provides direct access
to a limited number of abutting residential properties and is designed to
discourage use by through traffic. (Ord. 2020-7, 10-6-2020)
7-4-2: METHOD OF NAMING:
Streets shall be officially named or renamed by:
   A.   A plat dedicating a public right of way for an unnamed local or
collector street, or the continuation of a named arterial; or
   B.   Action renaming a street pursuant to Section
7-4-5 herein; or
   C.   Adoption of a resolution by the City Council concerning the name of a
specific arterial street. (Ord. 2020-7, 10-6-2020)
7-4-3: INTER-GOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION POLICY:
The City shall rule on every new or changed name of a street within its
planning and platting jurisdiction. However, where a street is or likely will
be both within and outside the City, the City shall confer with other concerned
local governments and seek a mutually satisfactory name. (Ord. 2020-7, 10-6-
2020)
7-4-4: POLICY ON NAMING NEW STREETS:
   A.   New Street Designations: All new streets, including but not limited to,
arterials, focal and collector streets, and private streets, shall be
designated in accordance with City Code Section
11-4-2(K). Additionally:
      1.   New local streets which circle back on themselves may be designated
"Circle."
      2.   New local and collector streets which change direction in a logical
semi-continuous and connected manner, but do not circle back on themselves, may
be designated "Loop."
      3.   New local streets which are cul-de-sacs must be designated as "Cul-
De-Sac" or "Court."
      4.   Divided collector streets which lead to, or partially or entirely
circumscribe, areas of relatively intense activity may be designated "Parkway."
      5.   Private streets may only be designated "Lane", "Way", "Calle" or
"Via."
      6.   Alleys are permitted to be named. If named, they shall be designated
"Alley."
   B.   New Street Names:
      1.   In keeping with City Code Section
11-4-2(K), the name of a new street should be the name of an existing, nearby
street which is essentially in line with it, unless the City Engineer finds
that such name continuation would clearly not be helpful to motorists searching
for an address.
      2.   Where Subsection B.1. herein does not apply, the following are basic
City policies on public and private street naming:
         a.   Alphabetic sequences of street names are desirable;
         b.   Groupings of names with similar content are desirable;
         c.   Names with double meanings are usually undesirable;
         d.   Names of over thirteen (13) letters and spaces are usually
unacceptable (this limit does not apply to the street designation and
quadrant);
         e.   Names already in use for streets within two (2) miles of City
limits, are unacceptable unless the existing street is essentially in line with
the new street;
         f.   The City will normally accept developer proposals for street
names which are consistent with this Chapter and City Code Section
11-4-2(K), but the City reserves the right to name streets where the City finds
that the developer's name proposals are not consistent with City policies and
the public welfare. The Council may also evaluate and redesignate a street name
if it finds that the developer's name is not consistent with City policies and
the public welfare so long as the street has not been constructed or the street
has been constructed but no structures have been built on the street. (Ord.
2020-7, 10-6-2020)
7-4-5: CHANGING NAMES OF STREETS:
   A.   Procedure:
      1.   Any person may apply to the Community and Economic Development
Department Director ("CED Director") or his/her designee to change the name of
a street segment which is within the City. (Application to change the name of a
street which is not in the City but is in its planning and platting
jurisdiction should be to the County.)
      2.   The CED Director shall mail letters to the owners of record of all
lots adjacent to a street segment which is within the City and is proposed for
name change, informing them of the nature of the proposed change and indicating
how a person may file comments. At least thirty (30) days shall be allowed for
such comments before a decision is reached. Owner of record means the owner
shown in the records of the County Assessor.
      3.   The CED shall request interested city departments and other
agencies, including private utilities and the U.S. Postal Service, to comment
on the request.
      4.   The CED Director shall make the decision as to alleys, local and
collector streets in the following cases:
         a.   Where an application or petition is signed by all owners of
record of property abutting the street segment in question; or
         b.   Where no person files a timely written objection to the name
change.
      5.   In other cases involving alleys, local and collector streets, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall make the decision at a public hearing,
after receiving a report from the Development Review Team ("DRT").
      6.   In cases involving arterial streets, the City Council shall rule on
the request.
      7.   Every person filing comments or receiving notification pursuant to
subsection A.2. herein shall receive written notification of the decision.
      8.   In the event a proposed street name change is both within and
outside the City, the City's decision shall not become final until the County
rules, and in the event the County reaches a decision different than the City,
the City decision shall not be final until fifteen (15) working days after
notice of a reconsidered decision by the previous City decision maker.
      9.   Appeal of the CED's decision is to the Planning and Zoning
Commission. Appeal of the Planning and Zoning Commission's decision is to the
City Council. Appeals shall be filed within fifteen (15) working days of the
postmark of the letter giving notice of the decision.
   B.   Criteria:
      1.   A street name shall be changed only if the decision maker finds that
there will be a public benefit which clearly outweighs the public confusion and
cost which would be created by the name change.
      2.   Continuous major or minor arterial streets should have the same name
throughout the urban area. However, the benefit of this clarity must be weighed
against the confusion of changing addresses which are in use.
   C.   Fees: The City Manager shall set a fee schedule to cover reasonable
administrative expenses based on approximate city costs of reviewing name
change proposals, holding public meetings and hearings, and other expenses
incidental to the processing of street name change proposals and appeals
thereof; successful applicants may also be charged a fee to cover the cost of
street sign replacement. (Ord. 2020-7, 10-6-2020)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-1-1: Enforcement
8-1-2: Definitions
8-1-3: Character Of Service
8-1-4: Application For Service
8-1-5: Customer's System; Inspection
8-1-6: Requirements Of Contracts
8-1-7: Fees And Charges For Service And Connections
8-1-8: Credit And Deposits
8-1-9: Manner Of Serving Notice To Customer
8-1-10: Rendering And Payment Of Bills
8-1-11: Lien Against Property
8-1-12: Disputed Bills
8-1-13: Discontinuance And Denying Restoration Of Service
8-1-14: Temporary Service And Special Services
8-1-15: Interruption Of Service
8-1-16: Private Water Supply
8-1-17: Meters
8-1-18: Responsibility For Equipment Used In Supplying Service
8-1-19: Service Connection
8-1-20: Water System Design Criteria
8-1-21: Fire Hydrants
8-1-22: Fire Protection Service
8-1-23: Large Users Of Water
8-1-24: Water Service To Seriously III Persons
8-1-25: Penalty
8-1-1: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Management By Clerk-Treasurer: The city clerk-treasurer shall have the
overall responsibility for the control, management and direction of the
municipal water system and shall perform all acts necessary for the prudent,
efficient and economical management of the system, subject to the approval and
confirmation of the council.
   B.   Rules And Regulations: The council may adopt resolutions, rules and
regulations as it may deem necessary for operation of the system. (Ord. 1985-
01, 3-5-1985)
8-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions are applicable wherever these terms are used in this
chapter:
CHRONICALLY DELINQUENT CUSTOMER: A customer of the city who, on an average
taken over his past payment history (not to exceed 12 months) pays his bill to
the city forty (40) days or more after the due date.
CITY: City of Sunland Park.
COMMERCIAL UNIT: Includes individual commercial enterprises, and in case of
ownership or operation by the same entity, is those enterprises under different
names.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other of unknown or questionable safety, or an unmetered supply, whereby water
may flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on the
pressure differential between the two (2) systems.
CUSTOMER: Any person, firm, association, corporation, or any agency of the
federal, state, or local    government, being supplied with, desiring or
responsible for payment for, water or related services by the city.
LARGE COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL UNIT: Any person, firm, association,
corporation, or any agency of the federal, state, or local government being
supplied with, desiring or responsible for payment for water or related
services by the city for commercial related services with a water meter size of
two inches (2") or greater and/or a wastewater BODs greater than two hundred
fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/I).
LIVING UNIT: Includes individual townhouses, single-family dwelling, or
individual condominium. It does not include individual rooms in hotels or
motels.
MUNICIPAL LINE: All main and lateral lines within roadways, streets, city owned
land, alleys or easements.
NORMAL SERVICE PRESSURE: The range of thirty five (35) to one hundred twenty
five (125) pounds can ordinarily be made available in areas contiguous to
existing lines.
POINT OF DELIVERY: At the property line, designated by city owned valve.
PRACTITIONER OF THE HEALING ARTS: A doctor of medicine, doctor of osteopathy,
doctor of dental surgery, or doctor of chiropractic.
PRESSURE REGULATING DEVICE: A device that maintains a constant water pressure
at its immediate downstream side which is less than the inlet pressure to the
device, unless the pressure on the inlet side is lower than the pressure
setting for the downstream side.
RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER UNIT: Any individual or person(s) being supplied with,
desiring or responsible for payment for water or related services by the city
exclusively for domestic services. Residential service includes single-family
housing units and apartments with individual meters for each dwelling.
SERIOUSLY ILL PERSON: A person residing in a living unit to which the city
supplies water, whose life would be endangered in the event of termination of
such service.
SERVICE LINE: The pipe connection from a distribution water main to the water
meter.
SMALL COMMERCIAL UNIT: Any person, firm, association, corporation, or any
agency of the federal, state, or local government being supplied with, desiring
or responsible for payment for water or related services by the city for
commercial related services with a water meter size less than two inches (2")
for domestic water use type services. Commercial service includes retail
stores, garages, restaurants, clubs, schools, churches, municipal, state, and
federal buildings.
TERMINATION: Disconnection of water service.
TERMINATION NOTICE: A notice sent to a customer that his service will be
terminated for nonpayment of service, giving the customer fifteen (15) days
after mailing (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays observed by the city)
in which to pay his account in full.
WATER MASTER PLAN: The official plan adopted by the city council to guide
decisions of the city of Sunland Park with regard to the future growth,
development and operation of the municipal water system.
WATER PRESSURE: The gauge pressure of water within a pipe measured in pounds
per square inch above atmospheric pressure and abbreviated herein as "pounds".
WATER SERVICE: The general term for furnishing the customer with water. (Ord.
1985-01, 3-5-1985; amd. Ord. 1987-15, 8-4-1987; Ord. 04-02, 1-20-2004)
8-1-3: CHARACTER OF SERVICE:
Water service for domestic, commercial, industrial, sanitary and other purposes
will be furnished under conditions as stated herein and in any rules and
regulations adopted by the city council. There shall be one meter for each
"living unit" or "commercial unit". (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985)
8-1-4: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
   A.   Filing; Acceptances; Contract: Applications for water service shall be
made at the city utility billing office. Acceptance of an application shall be
evidenced by the city provision of service. A written contract for service is
not required except for extensions of facilities other than service lines made
in accordance with section 8-1-16 of this chapter. In those cases a written
contract prior to providing service is required. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985; amd.
2000 Code)
   B.   Load Information: The customer shall be required to provide load
information on new construction or alteration sufficiently in advance of the
actual service requirement date to enable the city to provide adequate service
facilities.
   C.   Time Limit For Providing Service; Customer Requirements: The city will
make all reasonable efforts to supply service within sixty (60) days, weather
permitting, after the application or agreement is approved, and after any
necessary permits shall have been obtained. It is the responsibility of the
customer to comply with all applicable codes and to obtain the necessary
permits from governmental authorities. If, due to circumstances beyond the
control of the city, service cannot be furnished within sixty (60) days, the
customer shall be advised promptly regarding the delay.
   D.   New Or Additional Service Limited: New or additional service will be
limited to available unreserved capacity in production, transmission and
distribution facilities, and commensurate with the city's available water
rights. In all cases where such existing facilities are limited, the city may
require a written contract for payment of sums sufficient over the contract
period, adequate to warrant the investment and reservation of necessary
equipment and water rights required to render such service.
   E.   Customers Bound By City Regulations: All provisions of this chapter and
any rules and regulations of the council shall be considered a part of the
contract of every person taking water from the water system of the city and
every person taking water shall be considered as having expressly consented to
be bound thereby. (Ord. 1985-01,
3-5-1985)
   F.   Plans And Specifications: Applications shall include plans and
specifications that show all mains, service lines, fire plugs, and construction
details. The installation shall equal or exceed standards set forth in all
applicable rules, regulations, codes and law and all requirements of the water
and wastewater department. No tap for water shall be allowed on the main supply
line from Santa Teresa. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985; amd. 2000 Code)
8-1-5: CUSTOMER'S SYSTEM; INSPECTION:
The piping system on customer's premises shall be inspected and approved by the
appropriate governmental inspection agency, proof of inspection required with
state plumbing inspector's seal of approval, before water service will be
connected. Cross connections or backflow possibilities revealed by any
inspection shall be eliminated before water service is provided to a new
customer or continued to an existing customer. The city does not assume the
responsibility for piping inspections and shall not be held liable for failure
of customer's piping or installation. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985; amd. 2000 Code)
8-1-6: REQUIREMENTS OF CONTRACTS:
   A.   Normally Not Required: Special written contracts are normally not
required from customers receiving service under section 8-1-3 of this chapter,
who do not require a line extension agreement.
   B.   Standard Agreement On Contract: All customers not covered by subsection
A of this section will be provided service only after the customer executes
either the city's standard agreement for water service or, in special cases, an
appropriate contract.
   C.   Contents Of Contracts: All contracts between the city and its customers
shall contain substantially the following clause:
      The City of Sunland Park, New Mexico reserves the right to modify the
rates or conditions of service set forth herein by notice to the customer in
writing thirty days prior to the effective date of the change in rates or
conditions of service and such contract rates and conditions of service shall
be deemed modified at such time.
   D.   Installations; Compliance With Codes And Statutes: All customer
installations shall comply with the plumbing code of the state of New Mexico
and any other applicable codes, regulations, or statutes.
(Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985)
8-1-7: FEES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE AND CONNECTIONS 1 :
   A.   Service Charges Within City: Every customer whose meter is located
within the city boundaries shall pay to the city for water service:
      1.   Residential Water Rates: Residential water rates are for the
individual customer for domestic water services. Residential service includes
single-family housing units and apartments with individual meters for each
dwelling.
 
Usage                                                                    Rate
Minimum for water used up to 7,000 gallons                               $13.00
Per 1,000 gallons of additional water taken rounded to the nearest 1,000 1.25
gallons, up to 11,000 gallons
Per 1,000 gallons up to 15,000 gallons                                   1.35
Thereafter per 1,000 gallons                                             1.50
 
      2.   Small Commercial Water/Wastewater Rates: Commercial water and
wastewater rates are for any business or institution with water meter sizes
less than two inches (2") for domestic water use. Commercial service includes
retail stores, garages, restaurants, clubs, schools, and churches, municipal,
state and federal buildings.
 
Usage                                                                    Rate
Minimum for water used up to 5,000 gallons                               $19.00
Per 1,000 gallons of additional water taken rounded to the nearest 1,000 1.00
gallons, up to 15,000 gallons
Thereafter per 1,000 gallons                                             1.25
 
      3.   Large Commercial And Industrial Water/Wastewater Rates: Industrial
water and wastewater rates are for any commercial, industrial, or business
institution with water meter sizes two inches (2") and larger and/or wastewater
BODs greater than two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/I). The water
rate also applies to residential customers with meter sizes two inches (2") and
larger.
 
Usage                                                              Rate
Minimum for water used up to 7,000 gallons                         $25.00
Per 1,000 gallons of additional water taken rounded to the nearest 1.00
1,000 gallons, up to 15,000 gallons
Thereafter per 1,000                                               1.25 gallons
 
   B.   Service Charges Outside City: Every customer whose meter is located
outside the city boundaries shall pay to the city the following water rates for
water service:
      1.   Residential Water Rate: 5/8 x 3/4
         Water Rate: $18.00 - minimum for water used up to 7,000 gallons
      2.   Small Commercial Water Rate: 5/8 x 3/4
         Water Rate: $24.50 - minimum for water used up to 5,000 gallons
      3.   Large Commercial And Industrial Water Rates: 5/8 x 3/4 Water Rate:
$30.50 - minimum for water used up to 7,000 gallons
   C.   Multiple Units; Master Meter: Where a master meter is located within or
outside the city and serves more than one living unit or more than one
commercial unit or combination of living unit and commercial unit, in addition
to all charges under subsection A or B of this section, the customer shall pay
a monthly minimum charge equal to thirteen dollars ($13.00) plus tax multiplied
by the number of living units and commercial units served. (Ord. 04-02, 1-20-
2004)
   D.   Charge For Service Discontinued:
      1.   Whenever service is discontinued, a charge of twenty five dollars
($25.00) plus tax shall be made by the city to cover the cost of reconnecting
service during normal city business hours.
      2.   If a customer requests reconnection after normal business hours, a
charge of thirty dollars ($30.00) shall be made by the city for such special
service. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985)
   E.   Charge For Check Returned For Insufficient Funds: The city may apply a
charge of twenty five dollars ($25.00) plus tax to the customer's account
balance in the event a customer's check or bank draft is returned for
insufficient funds. (Ord. 04-02, 1-20-2004)
   F.   Taps Purchased Subject To Minimum Bill: All taps purchased, whether the
tap is installed or not, will be subject to the minimum bill starting the first
month from purchase date. All taps not physically installed, but paid for,
shall be subject to any and all tap fee increases up to the time of
installation.
   G.   One Time Tap Fee And Meter Charge:
      1.   Within City: In addition to all other charges, a one time tap fee
and meter deposit for service to property inside the city shall be paid in
advance of connection to the system by all customers for each meter as follows:
 
Meter Size     Connection Or Tap Fee Meter Deposit
5/8 x 3/4 inch $280.00               Plus $30.00
1 inch         280.00                Plus meter cost, accessories and extra
                                     labor
2 inch         280.00                Plus meter cost, accessories and extra
                                     labor
3 inch         280.00                Plus meter cost, accessories and extra
                                     labor
4 inch         280.00                Plus meter cost, accessories and extra
                                     labor
5 inch         280.00                Plus meter cost, accessories and extra
                                     labor
 
      2.   Outside City: In addition to all other charges, a one time tap fee
and meter deposit for service to property outside the city shall be paid in
advance of connection to the system by all customers for each meter as follows:
 
Meter Size     Connection Or Tap Fee Meter Deposit
5/8 x 3/4 inch $300.00               Plus $50.00
1 inch         300.00                Plus meter cost, accessories and extra
                                     labor
2 inch         300.00                Plus meter cost, accessories and extra
                                     labor
3 inch         300.00                Plus meter cost, accessories and extra
                                     labor
4 inch         300.00                Plus meter cost, accessories and extra
                                     labor
5 inch         300.00                Plus meter cost, accessories and extra
                                     labor
 
      3.   Multiple Units; Master Meter: A customer who installs a master meter
to serve more than one living unit or more than one commercial unit or
combination of living unit and commercial unit, shall pay an amount equal to
the number of units multiplied by the tap fee. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985)
   H.   Charge Imposed On Lots Not Connected To Available Service Pipes:
      1.   Charge Established: There is hereby imposed upon any improved or
unimproved lot or land not having water connections within the city which lot
or land adjoins any street, public right of way or easement, through which
water pipes which can be tapped for water connections are laid, and adequate
service thereto is available, a minimum annual charge of fifty dollars ($50.00)
or seventy five cents ($0.75) per front foot of such lot or land so adjoining
such street, public right of way or easement, whichever is more.
      2.   Annual Billing: Bills for charges imposed under this subsection for
such service shall be rendered annually beginning July 1, 1984. The charges
imposed under this subsection shall not begin until six (6) months from the
date that adequate water service to such lot or land is available. (Ord. 1993-
03, 3-22-1993)
      3.   Owner Responsible; Lien; Exception:
         a.    The charges imposed under subsection H1 and H2 of this section
are the responsibility of the owner of the lot or land not having water
connections, which lot or land adjoins any street, public right of way or
easement through which water pipes which can be tapped for water connections
are laid, and adequate service thereto is available.
         b.    The charges imposed under this subsection shall constitute a
lien upon the property so charged and shall be a personal responsibility of the
owner so charged.
         c.    No charges shall be made pursuant to this subsection for service
to any lot or land where for technical reasons the water could not be used by
such adjoining property. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985)
   I.   Annual Increase: All rates, including minimum and variable rates, shall
be increased by four percent (4%) or adjusted for inflation annually from the
current seventy five percent (75%) to one hundred percent (100%) of the
consumer price index (percent Dec. - Dec.), whichever is greatest, U.S.
department of labor, bureau of statistics, CPI-U, all items, unless otherwise
acted upon by the municipal governing body. This annual increase to become
effective based on April 1, 2009. (Ord. 04-02, 1-20-2004; amd. Ord. 09-01, 3-
17-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 3 of this title.
8-1-8: CREDIT AND DEPOSITS:
   A.   Service:
      1.   New Customers: Service will be provided to any new customer with a
deposit of thirty dollars ($30.00) for property owners, and one hundred dollars
($100.00) for renters. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985; amd. 2000 Code)
      2.   Reconnection: Prior to reconnection or at any time thereafter,
additional deposit may be required from any customer whose service has been
disconnected for nonpayment, or additional deposit may be required from any
chronically delinquent customer and from any customer who in the city's
judgment justifies an additional deposit because of a history of late payments.
      3.   Determination Of Amount Of Deposit: The amount of a deposit, when
required, will be equal to the charges for three (3) billing periods based upon
the city's estimate of the customer's monthly bill.
   B.   Term Of Deposit And Refunds:
      1.   Term Of Service: Deposits may be held for the term of service
rendered by the city to the customer.
      2.   Settlement Of Account After Customer Terminates Service: Refunds of
deposit will be made within a reasonable time after receipt of notice from the
customer that the customer is terminating service and after the meters have
been read and the city has ascertained that the obligations of the customer,
including all accounts due the city by the customer, have been settled in full.
(Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985)
   C.   Deposit Amount For Nonowner: The amount of the deposit required for
service to property not occupied by an owner shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00) or an amount equal to the average of the last three (3) months' water
bill, whichever is greater. (Ord. 1993-03, 3-22-1993)
8-1-9: MANNER OF SERVING NOTICE TO CUSTOMER:
Except as may be provided herein, notice by the City to the customer may be
given orally, by telephone or in writing. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985)
8-1-10: RENDERING AND PAYMENT OF BILLS:
   A.   Delinquency; Late Payment Penalty; Water Shutoff:
      1.   Bills will be rendered each month except for billings under
subsection 8-1-7H of this Chapter.
      2.   All bills shall become due on and delinquent after the fifteenth day
the bill is mailed. If not timely paid, an additional ten percent (10%) will be
added as late penalty.
      3.   In addition to the amounts becoming a lien on the property, service
shall be shut off from the delinquent property and restored only upon payment
of the delinquent amounts plus the cost of reconnection or any additional
deposits required.
      4.   Except as otherwise provided, if payment is not made by the date
specified in the termination notice, then service may be terminated on or after
the date specified which shall be at least fifteen (15) days after the
termination notice was mailed.
   B.   Deferred Payment Plan: The City shall attempt to arrange with every
nonchronically delinquent residential customer who expresses an inability to
pay his water charges, a deferred payment plan for the payment of past due
water charges. The plan need not be signed by both parties; however, the City
shall maintain a record of the essential provisions of the plan, which record
shall be conclusive as to the plan agreed upon. In the event the customer fails
to comply with the plan agreed upon, then the City shall terminate service;
however, not until after giving five (5) days' written notice of termination.
   C.   Customer Complaint; Review By City:
      1.   In the event any customer complains that either: a) a proposed
payment plan is unreasonable; b) a charge is not due and owing; or c) he has
not violated any agreed upon repayment plan, then in such event a review of
such customer's complaint shall be conducted by the City.
      2.   The review shall be conducted by the City Clerk-Treasurer or any
person appointed by him who has the authority to rescind the termination order,
correct charges, extend a repayment plan, or to take other appropriate action
that he may deem appropriate.
      3.   The reviewing person shall take all circumstances into consideration
and shall use his discretion in the review and try to accommodate customers who
are in a temporarily difficult financial position and attempt to be fair and
equitable, but not to allow customers who are unwilling to make a good faith
effort to pay their utility charges to take advantage of the City and to assure
that just and due bills are paid so as to avoid subsidization by those
customers who pay readily of those customers who fail to do so.
   D.   Disagreement With Reviewing Person; Complaint To Council:
      1.   It is recognized that a customer may disagree with the conclusion of
the reviewing person and that he has the right to make a complaint to the City
Council.
      2.   The filing of such a complaint shall stay discontinuance of service
until the City Council makes a decision which will be final, binding and not
subject to appeal.
      3.   This provision shall not preclude the City from following normal
termination procedures in the event a customer fails to pay a subsequent bill.
This prohibition against termination shall not apply unless a dispute is in
good faith.
   E.   Meter Failure; Billing On Estimated Consumption: In the event of the
stoppage of, or the failure by, any meter to register the full amount of water
consumed, or inaccessibility of meter, or failure by the City to read the
meter, the customer will be billed for such period on an estimated consumption
based upon the use of water in a similar period of like use pursuant to
subsection 8-1-17B3 of this Chapter.
   F.   Water Turnoff For Nonpayment:
      1.   All water charges shall be charged against the property served and
against the owner thereof, and if for any reason any sums owing therefor become
delinquent, the water shall be cut off and in no case shall it be turned on the
same property until such delinquencies shall have been paid in full.
      2.   Change of ownership or occupation shall not affect the application
of this Section.
   G.   Free Service Prohibited: The City will furnish no free service and if
the City elects to use such services for Municipal purposes, it will budget and
appropriate amounts to pay therefor at the same rate as is charged other
customers for like or similar services. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985)
8-1-11: LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY:
   A.   Assessment Of Lien: The City shall have a lien on each lot or parcel of
land served by said water system and on each lot or parcel of land not having
water connections within the City which lot or land adjoins any street, public
right of way or easement, through which water pipes which can be tapped for
water connections are laid, and adequate service thereto is available, for
charges imposed for all services rendered or made available by said water
system plus interest at the maximum statutory rate.
   B.   Notice Of Lien: Notices of such liens shall be filed and liens shall be
enforced as authorized by statute. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985)
8-1-12: DISPUTED BILLS:
The City agrees to investigate any question as to accuracy of metering or of
bills for service rendered, and if the bill is in error, the City shall submit
a corrected bill to the customer as promptly as circumstances permit. (Ord.
1985-01, 3-5-1985)
8-1-13: DISCONTINUANCE AND DENYING RESTORATION OF SERVICE:
   A.   Customer Notify City To Discontinue Service: Customers who intend to
move from the premises or discontinue the use of water or in any way limit
their liability hereunder shall give the City thirty (30) days' prior written
notice of such intention and the customer will be liable for all water that may
be used upon the premises until such notice is given and the City has made
final meter reading.
   B.   Service Interruption By City: The City reserves the right to interrupt
service for a reasonable period for repairs to its property or equipment
without notice.
   C.   City Notify Customer Of Service Discontinuance; Exceptions: Unless
otherwise provided in the following subparagraphs, a customer shall be given
two (2) weeks' oral or written notice in which to comply before service is
discontinued:
      1.   Without notice for a condition determined by the City to be
hazardous.
      2.   Without notice for use of equipment in such manner as to adversely
affect the City's equipment or the City's service to others.
      3.   Without notice for tampering with, damaging, or destroying the
equipment furnished and owned by the City.
      4.   Without notice in the event of unauthorized use.
      5.   For violation of or noncompliance with these rules.
      6.   For failure of the customer to fulfill his contractual obligations
for water service.
      7.   For failure of the customer to permit the City reasonable access to
its equipment.
      8.   With termination notice as defined herein for nonpayment of bill.
      9.   For failure of the customer to provide the City with a deposit as
authorized by Section
8-1-8 of this Chapter.
      10.   For failure of the customer to furnish such service equipment,
permits, certificates or rights of way, as shall have been specified by
City of Sunland Park
8-1-13   8-1-14
the City as a condition to obtaining service, or in the event such equipment or
permissions are withdrawn or terminated.
      11.   Without notice for bypassing a meter or otherwise interfering with
the proper registration of water used. The water service shall not be
reconnected until the bypass is removed and payment is made for any damages to
the installation and for the value of estimated water service for the period
during which the meter was tampered with has been made. Added thereto shall be
a penalty, equal to one hundred percent (100%) of same amount. (Ord. 1985-01,
3-5-1985)
   D.   No Charge For Turnoff At Request Of Customer: The City shall not charge
for turning the water off and on when done at the request of the customer and
for his convenience. This includes turnoff due to broken customer water lines.
(Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985; amd. 2000 Code)
   E.   Use Of City Shut-Off Valve: Use of the City's curb or meter shut-off
valve by customer or customer's agent is prohibited. This practice by
unauthorized persons shall be reason for discontinuance of service.
   F.   Waste Of Water: If the City finds evidence of waste of water by a
customer, the City will advise the customer of such condition. If after a
reasonable time corrections or repairs have not been made by the customer, the
City shall discontinue service to the offending customer. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-
1985)
8-1-14: TEMPORARY SERVICE AND SPECIAL SERVICES:
   A.   Property Owner Responsible:
      1.   Where water service is supplied directly to a trailer or other
temporary or portable structures, the City may require that the application for
service be in the property owner's name on whose land the trailer or other
portable structure is located.
      2.   In such case, the monthly bill will be suitably identified as may be
requested by the property owner, but it will be addressed to the property owner
and the property owner will be responsible for payment of the same.
   B.   City Right To Refuse Service Or Set Conditions:
      1.   The City reserves the right to furnish or not to furnish water for
any type of temporary use and further to define the conditions under which the
water will be supplied.
      2.   Continuous service under normal conditions to existing customers
shall take priority over customers receiving temporary service. (Ord. 1985-01,
3-5-1985)
8-1-15: INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE:
   A.   Customer Report To City: The City will strive to furnish adequate,
efficient and reasonable service. Interruption of service should be reported
promptly by the customer to the City. The City will endeavor to restore service
within a reasonable time.
   B.   Thawing Frozen Water Lines:
      1.   Occupant Responsibility: Any freeze-up of any water line which is
connected to or forms a part of the City's water system that is on the owner
side of the point of delivery, hereinafter "owner's line" shall be the sole
responsibility of the owner or occupant.
      2.   City Responsibility: Any freeze-up of any water line which is
connected to or forms a part of the City's water system that is on the City
side of the point of delivery, hereinafter "City's line" shall be the sole
responsibility of the City.
      3.   Notify City; Thawing Procedure:
         a.   In the event a freeze-up of a water line is discovered during the
regular working hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M.,
Monday through Friday, excluding City recognized holidays, the owner or
occupant shall notify the City. The City shall respond to such notice as
quickly as possible. In the event the City employee, hereinafter "employee"
determines that the freeze is on the City line, the employee shall proceed to
thaw the City line, including the meter if necessary, only if it is practical
to do so within working hours.
         b.   In the event that the freeze is on the owner line, the employee
shall notify the owner/occupant and shall take no further action. It shall then
be the sole responsibility of the owner/occupant to obtain the services to thaw
the owner line. In the event a freeze-up is discovered or reported on
Saturdays, Sundays or City recognized holidays, City employees will respond to
such a call between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:
00) P.M.
      4.   Immediate Danger: No employee shall thaw a freeze-up in an owner
line unless such freeze-up constitutes an immediate danger to the public health
and safety.
      5.   City Approval Required To Thaw City Line: No one other than an
employee shall work on or thaw any City lines without the prior written
approval of the City Clerk-Treasurer or his designee.
      6.   Means Of Thawing: City lines shall be thawed by electrical means
primarily.
   C.   Response To Emergency Situation: City employees shall respond to an
emergency situation such as a broken service line or main line as soon as
possible at any hour notified.
   D.   City To Furnish Regular, Uninterrupted Service:
      1.   The City will use reasonable diligence to furnish a regular and
uninterrupted supply of water; however, interruptions or partial interruptions
may occur or service may be curtailed or fail as a result of circumstances
beyond the control of the City, such as public enemies, accidents, strikes,
legal processes, governmental restrictions, water shortages, breakdown or
damages to transmission or distribution facilities of the City, repairs or
changes in the City's transmission or distribution facilities.
      2.   Customers whose service requirements exceed those normally provided
shall advise the City and contract for additional facilities as may be
required. The City does not, under any circumstances, contract or commit to
provide complete reliability. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985)
8-1-16: PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Abandonment Of Wells And Connection To City Water System: All premises
within the City boundaries utilizing private wells for domestic, commercial,
industrial, and sanitary purposes (except for nonpotable usage not entering the
City sewer system) shall abandon such private water system and connect to the
City water system (except for those premises which are annexed which shall be
governed under subsections B and C as set forth below) under one of the
following conditions, whichever first occurs:
      1.   Such systems on property having a boundary abutting on or within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of public right of way containing a City water line
must be abandoned and the service line be connected to the City water line. No
private water system can be utilized to provide water for domestic, commercial,
industrial, sanitary or other purposes where the City system is so available;
or
      2.   Such systems on property having a boundary further than one hundred
fifty feet (150') from a public right of way containing a City water line may
continue to be used until such time as the City Council determines that the use
thereof is detrimental to the health, safety, and public welfare of occupiers
of the area under the jurisdiction of the City, or that the use thereof
violates regulations administrated by the New Mexico Environmental Improvement
Division (EID). After such determination is made, the owner, agent or occupant
of the property served by the private water system shall have a reasonable
time, not to exceed six (6) months, within which to connect with the City
system. The owner, agent or occupant shall pay a proportionate share of the
cost of the City system extensions which may be required.
   B.   Annexed Land: Owners of land outside the City desiring to annex their
land voluntarily into the City or owners of land outside the City which land is
involuntarily annexed into the City may contract with the City to retain their
private water supply at their own expense if the City Council authorizes such
or if the Municipal Boundary Commission or Board of Arbitration so rules. In
that event, functioning private water systems which exist on annexed premises
shall be permitted to continue in use so long as such system is approved by,
and continues to be approved by, the EID or any successor-in=interest to the
EID and the owner of such system shall not be required to connect with the City
water system unless the City Council determines that the use thereof is
detrimental to the health, safety, and public welfare of occupiers of the area
under the jurisdiction of the City, or that the use thereof violates
regulations administrated by the New Mexico Environmental Improvement Division
(EID). After such determination is made, the owner, agent or occupant of the
property served by the private water system shall have a reasonable time, not
to exceed six (6) months, within which to connect with the City system. The
owner, agent or occupant shall pay a proportionate share of the cost of the
City system extensions which may be required.
   C.   City Line Extensions: Whenever an extension of the City water line is
required to serve a subdivider as defined in the City Subdivision Ordinance or
an applicant, or group of applicants, extension will be made under the
following terms and conditions by and at the expense of the applicant. (Ord.
1985-01, 3-5-1985)
      1.   Sizing; Costs: All line extensions shall be sized to provide
adequate domestic and fire protection service, to meet requirements for fire
protection. In the event that the City's Water Master Plan requires a larger
line size than is required to serve the applicant's needs, the applicant will
not be required to absorb the difference in investment between the applicant's
required line size and the line size required by the plan; but in no event
shall the extension costs to applicant be based on lines smaller than those
needed for applicant's domestic and fire service requirements. Normal minimum
distribution line size for adequate fire protection is eight inch (8")
diameter. The cost of distribution facilities to be charged to the applicant
shall be those for eight inch (8") diameter facilities or that size which is
required to serve domestic and fire needs whichever is greater. The City shall
be the sole judge of proper line sizing in any new construction and shall be
the sole judge of the line size cost to the applicant. (Ord. 1987-15, 8-4-1987)
      2.   Payment In Advance: The investment in the line extension required to
serve the applicant's domestic and fire protection requirements as specified by
subsection C1 of this Section will be paid in total in advance by the applicant
requesting the line extension.
      3.   Rights Of Way And Easements: All lines will be constructed in
existing public roads, streets, City-owned land, alleys, or easements. The
applicant shall furnish such rights of way as are in the form of a duly
executed easement without charge to the City over property owned by said
applicant and shall assist the City in securing other rights of way necessary
to provide service over property not owned by said applicant.
      4.   Special Conditions; Additional Cost: Special conditions which affect
the furnishing of water service to an applicant or group of applicants such as
elevation, terrain, volume of water available in existing main, and other
conditions resulting in increased costs to the City in providing water service
shall be taken into consideration by the City and the cost thereof shall be
added to the tapping fee. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985)
8-1-17: METERS:
   A.   Location:
      1.   City To Specify:
         a.   Customer Provide Point Of Delivery Information: The City will
specify the meter location and point of delivery to any premises, at the curb,
property line, alley or inside the premises and the City shall be provided
exact information locating the point of delivery before any piping of
customer's system has been started. If such information is not provided by
customers in writing, changes in piping installation may result and the expense
of which the City shall not be held liable in any way and will not assume any
responsibility and the customer shall be liable therefor.
         b.   New Construction: All new construction will have meters placed
within the premises with a stop cock and necessary appurtenances at the
property line at the subdivider or owner's expense. Repair and replacement of
the meter will be at City's expense.
      2.   Multiple Meters At One Location: When a building houses more than
one unit requiring separate meters, all the meters shall be grouped adjacent to
each other and must be individually numbered and identified according to the
units served or be located at a specified location outside each unit.
      3.   Relocation: Customer's meter location and connecting yard line will
be relocated by customer at his expense when a water main is installed in a
public right of way which abuts customer's property in order to provide service
from the nearest water main installed in public right of way. This will only be
required when the project is undertaken to improve the customer's water service
or to eliminate water mains on private easements.
   B.   Metering:
      1.   Meters Furnished By City At Cost Of Customer: All meters used in
connection with metered service shall be furnished (at the cost of the
customer) and maintained by the City.
      2.   Testing Of Meters By City: The City may, at its option, test meters
at any time as often as it desires.
      3.   Meter Reading: Meters will be read monthly; provided, however, that
when snow, ice, or other justifiable problems cause one or more consecutive
meter readings to be missed, the City may bill the customer on the estimated
consumption and the difference adjusted when the meter is again read. The basis
for this estimate shall be the normal consumption for corresponding periods in
the preceding year or consumption of preceding months. At the first reading,
subsequent to the nonreading, the bill will be computed by multiplying blocks
of the rate by the number of months for which the meter reading covers, then
computed in accordance with the applicable rate adjusted with the foregoing
provisions. Any minimum bills paid in the period for which the meter reading
covers shall be credited to the total amount of the bill. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-
1985)
8-1-18: RESPONSIBILITY FOR EQUIPMENT USED IN SUPPLYING SERVICE:
   A.   Responsibility For City: The City will design, own, operate and
maintain the complete water system up to the point of delivery and the City
shall also provide the meter and installation.
   B.   Responsibility Of Customer:
      1.   The customer shall install, own and maintain all facilities beyond
the point of delivery. The customer shall install all service lines from the
main line including the meter yoke.
      2.   The customer must exercise due care for the protection of the
property of the City on the customer's premises.
      3.   The customer agrees in accepting service, that no one except the
employees of the City shall be allowed to make internal or external adjustments
of any meter or any other piece of apparatus which is the property of the City.
      4.   Facilities or equipment necessary for any special requirements shall
be installed and maintained by and at the expense of the customer. No
facilities or special equipment shall be installed or operated in a manner
injurious to the system. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985)
8-1-19: SERVICE CONNECTION:
   A.   Pressure Zones: A normal pressure within the range of thirty five (35)
to one hundred twenty five (125) pounds can ordinarily be made available in
areas contiguous to existing lines and at the pressures indicated for normal
operations within established pressure zones. Where applications for service
are received which would involve service to elevations either above or below
the established elevation, special engineering and economic studies may be
required which could result in other equipment requirements to provide such
service. All circumstances will be taken into account in determining the
feasibility of rendering service and where feasible the extensions will be made
subject to the provisions outlined in Section
8-1-16, or subsections F and G of this Section.
   B.   Stop Valve: The customer shall install a stop and waste cock, or
equivalent, on his yard line in order that he can control the water flow in his
entire water system. Such valve shall be located in an accessible place for
operation by the customer.
   C.   Service Pipe Provided By City:
      1.   The City shall furnish at its own expense, for the purpose of
connecting its distribution system to the customer's premises, the service pipe
from its main to and including the curb stop or water meter at or adjacent to
the customer's property line. Maximum length of pipe provided by the City shall
not exceed more than one street width of fifty feet (50'), unless property
served is considered to be a subdivision as outlined in subsection 8-1-16C of
this Chapter, and in that event, all extensions shall be at the cost of the
subdivider.
      2.   A qualified contractor employed by the customer shall perform all
necessary trenching, backfilling, tapping, and installation of the pipe, meter
and meter box at the customer's expense and under the supervision of the City
Engineer. The customer shall be assessed for the repair of the street surface
which was disturbed in connection with the water system.
   D.   Fire Protection Service:
      1.   The entire cost of an installation required for customer fire
protection service, service under Section
8-1-22 of this Chapter, standby service or irrigation service, shall be borne
by the customer.
      2.   The monthly minimum charge shall be required by contract pursuant to
subsection 8-1-6B of this Chapter, to cover normal customer accounting costs
plus anticipated operating and maintenance cost for all City facilities
required plus a reasonable capacity charge for off-site water facilities held
in reserve for fire use on demand of the customer.
      3.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed by the
customer in his fire line installation.
   E.   Cross-Connections: No cross-connection with any other source of water
shall be made to a customer's piping, which is connected to City lines.
   F.   Water Pressure:
      1.   Low: Where the normal water pressure is determined by the customer
to be less than his requirements, the customer shall install a booster pump and
pressure storage tank, the design for any such installation, including an
approved backflow preventer, shall be submitted to the City for approval, prior
to any construction.
      2.   High: Where the normal water pressure is determined by the customer
to be greater than his requirements, the customer shall install an approved,
adjustable pressure regulating device in his piping system.
   G.   Compliance With State Plumbing Code: All piping and plumbing
installations made by the customer or for which the customer is responsible
shall conform with the Plumbing Code of the State and all other applicable
codes or regulations. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985)
8-1-20: WATER SYSTEM DESIGN CRITERIA:
There is hereby adopted the following Exhibit A, Design Standards for water
line construction, reconstruction or replacement which must be followed by all
persons seeking to connect to the Municipal water systems: (Ord. 1987-15, 8-4-
1987; amd. 2000 Code)
EXHIBIT A, Water Facilities Construction Standards prepared for the City by
Molzen-Corbin & Associates.
SECTION 110
WATER SYSTEM DESIGN CRITERIA
This Section presents the criteria, standards, and regulations related to the
design of water distribution systems for general development service. It does
not cover the criteria necessary for design of major transmission lines, wells,
pumping facilities or reservoirs. The material is directed to the competent
design professional and is not intended to be a detailed design handbook.
Criteria and standards presented are those determined to be the minimum
acceptable values necessary to result in system designs having satisfactory
functional characteristics, durability, and operational suitability. It is
expected that the designer will strive for the best design to suit the
circumstances involved, and that designs will reflect sound professional
judgment at all times.
      110.1   Governing Regulations
      Ordinances and policies related to the design and operation of domestic
water systems include the following:
      1.   Subdivision Ordinance
      2.   Water and Sewer Rates
      110.2   Water System Design Criteria
      110.2.1   General Requirements
      110.2.1.1   In calculating line sizes for main loop lines, the future
development of the surrounding area will be considered and addressed in the
report.
      110.2.1.2   Domestic water design shall conform in size, location, and
arrangement to adopted plans. Governing plans may include, but are not limited
to, the approved area plan and City master plans. The City should be consulted
for information regarding applicable plans for areas under design
consideration.
      110.2.1.3   Pressure zone boundaries must be considered in the design of
all systems.
      110.2.1.4   Location of lines must be according to Primary Utility
locations in Exhibit 110-1. Deviations will require approval of the City.
      110.2.2      Sizing requirements in single-family and duplex developments
are as follows:
         a.   6 inches minimum.
         b.   An 8-inch line is required if loop lines are not provided at a
maximum interval of 1,200 feet.
         c.   Minimum 6-inch line to any fire hydrant.
         d.   Fire protection may require larger sizing.
         e.   Design flow rates for subdivision line sizing are as follows:
 
                           Average Maximum  
                           Daily           Hourly
(1) Single-family dwellings 425 gpd         1.8 gpm 1/2 acre and less
Greater than 1/2 acre       425 gpd         3.3 gpm
 
         (2)   Fire flow - See Section 110.6.1.6
         (3)   Commercial - Commercial water flow rates are highly variable.
They will be considered on an individual basis by the designer in his report.
      110.2.3      Sizing requirements for industrial/commercial and multi-
family developments are as follows:
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1629.png]
 
         a.   Typical 8 inches minimum.
         b.   Fire protection may require larger sizing. Determination is made
by the City.
      110.3   Alignment/Proximity To Other Utilities
      110.3.1 The main lines are to be located within public right of way
except as noted below, and aligned in accordance with the Primary Utility
locations of Exhibit 110-1. Water lines must be located so they can be
maintained without disturbing any sidewalk, curb, gutter or any other utility.
For lines within streets, the construction trench is required to be contained
totally within the paved roadway.
      110.3.2   If circumstances require location of water lines in other than
the location established by the Primary Utility locations, written approval of
the City and the utilities normally expected to occupy the revised location
must be obtained. Main lines may be located outside public right of way only
with prior written approval of the City and only within appropriate easements.
      110.3.3   If not in public right of way, the distribution line must be
located as follows:
         a.   In a paved, permanent access easement, including an easement for
the water line, or
         b.   In a planned green space with access suitable for maintenance
equipment and within an appropriate easement.
         c.   If 1 or 2 above is impossible because of prior platting, the
location will be handled as a special case.
         d.   A permanent easement must be granted for the exclusive use of
water and sanitary sewer. A minimum width easement of 20 feet is required for a
single utility and 25 feet for water and sewer, both within the same easement.
         e.   In private streets, Primary Utility locations apply where
possible.
      110.4   Valvinq (See Standard Detail S200-110.41W)
      110.4.1   Valve Placement.
      110.4.1.1   Spacing shall be 1,200 feet maximum between in-line valves
for lines 14 inches or smaller.
      110.4.1.2   At the intersection of water lines, all but one line must be
valved.
      110.4.1.3   Fire hydrant legs must be valved on lines 10 inches in
diameter and larger.
      110.4.1.4 The system valving must be arranged so that lines may be shut
down with a minimum number of valves and affecting the minimum service area.
Valving of the ultimate system looping must be such that no break will disrupt
service beyond the next valve location. System valving design should assure
that only the immediate area where the break occurs will suffer disruption of
water supply.
      110.4.1.5 Valve Location. Valves shall be located as shown on the
improvement plans. Valves for pressure connections of branches to existing
water lines will necessarily be adjacent to the existing line.
      110.4.1.6   Valve Types. Valves shall be AWWA C500 NRS gate valves.
      110.4.1.7   Valve Sizing. Valving must be line sized. Special tapping
valves shall be used with tapping sleeves.
      110.4.1.8 Air Relief Valves (Standard Detail S200-110.418W). Air relief
valves will be provided as determined by the designer and approved by the City.
      110.4.1.9   Pressure Reducing Stations. The City determines the need for
pressure reducing stations, their location, and the need for reduction of valve
sizing. Station design will generally be in conformance with Standard Details
S200-110.419W-A & B. The developer must provide any pressure reducing stations
required for his subdivision.
   Service Lines and Meters
   The metered service line is public through the tailpiece installed on the
private side of the meter. Normally, the tailpiece extends to the right-of-way
line in accordance with Standard Detail S200-110.51W.
      110.5.2   Sizing of the service line and meter is the responsibility of
the requesting party. The City will, upon request, provide information relative
to the flow characteristics of the various available metered sizes. However,
single-family dwelling units will generally utilize a 5/8" x 3/4" meter.
      110.5.3   The public portion of the service line including the setter and
box may be installed by either of two methods:
      110.5.3.1 The City will make the installations subsequent to formal
application and payment of all appropriate charges. If so desired, and
appropriate, the City will also install the meter at this time.
      110.5.3.2 An approved contractor may install the service line and/or
meter box as part of the subdivision development. This method requires an
approved set of construction plans showing service line and/or meter box
installation. The water mains and service lines must be completed, including
flushing and disinfection, and accepted formally in writing before the City
will install meters. In addition, unless special agreements for phasing have
been made, the entire subdivision has to be formally accepted in writing by the
City before the City will install a meter. Upon completion and acceptance of
the project, the City will install the meter subsequent to formal application
and payment of all appropriate charges.
      110.5.4   Typically meters 2 inches and smaller are located within the
public right of way behind the street curb.
      110.5.5   Meters 3 inches and larger require a permanent easement on the
landowner's property.
      110.5.6 Meters for any installation may only be installed by the City
subsequent to formal application and payment of all appropriate charges.
      110.5.7   All dwelling units must be individually metered.
      110.6   Fire Hydrant Protection
      110.6.1   General Information
      110.6.1.1 Sunland Park Fire Department experience, National Fire Codes,
Fire Insurance regulations and Water Works practices provide the hydrant
criteria which is used to determine required protection.
      110.6.1.2   Sunland Park's fire prevention policies are required to:
         a.   Attain adequate fire protection of life and property.
         b.   Achieve orderly development of the fire hydrant protection
system.
         c.   Set forth guidelines and rules for development of a fire hydrant
system.
      110.6.1.3 Fire hydrants are generally installed on mains when water lines
are extended according to spacing criteria that varies according to proposed
land use adjacent to the water line. These hydrants may have to be supplemented
with additional hydrants when actual development takes place. Cases also exist
where water lines have been extended through undeveloped areas or unplatted
land, and hydrants were not installed at the time of water line extension.
Necessary hydrants must be installed at the time of adjacent development.
      110.6.1.4 Fire hydrants are located within public right of way where
possible. The type, layout, and size of development may dictate location of
fire hydrants on private property.
      110.6.1.5 Each development must be analyzed for fire hydrant needs. Fire
hydrant requirements vary with the size and layout of the buildings, building
design and construction materials, and access from the proximity to the public
right of way.
      110.6.1.6 All required fire hydrants in residential development shall
provide proper fire flow (minimum of 750 gpm at minimum 20 psi residual
pressure from the 4-inch outlet). Water system design shall provide minimum
fire flow in residential areas of 750 gpm with minimum 20 psi residual each
from any two adjacent fire hydrants in the development (total fire flow of
1,500 gpm with minimum 20 psi residual). High density residential developments
(8 units per acre or more), commercial developments, apartment developments,
and industrial developments will require special studies to determine fire flow
requirements.
      110.6.1.7 Hydrants shall be installed in accordance with the City's
standards and policies and Standard Detail S200-110.617W and shall be available
for use prior to the beginning of development building construction.
      110.6.2   General Fire Hydrant Location Requirements for Fire Protection.
      110.6.2.1   Definitions:
         RESIDENTIAL: Single-family and two-family dwellings, duplexes,
triplexes, and mobile homes.
         LIGHT USE COMMERCIAL: Light industrial and shopping centers under
18,000 square feet, and apartments over 4 units (includes townhouses).
         HEAVY USE COMMERCIAL: Large industrial complexes, major shopping
centers, and apartment complexes over 18,000 square feet.
      110.6.2.2   Hydrant Spacing Requirements.
         a.   Development Areas (Street Measurement, Bonnet to Bonnet
            Residential   500 feet maximum between hydrants
            Light Commercial   500 feet maximum between hydrants Heavy
Commercial 300 feet maximum between hydrants
      In residential areas and mobile home parks, there shall be one hydrant at
each street intersection with intermediate hydrants so that no one home is more
than 275 feet from a hydrant.
         b.   New and Existing Individual Buildings in Sparsely Developed Areas
         Distance is measured as the fire equipment travels from the fire
hydrant to the structure. All distances given are maximum.
         Residential   275 feet
         Light Commercial   300 feet to the farthest portion of the building
         Heavy Commercial 300 feet to the farthest portion of the building
      110.6.3   Hydrants shall be installed at the developer's expense
including:
         a.   Extension of City-owned water lines in accordance with City
policies.
         b.   Addition of fire hydrants to existing water lines.
         c.   Private fire lines.
         d.   All costs of incidental items (e.g., removal and replacement of
existing improvements).
      110.7   Materials
      110.7.1   All construction shall conform to the Standard Details and the
      110.7.2   Subdivision Regulations unless otherwise approved by the City
            All construction shall conform to the New Mexico Standard
Specifications for Public Works Construction, as modified herein, unless
otherwise approved by the City.
      110.7.3   Pipe (push on type only).
         a.   Polyvinylchloride (PVC) per AWWA C-900.
         b.   Ductile Iron Pipe (DIP).
         c.   Cast Iron Pipe (CIP).
      110.7.4   Valves and Valve Boxes and Fire Hydrant.
         a.   Valves shall be installed as per Standard Detail S200-110.41W.
         b.   Gate Valve - per AWWA C500 for buried service, nonrising stem
double disc, bronze trim.
         c.   Valve Box - traffic type, cast iron, per Standard Details.
         d.   Fire Hydrants - per AWWA C502 traffic type, 51/4-inch main valve
size, 2 - 21/2-inch and 1 - 41/2-inch nozzles with National Standard fire hose
threads and nozzle caps. Chrome yellow. Mueller Centurion fire hydrants shall
be used exclusively in the City of Sunland Park.
      110.7.5   Miscellaneous Appurtenances.
         a.   Water Line Fittings - cast or ductile iron.
      Concrete Blocking - See Standard Detail S200-110.75W.
         b.   Control Valves - pressure reducing, pressure sustaining, air and
vacuum release, etc. Shall be Clayton, Golden Anderson Industries or Engineer
approved equivalent.
      110.8   Installation Methods
      1.   Trenching and backfilling per standard specifications or pipe
manufacturer's recommendation or Standard Details S200-109.323SS.
      2.   Compaction Testing - one test every 500 feet minimum. Backfill in
road will require compaction tests every 200 feet.
      110.9   Testing and Disinfection of Water Lines
      1.   Testing - Pressure test and leakage test per AWWA C600.
      2.   Disinfection per AWWA C601.
      110.10 In the case of conflict or discrepancy between these regulations,
Standard Details, and NMSSPWC, these documents will govern in the following
order of priority:
      1.   Subdivision Regulations
      2.   Standard Details
      3.   NMSSPWC
      4.   Other reference specifications
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1631.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1633.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1635.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1637.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1639.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1641.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1643.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1645.png]
 
(Ord. 1987-15, 8-4-1987)
8-1-21: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Water Use For Fire Protection: In order to assure proper operation of
fire hydrants, no water shall be drawn through any fire hydrant for any other
purposes than fire protection, except as provided by special permit from the
City.
   B.   Inadequate Main Line: In the event the City's main line is inadequate
to provide fire hydrant service as required by the customer, Section
8-1-16 of this Chapter shall govern provision of such service.
   C.   Providing Fire Hydrant: The City shall provide the fire hydrant,
however, in subdivisions approved by the City after the effective date hereof,
the fire hydrants shall be provided and installed by the developer or
subdivider. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985)
8-1-22: FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE:
   A.   Request For Private Service: A customer desiring private fire
protection service, in addition to regular water service, shall make such
request in writing to the City prior to commitment of the project to
construction.
   B.   Separate Piping System; Meter Pit: If the water main facilities are
available for such service as determined by the City, the customer will
install, at his own expense, a complete and separate piping system extending
and connecting to the City's facilities. This will include a meter pit of
sufficient size to house the necessary valves, meters, piping, etc., all of
which shall be as specified by the City Engineer. The location of this pit will
be determined by the City Engineer.
   C.   Metering Furnished By City: The City will furnish the necessary
metering at the expense of the customer.
   D.   Inadequate City Mains: In the event the City's water mains are
inadequate to provide the requested fire protection service or if extension of
a main is required, Section
8-1-16 of this Chapter shall govern provision of such service. (Ord. 1985-01,
3-5-1985)
8-1-23: LARGE USERS OF WATER:
   A.   Consult City For Advice: Before proceeding with the purchase of any
equipment which will necessitate the use of large quantities of water within
short periods of time, the City shall be consulted for advice as to the best
method of installation and for information concerning the conditions under
which the water will be supplied to the premises of the customer.
   B.   City Right To Impose Limitations: The City reserves the right to limit
the size of service connections or openings through which its service is
furnished for filling storage tanks, hydraulic equipment, private fire service,
irrigation, or other classes of service capable of drawing relatively large
quantities of water and thereby causing undue fluctuations of pressures in
portions of the City's system. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985)
8-1-24: WATER SERVICE TO SERIOUSLY ILL PERSONS:
The City will not terminate water service to any residence where a seriously
ill person resides; provided, that:
   A.   Letter Regarding Health Of Customer: A letter from a practitioner of
the healing arts stating that discontinuance of service might endanger that
person's life or health is filed with the City and such letter is updated and
filed with the City every sixty (60) days thereafter; and
   B.   Affidavit Regarding Income Of Customer: An affidavit in a form approved
by the City is filed with the City by the customer stating that he is without
income or property sufficient to pay water charges and no one in the residence
has sufficient income or property to do so and said affidavit is updated and
filed with the City every sixty (60) days thereafter. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985;
amd. 2000 Code)
8-1-25: PENALTY:
In addition to, and not exclusive of, any other penalties herein, any violation
of this Chapter shall be punishable as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Every day that any such violation continues constitutes a
separate offense. (Ord. 1985-01, 3-5-1985; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WASTEWATER AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-2-1: Title
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-3: Unpolluted Discharges To Sewers Prohibited
8-2-4: Drainage Discharge
8-2-5: Untreated Discharges Prohibited
8-2-6: Unauthorized Disposal; Privies And Septic Tanks
8-2-7: Toilet Facility And Service Connections
8-2-8: Extraterritorial Hookups
8-2-9: Private Sewage Disposal
8-2-10: Building Sewers
8-2-11: Use Of Public Sewers
8-2-12: User Fees
8-2-13: Sewer Line Extensions
8-2-14: Sanitary Sewer Design Criteria
8-2-15: Access To Private Property For Inspection
8-2-16: Incorporation Of Requirements Into Contract
8-2-17: Penalties And Remedies
8-2-1: TITLE:
The provisions of this Chapter shall be known as the SEWER USE ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY OF SUNLAND PARK, NEW MEXICO. (Ord. 1985-14, 1-21-1986)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ASTM: The American Society for Testing Materials.
BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand):   The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter by standard methods procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C) expressed in milligrams per
liter (mg/I).
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COD (Denoting Chemical Oxygen Demand):   The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic and inorganic matter under standard laboratory
procedure by the dichromate reflux method expressed in milligrams per liter.
CITY: The City of Sunland Park, New Mexico.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
HEALTH OFFICER: Any person or his authorized representative so appointed by the
City or any New Mexico Environmental Improvement Agency representative charged
with approval or inspection of public or private wastewater facilities.
INDUSTRIAL LIQUID WASTES: All waterborne solids, liquids or gaseous wastes
resulting from any industrial manufacturing or food processing operation or
process, or from the development of any natural resource or any mixture of
these with water or domestic sewage as distinct from normal domestic sewage.
INTERFERENCE WITH ANY WASTEWATER FACILITY: Any condition or combination of
conditions which cause degradation of the operational efficiency of a
wastewater facility.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER:   Waterborne wastes normally discharging from the
sanitary conveniences of buildings, including apartment houses and hotels,
office buildings, factories and institutions, free from storm surface water and
industrial wastes. Normal domestic wastewater shall mean "normal" for the City
of Sunland Park, New Mexico.
pH: The logarithm, to the base ten (10), of the reciprocal of the weight of
hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, political or governmental subdivision,
association, society, corporation or group.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties shall have
equal rights and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: The public sewer portion of a wastewater facility which
transports wastewater and to which storm, surface and ground water are not
intentionally admitted.
SETTLEABLE SOLIDS: Those solids which settle during a preselected period of
time expressed as milliliters per liter of sample.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL; MAY: The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration or flow during normal
operation.
STANDARD METHODS: The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition, at
the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater as prepared, approved and published jointly by the "American Public
Health Association" and the "American Water Works Association" and the "Water
Pollution Control Federation".
STORM SEWER: A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage, but
excludes wastewater and polluted industrial wastes.
SUPERINTENDENT: The Superintendent of the Wastewater Department of the City of
Sunland Park, New Mexico or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
TRAP: A device for retaining sand, silt, grit, mineral material, petroleum
solvent, grease or oil by gravity-differential separation from wastewater and
of a design and capacity approved by the City.
UNPOLLUTED PROCESS WATER: Any water or waste containing none of the following:
free of emulsified grease or oil; acid or alkali, phenols or other substances
imparting taste and odor to receiving water; toxic substances in suspension,
colloidal state or solution; and noxious or odorous gases.
WPCF: The Water Pollution Control Federation.
WASTEWATER: The used water of a community. Such used water may be a combination
of the liquid and waterborne wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants and institutions.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
transport and treat wastewater liquid and dispose of the effluent.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous with waste
treatment plant or wastewater treatment plant.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 1985-14, 1-21-1986; amd. 2000 Code)
8-2-3: UNPOLLUTED DISCHARGES TO SEWERS PROHIBITED:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. (Ord.
1985-14, 1-21-1986)
8-2-4: DRAINAGE DISCHARGE:
Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet
approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm sewer or
natural outlet. (Ord. 1985-14, 1-21-1986)
8-2-5: UNTREATED DISCHARGES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the City or in
any area under the jurisdiction of the City any sewage or wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 1985-14, 1-21-
1986)
8-2-6: UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL; PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS:
Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewage. (Ord. 1985-14, 1-21-1986)
8-2-7: TOILET FACILITY AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Mandatory Connection: The owner of all houses, buildings or properties
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or similar purposes situated
within the City and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which
there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of
the City is hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter,
within ninety (90) days after date of official notice to do so; provided, that
such public sewer is within one hundred feet (100') of the property line.
   B.   Service Line Connection To Public Line:
      1.   The owner of such property shall extend or cause to be extended the
owner's sewer service line from such toilet facilities and connect it to the
service line provided by the City in the street.
      2.   The owner shall excavate a trench for placement of the service line
and uncover the public line, backfill and compact the trench, and repave the
surface. When no connecting outlet has been provided in the public collector
line by the City, the City, at the owner's expense, will connect the service
line to the public line.
      3.   When a connecting outlet has been provided by the City in the public
collector line, the owner shall provide a connection into the public line and
such connection shall be made only by a licensed plumber at the cost of the
owner.
      4.   The owner at his option may request the City to make such connection
and the City shall bill the owner for the cost and the owner shall pay the City
therefor.
   C.   Repair And Maintenance By Owner; Permission From City:
      1.   The owner shall be responsible for the repair and maintenance of the
sewer service line running from his toilet facilities to the connection with
the City-owned collector line in the public way.
      2.   Should the owner find it necessary to clean out or expose the
owner's sewer service line that lies within the public way in order to clear
the service line of stoppages or otherwise maintain the service line, the owner
shall excavate and uncover the service line in the public way, backfill and
compact the trench and repave the surface at the owner's cost.
      3.   The owner shall not engage in any such maintenance or cleaning of
the service line in the public way except upon prior notice to and approval by
the Public Works Department of the City.
      4.   No backfilling and compacting of the trench or repaving of the
surface of the street in which the owner's service line lies shall be done
without prior notice to the Public Works Department and permission from the
Public Works Department.
      5.   Any such backfilling, compacting and repaving of the surface of the
street shall be done under the supervision and with the approval of the Public
Works Department.
      6.   In the event the owner fails to properly perform such functions, the
Public Works Department shall perform the functions and bill the owner the cost
thereof. (Ord. 1993-06, 6-7-1993)
8-2-8: EXTRATERRITORIAL HOOKUPS:
Residential, commercial and industrial properties situated outside the City
limits may be connected via building sewers to available sewers or future
sewers upon application and agreement to abide by the provisions of this
Chapter and upon approval of the City. (Ord. 1985-14, 1-21-1986)
8-2-9: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Permitted When Public Sewer Not Available: Where a public sanitary
sewer is not available under the provisions of this Chapter, the building sewer
shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the
provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Permit; Fee: 1 tj
      1.   Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the Superintendent.
      2.   Application For Permit: The application for such a permit shall be
made on a form furnished by the City which the applicant shall supplement by
any plans, specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent.
      3.   Permit And Inspection Fee: A permit and inspection fee shall be paid
to the City at the time the application is filed.
   C.   Inspection:
      1.   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent.
      2.   He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any state of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions
are covered.
      3.   The inspection shall be made within seventy two (72) hours of the
receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   D.   Design Requirements; Restrictions:
      1.   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all requirements and recommendations of the
Environmental Improvement Division of the State.
      2.   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet.
      3.   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   E.   Conversion To Public Sewer On Availability: At such time as a public
sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage disposal
system, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this Chapter and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with clean soil, sand or
gravel.
   F.   Operation; Maintenance: The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no
expense to the City.
   G.   Chapter Not To Limit Reasonable Requirements of Health Officer: No
statement contained in this Chapter shall be construed to interfere with any
additional reasonable requirements that may be imposed by the appropriate
health officer. (Ord. 1985-14, 1-21-1986)
8-2-10: BUILDING SEWERS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent. (Ord. 1985-
14, 1-21-1986)
   B.   Permit Classes; Applications; Fees:
      1.   Classes Of Permits: There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer
permits: a) for residential and other service; and b) for service to
establishments producing industrial wastes.
      2.   Application For Permit: In either case, the owner or his agent shall
make application on a special form furnished by the City. As a minimum, the
application for the permit shall be in writing and shall contain the following
information: a) name and address of applicant; b) name and address of owner of
the premises where the connection is to be made and where drain or line is to
be laid; c) location of the proposed connection, drain or sewer pipe; d)
statement as to the type of connection and type of materials to be discharged
into the sewer; e) statement as to whether the connection is to be made to the
storm sewer or to the sanitary sewer. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent.
      3.   Permit And Inspection Fee: A permit and inspection fee in the sum of
forty dollars ($40.00) for a residential, other or industrial sewer permit
shall be paid to the City at the time the application is filed.
      4.   Permit Issuance: If the proposed connection does not violate any
provision herein and does not violate any other ordinance or resolution of the
City, the Superintendent shall issue a permit for such connection.
      5.   Permit Information; Conditions: Such permit shall contain all
information required of the applicant and shall specify the type and kind of
grease traps and sand traps to be used.
      6.   Tap Fee: At the time of granting the permit, the applicant shall pay
a tap fee for connection to the sewer. This tap fee shall be separate and
distinct from any sewer utility expansion charges called for by other governing
ordinances. The amount of this tap fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00)
which shall be the minimum tap fee and the City shall keep a record of time and
materials and factor a thirty percent (30%) overhead charge. If the sum of
time, materials and overhead exceeds two hundred dollars ($200.00), the
applicant shall pay the excess. (Ord. 1985-14, 1-21-1986; amd. Ord. 1987-05, 5-
19-1987; Ord. 1988-08, 7-6-1988)
   C.   Costs; Indemnification:
      1.   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
      2.   The owner shall indemnify the City against any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building
sewer including, but not limited to, pavement replacement.
      3.   All connections to the City sewer system must be made by a licensed
plumber, subject to the supervision, inspection and approval of the City
Superintendent, and in compliance with the New Mexico Plumbing Code.
   D.   Separate Building Sewers Required: A separate and independent building
sewer shall be provided for every building; except where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   E.   Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this Chapter.
   F.   Design Requirements; Compliance With Codes: The size, slope, alignment,
and materials of construction of a building sewer and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench
shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or
other applicable rules and regulations of the City and State.
   G.   Gravity Flow Or Lift: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be
brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all
buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by
an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
   H.   Connection Of Storm Water, Drains: No person shall make connection of
roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of
surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   I.   Connection Procedures Generally: The connection of the building sewer
into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and
plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the City or the
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF
Manual of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and
watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and material must be
approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   J.   Final Inspection: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall
notify the Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent or his representative.
   K.   Safety And Protective Measures For Excavations: All excavations for
building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and
lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways,
and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored
in a manner satisfactory to the City.
   L.   Abandonment Of Connections: No person shall abandon any building
connection without first obtaining a written permit therefor. Such building
connection shall be effectively sealed with a vitrified clay stopper inserted
in the bell of the sewer extending to the property line, which stopper shall be
joined as directed by the Superintendent.
   M.   Digging Up Of Streets And Alleys; Permit: No person shall in any way
interfere with the employees of the City in any discharge of their duties in
the tapping of any sewer pipe, main or lateral. No person shall dig up or cause
to be dug up any street or alley in the City for the purpose of connecting with
the sewer system of the City, and no person shall connect with or tap into the
sewer system of the City without first obtaining a permit, and no person having
a permit shall dig up any portion of any street or alley of the City for the
purpose of connecting with the sewer system of the City and thereafter fail or
neglect to place the street or alley in its original condition. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall assess the fee or fees required by City ordinance for the
repair of the street surface which was disturbed in connecting to the sewer
system.
   N.   Prohibition Against Depositing Wastes: No person shall deposit or
permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property
within the City or within any area within the jurisdiction of the City any
human or animal excrement wastes.
   O.   Prohibition Against Damaging System: No person shall maliciously,
wilfully or negligently break, damage or destroy, uncover, deface or tamper
with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the public
sewer system. (Ord. 1985-14, 1-21-1986)
8-2-11: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial
process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Prohibited Substances: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described liquids or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any wastewater facility, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works, including, but not
limited to, cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter (2 mg/I) as CN in
the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
      3.   Any herbicides and pesticides.
      4.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the wastewater facility.
      5.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facility such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
      6.   Any amount of the following heavy metals:
Antimony
Arsenic
Barium
Beryllium
Bismuth
Boron
Cadmium
Chromium (Hexa)
Chromium (Tri)
Cobalt
Copper
Iron
Lead
Manganese
Mercury
Molybdenum
Nickel
Rhenium
Selenium
Silver
Strontium
Tellurium
Tin
Uranylion
Zinc
      7.   Dilution of toxic materials and heavy metals in lieu of removal not
acceptable.
   C.   Discharges Subject To Regulation: No person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged the following described substances, materials, waters or wastes
if it appears likely in the opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can
harm the wastewater facility or equipment, have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
materials of construction of the sewers, nature and capacity of the wastewater
facility, degree of treatability of wastes in the wastewater treatment works
and other pertinent factors. The substances which must be considered include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, grease, wax or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/I) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (0 and
65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder larger than those normally manufactured
and sold for residential and noncommercial use will not be installed without
specific review and approval by the Superintendent.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions cannot be discharged to the wastewater facility
unless completely neutralized and approved by the Superintendent for discharge.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing reducing substances of an organic or
inorganic nature, toxic or nontoxic, which exert an immediate chlorine demand
not be discharged into the wastewater facility if discharge of agents will
prevent the achievement of an adequate chlorine residual in the effluent of the
wastewater treatment works.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits established by the
Superintendent after treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the
requirements of the State, Federal or other public agencies of jurisdiction for
such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentrations as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State and Federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chlorine and sodium
sulfate).
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         c.   Unusual chemical oxygen demand, or biochemical oxygen demand, or
chlorine requirements in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on
the wastewater treatment works.
         d.   Slugs or shocks constituting an unusual volume of flow or
concentration of wastes which will disturb the normal functioning of the
wastewater facility.
      10.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment works employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the effluent cannot meet the
requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving
waters.
   D.   Superintendent's Discretion:
      1.   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in this Section, and which in the
judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the
wastewater facilities, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard
to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         a.   Reject the wastes,
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, or
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge.
      2.   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the designation and installation of the plants and equipment shall
be subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and State and
subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   E.   Testing Industrial Waste: Testing an industrial waste will be performed
at least twice a year or whenever found necessary by the Superintendent. The
person discharging the waste shall be liable for payment of all costs arising
from the testing of the industrial waste.
   F.   Grease, Oil And Sand Traps: Grease, oil, and sand traps shall be
provided when, in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients, except, that such traps
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All traps
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
Grease and oil traps shall be installed in all new filling stations, garages,
restaurants, and other new facilities wherein heavy discharge of grease and oil
is to be expected.
   G.   Maintenance Of Preliminary Treatment And Flow-Equalizing Facilities:
Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any
industrial liquid wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
   H.   Waste Meters; Manholes:
      1.   When required by the superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial liquid wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes.
      2.   Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
constructed in such a manner as to prevent infiltration of ground and surface
waters and constructed in accordance with plans approved by the superintendent.
The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall be
maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
Methods Of Testing; Location Of Test Site: All measurements, tests and analyses
of the characteristics of waters and wastes shall be determined in accordance
with the latest edition of "Standard Methods" and shall be determined at the
control manhole provided or upon suitable samples taken at such manhole. The
control manhole shall be located so that sampling of the industrial waste will
be performed before discharge into the public sewer system.
   J.   Sampling And Analysis Methods: Sampling shall be carried out by
customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
wastewater treatment works and to determine the existence of hazards to life,
limb, and property. The particular analyses involved will determine whether a
twenty four (24) hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always,
COD, BOD, and settleable solids analyses are obtained from twenty four (24)
hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab
samples.
   K.   Access For Sampling: The superintendent shall be allowed access to the
properties of all sewer users as necessary to sample, test, and measure all
wastewater discharges. Failure to allow such access may, at the city's
discretion, be the basis for discontinuance of water service to the property to
which access is denied. (Ord. 1985-14, 1-21-1986)
8-2-12: USER FEES':
   A.   Establishment Of Equitable User Fees:
      1.   Purpose: The governing body of the city shall take the necessary
steps to establish an equitable system of user fees. The purpose hereof is that
each individual user shall pay an equitable portion of the city's cost of
owning the wastewater facilities plus an equitable portion of the total
operation and maintenance costs. (Ord. 1985-14, 1-21-1986)
      2.   Minimum Charge Or Fixed Fee For Residential Users, Calculation Of
Additional Charge Based On Water Flow:
         a.   The minimum charge or fixed fee for residential, small commercial
and large commercial and industrial users of the sewer system and for which up
to seven thousand (7,000) gallons per month of water may be discharged to the
sewer system shall be nine dollars ninety five cents ($9.95) per month which
shall be the charge based on the fixed cost of being connected to the sewer
system as set out in this section.
         b.   The volume of water used per month charge shall be in addition to
the minimum charge or fixed fee and shall be two dollars ($2.00) per month for
each one thousand (1,000) gallons of water used after seven thousand (7,000)
gallons. (Ord. 1988-08, 7-6-1988; amd. Ord. 04-02, 1-20-2004)
   B.   Fee Computation For Single-Family Homes: For single-family homes, the
user fees shall be computed as follows:
UC = A + (K) (V)
Where UC = Monthly user charge fee in dollars per month.
A = Fixed charge in dollars per month for being connected to the sewer system
whether or not any wastewater is discharged to the system and for which up to
seven thousand (7,000) gallons per month of water may be discharged to the
sewer system.
      1.   See also chapter 3 of this title.
K = Basic charge in dollars per month made per thousand gallons of water used
per month above the seven thousand (7,000) gallons per month allowed by paying
the fixed charge.
V = Volume of water used per month in thousands of gallons above the seven
thousand (7,000) gallons per month allowed by paying the fixed charge; based on
the average water consumption for the months of October through February,
inclusive, and becoming effective for each user for a twelve (12) month period
beginning with the city's billing for the month of January; if actual water use
measurements are not available, this value shall be established by the city on
the basis of estimated water use for the building being served.
   C.   Fee Computation For Other Users: For all other users, the user fees
shall be computed as follows:
UC = A + (K) (V)
Where UC and K are as previously defined.
V = Volume of water used per month in thousands of gallons above the seven
thousand (7,000) gallons per month allowed by paying the fixed charge; if
actual water use measurements are not available, this value shall be
established by the city on the basis of expected water use for the buildings
being served. (Ord. 1988-08, 7-6-1988)
   D.   Industrial Surcharge: A surcharge will be assessed against persons
discharging industrial liquid wastes which are of a greater strength than
normal untreated domestic wastewater. "Normal untreated domestic wastewater" is
defined as having a maximum yearly average chemical oxygen demand not in excess
of four hundred milligrams per liter (400 mg/I) and a settleable solids level
not in excess of five milliliters (5.0 ml) per liter. The monthly industrial
surcharge shall be computed from the following formulation:
SR = Surcharge in dollars per month; such surcharge being in addition to the
monthly user charge.
Vi = Volume of water used per month in thousands of gallons.
Kss = Charge in dollars per month made per thousand gallons of water used for
wastes of normal COD concentration.
SS = Settleable solids concentration of the industrial waste in milliliters per
liter; shall not be less than five (5) for computation of the surcharge.
COD = COD concentration of the industrial waste in milligrams per liter; shall
not be less than four hundred (400) for computation of the surcharge.
Kss and KCOD shall be computed by the city to reflect the city's estimation of
the respective costs of treating the settleable solids and COD components of
normal wastewater. To compute KSS and KCOD, the following formula shall be
utilized:
K = Kss + KCOD + Kv
Where K, Kss and KCOD are as previously defined.
Kv = The estimated portion of K which may be attributed to the processing of a
thousand gallons of wastewater independent of treatment or renovation of that
wastewater.
   E.   Charges For Extraneous Flows: Cost for operation and maintenance for
all flow not directly attributable to users (i.e., infiltration/inflow) shall
be distributed among all users in the same manner as the cost for their actual
use.
   F.   Access Of City To Water Utility Records Of User: For the purpose of
assessing equitable user fees, any person engaging wastes to the sanitary
sewers shall permit access by the city to water utility records for that
person's property. (Ord. 1985-14, 1-21-1986)
   G.   Standby Charges: Where vacant, uninhabited or unused land abuts city
sewer within one hundred feet (100') thereof, the owner or lessee shall pay a
sewer standby charge to the city as provided in the most current sewer rate
schedule ordinance. (Ord. 1987-05, 5-19-1987)
   H.   Faulty Or Broken Water Meter, Estimate: In the event of the stoppage
of, or the failure by any water meter to register the full amount of water
consumed, or inaccessibility of meter, or failure by the city to read the
meter, the customer will be billed for such period based on an estimated normal
consumption for corresponding
April 2005
City of Sunland Park
8-2-12   8-2-12
periods in the preceding year or years, or consumption in preceding months.
   I.   Private Water System; Measurement Of Water Use: Where any person,
business or industry is connected to the public sewer system but utilizes a
private water system, such person, business or industry shall allow the city to
install water meters to measure the water usage from the private water system.
The meters shall be provided by the city and installed at the cost of the sewer
user. The water usage from the private water system shall be used as the volume
of water consumed for the purposes of computing the service charge for the
person, business or industry. This is an alternative method for establishing
sewer service fees and the city, in its discretion, may instead assess sewer
fees based on a use of one hundred thousand (100,000) gallons per year for a
single family. Such person, business or industry shall allow employees of the
city to come onto the property and read the water meter at all reasonable
times.
   J.   Monthly Payments Required: The sewer charges levied pursuant to this
section shall be payable monthly, in conjunction with the monthly water bill
rendered by the city. Properties outside the city shall pay a surcharge of
fifty percent (50%) of and in addition to the monthly charge. If bills are not
paid within ten (10) days after the due date, a late penalty of ten percent
(10%) of the amount past due shall be paid. Sewer charges shall be stated
separately on the combined water and sewer bill.
   K.   Fee Schedules Established: The city council shall, at a future date
prior to beginning sewer services, establish by ordinance the specific service
fee schedules to be charged. (Ord. 1985-14, 1-21-1986)
   L.   Review Of Rates: The city council shall review all wastewater
facilities operation, maintenance and replacement or expansion costs and user
rates at a minimum frequency of every two (2) years. If necessary, user rates
shall be revised in accordance with the results of the review. (Ord. 1987-05,
5-19-1987)
   M.   Annual Increase: All rates, including minimum and variable rates, shall
be increased by four percent (4%) or adjusted for inflation annually from the
current seventy five percent (75%) to one hundred percent (100%) of the
consumer price index (percent Dec. - Dec.), whichever is greatest, and an
additional two percent (2%) increase over the current rate will be added
annually, U.S. department of labor, bureau of statistics, CPI-U, all items,
unless otherwise acted upon by the municipal governing body. This annual
increase to become effective based on April 9, 2009. (Ord. 04-02, 1-20-2004;
amd. Ord. 09-01, 3-17-2009)
8-2-13: SEWER LINE EXTENSIONS:
Whenever an extension of the city sewer line is required to serve an applicant,
or group of applicants, extension will be made under the following terms and
conditions by the applicant:
   A.   Sizing; Costs: All line extensions shall be sized to provide adequate
service. In the event that the city system plan requires a larger line size
than is required to serve the applicant's needs, the applicant will not be
required to absorb the difference in investment between the applicant's
required line size and the line size required by the plan; but in no event
shall the extension costs to applicant be based on lines smaller than those
needed for applicant's domestic service. The city shall be the sole judge of
proper line sizing in any new construction and shall be the sole judge of the
line size cost to the applicant.
   B.   Costs Paid By Applicant: The investment in the line extension required
to serve the applicant's domestic requirements as specified above will be paid
in total by the applicant requesting the line extension.
   C.   Right-Of-Way And Easements: All lines will be constructed in existing
public roads, streets, city owned lands, alleys or easements. The applicant
shall furnish such rights of way in the form of duly executed easements without
charge to the city and shall assist the city in securing other rights of way
necessary to provide service over property not owned by said applicant.
   D.   Special Conditions: Special conditions which affect the furnishing of
sewer service to an applicant or group of applicants such as elevation,
terrain, volume required in existing mains, and other conditions resulting in
increased costs to the city in providing sewer service shall be taken into
consideration by the city and the cost thereof shall be added to the tapping
fee. (Ord. 1985-14, 1-21-1986)
8-2-14: SANITARY SEWER DESIGN CRITERIA:
There is hereby adopted the following exhibit A requiring engineering design
reports for each project, which shall describe existing conditions and
problems, and describe the proposed solution, which shall be followed by all
persons seeking to connect to the sanitary sewer system of the city:
Exhibit A, "Sewer Facilities Construction Standards", prepared for the city by
Molzen-Corbin Consulting Engineers.
SECTION 109
SANITARY SEWER DESIGN CRITERIA
This section presents the criteria, standards, and regulations related to the
design of sanitary sewer systems for general development service. It does not
cover the criteria for design of major interceptor sewers or treatment
facilities. The material is directed to the competent design professional and
is not intended to be a detailed design handbook. Criteria and standards
presented are those determined to be the minimum acceptable values necessary to
result in system designs having satisfactory function characteristics,
durability, and operational suitability. It is expected that the designer will
strive for the best design to suit the circumstances involved, and that designs
will reflect sound professional judgment at all times.
   109.1   Governing Regulations
Ordinances and policies related to the design and operation of sanitary sewer
systems include the following:
      1.   Subdivision Ordinance
      2.   Sewer Use Ordinance (Ordinance 85-14)
      3.   Sewer and Utility Expansion Charge Rates
      109.2    Areawide Wastewater Collection and Treatment Facilities
      109.2.1    Plan
      109.2.1.1   
   Engineering Design Criteria
   Design Capacity Criteria
   Off-site flows will be considered by the designer and shown in
   this design calculation.
109.2.1.2 Sanitary sewer design shall conform in size, location, and
arrangement to adopted plans. Governing plans may include, but are not limited
to, the approved area plan and City Master Plan. The City should be consulted
for information regarding applicable plans for areas under design
consideration.
   109.2.1.3   In residential areas, the following design flows will be used
per house, apartment, townhouse, or mobile home:
Average   Peak
Houses   380 gpd   855 gpd
Apartments, mobile   290 gpd   650 gpd homes, townhouses
109.2.1.4 Commercial sewage flows will be considered on a case-bycase basis by
the designer. The designer will present the basis for the commercial sewage
flow used in his design calculations.
   109.2.1.5   Design flow shall be 1.2 x peak flow.
   109.2.1.6   Design is for full pipe flow at the design flow.
      109.2.1.7 Manning's Formula is to be used for determination of pipe flow
velocities and capacities using a value for Manning's "n" = 0.013.
         a.   Peak velocity - Velocity at peak flow conditions.
         b.   Average velocity - Velocity at average flow conditions.
      109.2.1.8   Minimum velocity in sewer shall be 2.0 fps. Maximum velocity
shall be 10 fps.
      109.2.1.9   Minimum collector size allowable is 8 inches.
      109.2.2   Manhole Criteria. (See Standard Details 5200-109.22SS-A, B, and
C)
      109.2.2.1 Manholes must generally be located on the center line of street
right of way or of street width if the street is not concentric with the right
of way. Manholes for straight lines in curved streets may be located as much as
5 feet off from center line of street or right of way; however, required
clearances from other utilities must be maintained. The offset of such manholes
is to be dimensioned from center of manhole barrel to the center line of the
street or right of way.
      109.2.2.2   Standard minimum manhole depth is 6.0 feet, measured from rim
to invert, unless otherwise approved by City.
      109.2.2.3   The required inside diameter for a manhole is determined as
follows:
         a.   Minimum inside diameter is 4.0 feet.
         b.   6.0 feet minimum inside diameter manholes to be used where
indicated on the improvement plans.
      109.2.2.4   Flow will not be permitted to change in direction
horizontally by more than 90° in a manhole.
      109.2.2.5 The minimum drop through a manhole will be 0.10 feet except in
the case of a single line straight through manhole in which case the normal
slope of the line shall be maintained. Where flows converge at a manhole, the
inverts should be designed to produce a smooth water surface at design flow
with no backwater conditions in any of the incoming lines.
      109.2.2.6   The maximum distance between manholes allowed is 350 feet.
      109.2.2.7   Cleanouts will not be allowed in lieu of manholes on the
sewer system unless approved by the City.
      109.2.3   Line Criteria
      109.2.3.1 Sanitary sewer materials and installation methods must comply
with the requirements set forth in the New Mexico Standard Specifications for
Public Works Construction (as modified herein) and Standard Details.
      109.2.3.2   Minimum line size allowed: 8 inch inside diameter.
      109.2.3.3   Curvilinear sewer lines will not be acceptable.
      109.2.3.4 Sections of line that are flat relative to the upstream line
are to be avoided. As much as possible, continuous flow velocity and capacity
will be provided. The energy gradient should slope generally parallel to the
slope of the invert with no abrupt changes or slopes opposite to the direction
of flow.
      109.2.3.5   Line depth should be sufficient to provide gravity service to
property contiguous to the line. Additional depth may be required to provide
service. Generally, house services shall be a minimum of 2 feet below finished
floor elevation, measured at a point on the finished floor edge farthest from
the sewer main.
      109.2.3.6   The main lines are to be located within public right of way
except as noted in Section 109.2.3.7 following and are to be aligned in
accordance with the Primary Utility locations, Exhibit 109-1. Where the Primary
Utility locations do not apply, the following criteria apply:
EXHIBIT 109-1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1647.png]
 
         a.   The New Mexico Department of Public Health policy on the
proximity of water and sewer lines: "whenever possible, it is desirable to lay
parallel water and sewer lines at least 10 feet apart horizontally, and the
water line should be a higher elevation than the sewer. If this is not
possible, separate trenches will be required in all cases (this shall be
effective even though one line has been installed prior to the other), and the
water line shall be at least 2 feet above the sewer. When water and sewer lines
cross each other, the water line shall be at least 3 feet above the sewer;
otherwise, the sewer shall be of ductile iron pipe". A preferred alternative is
encasement in concrete for 10 feet on each side of the water line. If ductile
iron pipe is used, it must be run from manhole to manhole. See Standard Details
S-200-109.236SS and S-200-109.323SS.
         b.   Main lines must be located so they can be maintained without
disturbing any sidewalk, curb, gutter, or any other utility. The required
trench must be totally within the paved roadway.
         c.   Written approval of the City must be obtained for any deviations
from the Primary Utility locations.
      109.2.3.7   Sanitary sewer main lines may be located outside public right
of way only under the following conditions:
         a.   Prior written approval is given by the City.
         b.   The main line must be located as follows:
            (1)   In a paved, permanent access easement, or
            (2)   In a planned green space with access suitable for sewer line
maintenance equipment.
            (3)   If (1) and/or (2) above are impossible due to prior platting,
the situation will be handled as a special case.
         c.   A permanent easement will be granted for exclusive use of water
and sanitary sewer. It must be possible to excavate any buried water or
sanitary sewer with 1:1 side slopes from the bottom of the pipe, without
disturbing any sidewalk, curb and gutter, or any other utility. The required
trench must be totally within the paved roadway and the exclusive underground
easement. A minimum width easement of 20 feet is required for a single utility
and 25 feet for water and sewer.
         d.   Compliance with the New Mexico Department of Public Health policy
on the proximity of water and sewer lines must be achieved.
         e.   In private streets, Primary Utility locations apply where
possible.
      109.2.4   Trenching and Backfillinq. Trenching shall be performed in
accordance with improvement plans and specifications. Trenching shall be of
sufficient depth and width to properly install the pipe. Padding or bedding
material to be placed around pipe shall be a finely graded material free of
rocks in excess of one inch in diameter and shall be free of any sharp objects
and deleterious material. Bedding material shall be compacted around the pipe
and at least 6 inches above the pipe. The remainder of the backfill material
shall be select material compacted to a density of at least 90% of the maximum
density as determined by ASTM D1557. When located under roads, sidewalks, etc.,
the top 6 inches of ditch backfill shall be compacted to a minimum density of
95% of maximum density as determined by ASTM D1157. The above trenching and
backfilling methods shall apply to all utility lines (sewer, water, gas, etc.)
installed in the subdivision. See Standard Drawing S200-109.323SS.
      109.2.5   Service Connections (private collection systems and individual
service connections).
      109.2.5.1 Four inch (4") minimum size service connections must be made to
the main line (Standard Detail S200-109.251SS) except at the end of cul-de-sacs
where connection to a manhole is permitted in the manner shown in Standard
Detail S200-109.25SS.
      109.2.5.2   Six inch (6") service connections are permitted where a 6-
inch tee in the main exists.
      109.2.5.3 Four inch (4") mechanical taps are permitted to tappable main
lines 8 inches and larger. Mechanical taps must conform to the requirements of
the New Mexico Plumbing Code, latest edition.
      109.2.5.4   All service connections shall have a minimum slope of 1/
4 inch per foot toward the main within the public right of way.
      109.2.6   Sewage Lift Stations
      109.2.6.1   Sewage lift stations shall be set pit type, with submersible,
easily-removable sewage pumps.
      109.2.6.2   The lift station shall have 100% standby capability with one
pump out of service at peak flow.
      109.2.6.3   Sized for a maximum of four (4) pump starts per hour.
      109.2.6.4   In order to provide standardization for maintenance and
repair parts, pumps shall be Flygt brand.
      109.2.6.5   Lift station controls shall be supplied by pump manufacturer.
      109.3   Construction Criteria
      109.3.1   General. Any special crossing permits or easements required for
installation of sewer lines or appurtenances are to be obtained by the
developer in the name of the City at the developer's expense.
      109.3.2   Materials
      109.3.2.1 All construction shall conform to the Standard Details and the
Subdivision Regulations unless otherwise approved by the City.
      109.3.2.2 All construction will conform to the New Mexico Standard
Specifications for Public Works Construction as modified herein, unless
otherwise approved by the City.
      109.3.2.3   Sewer Lines
         a.   Materials
            (1)   DIP - ASTM/ANSI A746, push on joints.
            (2)   PVC - Gravity sewer lines 18 inches and larger, ASTM F697
and/or UNI-89, 15 inches and smaller, ASTM D3034, SDR 35.
            (3)   Force Mains
               (a) PVC - AWWA C900 pressure Class 150 minimum.
               (b) DIP - AWWA C151
         b.   Installation
            (1)   Trenching and backfilling per pipe manufacturer's
instruction/recommendations, or Standard Detail S-200-109.323SS.
            (2)   Testing - Compaction testing required every 500 feet.
Backfill in road will require compaction testing every 200 feet.
   109.3.2.4   Manholes
         a.   Materials - See Standard Details.
         b.   Installation - See Standard Details.
   109.3.2.5   Lift Stations
         a.   Type - Wet pit manhole type with hinged cover and submersible
pumps on slide rail for easy removal. Sewage piping in lift station to be
ductile iron.
         b.   Installation - Shutoff valves and check valves to be external to
the lift station.
   109.2.3.6   Service Connections
         a.   Types - In-line service tees or wyes to be provided on new sewer
lines.
         b.   Installation - See Standard Details.
   109.2.3.7   Testing of Service Lines. Refer to New Mexico Standard
Specifications for Construction of Public Works.
    109.2.3.8 In case of conflict or discrepancy between these regulations,
Standard Details, and NMSSPWC, these documents will govern in the following
order of priority:
      1.   Subdivision Regulations
      2.   Standard Details
      3.   NMSSPWC
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1649.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1651.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1653.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1655.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1657.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1659.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1661.png]
 
(Ord. 1987-05, 5-19-1987; amd. 2000 Code)
8-2-15: ACCESS TO PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR INSPECTION:
Employees of the City shall be allowed access to any private property connected
to the public sewer system at all reasonable times for the purpose of
inspecting the construction, maintenance and operation of the system. No person
shall interfere with such access. (Ord. 1985-14, 1-21-1986)
8-2-16: INCORPORATION OF REQUIREMENTS INTO CONTRACT:
All requirements contained in this Chapter shall be considered a part of the
contract of every person utilizing the sewage disposal system, every person
shall be considered as having expressly consented to be bound thereby. (Ord.
1985-14, 1-21-1986)
8-2-17: PENALTIES AND REMEDIES:
   A.   Penalties; Continuing Violations: Every person convicted of a violation
of this Chapter shall be punished as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day this Chapter is violated shall constitute a
separate offense. The conviction and punishment of any person for a violation
shall not excuse or exempt such person from the payment of any fee due or
unpaid at the time of such conviction and nothing herein shall prevent a
criminal prosecution of any violation of the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord.
1985-14, 1-21-1986; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Remedies Cumulative; Liens:
      1.   All remedies prescribed or liens created hereunder or under the
provisions of the law for collection and enforcement of the fees by the City
shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this Chapter. The fees authorized by this Chapter shall be a lien
in favor of the City upon the real property served and the personal property of
the person used in connection with the sewer use which gave rise to the fee and
such lien shall be imposed, collected, enforced, and paid as provided by the
law. No property of any persons shall be exempt from levy and sale on execution
issued for the collection of a judgment for any fee imposed by this Chapter.
      2.   If any bill for sewage charges remains unpaid for sixty (60) days, a
lien on the property receiving the sewage service shall be filed by the City
Clerk-Treasurer, as provided by New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-36-1 et
seq., and shall be released only upon payment of the charges plus interest as
provided by law.
   C.   Disconnection Of Service: For violations of this Chapter, and
specifically for failure to pay tap fees, user fees or other charges, the City
may disconnect the violator's water service and refuse to provide water service
to the violator until assurances satisfactory to the City are provided by the
violator that such violations shall cease. (Ord. 1985-14, 1-21-1986)
CHAPTER 3
MISCELLANEOUS WATER AND SEWER CHARGES
SECTION:
8-3-1: Utility Expansion Charge
8-3-2: Pro Rata Cost Sharing; Line Extensions Or System Improvements
8-3-3: Pro Rata Cost Sharing Exceptions
8-3-4: Service To Multiple Units
8-3-5: Outside City Service; Rates And Billings
8-3-6: Utility Assistance Program
8-3-1: UTILITY EXPANSION CHARGE:
   A.   Charges Established: At the time of application for each connection to
the sewerage disposal system or the water system by any premises located inside
or outside the Municipal boundaries, a utility expansion charge, hereinafter
referred to as the "UEC" shall be paid in full based on the following
schedules:
      1.   Water UEC:
Water Service Meter Size      Water UEC
5/8 x 3/4 inch         $400.00
1 inch            500.00
2 inch            600.00
3 inch            600.00
4 inch            800.00
6 inch            800.00
      2.   Sewerage Disposal UEC:
         Sewerage Service Type         Sewerage UEC
         Domestic or residential per meter      $ 400.00
         Commercial per meter            1,000.00
      3.   Additional Charge: The UEC is in addition to all other fees and
charges heretofore or hereafter established by ordinances and resolutions.
   B.   Exception: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the UEC
shall not be charged to premises used and occupied continuously from and after
January 1, 1984, for household domestic or commercial purposes inside the
Municipal boundaries of the City as such boundaries existed on January 1, 1984.
   C.   Disposition Of Funds: All funds collected as a result of the UEC shall
be placed in a separate account to be used for financing the expansion of the
City water and sewer system. (Ord. 1986-15, 4-1-1986)
8-3-2: PRO RATA COST SHARING; LINE EXTENSIONS OR SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Financing Of Construction:
      1.   Property owners shall be responsible for the equivalent cost of
water and/or sewer lines that are accessible to or can serve the property:
         a.   The cost of eight inch (8") water and/or sanitary sewer lines
shall be assumed for land zoned to allow and proposed to be used for residences
which are single-family detached, townhouses, duplexes or triplexes served by
common or individual meters; and mobile homes served by individual meters.
         b.   The cost of twelve inch (12") water and/or sanitary sewer lines
shall be assumed for all other land.
      2.   In situations not covered by other policies herein, the cost of
design and construction of water and sewer lines will be paid for by the
petitioner or property owner.
      3.   Master Plan water and sanitary sewer lines in sizes ten inches (10")
and larger shall be installed as follows:
         a.   Master Plan lines when installed primarily for the purpose of
facilitating the use of any existing Master Plan facilities by completion of a
portion of the Master Plan system, will be installed by the City.
         b.   Master Plan lines requested in advance of funding in the capital
improvement program or unprogrammed Master Plan line extensions of either water
lines or sanitary sewer lines may be designed and constructed only if the
petitioner advances the estimated cost. If applicable, the equivalent cost of
lines as set forth in subsection Al of this Section will be prorated as
provided herein. Upon receipt from the intervening property owner of the
prorated design and construction cost of the line serving the intervening
abutting property, the person financing the original cost of the Master Plan
line shall be reimbursed that prorated share without interest.
   B.   Increase In System:
      1.   This policy applies to any petitioner who proposes development
which:
         a.   Would require water and/or sanitary sewer line construction,
reconstruction or replacement in order to meet the increase in anticipated
domestic water and/or sanitary sewer usage or in order to meet required fire
flows beyond available system capacities, as determined by the City Engineer;
or
         b.   Would require shoestring extension of the water system that could
not provide standard City service, as determined by the City Engineer; or
         c.   Would require construction of major facilities for water system
production, storage and distribution, or for pumping and collection facilities
for sewage treatment works, which major improvements would be needed in advance
of funding called for in the capital improvements program.
      2.   Development of such water and/or sewer system improvements shall be
accomplished by:
         a.   Design and construction supplied by petitioner through City
turnkey procedure; or
         b.   Funds for design and construction advanced to the City by the
petitioner; petitioner shall be reimbursed by the City for the facilities' cost
in excess of those costs for which petitioner is otherwise obligated.
Reimbursement, without interest, will be made when such system facilities are
approved as City projects in the capital improvements program and are funded,
whether through sale of bonds or otherwise.
   C.   Criteria For Apportionment Of Charges: In those situations where the
property owner may be responsible for part or all of the cost of main lines,
sewer collector lines and water distribution lines, the following criteria
shall be used in determining the extent of such responsibility:
      1.   Generally:
         a.   The property may be either improved or unimproved;
         b.   Water and/or sewer lines must adjoin the property or be otherwise
accessible to it;
         c.   The line(s) must be able to service the property, i.e., proper
size, proper elevation, pressure, etc.;
         d.   The present or future use of the property must indicate a
necessity for water and/or sewer service;
         e.   In determining the use of the property, there shall be taken into
consideration the highest and best use for which the property may be reasonably
and legitimately adapted whether it be present or future use. However, any such
future use must be more than merely speculation or conjecture. Factors to be
taken into consideration in making this determination are:
            (1)   Size of the property.
            (2)   Present use.
            (3)   Future use.
               (A) Zoning.
               (B) Platting.
               (C) Development and relationship of surrounding area.
               (D) Growth patterns.
               (E) Access.
               (F) Adopted City/County plans.
               (G) Other.
      2.   The method of determining such charge may be on a front foot, area
or other equitable basis. The City Engineer shall determine the actual cost
based on the ordinances of the City; however, the City Council reserves the
right to make a final determination.
   D.   Residential Zoned Property With Water And/Or Sewer Lines On More Than
One Side:
      1.   The charge is to be based upon the shortest side of the lot
adjoining such line unless service is to be taken from more than one line, then
the charge shall be for all such lines connected to.
      2.   In the event the property is unsubdivided or unplatted, it will be
assumed to be divided to provide seven (7) dwelling units per acre.
      3.   In the event the lines are not installed concurrently, then the
charge is to be based upon the first line installed.
      4.   The cost of installation of such water and sewer lines that are
exempted herein shall be prorated among the other properties benefited
therefrom.
   E.   Other Property That Has Water And/Or Sewer Lines On More Than One Side:
Such property shall be charged for all adjoining lines as provided for herein.
   F.   Loop Lines And Fire Protection: Notwithstanding the provisions herein,
if water loop lines or lines for fire protection are necessary to provide
adequate service and/or fire protection to the property, it shall be charged
for such lines.
   G.   Pro Rata: Under some circumstances the City or a private developer may
advance the cost of installation of main lines, water distribution or sewer
collector lines for which abutting or accessible property owners may be
obligated under these policies to contribute a portion of the cost. When such
obligation arises, the property owner shall pay to the City the appropriate pro
rata share of the installation cost at the time application for service
connection permits are made.
   H.   Method Of Determining Pro Rata Share: Pro rata share of total costs
shall be based on an equitable method of determining benefit which may include
a front foot, area or other equitable method. (Ord. 1987-15, 8-4-1987)
8-3-3: PRO RATA COST SHARING EXCEPTIONS: Notwithstanding
any provision to the contrary herein, pro rata cost sharing shall not be
required of public school educational facilities development or of Municipal
facilities development owned and operated by the City. (Ord. 1987-15, 8-4-1987)
8-3-4: SERVICE TO MULTIPLE UNITS:
   A.   Require Separate Meters: The City may in its discretion require a
customer to separately meter for water and sewer each living unit (each
apartment, condominium, townhouse, mobile home, manufactured home, hotel/motel
living unit, or single-family dwelling).
   B.   Master Water Meter Or Single Sewer Tap: Should a customer desire a
master water meter or a single sewer tap to serve more than one dwelling unit,
this may be approved by the City in its discretion; provided, that the customer
pays certain charges based upon each dwelling unit having a meter or
connection.
   C.   Water Charges: The current ordinances relating to the water system of
the City require for a water service permit, a fee to be paid for connection or
tapping, a meter deposit and a utility expansion charge. A customer who
receives authority to install a master meter to serve with water service more
than one living unit or more than one commercial unit or combination of living
unit and commercial unit, shall pay an amount equal to the number of units
multiplied by the connection or tapping fee, meter deposit or utility expansion
charge plus any other applicable fees or charges.
   D.   Sewer Charges: The current ordinances relating to the sewer system of
the City require for a sewer service permit or sewer tapping permit a fee to be
paid for connection or tapping to the sewer system, and a utility expansion
charge. A customer who receives authority to install a sewer line to be
connected to the City line which sewer will serve more than one living unit or
more than one commercial unit or combination of living unit and commercial unit
shall pay an amount equal to the number of units to be served by that line
multiplied by the sewer connection or tapping fee and the utility expansion
charge plus any other applicable fees or charges. (Ord. 1992-11, 11-4-1992)
8-3-5: OUTSIDE CITY SERVICE; RATES AND BILLINGS:
   A.   Out Of City Service; Exhibit Adopted By Reference: For each connection
to the sewerage disposal system or the water system by any premises located
outside the Municipal boundaries, the rates, charges and terms and conditions
of service shall be as attached to Ordinance 1996-07, on file in the office of
the City Clerk-Treasurer, and incorporated as if fully set out herein. Said
attachment is a binder of materials consisting of one hundred twenty four (124)
pages and labeled Exhibit A as was enforced by Santa Teresa Services Company as
of August 26, 1996.
   B.   Sewer Service Rate: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
subsection A of this Section, applicable to all single-family, duplex, triplex
or quadruplex residential sewer service ratepayers with one water meter sized
one inch (1") or less used to measure water consumption upon which the sewer
rates are calculated, monthly charges for sewer service will be in accordance
with the following: for premises located outside the Municipal boundaries for
service beginning October 1, 1996:
Category Meter Size Commodity Customer Charge Per 1,000 Gallons Maximum Charge
                    Charge
Category      Meter Size Commodity Customer Charge Per 1,000 Maximum Charge
                         Charge             Gallons
Single-family 3/4 inch   $7.61              $0.92            $25.00
              1 inch     8.38               0.92             25.75
Duplex        3/4 inch   7.61               0.92             40.00
              1 inch     8.38               0.92             40.75
Triplex       3/4 inch   7.61               0.92             55.00
              1 inch     8.38               0.92             55.75
Quadruplex    3/4 inch   7.61               0.92             64.00
              1 inch     8.38               0.92             64.75
 
And for general metered service to such properties, the monthly charge for
sewer service will be in accordance with the following:
         1 1/2 inch      $ 9.93   $0.92   None
         2 inch      11.59    0.92   None
         3 inch      13.24    0.92   None
         4 inch      14.87    0.92   None
         6 inch      18.13    0.92   None
   C.   Water And Sewer Billing: The final water and sewer services bills for
premises located outside the Municipal boundaries to close the billing cycle
for Santa Teresa Services Company shall be mailed on or about September 15,
1996. The initial bills from the City for such premises shall be mailed on or
about November 1, 1996, for the previous approximate forty five (45) day period
and thereafter billed monthly. (Ord. 1996-07, 9-5-1996)
8-3-6: UTILITY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM:
   A.   Every citizen who can meet the following criteria may be eligible for a
reduced water and sewer utility rate:
      1.   Must be a resident of the City of Sunland Park.
      2.   The resident in whose name the utility bill is in must be age fifty
(50) or older.
      3.   The qualified person must have an income of less than eighty percent
(80%) of the median income for the City.
      4.   The resident must have had the utility billing in his or her name
for two (2) consecutive years or longer.
   B.   Every citizen who meets the above listed criteria will be eligible for
a reduction in the water and sewer rate equal to the minimum rate charged by
the City. If a resident meets the listed criteria, and the resident requests
that the Utility Assistance Rate be applied to him or her, then the City
Manager shall approve the request. If a resident meets only three (3) of the
criteria then the request shall be subject to approval by both the Mayor and
the City Manager at their discretion. If either the City Manager or the Mayor
do not approve the request, it may be appealed to the City Council, who may
approve the request. The approval of the Utility Assistance Program will have a
duration of one (1) year. The approval shall expire in twelve (12) months from
the approval date. The resident must request a new approval every year and must
meet the criteria every year. (Res. 2011-46, 10-7-2011)
CHAPTER 4
REBATE PROGRAM FOR LOW VOLUME PLUMBING FIXTURES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Rebate Program
8-4-3: Use In New Construction
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases have the following meanings when used in this
chapter:
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Any construction for which a building permit is required
including industrial, commercial and residential. The installation of a mobile
home is also considered new construction. (Ord. 04-05, 4-20-2004)
8-4-2: REBATE PROGRAM:
It shall be the responsibility of the city's water and wastewater operator to
administer this program. The program shall consist of a one time rebate of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for every new low volume toilet installed in a
retrofit fashion. The rebate shall be awarded as a reduction in the water bill.
The director of the water and wastewater department shall approve every
retrofit rebate once proof is given that the proper toilet has been purchased
and installed. The director shall cause an inspection of the premises to be
conducted by a staff member prior to the issuance of the rebate. (Ord. 04-05,
4-20-2004)
8-4-3: USE IN NEW CONSTRUCTION:
No toilet used in new construction shall be eligible for this rebate program.
(Ord. 04-05, 4-20-2004)
CHAPTER 5
STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
8-5-1: Authority and Purpose
8-5-2: Applicability
8-5-3: Administration
8-5-4: Duties and Responsibilities of Director of Public Works
8-5-5: Definitions
8-5-6: General Prohibitions
8-5-7: Specific Prohibitions and Requirements
8-5-8: Release Reporting and Cleanup
8-5-9: Storm Water Discharge from Construction Activities
8-5-10: Authority to Pursue Administrative Remedies
8-5-11: Criminal Penalties and Other Remedies
8-5-12: Authority to Issue Criminal Citations
8-5-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This Chapter is adopted in accordance with the authority granted by the
New Mexico Water Quality Act and the United States Clean Water Act. Under the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) established by the
Clean Water Act (33 USC § 1342), the City is required to obtain a permit for
storm water discharges from its Municipal Separate Strom Sewer System (MS4). In
2007 the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued an NPDES Final
General Permit (Federal Register Volume 72, Number 113, Page 32654) for Small
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems in New Mexico under which the City has
obtained permit authorization for its storm water discharges. The permit
requires the City to adopt an ordinance that prohibits non-storm water
discharges into the MS4 and requires construction site operators to control
erosion, sediment and wastes.
   B.   The purpose of this Chapter is to promote the elimination or reduction
of pollutants that enter the MS4 and to establish control over discharges to
and from the MS4. It shall also be the purpose of this Chapter to:
      1.   Maintain and improve the quality of surface water and groundwater
within the City limits;
      2.   Prevent the discharge of contaminated storm water runoff from
industrial, commercial, residential, and construction sites into the MS4,
channels, watercourses, water and waters of the U.S.;
      3.   Promote public awareness of the hazards involved in the improper
discharge of hazardous substances, petroleum products, household hazardous
waste, industrial waste, sediment from construction sites, and other
contaminants into the MS4, channels, watercourses, water and waters of the
U.S.;
      4.   Minimize destruction of the natural landscape by reducing erosion
and sedimentation;
      5.   Control the adverse impacts associated with accelerated storm water
runoff on natural channels and watercourses and all MS4 structures due to
increased development and creation of new impervious surfaces;
      6.   Minimize erosion and degradation of channels and watercourses and
improve their condition where possible;
      7.   Respect, protect, maintain, and restore natural channels and
watercourses, wetlands, bisques, floodplains, steep slopes, riparian
vegetation, and wildlife habitat areas;
      8.   Facilitate compliance with state and federal standards and permits
by owners and operators of construction sites;
      9.   Enable the City to comply with all federal and state laws,
regulations and permits applicable to storm water discharge; and
      10.   Protect the health and welfare of and improve the quality of life
for the citizens and residents of the City. (Ord. 2013-04, 6-18-2013)
8-5-2: APPLICABILITY:
This Chapter shall apply to any human activity, operation and/or practices, or
any condition caused by human activity, that results in a discharge to the MS4
or a channel, water course, water or waters of the United States. (Ord. 2013-
04, 6-18-2013)
8-5-3: ADMINISTRATION:
The Director of Public Works or designee shall administer and coordinate the
implementation and enforcement of the provisions of the Chapter. (Ord. 2013-04,
6-18-2013)
8-5-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS:
Duties and responsibilities of the Director of Public Works or designee shall
include, but are not limited to the following:
   A.   Be the guardian of the MS4, including but not limited to dams,
detention and retention basins, storm drains, outlets, pumping stations,
channels, watercourses, water, and waters of the U.S. within the City;
   B.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this Chapter;
   C.   Review and approve or disapprove Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plans
(SWPPP) required by this Chapter;
   D.   Supervise the operation and maintenance of the MS4 to ensure its safe
and effective functioning and notify the appropriate staff of any required
maintenance and/or repair work;
   E.   Establish and implement a program to locate and eliminate illicit
discharges and improper disposals to the MS4; and
   F.   Establish and implement a program to control pollutants in storm water
discharges from construction activities. (Ord. 2013-04, 6-18-2013)
8-5-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose this Chapter, the following words shall have the meaning set
forth in this Section. The following terms, when used in this Chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
AGRICULTURAL STORM WATER RUNOFF: Any storm water runoff from orchards,
cultivated crops, pastures, range lands, and other non-point source
agricultural activities, but not discharges from concentrated animal feeding
operations as defined in 40 CFR Section 122.23 or discharges from concentrated
aquatic animal production facilities as defined in 40 CFR Section 122.24.
APPROVE, APPROVED OR APPROVAL: Approve, approved, or approval, when used in the
context of the City approving a SWPPP, only means the City accepts the SWPPP as
meeting the minimum requirements of this Chapter. No other representation shall
be implied.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions or
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to prevent or
reduce the discharge of pollutants to the MS4 and waters of the United States.
BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices
to control site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or
drainage from raw material storage.
BMPs: See Best Management Practices.
CERTIFIED PROFESSIONAL IN EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL: A Certified
Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control (CPESC).
CFR: See “Code of Federal Regulations”.
CHANNEL: A natural or artificial watercourse, including arroyos, streams,
swales, ditches and diversions with a definite bed and banks that conveys
flowing water continuously or periodically.
CLEAN WATER ACT: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act originally enacted in
1948, amended numerous times, included substantial amendments called the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 and the Water Quality
Act of 1987, and other subsequent amendments collectively known as the Clean
Water Act (CWA). The CWA establishes the basic structure for regulating quality
standards for surface waters.
CLEARING: The removal of surface vegetation without disturbance of the root
system.
CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS: The codification of the general and permanent
rules published in the Federal Resister by the executive departments and
agencies of the Federal Government. All references to "CFR" are to specific
Parts, Sections, Tables, or Appendices of the Code of Federal Regulations, as
amended.
COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES: The initial disturbance of soils
associated with clearing, grading, or excavating activities or other
construction-related activities (e.g. stockpiling of fill material).
COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT: A construction activity that is completed in
separate stages, separate phases, or in combination with other construction
activities. A common plan of development (also known as a "common plan of
development sale") is identified by the documentation for the construction
project that identifies the scope of the project and may include plats,
construction drawings, marketing plans, contracts, building permits, a public
notice or hearing, zoning requests, or similar documentation and activities.
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY:
   A.   Any activity that:
      1.   Disturbs equal to or greater than one (1) acre of total land area;
or
      2.   Disturbs less than one (1) acre of total land area but is part of a
larger common plan of development that will ultimately disturb equal to or
greater than one (1) acre of area (For example, construction of a single-family
residence on one lot in a subdivision where the developer and all builders
combined will disturb one (1) acre or more); or
      3.   Disturbs at least five thousand (5,000) square feet but less than
one (1) acre of total land area and is for a non-resident development.
   B.   The following land disturbing activities shall be included in
calculating the area disturbed by a construction activity.
      1.   Off-site extensions of utilities and roads to serve the development
being constructed; and
      2.   Batch plants, borrow areas, spoil areas and contractor laydown and
parking areas that are used solely to support the construction activity and do
not support multiple construction activities for which a separate NPDES permit
would be required.
   C.   Construction activity does not include routine maintenance that is
performed to maintain the original line, grade, hydraulic capacity, or original
purpose of the site.
CONTAMINATED: Containing a harmful quantity of pollutant.
CPESC: See “Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control”.
CWA: See “Clean Water Act”.
DETENTION BASIN (DETENTION POND): A water-storage facility that gradually
releases water by means of an outlet with the goals of controlling peak
discharge and providing gravity settling of pollutants.
DEVELOPMENT: An activity involving property improvement and, usually, a change
in land use character and storm water runoff characteristics.
DISCHARGE: Any addition or introduction of any pollutant, storm water, or any
other substance whatsoever into the MS4, channels, watercourses, water, or
water of the U.S.
DISCHARGER: Any person who causes, allows, permits, or is otherwise responsible
for, a discharge including, without limitation, any operator of a construction
site.
DISTURBED AREA: An area of land where the soil surface is or will be altered by
grading, leveling, scraping, cut and fill activities, excavation, brush and
timber clearing, grubbing and construction vehicle operations and/or movement.
DOMESTIC SEWAGE: Human excrement, gray water (from home clothes washing,
bathing, showers, dishwashing, and food preparation), other wastewater from
household drains, and waterborne waste normally discharged from the sanitary
conveniences free from industrial waste, to include commercial enterprise.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY: The United States Environmental Protection
Agency, the regional office thereof, any federal department, agency, or
commission that may succeed to the authority of the EPA, and any duly
authorized official of EPA or such successor agency.
EPA: See “Environmental Protection Agency”.
EROSION: The dislodging and transport of soil particles, or mass movement of
soil (mass wasting), by water, wind, gravity or other mechanical means.
EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN: A plan indicating the specific measures and
sequencing to be used controlling sediment and erosion on a development site
both before, during and after construction.
EROSION CONTROL: Measures that prevent, reduce, or mitigate erosion.
EXTREMELY HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE: Any substance listed in the Appendices to 40 CFR
Part 355, Emergency Planning Notification.
FINAL STABILIZATION: Means that:
   A.   All soil disturbing activities at the site have been completed and
either of the following two (2) criteria is met:
      1.   A uniform (e.g. evenly distributed, without large bare areas)
perennial vegetation cover with a density of seventy percent (70%) of the
native background vegetative cover for the area has been established on all
unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures; or
      2.   Equivalent permanent stabilization measures (such as the use of
riprap, gabions, or geotextiles) have been employed.
   B.   Or, all soil disturbing activities at the site have been completed and
all of the following criteria have been met:
      1.   Temporary erosion control measures (e.g. degradable erosion control
product) are selected, designed, and installed along with an appropriate seed
base to provide erosion control for at least three (3) years without active
maintenance;
      2.   Temporary erosion control measures are selected, designed, and
installed to achieve seventy percent (70%) vegetation cover within three (3)
years;
      3.   The NMED Surface Water Quality Bureau is notified by submitting the
information required in the NPDES Construction General Permit Conditions
Applicable to the State of New Mexico; and
      4.   The temporary erosion control measures are inspected and properly
maintained a minimum of once per year and in accordance with the NPDES
Construction General Permit Conditions Applicable to the State on New Mexico
until the criteria of subsection A. (above) for final stabilization has been
met.
   C.   For individual lots in residential construction, final stabilization
means that either:
      1.   The homebuilder has completed final stabilization as described in
subsections A., B., and C. above; or
      2.   The homebuilder has established temporary stabilization, included
perimeter controls for an individual lot, prior to occupation of the home by
the homeowner and informs the homeowner of the need for the benefits of final
stabilization.
   D.   For construction projects on land used for agricultural purposes (e.g.
pipelines across crop or range land, staging areas for road construction,
etc.), final stabilization may be accomplished by returning the land to its
preconstruction agricultural use. Disturbed areas that were not previously used
for agricultural activities, such as buffers strips immediately adjacent to
open channels, watercourses, water, or waters of the U.S., and areas that are
not being returned to their preconstruction agricultural use must meet the
final stabilization criteria in the above subsections.
FIRE DEPARTMENT: The City Fire Marshal of Fire Services Department, or any duly
authorized representative thereof.
GARBAGE: Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, storage, sale,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
GRADING: An excavation, fill or combination thereof, including clearing and
grading.
GRUBBING: The removal of stumps and roots.
HARMFUL QUANTITY: For purposes of this Chapter, discharges of any substance in
a quantity determined to be harmful to the public health, public welfare, of
the environment. To include discharges of such products of sufficient quantity
to:
   A.   Violate applicable water quality standards;
   B.   Cause a film or sheen upon or discoloration of the surface of the water
or bordering ground or cause a sludge or emulsion to be deposited beneath the
surface of the water or upon adjoining banks;
   C.   Cause any damage to the MS4;
   D.   Interfere with the operation of the MS4, such as sediment.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE: Any substance designated as hazardous in 40 CFR Part
302.4.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any substance identified or listed as a hazardous waste by the
EPA in 40 CFR Part 261.
HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE (HHW): Any material generated in a household
(including single and multiple residences, hotels and motels, bunk houses,
ranger stations, crew quarters, camp grounds, picnic grounds, and day use
recreational areas) by a consumer which, except for the exclusion provided in
40 CFR Section 261.4(b) (1), would be classified as a hazardous waste under 40
CFR Part 261.
ILLICIT DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the MS4 that is not composed entirely of
storm water, except discharges pursuant to a NPDES permit (other than the NPDES
permit for discharges from the MS4) and discharges resulting from fire fighting
activities.
MINIMIZE: Means reduce and/or eliminate to the extent achievable using control
measures that are technologically available and economically practicable and
achievable in light of best industry practices, as established in the NPDES
Construction General Permit and Effluent Limitation Guidelines and Standards
for the Construction and Development Point Source Category (40 CFR Part 450,
published in Federal Register, Vol. 74, No. 229, page 62996 on December
1,2009).
MOTOR VEHICLE FLUID: Any vehicle crankcase oil, antifreeze, transmission fluid,
brake fluid, differential lubricant, gasoline, diesel fuel, gasoline/alcohol
blend, and any other fluid used in a motor vehicle.
MS4: See “Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System”.
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): The system of conveyances
(including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, flood control dams,
retention and detention basins, grate and/or curb inlets, curbs, gutters,
ditches, man-made channels, arroyos, agriculture drains, storm drains or
designated flow paths) owned, operated or controlled by the City and designed
or used for collecting or conveying storm water, and which is not used for
collecting or conveying sewage.
NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM: The permitting system
established by the Clean Water Act for all discharges to waters of the U.S. and
administered by the EPA.
NEW MEXICO ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT: The state department that is responsible for
promoting a safe clean and productive environment through implementing
environmental programs and regulations within the State of New Mexico.
NMED: See “New Mexico Environment Department”.
NOI: See “Notice of Intent”.
NOT: See “Notice of Termination”.
NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI): The document that must be filed with EPA, when
required, for the construction general permit.
NOTICE OF TERMINATION (NOT): The document that must be filed with EPA, when
required, for the construction general permit.
NPDES: See “National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System”.
NPDES GENERAL PERMIT FOR STORM WATER DISCHARGES FROM CONSTRUCTION SITES (OR
NPDES CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PERMIT): The permit issued by the EPA under the
authority of the CWA to regulate the discharge of pollutants from construction
activities. The permit is revised and reissued by the EPA at regular intervals.
Construction Site Operators regular intervals. Construction Site Operators
obtain authorization under the permit to discharge storm water from their
construction activity by preparing a Strom Water Pollution Prevention Plan and
submitting a Notice of Intent to the EPA.
NPDES PERMIT:    A permit issued by EPA (or by the state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 USCS Section 1342 (b)) that authorizes the discharge
of pollutants to waters of the U.S., whether the permit is applicable to an
individual, group, or general basis.
OPERATOR: In general, the person operating a facility or activity that is
subject to the Chapter. In the context of storm water discharges from
construction activities, any and all persons associated with a construction
project that meet either of the following two (2) criteria;
   A.   The person has operational control over construction plans and
specifications (including the ability to make modifications to those plans and
specifications), typically but not always the owner or developer of the
project; or
   B.   The person has the day-to-day operational control of those activities
at a construction project that are necessary to ensure compliance with a Storm
Water Pollution Prevention Plan for the site or other permit conditions (e.g.
they are authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities
required by the SWPPP or comply with other permit conditions), typically but
not always the contractor.
For a construction activity, the Operator may be one (1) person that meets both
of the above criteria or may be two (2) persons, each of which meets one (1) of
the above criteria.
OWNER: The person who owns a facility or activity or part of a facility or
activity that is subject to this Chapter.
PERMIT: Any duly authorized permit for construction issued by the City of any
authorization that includes soil disturbance.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns or individual who has control over day to day activities. This
definition includes all federal, state, and local governmental entities.
PETROLEUM PRODUCT: A product that is obtained from distilling and processing
crude oil and that is capable of being used as a fuel for the propulsion of a
motor vehicle or aircraft, including motor gasoline, gasohol, other alcohol
blended fuels, aviation gasoline, kerosene distillate fuel oil, and No. 1 and
No. 2 diesel.
PETROLEUM STORAGE TANK (PST): Any one (1), or combination of, aboveground or
underground storage tanks that contain petroleum products and any connecting
underground pipes.
PHASING: A construction BMP that is sequencing construction activities to
disturb areas of the site, on parcels of land in distinct areas of the project,
with the stabilization of each area before the disturbing the next.
POLLUTANT: Generally, any substance introduced into the environment that
adversely affects the usefulness of a resource of the health of humans, animals
or ecosystems. Pollutants may be, but are not limited to dredged spoil, solid
waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, rubbish, sewage sludge, munitions,
chemical waste, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or
discarded equipment, rock, sand, dirt, and industrial, municipal, and
agricultural waste discharged into water. The term "pollutant" does not include
tail water or runoff water from irrigation or storm water runoff from
cultivated or uncultivated range land, pasture land, and farm land.
POLLUTION: The alteration of the physical, thermal, chemical, or biological
quality of, or the contamination of, any water in the state that renders the
water harmful, detrimental, or injurious to humans, animal life, vegetation, or
property, or to the public health, safety, or welfare, or impairs the
usefulness of the public enjoyment of the water for any lawful or reasonable
purpose.
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: A person who has been duly licensed and registered by
the State Board of Licensure for Professional Engineers to engage in the
practice of engineering in the State of New Mexico.
PST: See “Petroleum Storage Tank”.
QUALIFIED PERSONNEL: Persons who possess the appropriate competence, skills,
and ability (as demonstrated by sufficient education, training, experience,
and, when applicable, any required certification or licensing) to perform a
specific activity in a timely and complete manner consistent with the
applicable regulatory requirements and generally-accepted industry standards
for such activity.
RCRA: See Resource Conservation Recovery Act.
RELEASE: Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing into the MS4,
channels, watercourses, water, or the waters of the U.S. or onto the ground
that is not authorized by an NPDES of RCRA permit.
REPORTABLE QUANTITY (RQ): For any "hazardous substance," the quantity
established and listed in Table 302.4 of 40 CFR Part 302 and for any "extremely
hazardous substance," the quantity established in 40 CFR Part 355 and listed in
Appendix A thereto.
RESOURCE CONSERVATION AND RECOVERY ACT (RCRA): The congressional Act under
which the Environment Protection Agency issues rules, regulations and permits
to address municipal, industrial, hazardous, medical and special wastes and
underground storage tanks that store petroleum or certain chemical products.
RETENTION BASIN (OR RETENTION POND): A water-storage facility that has no
outlet for storm events with a one hundred (100) year return period or more
frequent.
RUBBISH: Solid waste, excluding food waste and ashes, from homes, institutions
and workplaces.
RUNOFF: Water from rain, snowmelt or irrigation that flows over the land
surface and does not infiltrate into the ground.
SANITARY SEWER (OR SEWER): The system of pipes, conduits, and other conveyances
which carry waste sewage to a sewage treatment plant (and to which storm water,
surface water, and groundwater are not intentionally admitted).
SEPTIC TANK WASTE: Any domestic sewage removed from holding tanks such as
vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
SEWAGE (OR SANITARY SEWAGE): The waste that is discharges into sanitary sewer
systems and flows to a sewage treatment plant for treatment.
SHALL: A term that means an action is mandatory.
SITE: The land or water area where any facility or activity is physically
located or conducted, including land used in connection with the facility or
activity such as borrow pits and storage areas and may include land adjacent to
the site when utilized by the operator.
SOLID WASTE: Any garbage, refuse, sludge from a waste treatment plant, water
supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility, and other discarded
material, including, solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material
resulting from industrial, municipal, commercial, mining, and agricultural
operations, from community and institutional activities.
STOP WORK ORDER: An order issued by the City that requires all construction or
building activity on a site to be halted.
STORM DRAIN: A system and series of pipes (separate from sanitary sewers) used
to convey runoff from precipitation that falls on building and land surfaces.
STORM WATER (OR STORM WATER RUNOFF): Precipitation runoff, snow melt runoff,
and surface runoff and drainage.
STORM WATER POLLUTION   A document required by the NPDES
PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP): Construction General Permit and which describes and
ensures the implementation of controls and practices to reduce the pollution
resulting from construction activity.
SWPPP: See “Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan”.
TEMPORARY (OR INTERIM) STABILIZATION: Means a condition where exposed soils or
disturbed areas are provided a protective cover or other structural controls to
prevent the erosion of soil when construction has halted for at fourteen (14)
days and is anticipated to resume at some time in the future.
UNCONTAMINATED: Not containing a harmful quantity of any pollutant.
USED MOTOR OIL: Any oil that has been refined from crude oil or synthetic oil
that, as a result of use, storage, or handling, has become unsuitable for its
original purpose because of impurities of the loss of original properties. It
may be suitable for other use and is recyclable in compliance with State and
Federal law.
WATERCOURSE: A permanent, intermittent or occasional river, arroyo, stream,
creek or other depression, either natural or man-made, having definite limits
and evidence of the gathering and conveying surface water.
WATER IN THE STATE (OR WATER): Any groundwater, percolating or otherwise,
lakes, ponds, impounding reservoirs, springs, rivers, canals, streams, inside
the territorial limits of the state, and all other bodies of surface water,
natural or artificial, inland or coastal, fresh or salt, navigable or non-
navigable, and including the beds and banks of all watercourses and bodies of
surface water, that are wholly or partially inside or bordering the state or
inside the jurisdiction of the state. This includes dry washes and arroyos.
WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES: Also called "waters of the U.S." All waters which
are currently used, were used in the past, or may be susceptible to use in
interstate or foreign commerce including all waters which are subject to the
ebb and flow of the tide; all interstate waters, including interstate wetlands;
all other water the use, degradation, or destruction of which would affect or
could affect interstate or foreign commerce; all impoundments of waters
otherwise defined as waters of the U.S. under this definition; all tributaries
or waters identified in this definition; all wetlands adjacent to waters
identified in this definition; and any waters within the federal definition of
"waters of the United States", at 40 CFR Section 122.2, including the Rio
Grande, dry washes, arroyos, but not including any waste treatment systems,
treatment ponds, or lagoons designed to meet the requirements of the federal
Clean Water Act.
WATER QUALITY STANDARD: The designation of a body or segment of surface water
in the State for desirable uses and the narrative and numerical criteria deemed
by the EPA to be necessary to protect those uses.
WETLAND: An area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for
life in saturated soil conditions. Wetland generally includes swamps, marshes,
bogs, and similar areas.
YARD WASTE: Leaves, grass, clippings, yard and garden debris, and brush that
results from landscaping maintenance and land-clearing operations. (Ord. 2013-
04, 6-18-2013)
8-5-6: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No person shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the MS4,
channels, watercourses, water, or waters of the U.S. within the City any
discharge that is not composed entirely of storm water.
   B.   It is an affirmative defense to any enforcement action for violation of
subsection A. of this Section that the discharge was composed entirely of one
(1) or more of the following categories of discharges:
      1.   A discharge authorized by and in full compliance with an NPDES
permit (other than the NPDES permit for discharges from the MS4);
      2.   A discharge resulting from emergency firefighting activities;
      3.   Agricultural storm water runoff;
      4.   A discharge from water line flushing, but not including discharge
from a water line disinfected by super chlorination or other means, unless it
contains no harmful quantity of chlorine or any other chemical used in line
disinfection;
      5.   A discharge from residential lawn watering, residential landscape
irrigation, or crop irrigation water;
      6.   A discharge from a diverted stream flow or natural spring;
      7.   A discharge from uncontaminated pumped groundwater or rising
groundwater;
      8.   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration (as defined in 40 CFR
Section 35.2005 (20)) to the MS4;
      9.   Uncontaminated discharge from a foundation drain, crawl space pump,
footing drain, or sump pump;
      10.   A discharge from a potable water source not containing any
pollutant or material from the cleaning or draining of a storage tank or other
container;
      11.   A discharge from air conditioning condensation that is unmixed with
water from a cooling tower, emission scrubber, emissions filter, or any other
source of pollutant;
      12.   A discharge from individual residential vehicle washing;
      13.   An uncontaminated discharge from riparian habitat or wetland;
      14.   A discharge from water used in street washing provided that the
water is not contaminated with a pollutant or cleaning substance; or
      15.   A discharge of de-chlorinates swimming pool water.
   C.   No affirmative defense shall be available under Subsection B. of this
Section if the discharge of flow in question has been determined by the City to
be a source of a pollutant or pollutants to the MS4, channels, watercourses,
water, or waters of the U.S. and written notice of such determination has been
provided to the discharger.
   D.   The burden of proof that a discharge was composed entirely of one (1)
or more of the categories in Subsection B. od rhia Awxrion and that it was not
a source of a pollutant or pollutants to the MS4, channels, watercourses,
water, or waters of the U.S. is upon the person responsible for the discharge.
(Ord. 2013-04, 6-18-2013)
8-5-7: SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The specific prohibitions and requirements in this Section are within
but do not limit the general prohibition of all the discharges prohibited by
the general prohibitions in Section
8-5-6 of this Chapter.
   B.   No person shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the MS4 any
discharge that causes or contributes to causing the City to violate a water
quality standard, the City's NPDES permit, or any State or Federal issued
discharge permit for discharges from the City's MS4.
   C.   No person shall release or cause, allow, or permit the introduction of
any of the following substances into the MS4 or the channels, watercourses,
water or groundwater within the jurisdiction of the City:
      1.   Any used motor oil, antifreeze, hydraulic fluid, or any other motor
vehicle fluid;
      2.   Any industrial waste or wastewater;
      3.   Any hazardous waste, including household hazardous waste;
      4.   Any domestic sewage or septic tank waste, grease trap waste, or grit
trap waste;
      5.   Any wastewater from a commercial carwash facility, and from any
commercial vehicle washing, cleaning, or maintenance at any new or used
automobile or other vehicle dealership, rental agency, body shop, repair shop,
or maintenance facility;
      6.   Any wastewater from the commercial washing, cleaning, deicing, or
other maintenance of aircraft;
      7.   Any wastewater from a commercial mobile power washer or from the
washing or other cleaning of building a exterior where the wastewater contains
any soap, detergent, degreaser, solvent, other cleaning substance, or a
pollutant from the surface that is being cleaned, or that has been produced by
wash water applied at pressures elevated above the distribution system
pressure, or that is at a temperature that has been elevated by induced
heating;
      8.   Any wastewater from commercial floor, rug, or carpet cleaning;
      9.   Any wastewater from the wash down or other cleaning of pavement that
contains any soap, detergent, degreaser, solvent, other cleaning substance, or
a pollutant from the surface that is being cleaned, or that has been produced
by wash water applied at pressures elevated above the distribution system
pressure, or that is at a temperature that has been elevated by induced
heating; or any wastewater from the wash down or other cleaning of any pavement
where any spill, leak, or other release of oil, motor fuel, or other petroleum
or hazardous substance has occurred, unless all quantities of such released
material have been previously removed;
      10.   Any effluent from a cooling tower, condenser, compressor, emissions
scrubber, emissions filter, or the blow down from a boiler;
      11.   Any ready-mixed concrete, mortar, ceramic, asphalt base material,
hydro mulch material, or soil stabilizers, or runoff from the cleaning of
commercial vehicles or equipment containing, or used in transporting or
applying, such material;
      12.   Any contaminated filter backwash from a swimming pool, fountain, or
spa;
      13.   Any fountain, swimming pool, or spa water that is chlorinated
(containing 0.1 milligrams/liter or more chlorine when tested with a standard
pool chlorine test kit) or contains pollutants, to include any filter backwash
water;
      14.   Any discharge from water line disinfected by super chlorination or
other means, if it contains any harmful quantity of chlorine or any other
chemical used in line disinfection;
      15.   Any water from a water curtain in a spray room used for painting
vehicles or equipment;
      16.   Any contaminated runoff from a vehicle wrecking yard;
      17.   Any substance or material that will damage, block, or clog the MS4;
      18.   Any release from a petroleum storage tank (PST), or any leachate or
runoff from soil contaminated by a leaking PST, or any discharge of pumped,
confined, or treated wastewater from the remediation of any such PST release,
unless the discharge complies with all state and federal standards and
requirements;
      19.   Any garbage, rubbish, yard waste, or other floatable material;
      20.   Any runoff, wash-down or other discharge from an animal pen,
kennel, or fowl or livestock containment area, unless discharge is authorized
by NPDES permit for a Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation; or
      21.   Any rubble, debris, tile, concrete, brick, asphalt or other
building material.
   D.   No person shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the MS4,
channels, watercourses, water or waters of the U.S. any quantity of sediment,
silt, earth, soil, or other material associated with clearing, grading,
excavation or other construction activities, or associated with land filling or
other placement or disposal of soil, rock, or other earth materials, in excess
of what could be retained on site or captures by employing sediment and erosion
control measures to the maximum extent practicable under prevailing
circumstances.
   E.   No person shall connect a line conveying sanitary sewage, domestic
industrial, to the MS4, or allow such a connection to continue.
   F.   Parking lot storm drain inlets shall be maintained free of garbage,
rubbish, yard waste, and other debris. Such material removed from the inlets
shall be disposed of in a container and shall not be allowed to enter the MS4.
(Ord. 2013-04, 6-18-2013)
8-5-8: RELEASE REPORTING AND CLEANUP:
   A.   The person operating any facility, vehicle, or other source of
spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, escaping,
leaching, dumping, disposing, or any other release of any of the following
quantities of any of the following substances that may flow, leach, enter, or
otherwise be introduced into the MS4, channels, watercourses, water, or waters
of the U.S., shall notify the Mesilla Valley Regional Dispatch Center at (575)
526-0795, or 911 within twenty-four (24) hours and the City Public Works
Department and the City's Flood Commission on the next business day:
      1.   Any amount equal to or in excess of a reportable quantity of any
hazardous substance as established in 40 CFR Part 302;
      2.   An amount equal to or in excess of a reportable quantity of any
extremely hazardous substance, as established under 40 CFR Part 355;
      3.   An amount of oil that either (a) violates applicable water quality
standards, or (b) causes a film or discoloration of the surface of the water or
a bordering ground or causes a sludge or emulsion to be deposited beneath the
surface of the water or upon a bordering ground; or
      4.   Any harmful quantity of any pollutant as defined in Section
8-5-5.
   B.   The immediate notification required by subsection A. of this Section
shall include the following information:
      1.   The identity or chemical name of the substance released, chemical
classification, and whether the substance is an extremely hazardous substance;
      2.   The exact location of the release, including any known name of the
waters involved or threatened and any other environmental media affected;
      3.   The time and duration (thus far) of the release;
      4.   An estimate of the quantity and concentration (if known) of the
substance released;
      5.   The source of the release;
      6.   Any known or anticipated health risks associated with the release
and, where appropriate, advice regarding medical attention that may be
necessary for exposed individuals;
      7.   Any precautions that should be taken as a result of the release;
      8.   Any steps that have been taken to contain and clean up the released
material and minimize its impacts; and
      9.   The names and telephone numbers of the person or persons to be
contacted for further information.
   C.   Within fourteen (14) days following such release, the person operating
the facility, vehicle, or other source of the release shall submit a written
report to the City Public Works Department containing each of the items of
information specified above in subsection B. of this Section, as well as the
following additional information:
      1.   The ultimate duration, concentration, and quantity of the release;
      2.   All action taken to respond, contain and clean up the released
substances, and all precautions taken to minimize the impacts;
      3.   Any known or anticipated acute or chronic health risks associated
with the release;
      4.   Where appropriate, advice regarding medical attention necessary for
exposed individuals;
      5.   The identity of any governmental/private sector representatives
responding to the release; and
      6.   The measures taken or to be taken by the responsible person(s) to
prevent similar future occurrences.
   D.   Any release report required by a state or federal authority containing
the information described in subsections B. and C. of this Section shall be
adequate to meet the reporting requirements of subsection C. of this Section
upon submittal to the City.
   E.   The notifications required by subsections B., C., and D. of this
Section shall not relieve the responsible person of any expense, loss, damage,
or other liability which may be incurred as a result of the release, including
any liability for damage to the City, to natural resources, or to any other
person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the responsible person
of any fine, penalty, or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this
Chapter or to state or federal law.
   F.   Any person responsible for any release as described in subsection A. of
this Section shall comply with all state, federal, and any other local law
requiring reporting, cleanup, containment and any other appropriate remedial
action in response to the release.
   G.   Any person responsible for a release described in subsection A. of this
Section shall reimburse the City for any cost incurred by the City in
responding to the release, within thirty (30) days of being invoiced by the
City. (Ord. 2013-04, 6-18-2013)
8-5-9: STORM WATER DISCHARGE FROM CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES:
Except for small construction activities with the waiver described in
subsection K. of this Section, all operators of a construction activity shall
prepare a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) for review and approval
by the City. In case where more than one (1) person meets the definition of
Operator the persons may cooperate to prepare and implement a single,
comprehensive SWPPP for the entire construction site and all phases of
construction activity. The SWPPP shall be submitted to the City a minimum of
thirty (30) days prior to any land disturbance. For Subdivision Plans, a SWPPP
muse be included with a Final Subdivision Plan submittal. The City will review
a SWPPP submittal or re-submittal and either accept it or provide a written
notice of deficiencies within thirty (30) days of the City receiving the SWPPP.
   A.   Contents of the SWPPP: The SWPPP shall be in accordance with the
requirements for a SWPPP, the effluent limits, and the conditions applicable to
the State of New Mexico in the NPDES General Permit for Stormwater Discharges
from Construction Activities that is effective at the time the SWPPP is
submitted to the City for review. The Site Map (sometimes referred to as an
Erosion and Sediment Control Plan) required by the NPDES Construction General
Permit shall consist of drawings that are minimum of 11" x 17" and sealed by a
Professional Engineer in the State of New Mexico or a Certified Professional in
Erosion and Sediment Control. At a minimum, the SWPPP shall contain but is not
limited to the following:
      1.   Name, address, phone number, fax number, e-mail address and SWPPP
responsibilities of all Operators using the SWPPP;
      2.   Name, address, phone number, fax number, and e-mail address of the
property owner(s);
      3.   Site map;
      4.   Sequence and timing of activities that disturb soil, including
phasing to minimize the amount of area disturbed at one (1) time;
      5.   Delineation and fencing of other protective measures for existing
vegetation and natural resources to be preserved;
      6.   Controls to minimize the disturbance of natural channels and
watercourses and steep slopes;
      7.   Controls to minimize water and wind erosion during construction;
      8.   Controls to minimize sediment discharges in storm water runoff
during construction;
      9.   Pollution prevention measures to minimize the discharge of
pollutants from on-site materials and wastes, including but not limited to
concrete truck washout, water from equipment and vehicle washing, wheel wash
water, washout of stucco or paint, any other wash water, fuels, oils, other
equipment and vehicle maintenance fluids, chemicals, building materials,
building products, construction wastes, rubbish, landscape materials,
fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides, detergents, sanitary waste, and spills and
leaks;
      10.   Controls to minimize off-site vehicle tracking of sediment onto
paved surfaces;
      11.   Sediment basins and/or turbidity treatment processes for drainage
locations that serve an area with ten (10) or more acres disturbed at one (1)
time, as required by the NPDES Construction General Permit;
      12.   Temporary and permanent outlet structures and velocity dissipation
devices at storm water discharge locations to protect against erosive
velocities during and after construction;
      13.   Practices to stabilize all disturbed areas, including off-site
areas that were disturbed in support of the construction activity, when
construction activity is completed (final stabilization) or has halted
(temporary stabilization) and will not resume within fourteen (14) calendar
days;
      14.   Controls to remove suspended soil particles and other pollutants in
water discharged from dewatering activities, including discharges from
dewatering of trenches and excavations;
      15.   Using soil loss prediction models or equivalent generally accepted
soil loss prediction tools, documentation that implantation of the site
specific practices in the SWPPP will result in sediment yields and flow
velocities that, to the maximum extent practicable, will not be greater than
the sediment yield levels and flow velocities form pre-construction, pre-
development conditions;
      16.   Inspection and maintenance procedures for Best Management Practices
and other control measures; and
      17.   Signature and certification of each Operator using the SWPPP, in
accordance with the NPDES Construction General Permit requirements for who is
authorized to sign and certify for the Operator.
   B.   SWPPP Inspection: Qualified personnel (provided by the operator of the
construction site) shall inspect all disturbed areas of the construction site
that are not stabilizes and areas used for storage of materials that are
exposed to precipitation at the frequency required in the NPDES Construction
General Permit and its Permit Conditions for the State of New Mexico. Disturbed
areas and areas used for storage of materials that are exposed to precipitation
shall be inspected for evidence of, or the potential for, pollutants entering
the MS4, channels, watercourses, waters or waters of the U.S. Erosion and
sediment control measures identified in the SWPPP shall be observed by the
operator to ensure that they are operating correctly. Where discharge locations
or points are accessible, they shall be inspected to ascertain whether erosion
control measures are effective in preventing significant impacts to receiving
water of the MS4. Locations where vehicles enter or exit the site shall be
inspected for evidence of off-site sediment tracking. A report shall be
prepared for each inspection and maintained with the SWPPP.
   C.   SWPPP Maintenance: BMP's and other controls shall be maintained in
effective operating condition. If inspections described in Subsection 9.B
identify BMP's that are not operating effectively, the BMP's shall be repaired
or replaced within fourteen days and before the next storm event whenever
practicable. Sediment shall be removed from sediment traps, silt fence,
sediment basins, and other sediment controls before it reaches half the height
of the control or reduces the control capacity by fifty percent (50%), or more
frequently if specified in the SWPPP or by the control's manufacturer.
   D.   Stabilization: Within fourteen (14) days of stopping or completing
construction activities, the construction site operator shall initiate
stabilization in accordance with this Chapter and the NPDES Construction
General Permit. Temporary stabilization measures may be used if construction
activity is anticipated to resume in the future. If temporary stabilization
measures are used, inspection and maintenance requirements remain in effect
until the criteria for final stabilization are met, regardless of whether
construction activity resumes. A Notice of Termination (subsection G. of this
Section) will not be accepted by the City unless final stabilization is
implemented.
      1.   If the construction project is completed, the final stabilization
shall meet the requirements in this Chapter and the NPDES Construction General
Permit, including the Permit Conditions for the State of New Mexico.
      2.   Temporary stabilization measure in the SWPPP shall be appropriate
for and include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   Size of the disturbed area;
         b.   Soil type and susceptibility to wind and water erosion;
         c.   Slope steepness and slope stability;
         d.   Conveyance of storm water runoff around or through the site
without causing erosion on the site or downstream;
         e.   Velocity dissipaters and other protection for temporary discharge
to prevent erosion and damage to the downstream MS4, channel, or watercourses;
         f.   Effective life of temporary stabilization measures in comparison
to length of time the disturbed area is anticipated to be without construction
activity; and
         g.   Inspection and maintenance procedures, at least monthly, to
ensure effectiveness of the stabilization measures until construction resumes
or final stabilization is established.
      3.   Final stabilization measures in the SWPPP shall be appropriate for
and include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   Soil type and susceptibility to wind and water erosion;
         b.   Slope steepness and its effect on erosion potential;
         c.   Structural measures to provide slope stability for any cut/fill
slope or natural slope disturb by construction that is steeper than three (3)
horizontal and one (1) vertical;
         d.   Permanent structures to convey storm water around and across
slopes in a non-erosive manner;
         e.   For vegetative stabilization methods using live planting (e.g.
landscaping), inspection and maintenance procedures until stabilization is
established and shown to be effective in satisfying the criteria for final
stabilization;
         f.   For vegetative stabilization methods using seed, (Refer to "Final
Stabilization" in Definitions Section):
            (1)   Temporary controls (turf reinforcement mats, erosion control
blankets, etc.) with a minimum life of three (3) years to stabilize the surface
until establishment of vegetation;
            (2)   Seed mix appropriate for the climate and soil conditions;
            (3)   Soil amendments and fertilizers as appropriate for soil
conditions;
            (4)   Annual (at a minimum) inspection and maintenance procedures
until criteria for final stabilization are met; and
            (5)   An inspection report form in accordance with the Permit
Conditions for the State of New Mexico in the NPDES Construction General
Permit;
         g.   For individual lots transferring from a developer or builder to a
homeowner;
            (1)   Perimeter controls in good, effective condition; and
            (2)   Copy of the letter to be given to the homeowner informing the
homeowner of the need for the benefits of final stabilization.
   E.   SWPPP Revisions: The SWPPP shall be revised to provide different or
additional controls whenever a control is determined by the operator or City to
be ineffective in controlling its targeted pollutant.
   F.   Notice of Intent (NOI): All operators of construction activities shall
submit to the City a copy of the signed NOI and EPA's acknowledgement of its
receipt at least seven (7) calendar days before commencing any soil disturbing
activities at the construction site. A copy of the completed NOW must also be
posted conspicuously near the main entrance of the construction site. For
linear projects, the NOI must be posted at a publicly accessible location near
the active part of the construction project.
   G.   Operator Changes: When the construction activity operator changes, the
new operator shall submit a revised SWPPP, signed certification statement, and
a copy of the NOI to the City before starting work at the site.
   H.   Notice of Termination (NOT): All operators that submitted an NOI for
construction activities shall submit to the City a copy of the signed NOT
within thirty (30) days of one (1) of the following conditions:
      1.   Final stabilization has been achieved on all portions of the site
for which the operator is responsible;
      2.   BMPs and other controls are in place and have passed to another
operator who has submitted an NOI and SWPPP to the City in accordance with the
NPDES Construction General Permit and subsections F. and G. of this Section;
      3.   Coverage under an individual or alternative general NPDES permit has
been obtained; or
      4.   For residential construction only, the operator has established
temporary stabilization, including perimeter controls of the individual lot,
the lot has been transferred to the homeowner, and the operator has given the
homeowner written notification of the need for and benefits of final
stabilization.
The City will not accept a NOT without evidence of one (1) of the above
conditions.
   I.   Appeal: An operator who submits a SWPPP for City review and approval
under this Chapter and is denied approval may administratively appeal a
decision of the Director of Public Works to the Board of City Commissioners.
The appeal shall be initiated by filing a written notice of appeal with the
Director of Public Works within ten (10) working days from the date of the
final written determination by the Director of Public Works. The notice of
appeal shall cite the factual basis for the appeal and the relief sought and
shall be accompanied by relevant supporting documents and any required fee. The
Board of City Commissioners may affirm, reverse, or modify the decision of the
Director of Public Works.
   J.   SWPPP and Permit Denial: The City may deny approval of a SWPPP if it
does not meet the requirements of this Chapter of the NPDES Construction
General Permit in effect at the time the SWPPP is submitted to the City. In
addition the City may deny approval of any City building permit, grading
permit, subdivision plat, site development plan, or any other City permit,
inspection or approval necessary to commence to continue construction, or to
assume occupancy, in the absence of an approved SWPPP required by this Chapter,
or whenever Best Management Practices controls and stabilization measures
described in a SWPPP, or observed upon a site inspection, are determined not to
control and minimize erosion, the discharge of sediment, or other materials and
pollutants associated with the construction activities.
   K.   Waivers: If the construction activity qualifies for an EPA waiver of
the NPDES Construction General Permit (Refer to http:\www.epa.gov/npdes/pubs/
construction_waiver_form.pdf) and is for a residential development, the City
may waive the requirements of this Section; however, the construction site must
still comply with the General and Specific Prohibitions. Specifically, the
operator must ensure no harmful substances are introduced into the MS4,
channels, watercourses, water, or waters of the U.S. It is the operator's sole
responsibility to meet the requirements of the EPA waiver. To qualify for the
City waiver of this Section, the operator must submit a copy of the EPA Waiver
Certification and acknowledgement of its receipt by EPA to the City for review
and acceptance. The City reserves the right to require the construction
activity to have a SWPPP even if an EPA waiver is obtained. If the operator
fails to meet the conditions of a waiver, the operator shall be required to
immediately comply with this Section. Failure to do so will constitute a
knowing violation of this Section.
   L.   Fees: A schedule of fees reasonably calculated to help defray the costs
of administering and enforcing this Chapter may be estimated and adopted by
Resolution of the Board of City Commissioners of Dona Ana City. A schedule of
fees may include, but shall not be limited to, a fee for reviewing and
processing a SWPPP. (Ord. 2013-04, 6-18-2013)
8-5-10: AUTHORITY TO PURSUE ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES:
Administrative remedies may be pursued by a law enforcement officer, a code
enforcement officer of the City, or any employee or employees of the City
authorized to enforce this Chapter. An administrative remedy will be pursued
before the criminal or other remedies specified in Section
8-5-11 of this Chapter are pursued.
   A.   Warning Notice: The City may serve a written Warning Notice, specifying
the particular violation believed to have occurred and requested the discharge
to immediately investigate the matter and to seek a resolution whereby any
offending discharge will cease. Investigation and/or resolution of the matter
in response to the Warning Notice in no way relieves the alleged violator of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the Warning
Notice. Nothing in this subsection shall require the City to issue a Warning
Notice prior to taking any action, including emergency action or any other
enforcement action. Issuance of a Warning Notice shall not be a bar against
taking any other action against any responsible party.
   B.   Notice of Violation: The City may serve a written Notice of Violation.
Within seven (7) calendar days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of
the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention of
reoccurrence thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted
by the alleged violator to the City. If the alleged violator denies that any
violation occurred and/or contends that no corrective action is necessary, an
explanation of the basis of any such denial or contention shall be submitted to
the Director within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the notice.
Submission of an explanation and/or plan in no way relieves the alleged
violator of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of
the Notice of Violation. Nothing in this subsection shall require the City to
issue a Notice of Violation prior to taking any action, including emergency
action or any other enforcement action. Issuance of a Notice of Violation shall
not be a bar against taking any other action against any responsible party.
   C.   Compliance Orders: When the City finds that any person has violated,
continues to violate, or threatens to violate, any provision of this Chapter,
or any order issued hereunder, the City may issue an order to the violator
directing that the violator come into compliance within a specific time limit,
prior to commencement or continuance of operation, or immediately. Compliance
Orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring, and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the MS4, channels,
watercourses, water, and waters of the U.S. A Compliance Order may not extend
the deadline for compliance established by a State or Federal standard or
requirement, nor does a Compliance Order established by a State or Federal
standard or requirement, nor does a Compliance Order relieve the person of
liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Nothing in
this subsection shall require the City to issue a Compliance Order prior to
taking any action, including emergency action or any other enforcement action.
Issuance of a Compliance Order shall not be a bar against taking any other
action against any responsible party.
   D.   Remediation, Abatement, and Restoration Orders: When the City finds
that a person has violated, or continues to violate, any provisions of this
Chapter, or any order issued hereunder, and that such violation has adversely
affected the MS4, channels, watercourses, water, or the waters of the U.S. Such
remedial, abatement, and restoration action may include, but not be limited to:
monitoring, assessment, and evaluation of the adverse effects and determination
of the appropriate remedial, abatement, and/or restoration action; confinement,
removal, cleanup, treatment, and disposal of any discharged or released
pollution or contamination; pretention, minimization, and/or mitigation of any
damage to the public health, welfare, or the environment that may result from
the violation; restoration or replacement of City property or natural resources
damaged by the violation. The order may direct that the remediation, abatement,
and/or restoration be accomplished on a specified compliance schedule and/or be
completed within a specified period of time. An order issued under this
subsection does not relieve the violator of liability for any violation,
including any continuing violation. Nothing in this subsection shall require
the City to issue an Order under this subsection prior to taking any action,
including emergency action or any other enforcement action. Issuance of an
order under this subsection shall not be a bar against taking any other action
against any responsible party.
   F.   Stop Work Orders:
      1.   Whenever the City finds that any operator of a construction site has
violated, threatens to violate, or continues to violate, any provision of
Section
8-5-9 of this Chapter, or any order issued hereunder, the City may issue a Stop
Work Order to the operator, and require that a copy of the Stop Work Order be
posted at the Construction site and distributed to all City departments and
divisions whose decisions affect any activity at the site. Unless express
written exception is made by the City, the Stop Work Order shall prohibit any
further construction activity, or any commencement of construction activity, at
the site and shall bar any further inspection or approval by the City
associated with a building permit, grading permit, or any other City approval
necessary to commence or continue construction or to assume occupancy at the
site. Nothing in this subsection shall require the City to issue a Stop Work
Order prior to taking any action, including emergency action or any other
enforcement action. Issuance of a Stop Work Order shall not be a bar against
taking any other action against any responsible party.
      2.   The City shall re-inspect the construction site within three (3)
City business days of being notified that corrective actions to remedy the
problems have been implemented. (Ord. 2013-04, 6-18-2013)
8-5-11: CRIMINAL PENALTIES AND OTHER REMEDIES:
   A.   In this Section "violation of this Chapter" means any of the following:
      1.   Doing an act that is prohibited, or made or declared unlawful, an
offense, or a misdemeanor by this Chapter or by rule or regulation authorized
by this Chapter;
      2.   Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by this
Chapter or by rule or regulation authorized by this Chapter; or
      3.   Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited, or made or
declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by this Chapter or by rule or
regulation authorized by this Chapter.
   B.   In this Section "violation of this Chapter" does not include the
failure of a City officer or a City employee to perform an official duty unless
it is specifically provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished
as provided in this Section.
   C.   Any person convicted of a violation of this Chapter shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00), imprisonment for a
term not exceeding ninety (90) days, or by both such a fine and imprisonment.
Each violation of a provision of this Chapter shall constitute a separate
offense, and each day an offense continues shall be considered a new violation
for purposes of enforcing this Chapter.
   D.   The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension
of a license, permit or franchise, or other administrative actions or equitable
relief.
   E.   Violations of this Chapter that are continuous with respect to time are
a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief.
This imposition of a penalty does not prevent the granting of equitable relief.
(Ord. 2013-04, 6-18-2013)
8-5-12: AUTHORITY TO ISSUE CRIMINAL CITATIONS:
Prosecution of violations under this Chapter may be commenced by the issuance
of a criminal citation charging the violation. Citations may be issued by a law
enforcement officer, a code enforcement officer of the City, or any employee or
employees of the City authorized by the Board of City Commissioners to issue
such citations. (Ord. 2013-04, 6-18-2013)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
9-1-1: Codes Adopted; Copies Available
9-1-2: Definition
9-1-3: Office Of Building Inspection; Enforcement
9-1-4: Permits Required; Exception
9-1-5: Permit Fees
9-1-6: Utility Connection
9-1-7: Penalty
9-1-1: CODES ADOPTED; COPIES AVAILABLE:
   A.   Codes Adopted By Reference: The New Mexico Uniform Building Code, the
Uniform Building Code Appendix, the Uniform Housing Code and the Uniform Code
for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1987 Editions, which were adopted by
the General Construction Board and accepted by the Construction Industries
Commission effective January 13, 1989; Uniform Plumbing Code, 1988 Edition;
Uniform Mechanical Code, 1988 Edition as adopted December 9, 1988 by the
Mechanical Board; the National Electrical Code, 1987 Edition as adopted by the
Electrical Board effective January 1, 1987; and the International Property
Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, and any additional supplements to each as may
be adopted, are hereby adopted by the City for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alterations, removal, demolition,
use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings, structures and
issuing permits, subject to all amendments and deletions contained in this
Chapter; and from the date on which this Chapter shall take effect, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling in the construction of ail buildings
and structures therein contained within the City limits.
   B.   Availability Of Copies: One or more copies of the New Mexico Uniform
Building Code and the other codes adopted in subsection A of this Section shall
be available and subject to inspection during normal working hours in the City
office. (Ord. 1989-03, 4-26-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-7, 8-17-2021)
9-1-2: DEFINITION:
Section 403, amendment for the purpose of this Chapter. Section 403 of the New
Mexico Uniform Building Code herein adopted is amended by adding the following
thereto:
The word "Board" shall mean the City Council of Sunland Park or its designated
agent or authority. (Ord. 1989-03, 4-26-1989)
9-1-3: OFFICE OF BUILDING INSPECTION; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Office Created: There is hereby created the office of building
inspection and the official in charge shall be known as the Building Inspector.
   B.   Nonliability For Official Acts: The Building Inspector and any other
City employee charged with the enforcement of the building codes and housing
codes, and other related ordinances, acting in good faith and without malice
for the City in the discharge of their duties, shall not thereby render
themselves liable personally; and they are hereby relieved from all personal
liability for any damage that may occur to persons or property as a result of
any act required or by reason of any act of omission in the discharge of their
duties. Any suit brought against the Building Inspector or any such employee,
because of such act or omission performed in the enforcement of any provisions
of the building code or housing code or other ordinance, shall be defended by
the legal department of the City until final termination of the proceedings.
   C.   Right Of Entry; Complaints: If the owner or occupant of any building,
premises or portion thereof refuses to allow the City Building Inspector to
enter the building, premises or portion thereof at reasonable hours in the
discharge of the duties imposed upon the Building Inspector by this Code, the
Building Inspector shall obtain, upon oath or affirmation, a search warrant
from a Magistrate Court by filing a complaint made before the Magistrate. The
complaint shall:
   I.Set forth the particular buildings, premises, or portion thereof sought to
be inspected;
      2.   State that the owner or occupant of the building, premises or
portion thereof has refused the Building Inspector entry:
      3.   State that inspection of the building, premises or portion thereof
is necessary to determine whether it complies with the requirements of this
Chapter;
      4.   Set forth the particular provisions of this Chapter sought to be
enforced;
      5.   Set forth any other reason necessitating the inspection, including
knowledge or belief that a particular condition exists in the building,
premises or portion thereof, which constitutes a violation of this Chapter;
      6.   And state that the Building Inspector is authorized by the Board to
make the inspection. The Building Inspector shall be furnished with an
identification card from the Board indicating his authority and must present
such to the Magistrate for purposes of this Section, and to all other persons
when requested to do so. (Ord. 1989-03, 4-26-1989; amd. 2000 Code)
9-1-4: PERMITS REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
No person shall construct, alter, repair, or demolish any building without
first obtaining a separate building permit for each building or structure,
except that no permit shall be required for performing the following work:
minor construction less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in value. Except
a contractor must obtain a permit for all work regardless of value. Valuation
will be determined by the most current Building Valuation Data Table from the
Building Standards. (Ord. 1989-03, 4-26-1989)
9-1-5: PERMIT FEES:
Section 303 amended. Section 303 of the New Mexico Uniform Building Code herein
adopted is amended as follows:
(a) The applicant for a permit shall pay the fee prescribed by the Board.
(b)   FEES: Fees shall be assessed in accordance with the provisions of this
section or shall be as set forth in the fee schedule adopted by the Board.
(c)   The determination of value or valuation under any of the provisions of
this code shall be made by the building inspector. The value to be used in
computing the building permit and building plan review fees shall be the total
value of all construction work for which the permit is issued as well as all
finish work, painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing, heating, air
conditioning, elevators, fire-extinguishing systems and any other permanent
equipment.
(d)   When a plan or other data are required to be submitted by subsection (b)
of Section 302, a plan review fee shall be paid at the time of submitting plans
and specifications for review. Said plan review fee shall be as set forth in
the fee schedule.
(Ord. 1989-03, 4-26-1989; amd. 2000 Code)
9-1-6: UTILITY CONNECTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to install, connect, or be instrumental in
assisting in the installation of any electrical service, gas service whether
natural or otherwise, water service or sewer service to any house or premises
in the incorporated area of the City, where any building has been moved on to,
erected, constructed, renovated or added to in any way in violation of this
ordinance of the City then in effect. (Ord. 1989-03, 4-26-1989; amd. 2000 Code)
9-1-7: PENALTY:
In addition to any remedial action or abatement procedures contained in the New
Mexico Building Code and the Uniform Housing Code as amended and adopted
herein, any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this
Chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, and each day of violation shall be deemed a separate
offense. (Ord. 1989-03, 4-26-1989; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 2
UNIFORM ADDRESSING SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-2: Uniform Addresses Required
9-2-3: Assignment Of Locational Addresses
9-2-4: Initial Address Conversion
9-2-5: Addressing Subsequent To Initial Address Conversion
9-2-6: Penalty
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings when used in this Chapter:
ADDRESS, LOCATION, PHYSICAL ADDRESS, OR ADDRESS SITE: The physical, locational
site address issued by the City and a locational address may be used as a
mailing address with the approval of the U.S. Postal Service; however,
locational addresses are not issued for the purpose of mail delivery.
AGENT: A person legally empowered to act for another.
CERTIFICATE OF ADDRESS: A certificate issued by the City providing formal and
official notification of the issuance of a legal locational address.
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT: A development having more than one but three (3) or less
residences or commercial businesses along a private driveway.
DWELLING UNIT: Any structure or portion thereof which contains living
facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
EMERGENCY SERVICES: Police, fire or ambulance services as well as other
services that are necessary in a life or property threatening situation and are
required immediately to protect life or property.
PRIVATE DRIVEWAY: A road or street serving three (3) or fewer dwelling units or
commercial buildings. (Ord. 1992-03, 6-12-1992)
9-2-2: UNIFORM ADDRESSES REQUIRED:
All houses and other buildings of residence or business shall receive a
locational address in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. No public
or private entity or agency other than the City shall issue locational
addresses within the City limits without the express written approval of the
City. (Ord. 1992-03, 6-12-1992)
9-2-3: ASSIGNMENT OF LOCATIONAL ADDRESSES:
Locational addresses shall be assigned by the Public Works Director of the City
or his designee. The Public Works Director shall be charged with the
responsibility for final staff decisions on all matters addressed in this
Chapter and shall sign all certificates of address issued in accordance with
this Chapter. (Ord. 1992-03, 6-12-1992)
9-2-4: INITIAL ADDRESS CONVERSION:
A general survey of existing locational addresses, conversion of existing
locational addresses to comply with the provisions of this Chapter and issuance
of new locational addresses where none previously existed shall be undertaken.
This process shall be referred to as "initial address conversion11 and shall
take place in the following sequence:
   A.   Nonconforming Addresses: Existing locational addresses that do not
conform to the provisions of this Chapter shall be readdressed as deemed
necessary by the Public Works Director.
   B.   Renaming Existing Roads: All existing road names shall be researched by
the Public Works Director. Road names appearing not to comply with official
names or names that may have been approved by the City shall be brought to the
attention of the City Council. Should the City Council determine to rename or
provide a different name for a street or portion thereof, property owners along
the street shall be notified and given an opportunity to petition the City
Council for a name of their choice. If the residents decline the opportunity to
petition for a road name of their choice, the Public Works Director shall
suggest road names and the City Council shall adopt it.
   C.   Address Plaques:
      1.   Subsequent to assignment of a locational address, the Public Works
Director shall provide to each structure, at no charge and on a one time basis
only, an address plaque of a design to be approved by the City Council. Such
plaque shall be prominently and permanently affixed to the frontage-facing
portion of the structure. An acceptable site is frontage-facing fence or
barrier wall, at the frontage-facing lot line or in the case of cluster
developments, at the entrance to the private driveway.
      2.   Address plaques lost, stolen or defaced shall be replaced at
resident's cost within thirty (30) days of such loss, theft or defacement.
Replacement plaques shall be requested from the Public Works Director by the
owner, occupant or agent of the frontage lot.
      3.   Any frontage lot for which a certificate of address has been issued
must display prominently and permanently affixed addressed plaques at all
times.
   D.   Information From Residents: During the course of the initial address
conversion and during subsequent addressing, information will be requested from
residents, such information to include name of owner/occupant, mailing address,
name of utility company serving the residents, utility account numbers and/or
any other information deemed necessary by the Public Works Director to inform
emergency services and utilities of the newly issued locational address.
Confidentiality of information shall be assured by the Public Works Director.
   E.   Certification: The assignment of a locational address shall be deemed
official following the issuance of a certificate by the Public Works Director.
   F.   Address Atlas: At the culmination of the initial address conversion, an
address atlas shall be produced for use by emergency services and utility
companies by the Public Works Director showing the location of all structures
and frontage lots addressed. Copies of such atlas will be made available to
interested persons or agencies at a cost to be determined by the City Clerk-
Treasurer. (Ord. 1992-03, 6-12-1992)
9-2-5: ADDRESSING SUBSEQUENT TO INITIAL ADDRESS CONVERSION:
Subsequent to the initial address conversion, addresses shall be issued in
compliance with the following procedures:
   A.   Application For Address: An owner or agent proposing to locate any
structure of residential or commercial use shall apply therefor to the Public
Works Director on forms provided by that office. If the structure is proposed
to be located along an unnamed private or public road, no address shall be
issued until:
      1.   A legal road name has been adopted in conformity with this Chapter;
and
      2.   An internal numerical road number has been issued by the Public
Works Director; or
      3.   An existing road name has been verified and accepted by the Public
Works Director.
   B.   Subdivisions: Subdivisions seeking approval by the City shall be
assigned locational addresses prior to final subdivision approval. Certificates
of address shall not be issued for subdivision lots until and unless such lots
become occupied.
   C.   Replats Or Summary Approval Lots: Replats of lots receiving approval by
the City or lots being created by summary procedure of the City shall be
assigned locational addresses, including any necessary readdressing prior to
final replat or summary approval. Certificates of address shall not be issued
for replat or summary approval lots until and unless such lots become occupied.
   D.   Certification; Address Plaques:
      1.   At the time of issuance of certificates of address, the Public Works
Director shall issue an appropriate address plaque in the design approved by
the City. This plaque shall be issued at no cost on a one time only basis. It
shall be the responsibility of the owner/occupant/agent receiving the
certificate of address to prominently and permanently affix said address plaque
as directed by the Public Works Director within thirty (30) days of issuance of
the plaque.
      2.   Address plaques lost, stolen or defaced shall be replaced at the
expense of the owner/occupant/agent issued the certificate of address within
thirty (30) days of such loss, theft or defacement.
      3.   Any frontage lot for which a certificate of address has been issued
must display prominently and permanently affixed address plaques at all times
in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   E.   Address Required Before Permit Issuance: No City building permit,
mobile home installation permit, special use permit, home occupation permit or
other permit required by the zoning or the Uniform Building Code shall be
issued without proof of certificate of address or other confirmation by the
Public Works Director that the structure in question has received a locational
address in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 1992-03, 6-12-
1992)
9-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, in the discretion of the court. Each day that a violation
of this Chapter exists shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1992-03, 6-
12-1992; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SIDEWALKS REQUIRED
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Use In New Construction
9-3-3: In Lieu Fee
9-3-4: Penalty
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases have the following meanings when used in this
chapter:
SIDEWALK: A concrete paved walkway four inches (4") thick and five feet (5')
wide located along the front property line of the property in question. (Ord.
04-04, 4-20-2004)
9-3-2: USE IN NEW CONSTRUCTION:
It shall be required that every person wishing to receive a building permit for
the purpose of constructing a new commercial industrial or residential
structure (including mobile homes) on any lot in the city shall construct a
sidewalk prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. This requirement
shall only apply to those lots that have not had prior construction of
buildings upon them. (Ord. 04-04, 4-20-2004)
9-3-3: IN LIEU FEE:
The applicant for a building permit or property owner shall be allowed to pay
an in lieu fee when it is determined by the community development director that
the construction of a sidewalk is not possible due to terrain, lack of streets,
or other physical impairment. The fee shall be calculated as follows:
The cost of a yard of concrete = "X". X divided by 27 equals "Y" (the cost per
square foot of concrete).
Divide Y by 3.33 = "C" the cost per square foot of concrete 4 inches thick.
Then add C to $0.65 (labor per square foot) = "CL".
Then multiply CL times the width of the sidewalk which is 5 feet = "W".
Then W times the length of the sidewalk "S" will equal the total fee to be
assessed.
(Example: concrete at $60.00 a yard, and a lot that is 70 feet wide; 60/27 =
2.22 then 2.22/3.33 + 0.66 then 0.66 + 0.65 = 1.31 then 1.31 * 5 = 6.55 then
6.55 * 70 = $458.50 fee)
The in lieu fee shall be held by the city in an account specifically for that
property so that when the physical impediments to installation of the sidewalk
are no longer in existence, the public works department will install the
sidewalks utilizing the money held for that purpose. (Ord. 04-04, 4-20-2004)
9-3-4: PENALTY:
Penalties for violation of the requirements of this chapter shall be as
established in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 04-04, 4-20-2004)
CHAPTER 4
LOW VOLUME PLUMBING FIXTURES
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definitions
9-4-2: Use In New Construction
9-4-3: Retrofitting
9-4-4: Penalty
9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases have the following meanings when used in this
chapter:
LOW VOLUME FAUCETS: A faucet fixture that may only deliver a maximum of 2.5
GPM.
LOW VOLUME SHOWERHEADS: A showerhead fixture that may only deliver a maximum of
2.5 gallons per minute (GPM).
LOW VOLUME TOILET: A water waste fixture that uses 1.6 gallons or less of water
per flush.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Any construction for which a building permit is required
including industrial, commercial and residential. The installation or
remodeling of a mobile home is also considered new construction. (Ord. 04-05,
4-20-2004)
9-4-2: USE IN NEW CONSTRUCTION:
From the date of adoption of this chapter, all new building permits issued by
the building department shall contain a note requiring that low volume toilets,
faucets and showerheads be used. It shall be the responsibility of the building
inspector to assure that these fixtures are installed prior to the issuance of
a certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 04-05, 4-20-2004)
9-4-3: RETROFITTING:
From the date of adoption of this chapter, all new building permits issued by
the building department shall contain a note requiring that low volume toilets,
faucets and showerheads be installed in any existing building that is adjacent
to the work being permitted, regardless of the age of the existing building. If
the permit being issued is for work that will not be adjacent to any existing
building then this requirement shall not apply. It shall be the responsibility
of the building inspector to assure that these fixtures are installed prior to
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 04-05, 4-20-2004)
9-4-4: PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful to install any faucet, toilet, or showerhead that does not
meet the requirements of this chapter. Penalties for violation of the
requirements of this chapter shall be as established in title 1, chapter 4 of
this code. (Ord. 04-05, 4-20-2004)
CHAPTER 5
RENEWABLE ENERGY FINANCING DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-5-1: Title
9-5-2: Definitions
9-5-3: Formation of District
9-5-4: Inclusion of Property within District
9-5-5: Agreement to Include Real Property within District
9-5-6: Eligible Renewable Energy Improvements
9-5-7: Special Assessments; Assessment Resolution
9-5-8: Calculation and Collection of Special Assessments
9-5-9: Standards for Renewable Energy Improvements
9-5-10: Priority of Lien Created
9-5-11: Special Assessment Bonds
9-5-12: Direct Lender Financing of Improvements
9-5-13: District Governance and Administration
9-5-1: TITLE:
This Chapter may be referred to as the Renewable Energy Financing District
Ordinance. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-4-2018)
9-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in the Renewable Energy Financing District Ordinance:
ACT: The Renewable Energy Financing District Act, NMSA §§ 5-18-1 et seq.
DISTRICT: The Southern New Mexico Renewable Energy Financing District, formed
pursuant to the Chapter.
OWNER or PROPERTY OWNER: The person who is listed as the owner of real property
in the district on the current property tax assessment roll, and who is in fact
the legal owner of said real property.
RENEWABLE ENERGY IMPROVEMENT: An eligible photovoltaic, solar thermal,
geothermal or wind energy system permanently installed on real property. (Ord.
2018-2, 9-4-2018)
9-5-3: FORMATION OF DISTRICT:
   A.   A renewable energy financing district, to be known as the Southern New
Mexico Renewable Energy Financing District, is formed in the City of Sunland
Park with the powers provided for such a district in the Act, except as
specifically limited by this Chapter.
   B.   The District shall serve the purpose of encouraging, accommodating and
financing renewable energy improvements pursuant to the Act and this Chapter.
(Ord. 2018-2, 9-4-2018)
9-5-4: INCLUSION OF PROPERTY WITHIN DISTRICT:
The District shall include only property located within the City for which the
owner thereof
has submitted an application to the District and has agreed to the inclusion of
such real property in the District. An owner may apply for and enter into
agreements for the inclusion of real property, as provided in Section
9-5-5 of this Chapter. Inclusion of property in the District may occur at any
time subsequent to the formation of the district. Real property shall be
included in and assessed by the District as described in Section
9-5-7 of this Chapter. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-4-2018)
9-5-5: AGREEMENT TO INCLUDE REAL PROPERTY WITHIN DISTRICT:
An owner wishing to have real property included in the District shall submit an
agreement for the inclusion of real property in the District, to the District.
   A.   Application: The District shall accept as an application for inclusion
of real property in the District, the form of Agreement specified as Exhibit
"B" to the Resolution, or a document substantially similar thereto. Copies of
the agreement to include real property within the District may be obtained from
the offices of the District, or as otherwise specified by the District.
Completed agreements, in the form specified by the District, shall be submitted
to the District at such location as the District may specify from time to time.
The District shall acknowledge the receipt of an application. The District may
provide for agreements to be submitted or acknowledged by electronic means.
   B.   Agreement: To include real property within the District, each owner
must submit an Agreement in a form substantially similar to Exhibit "B" to the
Resolution, whereby such owner shall agree to the following:
      1.   Inclusion of real property within the District.
      2.   Imposition of a special assessment on real property to pay for the
renewable energy improvements (including any lease thereof) and related costs,
including installation, financing, and administrative costs.
      3.   Recording of the lien of the special assessment upon the real
property to be included in the District.
      4.   Waiver of any claims against the City, the District, and their
agents arising from inclusion of real property within the District. (Ord. 2018-
2, 9-4-2018)
9-5-6: ELIGIBLE RENEWABLE ENERGY IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The following types of renewable energy improvements (including any
lease thereof) are eligible for financing under the Act and ordinance when
permanently installed on real property within the District:
      1.   Photovoltaic Systems;
      2.   Solar Thermal Systems;
      3.   Geothermal Systems; and
      4.   Wind Energy Systems.
The financed systems may include the cost of labor, materials, accessories,
framing, and items necessary or incidental to the installation of the systems.
   B.   The costs of energy efficiency improvements (including any lease
thereof) that are permanently installed on or affixed to property, which are
designed to reduce energy consumption, or energy related operating costs, and
installed or affixed to a property in conjunction with an eligible renewable
energy improvement for the purpose of making the renewable energy improvement
more cost effective, shall be eligible for financing through the District as
part of the costs of the renewable energy improvement, so long as the costs of
all improvements ancillary to the renewable energy improvement shall not exceed
forty-nine percent (49%) of the total amount financed. The District may
promulgate policies to further identify eligible energy efficiency
improvements.
   C.   The District shall only finance renewable energy improvements
(including any lease thereof) for which the reasonably estimated economic
benefits, including, but not limited to, energy cost savings, maintenance cost
savings, and other property operating savings expected from the improvements,
including efficiency improvements pursuant to subsection B. above, during the
financing period, is equal to or greater than the incremental principal cost of
the improvement. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-4-2018)
9-5-7: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; ASSESSMENT RESOLUTION:
   A.   Inclusion of real property in the District will result in the
imposition of special assessments on such real property in amounts necessary to
pay the costs of permanently installing the approved renewable energy
improvements and ancillary costs, including permit and inspection fees, and
other ancillary costs required for an eligible improvement, the costs of
financing, interest, and administrative fees charged by the District, the City,
or their agents. The costs of such improvements will be amortized over a period
of time as determined by the District, not to exceed a maximum term of twenty
(20) years.
   B.   Each owner shall acknowledge and consent to the assessment amount and
amortization schedule as a condition of inclusion of the real property in the
District.
   C.   Following acknowledgment and consent by the owner of the real property
to be included in the District and satisfaction of the other requirements of
the Act, this Chapter, and any policies or procedures promulgated by the
District, the District Board shall adopt a resolution that includes the real
property in the District and imposes the special assessment (the "Assessment
Resolution"). An Assessment Resolution may include one or multiple parcels with
separate ownership interests. That an Assessment Resolution may be enacted
subsequent to the filing of a Special Assessment lien shall not invalidate such
lien. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-4-2018)
9-5-8: CALCULATION AND COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
The amount of Special Assessments shall be calculated pursuant to Section
9-5-7 of this Chapter. Special assessments may be collected at the same time
and in the same manner as property taxes are collected or in other manners as
the District Board may provide. District special assessments which have been
financed by Direct Lending may be collected by the approved financing
institution providing such financing, in accordance with the terms of the
financing agreement agreed to by the Property Owner, and subject to any
policies and procedures established by the District Board. Special assessments
may be prepaid pursuant to procedures established by the District Board and
identified in the Assessment Resolutions. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-4-2018)
9-5-9: STANDARDS FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY IMPROVEMENTS:
The District Board shall set standards and requirements for the permanent
installation of renewable energy improvements on real property within the
District. Such standards and requirements shall be identified in a subsequent
resolution of the District Board and shall, at minimum, include compliance with
otherwise applicable state and local permitting requirements. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-
4-2018)
9-5-10: PRIORITY OF LIEN CREATED:
   A.   A Special Assessment shall constitute a tax lien on the property, which
shall be effective during the period in which the assessment is imposed and
shall have priority over all other liens except liens for ad valorem property
taxes; provided that only the delinquent portion of such special assessment
shall have priority to liens for a first lien mortgage, as provided in
subsection B. of this Section.
   B.   In the event a scheduled payment of the special assessment is not paid
when due, the amount of the scheduled payment, late fees, and collection costs
for the payment, and only those amounts, shall have priority over a first lien
mortgage. Payment of an obligation created under the Renewable Energy Financing
District Act shall not accelerate for any reason, including late payments, and
the property shall not be subject to an enforceable accelerated claim or lien
superior to a first lien mortgage for the any portion of the obligation not yet
scheduled to be due and payable, except as provided in subsection C. of this
Section. In the event of a foreclosure, only the amount of due and unpaid
scheduled payments, late fees, and collection costs for the due and unpaid
payment shall have priority, and the remaining balance of the special
assessment with all remaining interest and fees shall remain to be paid by
future assessments until paid in full. Future payment obligations associated
with a renewable energy improvement special assessment shall survive
foreclosure by a first lien holder or junior lien holder if the proceeds from
such foreclosure do not satisfy such future obligations. The amount of the
scheduled payment may be changed to provide for full collection of all amounts
within the term originally agreed upon.
   C.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in subsections A. and B. of
this Section, in the event that a property encumbered by a special assessment
is condemned in whole or part for public purposes, or be substantially damaged
or destroyed by fire or other casualty, or should the renewable energy
improvements be substantially damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty,
the remaining unpaid balance of the special assessment, including interest
accrued to date, shall be due and payable.
   D.   There shall be no terms or conditions in the special assessment that
limit the right of the owner to transfer property encumbered by a special
assessment; provided, however, that property shall remain encumbered by the
special assessment until such time as the obligation related to the special
assessment is paid in full. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-4-2018)
9-5-11: SPECIAL ASSESSMENT BONDS:
   A.   The District may obtain funds to finance eligible improvements by means
of borrowing from the City or from a private lender, or through the issuance of
bonds. The District may also provide for direct private lending to finance
eligible improvements, pursuant to NMSA § 16-511.
   B.   Should the District issue bonds, such issuance shall be in accordance
with the relevant provisions of the Act and state law. No holder of special
assessment bonds issued pursuant to the Act or the City's Ordinance may compel
any exercise of the taxing power of the District or the City to pay the bonds
or the interest on the bonds. Any special assessment bonds issued pursuant to
the Act are not a debt or general obligation of the City, nor is the payment of
special assessment bonds enforceable out of any money other than the revenue
pledged to the payment of the bonds. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-4-2018)
9-5-12: DIRECT LENDER FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS:
The District may provide for direct private lending to property owners for the
purpose of financing eligible renewable energy improvements, as follows.
   A.   Only entities which are certified in accordance with the requirements
of the financial institutions division of the regulation and licensing
department as a solar energy improvement financing institutions shall be
eligible to participate as direct lenders under this section.
   B.   An entity wishing to participate as a lender under this section shall
execute an agreement with the District specifying the procedures by which the
parties shall transfer any funds which are to be transferred pursuant to the
Chapter. The agreement shall specify that neither the District nor the City is
liable in any way for the debt of the property owner, neither is a third party
obligor and neither is pledging or lending its credit to the owner or the
lender.
   C.   If the District shall provide for direct private lending, an owner's
application and agreement for property to be included in a Special Assessment
shall specify the private entity lender, and all payment terms.
   D.   Upon the District's approval of an application and agreement for a
Special Assessment with private lending and the lender's payment of any
applicable administrative fees to the District, the lender shall be authorized
to release funds to the property owner or the vendor of the eligible
improvements. Prior to the release of funds, the lender shall cause to be filed
a Special Assessment lien for its benefit and the benefit of the District. Such
lien shall be as otherwise provided in this Chapter, and shall be released upon
the owner's repayment of all amounts financed, and any additional interest or
charges due to late payments. That the associated special assessment resolution
may be enacted subsequent to the filing of a Special Assessment lien shall not
invalidate such lien.
   E.   The District shall promptly transfer monies received from an owner's
payments of a Special Assessment which are due to a private lender to that
private lender. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-4-2018)
9-5-13: DISTRICT GOVERNANCE AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The District Board shall be the City Council.
   B.   The District shall promulgate procedures for its operations, and those
policies expressly delegated to it this Chapter.
   C.   The District may engage the services of a private entity to administer
its functions under the supervision of the District Board, with expenses of
administration to be a cost recovered through fees included in the Special
Assessments. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-4-2018)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Definitions And Rules Of Construction
10-1-1: DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
In interpreting this Title, the following terms, words, or phrases used herein
shall be interpreted as follows:
   A.   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular.
   B.   The words "shall" and "must" are mandatory, the word "may" is
permissive.
ACCESSORY: Subordinate and incidental to a principal use or structure on the
same lot.
ADULT BUSINESS RELATED TERMS:
Adult Amusement Establishment: An establishment that:
   A.   Provides amusement or entertainment which is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on material depicting or relating to specified
sexual activities or specific anatomical areas;
   B.   Features topless dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, male or female
impersonators, topless/bottomless waitering, or similar entertainment.
   C.   Upon payment of a fee, provides an escort or partner to its patrons.
Adult Bookstore/ Video Store: A commercial establishment which has twenty
percent (20%) or more of its floor space or one of its principal business
purposes, which offers for sale or rental or for any form of consideration any
one or more of the following:
   A.   Films, video tapes, video cassettes, or reproductions of video
cassettes, photographs, slides, motion pictures, books, magazines, or other
visual representations which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matters depicting or describing "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas"; or
   B.   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designated for use in
connection with "specified sexual activities". A commercial establishment may
have other principal business purposes that do not include the sale or rental
of material depicted or describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas" and still be categorized as an adult bookstore/video store if
the use is a principal use based upon the visible inventory of commercial
activity of the establishment.
Specified Anatomical Areas: Means and includes the male genitals in a state of
sexual arousal or the vulva or more intimate parts of the female genitals.
Specified Sexual Activities: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
anus, buttocks, or female breasts; or
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, including intercourse, or oral
copulation or sodomy; or
   C.   Masturbation; or City of Sunland Park
   D.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through C of this definition.
ALLEY: A public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
APARTMENT: One or more structures containing three (3) or more dwelling units
each, located on one lot.
BASEMENT: The lowest habitable story of a building below ground level.
BOARDING OR ROOMING HOUSE: A dwelling unit containing up to and including five
(5) guest rooms where lodging is provided, with or without meals, for
compensation.
BUILD: To erect, convert, enlarge, reconstruct, or structurally alter a
building.
BUILDING: Any structure built for use of persons or animals.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the grade to: a) the highest point
of a flat roof; b) the deck line of a mansard roof; or c) the average height
between eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and gambrel roofs.
BUILDING, MAIN: The building occupied by the primary use.
CENTER LINE: The line halfway between the street lines.
CLINIC: An establishment occupied by one or more members of the medical or
dental profession for the purpose of providing health services.
CLUB: Any membership organization catering exclusively to members and their
guests and whose facilities are limited to meeting, eating and/or recreational
uses, and further, whose activities are not conducted for monetary gains;
including, but not limited to, civic, fraternal, charitable, religious, social
and patriotic organizations.
CONDITIONAL USE: An allowable land use, but which shall not be undertaken until
such use is reviewed and approved by the City Planning and Zoning Commission.
Since it is an allowable use, the City Planning and Zoning Commission may not
deny it outright; however, the Commission may require the applicant to enter
into enforceable agreements or undertakings restricting such use in the
interest of the public welfare and the value of the property in that area.
CONDOMINIUM: One or more structures containing two (2) or more dwelling units
each that are sold to and held under individual ownership by the occupants, and
which may or may not include ownership of the land upon which the dwelling
units are" situated. This includes townhouses, patiohouses, and other similar
forms of individual ownership.
CONTIGUOUS: Touching or separated only by an alley or street.
COURT: An open space that is more than half surrounded by a single building or
buildings.
DISTRICT: Any section of the City of Sunland Park where regulations governing
the use of buildings and premises or the height and area of buildings and lot
size are uniform.
DUPLEX: A building arranged, intended or designed to be occupied by two (2)
families living independently of each other and having separate cooking
facilities in each dwelling unit.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
two (2) or more families living independently of each other and having separate
cooking facilities in each dwelling unit.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by one
family (without more than 2 lodgers or boarders), the structure having only one
dwelling unit, but not including a mobile home.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more connected rooms and a single kitchen designed for
and occupied by no more than one family for living and sleeping purposes.
FAMILY: An individual or two (2) or more persons related by blood or marriage,
or a group of not more than five (5) persons (excluding servants) who need not
be related by blood or marriage, living together in a dwelling unit.
FARM: An area which is used for the growing of the usual farm products such as
vegetables, fruit, fodder, trees and grain, and their storage on the area.
FLOOR AREA: The total gross area of all floors of a building.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The relationship of the floor area to the lot area computed
by dividing the floor area by the lot area.
FRONTAGE: The distance along a street line from one intersecting street to
another or from one intersecting street to the end of a dead-end street. "Lot
frontage" is the width of a lot measured along a street.
GARAGE, COMMERCIAL: Any building or structure where automobiles, trucks,
tractors, or other vehicles are stored, painted, repaired or equipped for a
charge, and where the service and sale of gasoline and oil are incidental to
the principal building use.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: Any accessory building for the primary purpose of housing
vehicles which are owned and used by the occupants of the main building.
GRADE: The average of the finished ground level at the center of all walls of a
building.
HOME OCCUPATION: See Title 3, Chapter 4 of this Code for home occupation
regulations.
LOT: Any parcel of land platted and placed on record in accordance with laws
and ordinances described by plat or metes and bounds and having frontage on a
public right of way.
LOT, AREA: The aggregate lot area measured to property lines.
LOT, CORNER: Any lot located at the intersection of, and having frontage on,
two (2) or more streets.
LOT DEPTH: The average distance between the front and rear lot lines measured
in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: Any lot with frontage on two (2) parallel or
approximately parallel streets.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The boundary of a lot bordering on a street. For the purpose
of determining setback requirements on corner lots and double frontage lots,
all sides bordering on a street shall be considered the front.
LOT LINE, REAR: The lot boundary line which is opposite and most distant from
and not coterminous with the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
LOT WIDTH: The average distance between the side lot lines measured parallel to
the front lot line.
MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT: Include boats and boat trailers, travel trailers,
pickup campers or coaches (designed to be mounted on automotive vehicles), used
for transporting recreational equipment, whether occupied by such equipment or
not.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A factory-built dwelling, which is manufactured or
constructed under the authority of 42 USC section 5403, Federal Manufactured
Home Construction and Safety Standards, which is not constructed with a
permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other than for the
purpose of moving to a permanent site, and which does not have permanently
attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles. A mobile home constructed to
the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards is not a
manufactured home unless it has been converted to real property and is taxed as
a site built dwelling. For the purpose of any of these regulations,
manufactured homes shall be considered the same as a single-family detached
dwelling.
MOBILE HOME (MH): A manufactured, nonmotorized dwelling unit complete and ready
for a long term occupancy, built on a permanent chassis for towing purposes,
with minimum body dimensions of eight feet (8') wide by forty feet (40') long,
built to be connected to utilities and placed on a foundation. A mobile home is
designed specifically for single-family human habitation and can be identified
by a model and serial number given by the builder and registered with the State
of New Mexico, and by HUD seal.
MOBILE HOME LOT (MHL): A private owned parcel of land within a mobile home
subdivision, including required yards, parking area, attached and/or detached
accessory buildings and open spaces, used or intended to be used for setting up
one mobile home. MHLs are the subdivided parcels of mobile home subdivisions
and can be sold, fee simple, to prospective owners.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel of land on which space is leased for terms of twelve
(12) months or less, or rented for occupancy for thirty (30) days or more by
mobile homes, and which contains permanent facilities for the use of mobile
home occupants.
MOBILE HOME SPACE (MHSP): A parcel of land within a mobile home park rented or
intended to be rented to prospective renters by the owner. MHSPs include
required yards, parking yards, parking areas, attached and/or detached
accessory buildings, open spaces and utilities.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A parcel of land equal to one City block or its
equivalent, subdivided into lots individually owned and utilized as the site
for placement of a single mobile home.
MODULAR DWELLING UNIT: A factory-fabricated transportable building designed to
be used by itself or to be incorporated with similar units at a building site
in a modular structure on a permanent foundation. The term is intended to apply
to major assemblies which must conform to the local building codes, and does
not include prefabricated panels, trusses, plumbing trees and other
prefabricated sub-elements which are to be incorporated in a structure at the
building site.
NONCONFORMING USES, LOTS, STRUCTURES: Any building, structure or portion
thereof, or use of any building or land which does not conform to this Title
and which lawfully existed on the effective date hereof but does not include a
sign or advertising structure.
PERSON: Includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company
or corporation as well as individual.
PREMISES: Any lot or combination of contiguous lots held in single ownership,
together with all development thereon.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK (RVP): A tract of land at least two (2) acres in
size, on which recreational vehicles are parked temporarily in rental spaces
for periods not exceeding ninety (90) days during any twelve (12) month period.
Recreational vehicles may not be stored in RVPs.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE STORAGE AREA (RVSA): A vehicular, portable structure built
on a chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel and
recreational purposes, and not designed to be permanently connected to
utilities.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE, TRAVEL TRAILER: The required distance between every
building or structure and any lot line on the lot on which it is located.
Setbacks shall consist of an open space, unoccupied and unobstructed by any
part of a building or structure, except as may be authorized by this Title.
SETBACK: A parcel of land on which recreational vehicles are stored while not
in use.
SIGN: A device designed to inform or attract the attention of persons not on
the premises on which the sign is located; provided, however, that the
following shall not be construed to be a sign:
   A.   Flags or government insignias, except when used in commercial displays.
   B.   Integral decorative or architectural features on buildings, except
letters, trademarks, moving parts, or moving lights.
   C.   Illustration of names of occupants, post office box numbers and
property numbers when smaller than one square foot.
   D.   Legal notice of identification, informational, or directional signs
erected or required by governmental bodies.
   E.   Private traffic signs bearing no advertising matter.
   F.   Real estate advertising of the property on which the sign is located;
provided, that the area of the sign or group of signs is less than five (5)
square feet.
   G.   Signs denoting the name and address of the occupants of the premises,
the number of which shall not exceed three (3) and the area of each shall not
exceed one square foot.
   H.   Professional nameplates that shall not exceed three (3) in number and
the area of each shall not exceed one square foot.
   I.   Signs for home occupations, the number of which shall not exceed one
and the area of which shall not exceed one square foot.
   J.   Signs for private daycare facilities and kindergartens, the number of
which shall not exceed one and the area of which shall not exceed one square
foot.
   K.   Signs denoting the architect, engineer or contractor placed on the
premises where construction, repair or renovation is in progress, with a
combined total surface area not exceeding four (4) square feet.
   L.   Signs for a temporary garage or yard sale which shall be located on the
premises where the sale is conducted, the number of which shall not exceed one
and the area of which shall not exceed two (2) square feet.
SIGN AREA: The total area that will contain the entire sign excluding
architectural embellishments and supports on neither of which there is
displayed any advertising material nor any lighting.
SIGN, FREESTANDING: A sign attached to or supported from the ground and not
attached to a building.
SIGN, WALL: A sign flush to the exterior surface of a building, whether applied
directly on the building or a signboard attached flush to the building.
STREET: A thoroughfare which has been dedicated to the public or which has been
made public by continuing use by the public for the period of time recognized
by the law to create a street by adverse use of the public.
TOWNHOUSE: One of a group of attached dwelling units divided from each other by
common walls and each having a separate entrance leading directly to the
outdoors at ground level.
TRAVEL TRAILER COURT OR CAMPGROUND: A lot, tract or parcel of land licensed and
used or offered for use in whole or in part, for the parking of occupied travel
trailers, pickup campers, converted buses, recreational vehicles, tent
trailers, tents or similar devices used for temporary portable housing and used
solely for living and/or sleeping purposes and which does not allow use for
more than thirty (30) consecutive days.
VARIANCE: A relaxation of the terms of this Title where such variance will not
be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to
the property and not the result of actions of the applicant, a literal
enforcement of this Title would result in unnecessary and undue hardship. As
used in this Title, a variance may be authorized only for area, height,
dimension, distance, setback, off-street parking, and off-street loading
requirements or as elsewhere specifically authorized by this Title.
WRECKING OR JUNKYARD: An area where automobiles or other types of equipment are
dismantled for reasons of obtaining parts; or where wrecked or otherwise
unserviceable automobiles are stored; or other cases where sufficient used
metal has been allowed to accumulate so as to cover an area larger than two
hundred fifty (250) square feet. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985; amd. Ord. 1993-10,
11-1-1993; Ord. 1997-05, 12-8-1997; Ord. 1998-02, 4-7-1998; Ord. 1998-06, 10-6-
1998; Ord. 1999-01, 1-5-1999; 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-2-1: Administrative Official
10-2-2: Building Permits
10-2-3: Certificates Of Zoning Compliance
10-2-4: Construction And Use; Compliance With Plans And Permits
10-2-5: Penalty
10-2-1: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL:
   A.   Appointment: An administrative official designated by the Mayor, with
the advice and consent of the City Council, shall enforce this Title. He may be
provided with the assistance of such other persons as the Mayor, with the
advice and consent of the City Council, appoints to enforce this Title.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Notice Of Violation To Responsible Person: If the administrative
official shall find that any of the provisions of this Title are being
violated, he shall notify in writing the person responsible for such
violations, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action
necessary to correct it.
      2.   Remedial Action: He shall order discontinuance of illegal use of
land, buildings, or structure; removal of illegal buildings or structures or of
illegal additions, alterations, or structural changes; discontinuance of any
illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this
Title to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
(Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-2-2: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Building Permits Required: No building or other structure shall be
erected, moved, added to, or structurally altered without a permit therefor,
issued by the administrative official. No building permit shall be issued by
the administrative official except in conformity with the provisions of this
Title, unless he receives a written order from the Board of Adjustment in the
form of an administrative review, conditional use, special exception, or
variance as provided by this Title.
   B.   Application For Building Permit:
      1.   Plans And Information Required: All applications for building
permits shall be accompanied by plans in duplicate drawn to scale, showing the
actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon; the exact sizes and
locations on the lot of all structures already existing, if any, and the
location and dimensions of the proposed structure or alteration. The
application shall include such other information as lawfully may be required by
the administrative official, including existing or proposed buildings or
alterations; existing or proposed uses of the building and land; the number of
families, housekeeping units, or rental units the building is designed to
accommodate; conditions existing on the lot; and such other matters as may be
necessary to determine conformance with, and provide for the enforcement of,
this Title.
      2.   Return Of Plans As Approved Or Disapproved: One copy of the plans
shall be returned to the applicant by the administrative official, after he
shall have marked such copy either as approved or disapproved and attested to
same by his signature on such copy. The original and one copy of the plans,
similarly marked, shall be retained by the administrative official.
   C.   Expiration Of Building Permit:
      1.   Time Limit To Begin: If the work described in any building permit
has not begun within ninety (90) days from the date of issuance thereof, said
permit shall expire; it shall be cancelled by the administrative official; and
written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected. (Ord. 1985-03,
4-16-1985)
      2.   Time Limit For Completion: If the work described in any building
permit has not been substantially completed within one year of the date of
issuance thereof, said permit shall expire and be cancelled by the
administrative official, and written notice thereof shall be given to the
persons affected, together with notice that further work as described in the
cancelled permit shall not proceed unless and until a new building permit has
been obtained. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985; amd. 2000 Code)
10-2-3: CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Certificate Required:
      1.   Use Or Occupancy: It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit
the use or occupancy of any building or premises, or both, or part thereof
hereafter created, erected, changed, converted, or wholly or partly altered or
enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of zoning compliance shall
have been issued therefor by the administrative official stating that the
proposed use of the building or land conforms to the requirements of this
Title.
      2.   Nonconforming Structure Or Use: No nonconforming structure or use
shall be maintained, renewed, changed, or extended until a certificate of
zoning compliance shall have been issued by the administrative official. The
certificate of zoning compliance shall state specifically how the nonconforming
use differs from the provisions of this Title; provided, that upon enactment of
this Title, owners or occupants of nonconforming uses or structures shall have
three (3) months to apply for certificates of zoning compliance. Failure to
make such application within three (3) months shall be presumptive evidence
that the property was a nonconforming use at the time of enactment or amendment
of this Title.
   B.   Application For Certificate: No permit for erection, alteration,
moving, or repair of any building shall be issued until an application has been
made for a certificate of zoning compliance, and the certificate shall be
issued in conformity with the provisions of this Title upon completion of the
work.
   C.   Temporary Certificate: A temporary certificate of zoning compliance may
be issued by the administrative official for a period not exceeding six (6)
months during alterations or partial occupancy of a building pending its
completion; provided, that such temporary certificate may include such
conditions and safeguards as will protect the safety of the occupants and the
public.
   D.   Maintain Records: The administrative official shall maintain a record
of all certificates of zoning compliance, and a copy shall be furnished upon
request to any person.
   E.   Failure To Obtain Certificate: Failure to obtain a certificate of
zoning compliance shall be a violation of this Title and punishable under
Section
10-2-5 of this Chapter. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-2-4: CONSTRUCTION AND USE; COMPLIANCE WITH PLANS AND PERMITS:
Building permits or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of
plans and applications approved by the administrative official authorize only
the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in such approved plans and
applications, and no other use, arrangement, or construction. Use, arrangement,
or construction at variance with that authorized shall be a violation of this
Title and punishable as provided by Section
10-2-5 of this Chapter. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-2-5: PENALTY:
Any violation of this Title, in addition to any other remedy or punishment
provided by law or ordinance, is punishable by a fine of not more than three
hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment in the County jail for a term of
not more than ninety (90) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Every
day that any such violation continues constitutes a separate offense. (Ord.
1985-03, 4-16-1985)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
10-3-1: Board Established; Membership
10-3-2: Board Proceedings
10-3-3: Hearings; Appeals; Notice
10-3-4: Stay Of Proceedings
10-3-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP:
A Board of Adjustment is hereby established, which shall consist of the members
of the City Planning and Zoning Commission1. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
      1.   See Title 2, Chapter 1 of this Code.
10-3-2: BOARD PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Rules Of Conduct: The Board of Adjustment may adopt rules necessary to
the conduct of its affairs and in keeping with the provisions of this Title.
   B.   Meetings: Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairman and at
such other times as the Board may determine. All meetings shall be open to the
public.
   C.   Oaths; Witnesses: The chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman,
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   D.   Minutes; Notice Of Proceedings: The Board of Adjustment shall keep
minutes of its proceedings and provide notice of its proceedings in accordance
with the Open Meetings Ac1' and Public Records Act2. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
      1.   NMSA § 10-15-1.1 et seq.
      2.   NMSA § 14-2-1 et seq.
10-3-3: HEARINGS; APPEALS; NOTICE:
   A.   Right To Appeal; Time Limit: Appeals to the Board of Adjustment
concerning interpretation or administration of this Title may be taken by any
person aggrieved by any decision of the administrative official. Such appeal
shall be taken within a reasonable time, not to exceed ten (10) days after
notice of the decision appealed, by filing with the administrative official and
with the Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof.
The administrative official shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   B.   Hearing Date; Notice: The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable
time for the hearing of appeal, give public notice thereof as well as due
notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable
time. At the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
   C.   Appeals To City Council: Appeals from any decision of the Board of
Adjustment shall be to the City Council. They shall be made within the same
time and manner as appeals to the Board of Adjustment. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-
1985)
10-3-4: STAY OF PROCEEDINGS:
An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from,
unless the administrative official from whom the appeal is taken certifies to
the Board of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal is filed with him, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board of
Adjustment or by a court of competent jurisdiction on proper application and
showing of competent evidence. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
SECTION:
10-4-1: Official Zoning Map
10-4-2: Replacement Of Official Zoning Map
10-4-3: Zone District Boundaries Established
10-4-4: Rules For Interpretation Of District Boundaries
10-4-5: Application Of District Regulations
10-4-6: Residential Uses Prohibited In Commercial And Industrial Districts
10-4-1: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   Map Adopted By Reference: The City is hereby divided into zones, or
districts, as shown on the Official Zoning Map which, together with all
explanatory material thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be
a part of this Title.
   B.   Map Certification: The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the
signature of the Mayor attested to by the City Glerk-Treasurer, and bear the
Seal of the City under the following words: "This is to certify that this is
the Official Zoning Map referred to in Section 1 of Ordinance Number 1985-03 of
the City of Sunland Park, said Ordinance dated the 16th day of April, 1985",
together with the date of the adoption of this Title.
   C.   Amendment Of Map: If, in accordance with the provisions of this Title
and New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-21-1 et seq., changes are made in
district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, such
changes shall be entered on the Official Zoning Map promptly after the
amendment has been approved by the City Council, with an entry on the Official
Zoning Map as follows: "On (date), by official action of the City Council, the
following (change) changes were made in the Official Zoning Map: (brief
description of nature of change)", which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and
attested by the City Clerk-Treasurer. No amendment to this Title which involves
material portrayed on the Official Zoning Map shall become effective until
after change and entry has been made on said Map.
   D.   Unauthorized Changes A Violation: No changes of any nature shall be
made in the Official Zoning Map or material shown thereon except in conformity
with the procedure set forth in this Title. Any unauthorized change of whatever
kind by any person or persons shall be considered a violation of this Title and
punishable as provided under Section
10-2-5 of this Title.
   E.   Map On File In Clerk-Treasurer's Office: Regardless of the existence of
purported copies of the Official Zoning Map which may from time to time be made
or published, the Official Zoning Map shall be located in the office of the
City Clerk-Treasurer and shall be the final authority as to the current zoning
status of land, and structures in the City or in the City's extra-territorial
zoning jurisdiction at such time as zoning is approved for this
extraterritorial area pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-21-3.
(Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-4-2: REPLACEMENT OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   Procedure: In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged,
destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of
changes and additions, the City Council may by resolution adopt a new Official
Zoning Map which shall supersede the prior Official Zoning Map. The new
Official Zoning Map may correct drafting or other clerical, typographical
nonsubstantive errors or omissions in the prior Official Zoning Map, but no
such correction shall have the effect of amending the original Official Zoning
Map or any subsequent amendment thereof. The new Official Zoning Map shall be
identified by the signature of the Mayor attested to by the City Clerk-
Treasurer, and bear the Seal of the City under the following words: "This is to
certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the Official
Zoning Map adopted (date of adoption of Map being replaced) as part of
Ordinance No. of the City of Sunland Park".
   B.   Preservation Of Original Map: Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has
been lost, or has been totally destroyed, the prior Map or any significant
parts thereof remaining, shall be preserved, together with all available
records pertaining to its adoption or amendment. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-4-3: ZONE DISTRICT BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Division Into Districts: In order to carry out the provisions of this
Title, the City and territory in its extra-territorial zoning jurisdiction at
such time as zoning is approved for this extra-territorial area pursuant to New
Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-21-1 et seq., is hereby divided into zone
districts, as named and described in the following sections. The regulations
prescribed in this Title shall apply within the corporate limits of the City
and to the territory in its extra-territorial zoning jurisdiction at such time
as zoning is approved for this extra-territorial area pursuant to New Mexico
Statutes Annotated section 3-21-3.
   B.   Boundaries Shown On Map: The boundaries of said zone districts are
hereby established as shown on the Official Zoning Map.
   C.   Uncertainty Of Boundary Lines: Where due to the scale, lack of detail
or illegibility of the Official Zoning Map, there is any uncertainty,
contradiction or conflict as to the intended location of any district
boundaries shown thereon, interpretation concerning the exact location of a
zone district boundary line shall, upon a written request, be determined by the
Board of Adjustment.
   D.   Frontage On Public Right Of Way: Abutting zone districts along frontage
on a public right of way shall automatically extend to the center line upon
vacation from public use of said right of way. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-4-4: RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUND-
ARIES: Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on
the Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such center lines.
   B.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall
be construed as following such lot lines.
   C.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following City limits shall be
construed as following such City limits.
   D.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   E.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed to
follow such center lines.
   F.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated
in subsections A through E of this Section shall be so construed. Distances not
specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be determined by the
scale of the Map.
   G.   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map, or in other circumstances
not covered by subsections A through F above, the Board of Adjustment shall
interpret the district boundaries.
   H.   Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in single
ownership at the time of passage of this Title and where such lot was created
as part of a properly approved and filed subdivision, the Board of Adjustment
may permit, as a special exception, the extension of the regulations for either
portion of the lot into the remaining portion of the lot. If such lot was not
created as a part of a properly approved and filed subdivision, the more
restrictive regulations for either portion of the lot shall apply into the
remaining portion of the lot and the Board of Adjustment may permit, as a
special exception, the extension of the less restrictive regulations to the
entire lot only after such lot is approved and filed pursuant to the
subdivision regulations. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-4-5: APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Minimum Regulations: The regulations set by this Title within each
district shall be minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class
or kind of structure or land.
   B.   Compliance With District Regulations: No building, structure, or land
shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part
thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or
structurally altered except in conformity with all of the regulations herein
specified for the district in which it is located.
   C.   Compliance With Conditions And Limitations: No building or other
structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
      1.   To exceed the height or bulk;
      2.   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      3.   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area;
      4.   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or
other open spaces;
than herein required; or in any other manner contrary to the provisions of this
Title.
   D.   Yards, Open Spaces And Parking: No part of a yard, or other open space,
or off-street parking or loading space required about or in connection with any
building, for the purpose of complying with this Title, shall be included as
part of a yard, open space, or off-street parking or loading space similarly
required for any other building.
   E.   Yard Or Lot Dimensions: No yard or lot existing at the time of passage
of this Title shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum
requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date
hereof shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this Title.
   F.   Zoning Of Annexed Land: At such time as territory may hereafter be
annexed to the City, it shall continue to be zoned and subject to such land use
restrictions as prior to such annexation. Provided, however, if such territory
is not subject to zoning or land use restrictions, the City Council shall, as a
condition of such annexation, zone such territory. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-4-6: RESIDENTIAL USES PROHIBITED IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
Residential uses are prohibited in C-1 Light Commercial, C-2 General
Commercial, M-1 Light Industrial, and M-2 Heavy Industrial Zones unless
otherwise permitted by ordinance. (Ord. 1987-03, 1-6-1987; amd. Ord. 1998-06,
10-6-1998; amd. Ord. 2022-3, 1-4-2022)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. RE RURAL ESTATE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Purpose
10-5A-2: Permissive Uses
10-5A-3: Conditional Uses
10-5A-4: Area Requirements
10-5A-5: Height Limitations
10-5A-6: Off-Street Parking
10-5A-7: Signs
10-5A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Zone is to provide for agricultural activities and low
density residential uses that are conducive to a rural atmosphere and to allow
conventional on-site constructed single-family dwelling units. (Ord. 1985-03,
4-16-1985)
10-5A-2: PERMISSIVE USES: One single-family dwelling unit per lot.
Agricultural activities, as follows, provided the lot has an area of at least
two (2) acres:
   A.   Home occupation related to the raising of agricultural products or
horses.
   B.   Swine, fowl, goats, sheep, and cattle are prohibited.
Incidental structures such as private workshops, storage or greenhouse, of
similar construction appearance as the main residence.
Nursery products, the raising of. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-5A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
A use permit shall be required for the following conditional uses:
Churches, hospitals, schools, and religious and philanthropic institutions;
provided, however, that such uses shall be located on sites of sufficient size
to meet off-street parking requirements of this Title and to provide setback
from all property lines a distance of at least one foot (1') for each foot of
building height.
Kennel, veterinary hospital. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-5A-4: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Six thousand feet (6,000').
   B.   Minimum Yards:
      1.   Front: Twenty feet (20').
      2.   Side: Five feet (5').
      3.   Rear: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-5A-5: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
No building or structure shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in height; except,
however, accessory objects usually required to be placed above the roof level
and not intended for human occupancy, may exceed this height. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-
16-1985)
10-5A-6: OFF-STREET PARKING:
Off-street parking requirements shall be as provided in Chapter 13 of this
Title. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-5A-7: SIGNS:
Sign restrictions shall be as provided in Chapter 14 of this Title. (Ord. 1985-
03, 4-16-1985)
ARTICLE B. RE-1 AGRICULTURAL RURAL ESTATE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Purpose
10-5B-2: Permissive Uses and Limitations
10-5B-3: Community Review
10-5B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to provide for single-family residential uses and
agricultural activities in a semi-rural atmosphere with acreage lots. (Ord.
1998-01, 2-3-1998; amd. Ord. 2006-07, 5-16-2006)
10-5B-2: PERMISSIVE USES AND LIMITATIONS:
Site-built single-family detached structures, limited agricultural uses and
accessory structures.
   A.   Size and Location:
      1.   Lot Size: Minimum parcel size shall be no less than one (1) acre.
      2.   Density: Housing density shall permit no more than one (1)
residential structure per one (1) acre of land and not more than one (1)
residence per legally divided lot.
      3.   Dwelling Unit Size: The minimum dwelling unit size may not be less
than one thousand seven hundred (1,700) gross square feet. The maximum dwelling
unit size shall be restricted by height and setback regulations.
      4.   Main Structure Setbacks: Minimum setbacks for the main structure,
including covered porches, attached garage or attached carport:
         (a)   Front: forty-five feet (45').
         (b)   Side: fifteen feet (15').
         (c)   Rear: twenty feet (20').
      5.   Accessory Structure Setbacks: Minimum setbacks for accessory
structures of any size, use, or type of construction, including covered
porches, garages, or carports:
         (a)   Front: forty-five feet (45').
         (b)   Side: fifteen feet (15').
         (c)   Rear: twenty feet (20').
         (d)   From main structure: ten feet (10').
      6.   Height Limitations: No buildings or structures shall exceed two (2)
stories in height for single-family dwellings or more than thirty-five feet
(35') for all other structures or buildings, except, however, accessory objects
usually required to be placed above the roof level and not intended for human
occupancy, may exceed this height.
   B.   Fencing:
      1.   Height: Fencing, or garden walls, temporary or permanent, built on
the front setback area of the property can not be over thirty inches (30") in
height of solid wall, the wall may be built six feet (6') in height provided
the Section above the thirty inch (30") solid wall has six foot (6') spans
between each six foot (6') column, between each column rod iron can be used to
fill in the remaining forty-two inches (42") above the thirty inch (30") solid
wall. The maximum height of a fence in front or behind the front setback area
shall not exceed six feet (6').
      2.   Materials: All fencing in the front setback shall be of rock or
masonry materials. Chain link fencing shall not be installed in the front
setback area or on a side lot line abutting a side street. Chain link fencing
may be allowed in all other areas if approved by the planning and zoning
commission through the special use permit procedure.
   C.   Agricultural Activities: Only the following agricultural activities
shall be allowed, those uses not listed or that are more intense, may be
allowed if a special use permit is granted by the planning and zoning
commission:
      1.   Large Farm Animals: Not more than three (3) of any combination of
large (forty-four inches (44") or higher, measured from the shoulder) farm
animals such as horses, llamas, cattle, etcetera may be raised, reared or kept
per one (1) acre of land plus one (1) additional animal for each additional
one- half (1/2) acre thereafter, provided they are not kept, reared or
maintained for any commercial purposes and that the premises be kept in a
sanitary condition free of noxious and offensive odors and pestulants. Non-farm
animals (pets) such as dogs, cats, pigeons, fish, snakes, etcetera are
regulated by title 5, chapter 2 of this code.
      2.   Small Farm Animals: Not more than twenty (20) or any combination of
small (forty-four inches (44") or smaller, measured from the shoulder) farm
animals such as chickens, geese, pigs, rabbits, etcetera shall be permitted;
provided, that they are maintained in a confined manner which will not endanger
or harm the overall health of the community or obstruct other uses within this
zone and are not kept, reared or maintained for any commercial purposes. Non-
farm animals (pets) such as dogs, cats, pigeons, fish, snakes, etcetera are
regulated by title 5, chapter 2 of this code.
      3.   Small-scale Agricultural Plots: On property of one (1) acre in size
or less, small-scale agricultural plots, or what is generally referred to as
"sustainable systems" or "house gardens", are permitted to be incorporated into
the landscape including the growing of medicinal herbs, native plants,
vegetables, and fruit and nut trees; provided, that these uses do not endanger
or harm the overall health of the community.
      4.   Large Scale Agricultural Uses: On properties larger than one (1)
acre in size, commercial scale agricultural uses are allowed. This is to
include only the growing of plants and related activities for agricultural
purposes and does not include processing, packaging, sale, silo storage, or
manufacturing processes.
      5.   Greenhouses: Greenhouses are permitted for growing high-value, space
intensive crops and sprouting seedlings.
   D.   Architecture For Accessory Structures: No building or structure shall
be erected or altered on any lot unless the same is done in good and
workmanlike manner and such building or structure shall be maintained in neat
outward appearance. Exterior walls of any buildings and improvements shall be
constructed of new materials, and all exterior surfaces shall be painted with
at least two (2) coats of good quality paint. Garages and second living
quarters shall be constructed of the same material as the main dwelling.
   E.   Use Of Gray Water: The collection and reuse of wash and bath or "gray"
water shall be permitted within the confines of an individual owner's
residential area for house gardens, ornamentals, and enhancement of native
vegetation.
   F.   Mobile Homes: Mobile homes are prohibited. (Ord. 1998-01, 2-3-1998;
amd. Ord. 2006-07, 5-16-2006)
10-5B-3: COMMUNITY REVIEW:
The community development department may require that any structure, use or
activity be reviewed by the community's architectural control committee,
homeowner's association, or similar instrument should one exist. Said review
shall take place prior to review by the city of an application for any type of
building permit proposed to be issued on the property. (Ord. 1998-01, 2-3-1998;
amd. Ord. 2006-07, 5-16-2006)
ARTICLE C. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5C-1: Intent
10-5C-2: Permissive Uses
10-5C-3: Conditional Uses
10-5C-4: Area Requirements
10-5C-5: Height Requirements
10-5C-6: Off-Street Parking
10-5C-7: Signs
10-5C-8: Finish Grade And Natural Ground Grade
10-5C-1: INTENT:
The intent of this Zone is to allow only conventional on-site constructed
single-family dwelling units and those uses which maintain the predominantly
residential nature of the District. (Ord. 1998-05, 10-6-1998)
10-5C-2: PERMISSIVE USES:
One single-family dwelling unit per lot.
Accessory uses or buildings customarily incidental to a residential area,
including work shops, garages, etc.
Storage of a boat, camper, trailer or other major recreational equipment as
long as such boat, camper, trailer or vehicle is not used as a dwelling or
accessory living quarters and is not connected to utilities. The boat, camper,
trailer, or vehicle must be stored in a rear yard, and may not be parked in the
front yard or street for more than a twenty four (24) hour period. (Ord. 1985-
03, 4-16-1985; amd. Ord. 1989-04, 6-7-1989)
10-5C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
A use permit shall be required for the following conditional uses:
The construction of one single-family dwelling unit; provided, that, prior to
construction of such unit, a building permit is obtained from the City; and
provided, that the duration of construction for such unit from start to
completion does not exceed two (2) years. Mobile homes or trailers, connected
to available utilities and used as living quarters during the construction of a
building on the premises, is eligible only for a one year permit. Such a permit
shall not be renewed for more than one additional one year period. After a
permit has expired, the mobile home or trailer shall be removed from the site.
Churches.
Hospitals or clinics.
Real estate sales office in connection with a specific development, allowable
only as a renewable conditional for six (6) months at a time.
Recreational facility (nonprofit) such as a community center, swimming pool, or
tennis club.
Schools.
Any other use which is compatible, as determined by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, with the residential nature of this Zone, and shall be considered
for approval only after a public hearing for which the adjacent property owners
within three hundred feet (300') have been notified at least ten (10) days
prior to the hearing. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985; amd. Ord. 1989-04, 6-7-1989)
10-5C-4: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Six thousand (6,000) square feet.
   B.   Minimum Yards:
      1.   Front: Twenty feet (20').
      2.   Side: Five feet (5'), except on a corner lot the minimum setback on
the street must be ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-5C-5: HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
No building or structure shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in height; except,
however, accessory objects usually required to be placed above the roof level
and not intended for human occupancy may exceed this height. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-
16-1985)
10-5C-6: OFF-STREET PARKING:
Off-street parking requirements shall be as provided in Chapter 13 of this
Title. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-5C-7: SIGNS:
Sign restrictions shall be as provided in Chapter 14 of this Title. (Ord. 1985-
03, 4-16-1985)
10-5C-8: FINISH GRADE AND NATURAL GROUND GRADE:
   A.   All dwellings, conventional or manufactured homes, shall maintain a
minimum of six inches (6") to a maximum of twelve inches (12") finish floor
level above finish grade.
   B.   "Natural ground grade" shall be defined as the existing grade before
placement of manufactured home or slab. "Finish grade" shall be defined as the
finish floor of the home minus six inches (6") and sloping away from the home.
The finish grade may or may not be the same as the natural grade. (Ord. 1998-
05, 10-6-1998)
ARTICLE D. TC SINGLE-FAMILY TOWNHOUSE AND CONDOMINIUMS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5D-1: Intent
10-5D-2: Permissive Uses
10-5D-3: Conditional Uses
10-5D-4: Area Requirements
10-5D-5: Height Limitations
10-5D-6: Off-Street Parking
10-5D-7: Signs
10-5D-8: Usable Open Space
10-5D-9: Special Site Conditions
10-5D-1: INTENT:
The intent of this Zone is to provide for sites for townhouses, condominiums,
and uses incidental thereto. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-5D-2: PERMISSIVE USES:
Permissive uses include all uses permissive in the R-1 Zone. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-
16-1985)
10-5D-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Uses conditional in the R-1 Zone.
   B.   Such other uses specifically granted by the City Planning and Zoning
Commission to implement the development plan including waivers of provisions or
regulations as necessary. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985; amd. 2000 Code)
10-5D-4: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Three thousand (3,000) square feet per townhouse.
Townhouse lots shall have a width of not less than twenty four feet (24') per
dwelling unit. (Ord. 1989-04, 6-7-1989)
   B.   Yards: No minimum yard size for condominiums; however, townhouses shall
have the following minimum yard sizes:
      1.   Front: Fifteen feet (15'), except where frontage is on a standard
residential street as an extension of R-1 Zone development or which street
extends to serve R-1 Zone development; in which case, regulations pertaining to
R-1 Zone setback shall apply and, also, except that setback for a carport shall
be not less than twenty feet (20') or five feet (5') greater than principal
building.
      2.   Side: No required side yard setback, except there shall be not less
than fifteen feet (15') on the intersecting street side of corner lots; and
where a standard residential street is to become the side frontage, the
provisions of subsection B1 above shall apply.
      3.   Rear: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
   C.   Floor Area Ratio To Lot Size: The maximum floor area ratio to lot size
shall be 0.6. (Ord. 1989-04, 6-7-1989)
10-5D-5: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
Height limitations shall be the same as R-1 Zone. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-5D-6: OFF-STREET PARKING:
Two (2) off-street parking spaces per dwelling unit plus one space additional
for each bathroom in the unit over one. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-5D-7: SIGNS:
Sign restrictions shall be the same as R-1 Zone. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-5D-8: USABLE OPEN SPACE:
There shall be provided on site a minimum of seven hundred fifty (750) square
feet of usable open space per dwelling unit. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-5D-9: SPECIAL SITE CONDITIONS:
A townhouse, condominium area may be planned and developed to include irregular
street alignment and minimum widths, on-site drainage without curb and gutter
and with protective provisions for shoulders as determined by the technical
staff of the City, and bicycle paths and walkways as are conducive to the
purposes of the development. Nothing herein shall be construed to waive
applicable standards for construction of asphalt streets. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-
1985)
ARTICLE E. MR MIXED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5E-1: Purpose
10-5E-2: Permissive Uses
10-5E-3: Conditional Uses
10-5E-4: Area Requirements
10-5E-5: Height Requirements
10-5E-6: Off-Street Parking
10-5E-7: Signs
10-5E-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Zone is to provide for the development of residential
housing and certain other uses which are compatible with the development of the
neighborhood. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-5E-2: PERMISSIVE USES:
   A.   Dwellings, Mobile Homes And Modular Dwelling Units:
      1.   Placement Permit Required: One single-family dwelling per lot,
including mobile homes and modular dwelling units; provided, however, that
prior to placement of a dwelling unit, a permit shall be acquired from the City
Building Inspector. On application for the permit, the applicant must show that
a mobile home is:
         a.   As defined in Section
10-1-1 of this Title.
         b.   Will be stabilized and anchored in accordance with the
Manufactured Housing Act of New Mexico1.
      2.   Certificate Of Occupancy Required: Subsequent to placement of the
mobile home and inspection by the City Building Inspector, approving the
placement, a mobile home shall not be occupied until an occupancy permit has
been granted by the City Building Inspector. An occupancy permit shall not be
granted until:
         a.   Skirting: The mobile home is completely skirted with solid and
aesthetically compatible material of the same type, color, and texture as the
outer siding of the mobile home.
         b.   Deck Or Porch: A solid deck or porch area, which need not be
covered or enclosed, is constructed at the main entrance which is at least
equal in size to five percent (5%) of the heated area of the mobile home.
      3.   Fences Or Walls: If fences or walls are constructed, they shall be
approved by the City Building Inspector. If constructed, they shall be a
minimum of three and one-half feet (3h/2') high but no more than two and one-
half feet (2V2') high in front and on sides of front yards. They shall be
constructed in such a manner as not to cause increased quantity or velocity of
runoff to neighboring property. (Ord. 1989-04, 6-7-1989)
      4.   Noncompliance; Removal Of Mobile Home: Failure to comply with all
requirements of this Article shall require removal of the mobile home within a
twenty (20) day period. After failure to comply within the twenty (20) day
period, the owner shall be subject to Section
10-2-5 of this Title. (Ord. 1986-16, 6-17-1986)
   B.   Apartments and duplex units. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
      1.   NMSA §§ 60-14-1 to 60-14-18.
10-5E-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
A use permit shall be required for the following conditional uses:
The construction of one single-family dwelling unit, addition to a mobile home
or a dwelling unit, the construction of an approved accessory building or a use
customarily incidental to a residential area including workshops, garages,
etc.; provided, that a building permit is acquired from the City Building
Inspector prior to the construction of any building, and provided that the
duration of construction of any building does not exceed two (2) years.
Church and incidental facilities.
City of Sunland Park
Noncommercial library, museum and art gallery.
Public utility structure, such as transformer, switching, pumping, and similar
technical operations essential to the operation of a public utility, but not
including a power generation plant.
Recreation facility (community, nonprofit).
Schools. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985; amd. Ord. 1989-04, 6-7-1989)
10-5E-4: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Six thousand (6,000) square feet.
   B.   Minimum Yards:
      1.   Front (Not Including Hitches): Fifteen feet (15') except twenty feet
(20') in front of garages and carports.
      2.   Side: Seven and five-tenths feet (7.5'), except on a corner lot the
minimum side yard shall be ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 1989-04, 6-7-1989; amd. 2000 Code)
10-5E-5: HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
Same as for R-1 Zone. (Ord. 1989-04, 6-7-1989)
10-5E-6: OFF-STREET PARKING:
Off-street parking shall be as provided in Chapter 13 of this Title. (Ord.
1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-5E-7: SIGNS:
Signs shall be limited as provided in Chapter 14 of this Title. (Ord. 1985-03,
4-16-1985)
ARTICLE F. MF MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5F-1: Purpose
10-5F-2: Permissive Uses
10-5F-3: Conditional Uses
10-5F-4: Area Requirements
10-5F-5: Height Requirements
10-5F-6: Off-Street Parking
10-5F-7: Signs
10-5F-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Zone is to allow higher density residential uses. (Ord.
1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-5F-2: PERMISSIVE USES:
   A.   Permissive uses as allowed in R-1 Zone.
   B.   Apartments and duplex units. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-5F-3: CONDITIONAL USES: A use permit shall be required for the following
conditional uses:
Churches.
Hospitals or clinics.
Professional and semi-professional offices.
Real estate sales office in connection with a specific development, allowable
only as a renewable conditional use for six (6) month period at a time.
Recreational facility (nonprofit) such as a community center, swimming pool, or
tennis club.
Any other use which is compatible, as determined by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, with the residential nature of this Zone, and shall be considered
for approval only after a public hearing for which the adjacent property owners
within three hundred feet (300') have been notified at least ten (10) days
prior to the hearing. (Ord. 1989-04, 6-7-1989)
10-5F-4: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Four thousand (4,000) square feet per dwelling unit
for the first two (2) dwelling units plus nine hundred (900) square feet for
every additional dwelling unit over the second dwelling unit. (Ord. 1990-07,
11-7-1990; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Minimum Dwelling Unit Size: Eight hundred fifty (850) square feet.
   C.   Minimum Yards:
      1.   Front: Fifteen feet (15') except twenty feet (20') in the front of
garages and carports.
      2.   Side: Seven and one-half feet (7.5') except on a corner lot, the
minimum side yard is ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear: Fifteen feet (15').
      4.   Floor Area Ratio: The maximum floor area ratio to lot size shall be
0.60.
   D.   Minimum Lot Dimensions:
      1.   Width: Fifty five feet (55').
      2.   Depth: One hundred feet (100').
   E.   Variances: Variances to any of the above restrictions will be reviewed
on a case-by-case basis. Final variance approval will be given by the City
Council. (Ord. 1990-07, 11-7-1990)
10-5F-5: HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
No building or structure shall exceed forty five feet (45'). (Ord. 1985-03, 4-
16-1985)
10-5F-6: OFF-STREET PARKING:
Off-street parking requirements shall be as provided in Chapter 13 of this
Title. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-5F-7: SIGNS:
Signs shall be limited as provided in Chapter 14 of this Title. (Ord. 1985-03,
4-16-1985)
ARTICLE G. PD PRESERVATION DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5G-1: Intent And Purpose
10-5G-2: Permissive Uses
10-5G-3: Conditional Uses
10-5G-4: Prohibited Uses
10-5G-5: Density
10-5G-6: Lot Dimensions
10-5G-7: Development Standards
10-5G-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent of the city of Sunland Park in creating this zone designation is to
provide for the protection and preservation of environmentally and culturally
vulnerable areas. The city recognizes that as the steward of the land within
its jurisdiction it has an obligation to preserve vistas, view sheds,
archeological, paleontological, and/or historical sites, ecologically sensitive
areas and places of significance to the citizens of the city and the region.
Further, it is the intent that this designation apply to land that for the most
part has development constraints due to topography, location, access, lack of
infrastructure, and lack of the availability of basic services. It is therefore
necessary to limit the intensity of development to large tracts of land.
   A.   The preservation district zone designation is to be placed on property
when the following circumstances are present:
      1.   When by the nature of its use, such as regional transmission of
electricity, or its natural limitation, such as being subject to flooding,
severe slopes, difficult terrain, difficult access, lack of appropriate
infrastructure, archeological, paleontological, and/or historical sites, or a
view shed to be protected for posterity make the property inappropriate for
habitation or intensive development. (Ord. 03-06, 8-5-2003)
10-5G-2: PERMISSIVE USES:
Agriculture.
Residential uses at a density of not less than one unit per forty (40) acres.
(Ord. 03-06, 8-5-2003)
10-5G-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted subject to a conditional use permit:
Grading operations for road construction.
Private recreational facilities and ancillary commercial uses such as snack
bars and gift shops that are a subordinate part or element of the facility.
Public parks and recreation facilities.
Public utility structures and public service facilities that serve a regional
or interstate purpose.
Other uses not involving buildings or other permanent improvements, and not
involving the permanent scarring or destruction of land forms. (Ord. 03-06, 8-
5-2003)
10-5G-4: PROHIBITED USES:
The uses listed here are examples of prohibited uses and not meant to be an all
encompassing list:
Uses that involve the destruction of the land such as mining operations, plant
harvesting, grading other than for roads.
Other uses not listed in sections 10-5G-2 and 10-5G-3 of this article are
expressly prohibited. No land shall be used nor buildings and structures
hereafter be erected, altered, enlarged, or otherwise modified in this zoning
district unless said use or improvement is in compliance with the PD district
provisions. (Ord. 03-06, 8-5-2003)
10-5G-5: DENSITY:
   A.   One unit per forty (40) acres. (Ord. 03-06, 8-5-2003)
10-5G-6: LOT DIMENSIONS:
   A.   All newly created lots shall meet the following minimum net dimensions:
      1.   Area: Forty (40) acre net lot area.
      2.   Depth: No minimum.
      3.   Width: No minimum. (Ord. 03-06, 8-5-2003)
10-5G-7: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Areas within the preservation district are to be protected from extensive
building encroachment. Necessary amenities or appurtenant structures, i.e.,
picnic shelters, or clubhouses, may be allowed in those areas where such
facilities are warranted or necessary providing approval is granted under
appropriate provisions of this code. (Ord. 03-06, 8-5-2003)
CHAPTER 6
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. C-1 LIGHT COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Purpose
10-6A-2: Permissive Uses
10-6A-3: Conditional Uses
10-6A-4: Area Requirements
10-6A-5: Height Requirements
10-6A-6: Off-Street Parking
10-6A-7: Signs
10-6A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Zone is to permit a limited mixture of residential and
retail commercial activities. This Zone establishes and preserves areas for
those commercial facilities which are essentially useful in close proximity to
residential areas while minimizing the undesirable impact of such commercial
uses on the neighborhoods which they service. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-6A-2: PERMISSIVE USES:
Any use which is compatible with the general nature and patterns of permitted
residential uses as outlined in Chapter 5, Articles A through F of this Title.
(Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-6A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
A special use permit shall be required for the uses listed in this Section. The
examples listed below are for explanatory purposes and may include other
similar businesses of similar neighborhood convenience. Buffer strips, wall or
fences shall be required in some instances. Specific conditions and provisions
for each use may be referred to in Chapter 10 of this Title.
Adult amusement establishment.
Adult bookstore/video store.
Airport and heliport.
Ambulance service.
Auto washing establishment.
Bakery.
Banks and financial institutions.
Body shop.
Bookstore.
Bus garage.
Car wash.
Gasoline service station.
Grocery store.
Heavy equipment repair and service.
Kennel (commercial).
Laundromat; dry cleaning; linen supply.
Mobile home park.
Paint shop (spraying, mixing).
Planned unit development.
Professional office.
Public utility installation, substation, and water well.
Racetrack.
Recreation hall.
Recycling purchase center.
Stadium: baseball, football, soccer, or track. (Ord. 1998-02, 4-7-1998)
10-6A-4: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Five thousand (5,000) square feet.
   B.   Minimum Yards Required: Where the site faces or abuts a residential
zone, the setback requirements of the residential zone apply; otherwise the
following shall apply:
      1.   Front: Fifteen feet (15').
      2.   Side: Five feet (5').
      3.   Rear: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 1999-02, 3-2-1999)
10-6A-5: HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
Same as the MF Zone. (Ord. 1999-02, 3-2-1999)
10-6A-6: OFF-STREET PARKING:
Off-street parking requirements shall be as provided in Chapter 13 of this
Title. No loading or unloading is to be conducted in a public street. (Ord.
1999-02, 3-2-1999)
10-6A-7: SIGNS:
Signs shall be limited as provided in Chapter 14 of this Title. (Ord. 1999-02,
3-2-1999)
ARTICLE B. C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Purpose
10-6B-2: Permissive Uses
10-6B-3: Conditional Uses
10-6B-4: Area Requirements
10-6B-5: Height Restrictions
10-6B-6: Off-Street Parking
10-6B-7: Signs
10-6B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Zone is to allow those commercial activities that serve the
general community on a day-to-day basis. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-6B-2: PERMISSIVE USES:
Any use which is compatible with the general nature and patterns of permitted
residential uses as outlined in Chapter 5, Articles A through F of this Title.
(Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-6B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
A use permit shall be required for the following uses:
Those conditional uses allowed in the C-1 Zone.
Garage for automotive repair and painting, provided it complies with the
following:
   A.   All activities shall be conducted within a completely enclosed
building.
   B.   Storage of not more than five (5) inoperable automobiles intended for
repair, owned by customers only; provided, that the outdoor area in which such
cars are stored shall be enclosed by a solid wall or fence at least six feet
(6') high.
Lumber and building supply store. Motel and hotel.
Service stations primarily for automobiles and petroleum gas for consumption
but not for resale and including lubricating, minor repairs and associated
activities which are conducted within a completely enclosed building. A solid
wall or fence at least six feet (6') high shall be erected between the activity
and any abutting or contiguous residential zone, or other buffer as may be
required by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
Shopping centers. Shopping center applications for conditional use shall be
submitted according to the following requirements:
   A.   An applicant shall submit a general development plan for the shopping
center, or shopping center site, including drawings showing the approximate
location of proposed buildings; lighting control, protective screening;
landscaping; the general design of pedestrian and vehicular entrance, and
circulation; and the general design or parking, loading, and traffic handling
facilities and methods.
   B.   The general development plan shall be accompanied by parking and
traffic engineering plan designed to accepted traffic engineering practices and
laid out so as to be an integral part of the center development. Pickup or
unloading points must be designed so that vehicles stopped for this purpose do
not create congestion on abutting public ways. No loading or unloading is to be
conducted in a public street.
   C.   Upon approval, the applicant is responsible for payment of cost for the
necessary channelization, shelter, and vehicular turning movements into the
shopping center or shopping center site. These responsibilities shall be
reduced to written enforceable agreement and agreed upon between the applicant
and the City at the time of approval of the general development plan.
Any other use which is found compatible by the Board of Adjustment with the
general nature and patterns of commercial activity. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-6B-4: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Five thousand (5,000) square feet.
   B.   Minimum Yards Required: Where the site faces or abuts a residential
zone the setback requirements of the residential zone apply; otherwise, the
following shall apply:
      1.   Front: Fifteen feet (15').
      2.   Side: Five feet (5').
      3.   Rear: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 1999-02, 3-2-1999; amd. 2000 Code)
10-6B-5: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Height restrictions shall generally be the same as MF Zone except within the
Entertainment District where height restrictions are subject to the
Entertainment District Overlay's standards. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985; amd. Ord.
2022-8, 6-21-2022)
10-6B-6: OFF-STREET PARKING:
Off-street parking requirements shall be as provided in Chapter 13 of this
Title. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-6B-7: SIGNS:
Sign limitations shall be as provided in Chapter 14 of this Title. (Ord. 1985-
03, 4-16-1985)
CHAPTER 7
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. M-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Purpose
10-7A-2: Permissive Uses
10-7A-3: Area Requirements
10-7A-4: Height Requirements
10-7A-5: Off Street Parking
10-7A-6: Signs
10-7A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to allow for heavy commercial, warehousing, and
light manufacturing operations. Residential uses are not allowed. (Ord. 03-05,
8-5-2003)
10-7A-2: PERMISSIVE USES:
   A.   Uses Conducted Within Building: The following uses must be conducted
within a completely enclosed building:
Bottling plant.
Cold storage plant. Ice plant (wholesale).
Manufacturing, compounding, assembling, or treatment of articles from the
following previously prepared materials:
Bone or shell.
Cellophane.
Cork.
Fiber.
Fur.
Glass.
Horn.
Leather.
Metals.
   B.   Uses Conducted Within Building Or Fence: The following uses must be
conducted in a completely enclosed building or within an area enclosed on all
sides by a solid wall or fence at least six feet (6') high:
Building material storage or sales.
Concrete or cement products manufacturing, batching plant and processing of
stone.
Dwelling unit, one, for a watchman or caretaker on the same lot or parcel of
land with an industrial structure or use.
Gravel, sand, or dirt removal activity, stockpiling, processing or distribution
and batching, plant; however, blasting or drilling is prohibited.
Rental, sales, display and repair of construction and heavy farm equipment.
Tire recapping or retreading. (Ord. 03-05, 8-5-2003)
10-7A-3: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
For area requirements, refer to section 10-15-1 of this title. (Ord. 03-05, 8-
5-2003)
10-7A-4: HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
Maximum height of any building or structure shall be forty five feet (45').
(Ord. 03-05, 8-5-2003)
10-7A-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking requirements shall be as provided in chapter 13 of this
title. No loading or unloading is to be conducted on a public way. (Ord. 03-05,
8-5-2003)
10-7A-6: SIGNS:
Sign limitations shall be as provided in chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 03-05,
8-5-2003)
ARTICLE B. M-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7B-1: Purpose
10-7B-2: Permissive Uses
10-7B-3: Conditional Uses
10-7B-4: Area Requirements
10-7B-5: Height Requirements
10-7B-6: Off Street Parking
10-7B-7: Signs
10-7B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to allow for heavy manufacturing uses. (Ord. 03-05,
8-5-2003)
10-7B-2: PERMISSIVE USES:
The list below is for explanatory purposes and is not inclusive. Other similar
manufacturing uses may be permitted upon request to the planning and zoning
commission.
Manufacturing of the following:
Acetylene gas.
Alcohol.
Ammonia, bleaching powder, chlorine.
Asphalt.
Brick, tile, terra cotta.
Chemicals.
Metal forge.
Oilcloth, linoleum.
Paint, oil (including linseed, shellac, turpentine, lacquer, varnish).
Petroleum.
Plastics.
Soap.
Sodium compounds.
Stove or shoe polish.
Tar products.
Railroad repair shop.
Wrecking or junkyard. (Ord. 03-05, 8-5-2003)
10-7B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
A use permit shall be required for the following uses:
Manufacturing or use of the following:
Cannery, curing of raw hides.
Cement, lime gypsum, plaster of paris.
Explosives.
Fertilizer.
Glue.
Slaughter of animals.
Stock yard feeding pen.
Wool pulling or scouring. (Ord. 03-05, 8-5-2003)
10-7B-4: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
Buffer zones may be required by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 03-
05, 8-5-2003)
10-7B-5: HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
Same as the M-R zone. (Ord. 03-05, 8-5-2003)
10-7B-6: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking requirements as provided in chapter 13 of this title. No
loading or unloading is to be conducted in a public street. (Ord. 03-05, 8-5-
2003)
10-7B-7: SIGNS:
Sign limitations as provided in chapter 14 of this title.
(Ord. 03-05, 8-5-2003)
CHAPTER 8
SU-1 SPECIAL USE ZONE
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose; Procedure
10-8-2: Supplementary Regulations And Special Conditions; Hearing
10-8-1: PURPOSE; PROCEDURE:
The purpose of this Zone is to permit only those uses which require special
consideration because of their unusual nature, dimensions, effect on
surrounding property, or other similar reason. The boundaries of this Zone
shall be determined only on a case-by-case basis following the procedures of an
amendment as provided in this Title. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-8-2: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS AND SPECIAL CONDITIONS; HEARING:
Supplementary regulations and special conditions may be imposed by the City
Council upon recommendations by the Planning and Zoning Commission. The City
Council may not grant a zone change for special use without a public hearing
and unless adequate conditions and safeguards in the opinion of the City
Council have been made:
   A.   To assure that the degree of compatibility of property uses shall be
maintained with respect to the special use and the surrounding uses of property
in the general area; and
   B.   To preserve the integrity and character of the zone in which the use
will be located, and the utility and value of property in the Special Use Zone
and in the adjacent zones. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985; amd. Ord. 1998-02, 4-7-
1998)
CHAPTER 9
MO-1 MOBILE OR MANUFACTURED HOME DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9-1: District Established; Purpose
10-9-2: Definitions
10-9-3: Uses Permitted
10-9-4: Standards
10-9-1: DISTRICT ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE:
The MO-1 Mobile or Manufactured Home Zoning District is hereby established. The
purpose of this Zone is to provide for high density exclusively mobile or
manufactured home single-family individually owned lots utilized as sites for
placement of one single-family mobile or manufactured home per lot. (Ord. 1993-
08, 7-6-1993)
10-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
MOBILE OR MANUFACTURED HOME STAND: That portion of the lot intended for
occupancy by the mobile or manufactured home proper, consisting of a
rectangular plot of ground of dimensions to be determined by the size of the
unit to be accommodated.
MOBILE OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: A parcel of land equal to at least
twelve thousand (12,000) square feet of a regular or rectangular shape
subdivided into lots individually owned and utilized as the site for placement
of one single-family mobile or manufactured home per lot. (Ord. 1993-08, 7-6-
1993)
10-9-3: USES PERMITTED:
In this District land, buildings or structures shall be used only for mobile or
manufactured single-family homes, and:
   A.   No more than one mobile or manufactured home shall be allowed on a lot.
   B.   On the lot, enclosed storage structures or garage facilities of
sufficient size to serve the single-family dwelling, and for no other purpose,
are allowed.
   C.   Accessory uses and structures which are clearly incidental and
subordinate to permitted or permissible uses and structures are allowed.
   D.   Conduct of business on the premises is prohibited. (Ord. 1993-08, 7-6-
1993)
10-9-4: STANDARDS:
   A.   Development Plan: Prior to granting MO-1 zoning approval, the owner
shall submit to the City Building Inspector an overall development plan showing
proposed land uses for the entire area to be zoned. The plan shall be in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter including a minimum site size of
at least twelve thousand (12,000) square feet.
   B.   Compliance With Subdivision Ordinances: The plan shall meet or exceed
all requirements of the City subdivision ordinances and regulations and no lots
may be sold unless the owner complies with all subdivision ordinances and
regulations.
   C.   Home Stand Location; Drainage: Each home stand shall be located on a
well-drained lot and graded to ensure proper drainage of the lot and adequate
storm drainage away from the home stand.
   D.   Lot Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Size: Minimum lot size per home unit shall be four thousand
(4,000) square feet.
      2.   Configuration: Each lot shall be configured in such a manner as to
allow a home stand of concrete footing adequate to support the home unit.
   E.   Number Of Homes Allowed: A maximum of eight (8) home lots per gross
acre shall be allowed in any mobile home subdivision.
   F.   Location Of Homes: Homes shall be so located on each lot that there
shall be at least a twenty foot (20') clearance between homes; provided, that
with respect to homes parked end-to-end, the end-toend clearance may not be
less than twenty feet (20'). No home shall be located closer than ten feet
(10') to any property line.
   G.   Off-Street Parking:
      1.   Notwithstanding the minimum lot size of four thousand (4,000) square
feet for each home lot, all lots shall be of sufficient size and configured in
such a manner that in addition to the home stand, space shall be provided for
two (2) off-street parking spaces, which shall be paved or covered with crushed
stone or other suitable material.
      2.   No on-street parking shall be permitted.
      3.   Set-aside space for off-street parking shall not be encroached upon
for any other uses. (Ord. 1993-08, 7-6-1993)
CHAPTER 10
SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
10-10-1: Definition
10-10-2: Approval Procedures
10-10-3: Special Uses Enumerated
10-10-4: (Reserved)
10-10-5: Mobile Home Parks (MHP)
10-10-6: Recreational Vehicle Parks (RVP)
10-10-1: DEFINITION:
A "special use" is a use which is not permitted by right in a zoning district.
A special use requires review and approval by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and City Council to determine impacts on the surrounding area. (Ord.
1998-02, 4-7-1998)
10-10-2: APPROVAL PROCEDURES:
The procedures for such approval are as follows:
   A.   Application For Special Use Permit:
      1.   Statement Of Reasons; Site Plan: Applications for a special use
permit shall be obtained from the Community Development Department. There shall
be a comprehensive statement included with each application indicating in
detail the reason for the request, the purpose and use of the property, all
improvements to be made, and a site plan including the following:
         a.   Location of existing and proposed structures including dimensions
of setbacks;
         b.   Existing and proposed vehicular circulation systems, including
parking areas, storage areas, service areas, loading areas, and major points of
access, including street pavement width and right of way;
         c.   Location and treatment of open spaces including landscaping plan
and schedule;
         d.   Lighting; and
         e.   Signage.
      2.   Drainage Facilities Plan: A drainage facilities plan or
environmental impact statement may be required by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   B.   Public Hearing And Notice Procedure:
      1.   Notify Adjoining Property Owners: A public hearing shall be held by
the Planning and Zoning Commission for all special use permits, and all
property owners within two hundred feet (200') of the request shall be notified
in accord with the provisions of subsection B2 of this Section.
      2.   Hearing And Notice Requirements: A public hearing is required for
all requests for a zoning district change, zoning text amendment, future land
use plan change, special use permit, planned unit development, annexation and
initial zoning. Whenever such request is proposed, notice of the public hearing
shall be sent by certified mail to all property owners, as shown on the records
of the County Assessor, within the proposed area of the change and within at
least two hundred feet (200') of the area of the proposed change or request,
excluding streets, alleys, channels, canals, other public rights of way and
railroad right of way; provided, that a minimum of fifteen (15) property owners
will be notified, where less than that number are within the mandatory two
hundred foot (200') radius. Notice to said property owners shall be mailed at
least ten (10) days prior to the required public hearing. Notice of the time
and place of the public hearing shall be published at least fifteen (15) days
prior to the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the City.
   C.   Review And Approval Procedures: The Planning and Zoning Commission may
deny such special use permits, or may grant final approval in accord with
certain conditions, with right of appeal to the City Council. Approval may also
be granted with additional conditions imposed, which are deemed necessary to
ensure that the purpose and intent of this Title is met and to protect and
provide safeguards for persons and property in the vicinity.
   D.   Time Limitations, Revocation And Development Standards;
      1.   Generally: In addition to the imposition of conditions, the Planning
and Zoning Commission may impose a time limitation on the special use permit.
If a special use is discontinued for a period of one year, said permit shall
automatically be revoked. If a certificate of occupancy and/or a business
registration is not issued for the property with the special use permit within
two (2) years from the date of Planning and Zoning Commission approval, then
the special use permit shall be automatically revoked. All improvements shall
be in accord with the development standards within the district, except as
otherwise authorized by the special use permit, and there shall be no major
revisions in the site plan of the original approved special use, except as
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Minor revisions to a site plan,
following final approval, may be subsequently approved by the planning staff
without a public hearing. Major revisions to the plan are subject to a regular
public hearing with the same requirements as an original application.
      2.   Major Revisions: Major revisions shall include, but are not limited
to:
         a.   Any change in land use or intensity;
         b.   Modifications of vehicular traffic volumes or circulation; and
         c.   Increase in size of property or change in location or
configuration of structures.
      3.   Minor Changes: Minor changes approvable by the planning staff are as
follows:
         a.   Provision of additional parking or landscaping;
         b.   Minor adjustment to parking, landscaping, lighting, signage; and
         c.   Superficial changes to structures or slight variations in
dimensions.
      4.   Permit Renewal: Special use permits shall be eligible for renewal
when limitations expire.
   E.   Recording Of Special Use Permits: After approval, the special use
permit shall be issued by the Community Development Director or his/her
designee and shall include all information, conditions, reference to site
plans, and other provisions of the special use. The special uses as granted
shall be shown on a Special Use Permit Map indicating its location with a
designation of "SU" and the year of expiration. Special uses shall not be
considered a zoning district change. (Ord. 1998-02, 4-7-1998)
10-10-3: SPECIAL USES ENUMERATED:
The following are special uses which may be approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission in accord with the provisions and conditions of this Chapter. The
Planning and Zoning Commission may, at its discretion, impose additional
conditions when deemed necessary. Such uses shall be approved only within the
districts stipulated.
ACCESSORY UNIT (R-1): This use is intended to allow flexibility in existing and
proposed housing designs in order to better accommodate family living
arrangements which often result due to growing economic and social demands and/
or impacts. This use shall be permitted, provided:
   A.   Owner of record shall reside in either the main or accessory unit for a
minimum of six (6) months of each calendar year during the special use permit
approval period. Instances where nonresidency occurs in excess of six (6)
months due to a legitimate illness or accident requiring hospitalization or
special care shall be exempt from this provision; and
   B.   No more than one accessory unit shall exist per single-family dwelling/
lot; and
   C.   Accessory units shall be created solely to accommodate those related to
the family. Actual occupancy is subject to item A above; and
   D.   A maximum permitted increase to the size of an existing dwelling for
purposes of an accessory unit shall be thirty percent (30%) of the floor area
which existed three (3) years prior to application submittal. No more than
thirty percent (30%) of the floor area for new construction may be allocated
for the accessory unit in each instance, the permitted floor area for the
accessory unit may not exceed five hundred (500) square feet; and
   E.   Exclusive of the applicant's proposal, no more than ten percent (10%)
of single-family dwellings (R-1 Zone) within a five hundred foot (500') radius
of the applicant's property (measurement shall be from property line to
property line exclusive of rights of way) shall have accessory units. If there
are no R-1 zoned properties within the radius measured, the proposal shall be
considered as meeting the ten percent (10%) requirement; and
   F.   The lot/parcel proposed for such use shall meet the minimum area
requirements of the R-1 Zone (most recent Sunland Park Zoning Code, as
amended); and
   G.   Every effort shall be made to avoid additional entrances or other
visible changes on the facade of the house facing the street. Modifications or
initial designs shall, to the extent possible, conform to the overall design of
the house. Exterior materials used for the accessory unit shall, to the extent
possible, be of a compatible color, texture, and type; and
   H.   Accessory units shall retain direct internal access to the main
dwelling in a manner which will allow easy reconversion back as part of the
single-family unit (single kitchen) upon expiration or termination of the
special use permit. Accessory units created through an addition or designated
as such in new construction shall be connected to the main dwelling by a common
wall(s). A minimum of seventy five percent (75%) of the accessory units common
wall(s) length shall be used in the connection. Direct internal access to the
accessory living areas shall exist through functional/integral living areas
such as a living room, family room, main hallway, etc. Ancillary hallways,
garages, laundry rooms, or similar areas shall not serve as the sole connecting
facility; and
   I.   Landscaping shall be used to the extent possible, to minimize the
impact to adjacent properties; and
   J.   Parking for the accessory unit shall conform to City standards; and
   K.   Approval for an accessory unit (special use permit) shall be based on
the length of time the accessory unit/main dwelling is to be used by a specific
family member as determined by the applicant. No more than one accessory unit
special use permit shall be granted, per lot, to the same property owner. The
special use permit may be revoked on the grounds of noncompliance with all
applicable conditions, codes, or ordinances and thereby, require reconversion
back as a single-family dwelling. Special use permits for purposes herein
defined shall run with the specific family member(s) (not the land) for which
the accessory unit was created. A change in ownership of a property where a
special use permit exists for a person(s) who is/are no longer a family member
of the accessory unit occupant or a change in the intended accessory unit
occupancy status shall cause said permit to immediately become void. In such
instances, it shall be the responsibility of the new/present owner to either
apply for a new accessory unit special use permit or reconvert the structure
back to a single-family unit as required pursuant to all applicable
regulations; and
   L.   Upon approval of an accessory unit special use permit, the applicant
and/or property owner shall be required to file the special use permit, as
issued by the Planning Department, with the County Clerk's office; and
   M.   All applicable special use permit requirements shall apply pursuant to
Chapter 8 of this Title unless exempted or otherwise stated under these
provisions.
ADULT AMUSEMENT ESTABLISHMENT: This use shall be permitted, provided:
   A.   Such use is located at a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from a
property line of a:
      Church;
      Nursery/daycare;
      Public park or recreational facility;
      Residential zoning district;
      School; and
      Other adult bookstore/video store or adult amusement establishment.
   B.   This use shall be permitted, provided such use is located at a minimum
of five hundred feet (500') from the property line of a liquor establishment.
Measurement shall be measured from the adult amusement establishment to the
property line of the liquor establishment.
   C.   The operator of an adult entertainment establishment shall affix a sign
to the exterior wall nearest the primary entrance to the structure in which
such enterprise is located. Such sign shall be thirty six inches by eighteen
inches (36" x 18"), shall have red lettering (letters shall be 2 inches in
width and 3 inches in height) on a white background and it shall state as
follows:
WARNING:
ADULT AMUSEMENT ESTABLISHMENT
THE BUSINESS WITHIN IS SEXUALLY ORIENTED
ADULT BOOKSTORE/VIDEO STORE:
   This use shall be permitted, provided:
   A.   Such use is located at a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from a
property line of a:
      Church;
      Nursery/daycare;
      Public park or recreational facility;
      Residential zoning district;
      School; and
      Other adult bookstore/video store or adult amusement establishment.
   B.   This use shall be permitted, provided such use is located at a minimum
of five hundred feet (500') from the property line of a liquor establishment.
Measurement shall be measured from the adult bookstore/video store to the
property line of the liquor establishment.
   C.   The operator of an adult bookstore/video store shall affix a sign to
the exterior wall nearest the primary entrance to the structure in which such
enterprise is located. Such signs shall be thirty six inches by eighteen inches
(36" x 18"), shall have red lettering (letters shall be 2 inches in width and 3
inches in height) on a white background and it shall state as follows:
WARNING:
ADULT BOOKSTORE/VIDEO STORE
THE BUSINESS WITHIN IS SEXUALLY ORIENTED
AIRPORT LANDING FIELD, STRIP OR HELIPORT: Uses shall be in accord with all
Federal Aviation Administration Regulations.
AMUSEMENT PARK. 
AUTOMOBILE PARKING LOT: Parking lots must be within three hundred feet (300')
of any office, commercial, business, or industrial district. The parking area
shall be suitably landscaped, paved and drained, lighted, and maintained free
of debris.
BODY SHOP.
BUS GARAGE: A traffic plan shall be approved by the City Engineer showing the
location, size, and width of streets giving access to the garage. Such use
shall be located on an arterial or collector street as shown on the Future Land
Use Plan.
CEMETERY OR SIMILAR USES: Any cemetery site shall contain at least ten (10)
acres and shall provide adequate landscaping, screening, and buffering.
CHILDCARE CENTER OR SIMILAR USES; SIX OR MORE CHILDREN: Childcare center,
nursery school, day nursery, kindergarten and similar uses shall be in accord
with State licensing requirements and enclosed with a solid wall or fence five
feet (5') in height. A stacking lane shall be provided which is at least
fifteen feet (15') in width and a minimum total length of twenty seven feet
(27') for each ten (10) children of maximum designed enrollment.
CHURCH AND SIMILAR USE; OVER TEN PERSONS: Adequate off-street parking shall be
provided as required by this Title, and such use shall be located on an
arterial or collector street, as shown on the Future Land Use Plan. In
addition, there shall be adequate screening and buffering along residential
property lines. All church sites shall have a minimum of two (2) acres.
COMMUNITY BUILDING, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE.
DRIVE-IN BANK: Stacking lanes shall be provided and designed to ensure that no
bank traffic backs into the street giving access to the bank. Banks must be
located on a collector or arterial street as shown on the Future Land Use Plan.
Waiting lanes shall be a minimum of one hundred eighty feet (180') in length
for each drive-in window, with a minimum width of ten feet (10') for each lane.
FLEA MARKET: Flea markets shall not be approved if there is a protest of fifty
one percent (51%) within the area of property ownership one hundred feet (100')
from the proposed use.
FRATERNITY.
GAS PUMPS: Gas pumps may be permitted in the C-1 Zone, provided they are used
in conjunction with a convenience grocery store. There shall be no servicing of
vehicles allowed. A sign may be used for such use, provided it shall not exceed
ten feet (10') in total height, and the total sign area shall not exceed twenty
(20) square feet. Said allowances for a sign are in addition to normal
requirements listed in the Sign Code, Chapter 14 of this Title.
GOLF COURSE OR COUNTRY CLUB: There shall be screening and buffering on property
lines abutting residential areas and no structures shall be within fifty feet
(50') of a residential property line.
GROSS FLOOR AREA, EXCEEDING THREE THOUSAND SQUARE FEET: The maximum gross area
per business may exceed three thousand (3,000) square feet in a C-1 District,
provided it can be shown that the increase in size will not be inconsistent
with the purpose of the C-1 District and will not create traffic congestion.
Businesses shall not exceed six thousand (6,000) square feet of gross floor
area.
HALFWAY HOUSES AND QUASI-INSTITUTIONAL HOUSES.
HEAVY EQUIPMENT REPAIR AND SERVICE.
HOME FOR HANDICAPPED, DISABLED, RETARDED, OR RETIRED. 
HOSPITAL OR OVERNIGHT CLINIC.
INSTITUTIONS; PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, AND PHILANTHROPIC.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Such uses shall be a minimum of four hundred feet (400')
from any residential zoning district boundary.
M-2 SPECIAL USES: The following uses are permitted in the M-2 District,
provided such use is a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from a residential
zoning district boundary and does not create a nuisance due to noise, odor,
pollution, traffic or other similar problems:
   Acid manufacture. Airport or heliport.
   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster manufacture.
   Explosives manufacture or storage.
   Fat rendering.
   Fertilizer manufacture.
   Glue manufacture.
   Junkyards, salvage, or wrecking yards.
   Petroleum refining.
   Raw materials manufacturing, processing, and extracting.
   Smelting of ores.
   Stockyards or slaughter of animals.
MANUFACTURE, PROCESSING, TREATMENT, AND EXTRACTION OF RAW MATERIALS: Such uses
shall be a minimum of four hundred feet (400') from a residential district
boundary or residential dwelling property line. Uses shall not create a
nuisance due to noise, odor, pollution, traffic or other similar problems.
MOBILE HOME PARKS: See Section
10-10-5 of this Chapter.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS.
NURSING HOMES: There shall be no more than ten (10) persons in one home, and a
minimum of two (2) parking spaces must be provided in addition to one space for
each five (5) persons.
OFFICES IN HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND STRUCTURES: Offices of professional,
commercial, industrial, religious, institutional, public or semipublic persons
or organizations; provided, that no goods, wares, or merchandise shall be
prepared or sold as the primary business of the facility. Such special use
shall be permitted within any zoning district, but only within:
   A.   An existing structure identified as "significant" or "contributing" in
a recognized historical district on the State Register of Historic Places; or
   B.   An existing individual structure, landmark, site or building listed on
the State Register of Historic Places.
Such special use permits shall be permitted only for a time specified by the
Planning and Zoning Commission, and only as long as the property retains its
designation on the State Register of Historic Places. Otherwise, the property
shall revert to and retain its normal zoning district classification and the
rights associated therewith.
PAINT SHOP; SPRAYING OR MIXING: Provided such use shall be located at least one
hundred feet (100') from any residential zoning district and provided there
shall be Fire Department approval.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
PUBLIC UTILITY INSTALLATIONS, SUBSTATIONS, WATERWELLS: The site shall be
developed and maintained in conformance with the general character and
appearance of the district, and such development shall include landscaping and
suitable screening in the form of a solid wall, fence or compact shrubbery
around the entire perimeter of the lot or tract, or arc, and the installation
itself in cases such as transformers.
RACETRACK: Provisions are the same as for stadium special uses.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS: See Section
10-10-6  of this Chapter.
RECYCLING PURCHASE CENTERS: This business is limited to the inspection,
weighing, purchasing and temporary storage of aluminum and scrap metal, cloth,
glass and paper products. Said materials are to be purchased for the purpose of
transporting to local and area processing centers.
   A.   Storage shall be within an enclosed building; or
   B.   Storage may be located within mobile trailer units within a sight
obscuring fence at least six feet (6') in height, and not to be a
contamination, rodent, insect, or health hazard;
   C.   Materials to be recycled shall not remain on the premises for a period
exceeding four (4) weeks; and
   D.   Recycling purchase centers shall be located a minimum of three hundred
feet (300') from any residential zoning district.
SCHOOLS; PUBLIC, PRIVATE, PAROCHIAL: Such use shall be reviewed to ensure
proper location within the City and shall be located on an arterial or
collector street as shown on the Future Land Use Plan.
SHOPPING CENTER, FIVE ACRES MAXIMUM: There shall be a development plan
submitted. In addition, there shall be a solid wall of at least six feet (6')
in height provided on all residential property lines abutting such center.
SORORITY.
STABLES, COMMERCIAL: Provisions are the same as for a "kennel, commercial"
special use.
STADIUM; BASEBALL, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, OR TRACK: All parking areas and interior
streets shall be surfaced, and the building complex shall be located a minimum
of three hundred feet (300') from any residential zoning district boundary.
SWIMMING POOL, COMMERCIAL OR PUBLIC (All Residential R Districts): A protective
fence or wall no less than six feet (6') in height shall be provided which
completely encloses the pool area, and the pool shall be no closer than fifteen
feet (15') from any property line. Approval from the electric utility is
required to ensure safety. (Ord. 1998-02, 4-7-1998; amd. 1998-07, 10-16-1998;
2000 Code)
10-10-4: (RESERVED)
10-10-5: MOBILE HOME PARKS (MHP):
A special use permit is required for all MHP developments and is intended to
provide for the development of mobile home parks at standards consistent with
the health, safety, and welfare of the community. MHPs are permitted by special
use permit in the following districts: R-2 and C-2. "Mobile homes" as defined
in Section
10-1-1 of this Title, when used for living purposes (either temporary or
permanent), shall be located solely within MHPs or MR zoned areas.
   A.   Application And Action: Application for a special use permit to build
or enlarge an MHP shall be made to the Community Development Department.
   B.   Permitted Uses In Mobile Home Park:
      1.   Stationing of residential mobile homes with complete hookup to
utilities.
      2.   Accessory buildings, swimming pools, home occupations, and
recreation areas and buildings.
      3.   Home for handicapped, disabled, retarded, or retired.
   C.   Mobile Home Park Standards:
Spacing (Minimum Of Mhs)                  Spaces (Minimum)
Side to side 20 feet                      Area 3,500 square feet
Back to back 20 feet                      Width 35 feet
Boundary to MH 10 feet                    Depth 100 feet
Mobile home to any building 20 feet       Height (maximum)
Mobile home to accessory building 10 feet Stories 2
MPH minimum size 5 acres                  Height 35 feet
Site Coverage                             Density 
Open space (minimum) 40 percent           Per space 1
Impervious material (maximum) 40 percent  Per acre 10 MH units
 
   D.   Design Standards:
      1.   Swimming Pools:
         a.   Swimming pools are permitted only when a protective fence four
feet (4') in height is provided around the yard, lot or pool area.
         b.   The pool shall be no closer than five feet (5') from any property
line or mobile home space boundary, and approval from all utilities is required
to ensure overhead safety.
         c.   All gates in fences shall be self-closing and equipped with self-
latching devices.
      2.   Perimeter Walls: All mobile home parks shall have perimeter walls at
least five feet (5') in height as approved by the Community Development
Department.
      3.   Landscape Concept: All mobile home parks shall have a landscape
concept, as approved by the Community Development Department, for all areas not
devoted to structures, streets, alleys, drives, walks and paths.
      4.   Walls, Fences, And Hedges: Walls, fences, and hedges shall conform
to this Title, with the following exception: a clear-sight   t triangle of
twenty feet (20') in both directions on the mobile home space from the corner
of the internal streets is required. A clear-sight triangle of at least thirty
feet (30') is required at all MHP entrances and exits.
      5.   Utility Placement: Utility placement shall be approved by the
Community Development Department.
   E.   Streets And Access Standards:
      1.   All MHPs shall have vehicular access from an arterial or collector
street.
      2.   Each mobile home when occupied shall have direct access to an
internal street. Direct access to exterior public streets shall be prohibited.
      3.   Street layout shall be designed for prevention of natural features
and to follow topography to the greatest extent possible and to encourage the
orientation of mobile homes in such a manner as to permit the use of solar
energy systems.
      4.   All streets within a mobile home park shall be surfaced with asphalt
or concrete to a minimum width of thirty seven feet (37').
      5.   No street within a mobile home park shall dead end, except for cul-
de-sac streets, which shall have a minimum turning radius of fifty feet (50')
at the termination point.
      6.   There shall be a network of pedestrian walks connecting mobile home
spaces with each other and with MHP facilities.
      7.   Private driveways shall be designed to increase ease of access,
increase privacy, and provide safety.
      8.   All spaces and streets shall be designed to ensure proper drainage.
A complete drainage plan shall be approved by the City Engineer.
      9.   Street lighting shall be provided to illuminate all private and
public access ways and walkways for the safe movement of vehicles and
pedestrians at night.
   F.   Signs: Signs shall conform to Sign Code in Chapter 14 of this Title.
   G.   Refuse: The management of a mobile home park shall provide adequate
refuse collection facilities. These collection facilities shall be constructed
and maintained in accordance with all City health regulations, shall be
properly screened, and shall be designed to bar animals from access to refuse.
Refuse shall be removed from collection sites at least once a week.
   H.   Storage:
      1.   MHPs shall have a storage yard for recreational vehicles. Such
storage yards shall have a minimum of sixty (60) square feet of storage area
per mobile home space in the development and shall be located so as not to
detract from surrounding properties. All recreational vehicles shall be parked
in the storage yard. (Ord. 1998-07, 10-6-1998)
      2.   Each mobile home space shall have a personal storage unit. Such
storage unit shall be at least six feet (6') high with a storage capacity of at
least three hundred (300) cubic feet. Each storage unit shall be anchored
permanently to the ground. (Ord. 1998-07, 10-6-1998; amd. 2000 Code)
   I.   Nonexposure Of Undercarriage: Mobile home undercarriages shall be
concealed by either:
      1.   An appropriate, nonflammable skirting developed for the particular
mobile home by the manufacturer, or its equal, and meeting the requirements of
the State Mobile Housing Division Rules and Regulations on the installation of
skirting.
      2.   Entrenching the mobile home to a depth equal to the height of the
undercarriage. Any such entrenching shall have provisions for drainage approved
by the City Engineer and shall be constructed in conformance with the State
Mobile Housing Division Rules and Regulations.
   J.   Expansion Or Alteration: Any existing MHP desiring to expand its area
shall do so in accordance with the provisions of this Title. (Ord. 1998-07, 10-
6-1998)
10-10-6: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS (RVP):
A special use permit is required for all RVP developments and is intended to
provide for the development of recreational vehicle parks at standards
consistent with the health, safety, and welfare of the community. RVPs are
permitted by special use permit in the following districts: C-2 and M-1.
"Recreational vehicles", as defined in Section
10-1-1 of this Title, when used for temporary or permanent living purposes,
shall be located solely in RVPs.
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Access: Recreational vehicle parks shall abut and access from one of
the following:
Freeway
Major arterial street Minor arterial street
      2.   Utilities: Water, sewer, electricity, telephone, and other necessary
utilities shall be available at the RVP and placement shall be approved by the
Community Development Department.
      3.   Driveways: Driveways shall be designed to increase ease of access,
increase privacy, and provide safety, and placement shall be approved by the
Community Development Department. The density of spaces in any recreational
vehicle park shall not exceed twenty (20) spaces per acre.
   B.   Development Standards:
      1.   There shall be fourteen feet (14') between the sides of all
recreational vehicles and eight feet (8') between the backs of all recreational
vehicles.
      2.   No recreational vehicles shall be closer than eight feet (8') to any
private access way.
      3.   Spaces for recreational vehicles shall be a minimum of one thousand
two hundred (1,200) square feet.
      4.   No recreational vehicles shall be closer than twenty feet (20') to
any building.
      5.   No structure shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in height.
      6.   A landscaping concept shall be approved by the Community Development
Department for all areas not covered by structures or paved.
      7.   Screening the perimeter of a recreational vehicle park by a wall
and/or other approved landscaping material shall be required.
      8.   Private access ways and individual space arrangements shall be
designed to accommodate the frequent movement of recreational vehicles.
      9.   Interior streets shall be a minimum of twenty seven feet (27') in
width and paved with asphalt, concrete, or crushed rock.
      10.   Street layout shall be designed for preservation of natural
features and to follow topography to the greatest extent possible.
      11.   There shall be an active, usable recreational area for tenants,
comprising five percent (5%) of the gross site area, which shall not include
required setback areas or similar areas not usable for recreational activities.
      12.   There shall be a community building or buildings that shall provide
for the recreational and service needs of occupants of the recreational vehicle
park. It shall include restrooms, showers, and a laundry. No dry cleaning shall
be permitted in the RV park. The community building or buildings may not be
included as part of the required recreational area.
      13.   Adequate refuse collection facilities shall be provided,
constructed, and maintained in accordance with all City health regulations, and
shall be screened and designed to bar animals from access to refuse. Refuse
shall be removed from collection sites at least once a week.
      14.   Lighting shall be provided to illuminate access ways and walkways
for the safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians at night. (Ord. 1998-07, 10-
6-1998)
      15.   A means of emptying sewage holding tanks shall be provided and
approved by the State Health Department. (Ord. 1998-07, 10-6-1998; amd. 2000
Code)
      16.   Expansion of existing recreational vehicle parks shall be in
accordance with provisions of this Section.
      17.   One mobile home may be placed in the RVP for use by a caretaker.
(Ord. 1998-07, 10-6-1998)
CHAPTER 11
SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Scope
10-11-2: Visibility At Intersections
10-11-3: Fences, Walls And Hedges
10-11-4: Accessory Buildings
10-11-5: Principal Structures On A Lot
10-11-6: Exceptions To Height Regulations
10-11-7: Access To And From Structures
10-11-8: Major Recreational Equipment, Parking Or Storage
10-11-9: Parking And Storage Of Certain Vehicles
10-11-10: Preexisting Uses Or Structures
10-11-11: Exteriors And Roofs
10-11-12: Prohibited Materials Or Structures
10-11-13: Water And Sewer
10-11-14: Animal Restrictions
10-11-15: Nuisance Conditions
10-11-16: Encroachments
10-11-17: Disclosure Requirements
10-11-18: Uses Not Permitted
10-11-19: Compliance With Building Codes And Permits
10-11-1: SCOPE:
The following restrictions set forth in this chapter shall apply in all zoning
districts provided for in this title. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-11-2: VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS:
On a corner lot, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow
in such a manner as materially to impede vision between a height of two and
one-half (21/2) and ten feet (10') above the center line grades of the
intersecting streets in the area bounded by the street lines of such corner
lots and a line joining points along said street lines fifty feet (50') from
the point of the intersection. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-11-3: FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES:
   A.   In General: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this title, fences,
walls, and hedges are permitted around any RE rural estate, R-1 single-family
residential, TC single-family townhouse and condominium, MR mixed residential,
or MF multi-family residential required yard, or along the edge of any yard;
provided, that no fence, wall or hedge along the sides or front edge of any
front yard shall be over two and one-half feet (21/2') in height; and provided,
that such fences, walls and hedges shall not be constructed of chainlink, wire
or other metal materials or plastic and shall not be penetrable by light.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this title, fences, walls and hedges
are permitted around any C-1 light commercial, C-2 general commercial, M-
1 light industrial, and M-2 heavy industrial zones required storage or parking
areas; provided, that no fence, wall or hedge along the sides or front or back
edge of any storage or parking areas shall be over six feet (6') in height; and
provided, that such fences, walls and hedges shall not be constructed of
chainlink, wire or other metal materials or plastic and shall not be penetrable
by light. (Ord. 1987-03, 1-6-1987; amd. Ord. 1998-06, 10-6-1998)
   B.   Retaining Walls For Residential Zoned Property: 1. Construction
Requirements And Material:
         a.   Permittee shall be responsible for location of property lines and
shall be responsible for placement of footings and walls within the property
boundaries. The permittee shall also be responsible for location of any
underground lines within his property.
         b.   Subgrade for retaining walls shall be compacted to ninety five
percent (95%) of modified proctor as determined by ASTM standard D1557.
         c.   Concrete for footings shall attain a strength of two thousand
five hundred (2,500) psi in twenty eight (28) days. The bottom of the footings
shall be located a minimum of twelve inches (12") below surrounding grade of
soil.
         d.   Reinforcing steel for concrete footings shall be deformed bars
conforming to ASTM standard A617 and shall be grade forty (40).
         e.   Mortar for rock placement shall be type S conforming to ASTM
standard C161 and C270 and shall be mixed in the ratio of one part portland
cement by volume with over one-fourth (1/4) to one-half (1/2) parts of hydrated
lime or lime putty by volume, and the aggregate shall be not less than two and
one-fourth (21/4) and not more than three (3) times the sum of the volumes of
the cement and lime used or one-half (1/2) by volume of cement, one part by
volume of type II masonry cement, and the aggregate shall not be less than two
and one-fourth (21/4) and not more than three (3) times the sum of the volume
of the cement used.
Quicklime shall conform to ASTM standard C-5.
Hydrated lime shall conform to ASTM standard C207 and shall be type S or M.
         f.   The rock to be used in construction of the retaining wall shall
have an abrasion wear of not more than fifty five percent (55%) as determined
by ASTM standard C535 and a soundness loss of not more than twenty one percent
(21%) as determined by ASTM standard C88 (magnesium sulfate solution) and the
specific gravity shall be not less than 2.50.
         g.   Permittee shall be responsible for calling for inspections of the
retaining wall during construction and the inspections shall be as follows:
            (1) Inspection Schedule:
               (A) Prior to placement of the concrete footing, the permittee
shall call for an inspection of the footing excavation and reinforcing steel
placement.
               (B) At approximately fifty percent (50%) completion of the rock
retaining wall, the permittee shall call for an inspection of the rock
placement. Rock retaining walls twenty four inches (24") or less in thickness
shall have bond stoned with a maximum spacing of three feet (3') vertically and
three feet (3') horizontally and if the retaining wall is of greater thickness
than twenty four inches (24"), it shall have one bond stone for each six (6)
square feet of wall surface on both sides.
         h.   Backfill material to be placed adjacent to the retaining walls
shall be a granular soil. Expansive type soils are prohibited as backfill
materials.
         i.   Any rock retaining wall required to retain more than six feet
(6') of fill or required to support a sloping fill or surcharge shall be
designed by a structural engineer licensed to support a sloping fill or
surcharge shall be designed by a structural engineer licensed to practice as
such in the state of New Mexico.
            (1) In lieu of the design contained in this subsection B for rock
retaining walls, permittee may submit a separate design.
            (2) Any design submitted by permittee shall be designed by a
structural engineer, licensed to practice as such in the state of New Mexico.
The design shall be submitted with the design calculation and the drawings
prepared for construction of the rock retaining wall shall be sealed with the
engineer's seal.
            (3) The inspection schedule shown herein shall be followed and the
construction material shall conform to the specifications contained herein when
a separate design is submitted.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1663.png]
 
      2.   Enforcement Provisions:
         a.   Offenses:
            (1) Every violation of this subsection B constitutes an offense.
            (2) Each day a violation of this subsection B exists constitutes a
separate offense.
      3.   Enforcement Authority:
         a.   The code enforcement division is authorized to issue citations
for violations of this subsection B and file criminal complaints in municipal
court alleging violations of this subsection B.
         b.   The municipal court may impose a fine for each offense, not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each day the violation is found to
have occurred. In addition to any fines thus imposed, the municipal court is
authorized to issue orders for removal or other judgments of the municipal
court (including failure to pay fines previously imposed) shall constitute
contempt of court and may be separately punished at the discretion of the
municipal court. (Ord. 00-01, 1-18-2000)
10-11-4: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
No accessory building shall be erected in any required front yard, and no
separate accessory building shall be erected within five feet (5') of any
property line or required easement, and in no case shall be within ten feet
(10') of any other building or structure. (Ord. 1989-04, 6-7-1989)
10-11-5: PRINCIPAL STRUCTURES ON A LOT:
More than one structure housing a permitted or permissible principal use may be
erected on a single lot if yard and other requirements of this title are met
for each structure as though it were on an individual lot. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-
1985)
10-11-6: EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
The height restrictions contained in chapters 5 through 8 of this title do not
apply to ordinary and necessary spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water
tanks, ventilators, chimneys, or other appurtenances usually required to be
placed above the roof level and not intended for human occupancy. (Ord. 1985-
03, 4-16-1985)
10-11-7: ACCESS TO AND FROM STRUCTURES:
Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot adjacent to and
with vehicular access to a public street, or with access to an approved private
street, and all structures shall be so located on lots as to provide safe and
convenient vehicular access for servicing, fire protection, and required off-
street parking. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-11-8: MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT, PARKING OR STORAGE:
No major recreational equipment shall be parked or stored on any lot in a
residentially zoned district except in a carport, enclosed building, or in a
required rear yard; provided, however, that such equipment may be parked
anywhere on a residential premises for a period not to exceed twenty four (24)
hours during loading and unloading operations. No major recreational equipment
shall be attached to public utilities, parked for living, sleeping or
housekeeping purposes when parked or stored on a residentially zoned lot or any
location not designated for that purpose. (Ord. 1989-04, 6-7-1989)
10-11-9: PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES:
Automotive vehicles or trailers of any kind or type without current license
plates or in inoperable condition shall not be parked or stored on any
residentially zoned property other than in completely enclosed buildings. (Ord.
1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-11-10: PREEXISTING USES OR STRUCTURES:
   A.   Wrecking Or Junkyards; Enclosure: Any wrecking or junkyard including
those existing prior to adoption of this Title shall have constructed a
complete surrounding solid wall or fence at least ten feet (10') high which
shall hide from public view the wrecking or junkyard premises. Wire or chain
link fences are prohibited.
   B.   Mobile Homes; Skirting: Any mobile home permanently placed and no
matter what size shall be skirted, be it a mobile home placed prior to or after
the adoption of this Title. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-11-11: EXTERIORS AND ROOFS:
Exterior walls of all buildings and improvements on residentially zoned lots or
locations shall be constructed of masonry, adobe, frame stucco, shingles, or
wood siding. The roof of all buildings and improvements shall be surfaced with
tile, gravel, shingles or other permanent type construction material. (Ord.
1989-04, 6-7-1989)
10-11-12: PROHIBITED MATERIALS OR STRUCTURES:
   A.   Materials: No residence or other building or improvements on any
residentially zoned lot or location shall be constructed of "boxed" or "sheet
metal" construction except for modern "mobile homes" as defined in Section
10-1-1 of this Title and all other restrictions of this Title.
   B.   Structures: No tent, shack, or barn shall be erected, placed or
permitted to remain on any lot in any residentially zoned lot or location
except as allowed in the RE Rural Estate Zone restrictions. (Ord. 1989-04, 6-7-
1989)
10-11-13: WATER AND SEWER:
All water and sewer improvements, systems, and fixtures shall be connected to
the public utilities and all lavatories, toilets, bath facilities, and kitchen
facilities shall be built indoors and constructed to comply with the State and
local health authority regulations and all applicable codes. Under no
circumstances shall the erection or use of outside toilet facilities be
allowed. (Ord. 1989-04, 6-7-1989)
10-11-14: ANIMAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Animals And Fowl: No residentially zoned lot or location shall be used
for the purpose of raising hogs, goats, sheep, rabbits, horses, cattle, fowl,
mules of other animals except as allowed by RE Rural Estate Zone District
regulations. The occupant of each residential lot may, however, keep domestic
animals.
   B.   Commercial Dog Kennel: No commercial dog kennel shall be erected or
maintained on any residentially zoned lot or location except as allowed by zone
district regulations of this Title. (Ord. 1989-04, 6-7-1989)
10-11-15: NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
No public nuisance or offensive, noisy, or illegal trade, calling or act shall
be enacted, suffered, or permitted in any portion of the City. (Ord. 1989-04,
6-7-1989)
10-11-16: ENCROACHMENTS:
No building, structure, improvement, or any part thereof shall be constructed
or permitted to extend over or encroach upon any street, easement, public right
of way, property line or required building setback. (Ord. 1989-04, 6-7-1989)
10-11-17: DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Easements; Ordinance Restrictions: All grants, sales, leases, and
conveyances of lots and locations shall be subject to the street and utility
easements of record at the time of the sale, grant, lease or conveyance and
shall be further subject the allowances and restrictions of this Title. Any
individual, corporation, or agent of any individual or corporation proceeding
as grantor, seller, lessor, or conveyor of any lots, locations, or real
property shall disclose to the grantee, buyer, lessee, or receiver, prior to
the execution of the grant, sale, lease, or conveyance the following
information:
      1.   A legal description of the property.
      2.   The zone district classification of the property.
      3.   All pertinent zone district regulations of the actual property
noting all allowances and restrictions on the property as mandated by this
Title, as amended, and by Title 5, Chapter 1, Article F of this Code.
   B.   Oral Presentation; Accompanying Documents: Such disclosure shall be
orally presented to the grantee, buyer, lessee, or receiver in the first
language of the grantee, buyer, lessee, or receiver and shall be accompanied by
direct copies of the referenced ordinances. (Ord. 1989-04, 6-7-1989)
10-11-18: USES NOT PERMITTED:
No oil drilling, oil development operations, quarrying or mining shall be
permitted or allowed on any lot or location not specifically established as
permissible by this Title. (Ord. 1989-04, 6-7-1989)
10-11-19: COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING CODES AND PERMITS:
All structures, buildings, and improvements shall be in compliance with
applicable code requirements of Sunland Park and the State of New Mexico. A
building permit shall be acquired from the building inspection office prior to
commencing construction on any structure, building, or improvement. (Ord. 1989-
04, 6-7-1989)
CHAPTER 12
NONCONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES AND LAND
SECTION:
10-12-1: Nonconforming Lots, Structures, Uses And Characteristics Of Uses
10-12-2: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
10-12-3: Nonconforming Uses Of Land With Minor Structures
10-12-4: Nonconforming Structures
10-12-5: Nonconforming Uses Of Structures Or Of Structures And Premises In
Combination
10-12-6: Repairs And Maintenance
10-12-7: Uses Under Special Exception Or Variance
10-12-1: NONCONFORMING LOTS, STRUCTURES, USES AND CHARACTERISTICS OF USES:
   A.   Preexisting Conditions: Within the districts established by this Title,
or amendments that may later be adopted, there exist:
      1.   Lots;
      2.   Structures;
      3.   Uses of land and structures; and
      4.   Characteristics of use
which were lawful before this Title was passed or amended, but which would be
prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this Title or future
amendment. It is the intent of this Title to permit these nonconformities to
continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is
further the intent of this Title that nonconformities shall not be enlarged
upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures
or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district. It is not the intent of this
City of Sunland Park
10-12-1   10-12-2
Title to authorize, and this Title shall not be construed to authorize, uses
which constitute public or private nuisances or are otherwise prohibited by law
or regulations.
   B.   Limitations: Nonconforming uses are declared by this Title to be
incompatible with, or not within the meaning of, permitted uses in the district
in which located. A nonconforming use of a structure, a nonconforming use of
land, or a nonconforming use of structure and land in combination shall not be
extended or enlarged after passage of this Title by attachment or additions on
a building or premises or by placement of additional signs intended to be seen
from off the premises or by the addition of other uses, of a nature which would
not be permitted generally in the district involved.
   C.   Avoid Undue Hardship: To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this Title
shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction, or designated
use of any building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to
the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Title and upon which actual
building construction has been carried on diligently. "Actual construction" is
hereby defined to include the placing of construction materials in permanent
position and fastened in a permanent manner. Where excavation, demolition or
removal of an existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to
rebuilding, such excavation, demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual
construction; provided, that work shall be carried on diligently. (Ord. 1985-
03, 4-16-1985)
10-12-2: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
   A.   Dwellings And Accessory Buildings: In any district in which single-
family dwellings are permitted, a single-family dwelling and customary
accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of record at the effective
date of adoption of this Title, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other
provisions of this Title. Such lots must be in separate ownership. This
provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for
area, width, or both, that are generally applicable in the district; provided,
that yard dimensions and requirements other than those applying to area, width,
or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in which
such lot is located. Variance of yard requirements shall be obtained only
through action of the Board of Adjustment.
   B.   Lots And Parcels: If two (2) or more lots or combinations of lots and
portions of lots with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at
the time of passage or amendment of this Title, and if all or part of the lots
do not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands
involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this
Title, and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which
diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this
Title, nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with
width or area below the requirements stated in this Title. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-
1985)
10-12-3: NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND WITH MINOR STRUCTURES:
Where at the time of passage of this Title, lawful use of land exists which
would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this Title, and where such
use involves no individual structure with a replacement cost exceeding one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), the use may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, provided:
   A.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this Title.
   B.   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this Title.
   C.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than thirty (30) days, any subsequent use of such land shall
conform to the regulations specified by this Title for the district in which
such land is located.
   D.   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
Title shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of land. (Ord.
1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-12-4: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption of this Title
that could not be built under the terms of this Title by reason of restrictions
on area, lot coverage, height, yards, its location on the lot, or other
requirements concerning the structure, such structure may be continued so long
as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease its nonconformity.
   B.   Should such nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of
structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than fifty percent
(50%) of its replacement cost at time of destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this Title.
   C.   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-12-5: NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES OR OF STRUCTURES AND PREMISES IN
COMBINATION:
If lawful use involving individual structures with a replacement cost of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more, or of structure and premises in
combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of terms of
this Title, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this Title in
the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing the use of the
structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located.
   B.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption of this Title, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land
outside such building.
   C.   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure, or structure and premises, may as a special exception be changed to
another nonconforming use; provided, that the Board of Adjustment, either by
general rule or by making findings in the specific case, shall find that the
proposed use is equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than
the existing nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the Board of
Adjustment may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accord with the
provisions of this Title.
   D.   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter
be resumed.
   E.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for six (6) consecutive months or for
eighteen (18) months during any three (3) year period (except when government
action impedes access to the premises), the structure, or structure and
premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with
the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   F.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land. "Destruction" for the purpose of this
subsection is defined as damage to an extent of more than fifty percent (50%)
of the replacement cost at time of destruction. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-12-6: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   On any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use, work may be done in any period of twelve (12) consecutive
months on ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of nonbearing walls,
fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, to an extent not exceeding ten percent (10%) of
the current replacement cost of the nonconforming structure or nonconforming
portion of the structure as the case may be; provided, that the enclosed area
existing when it became nonconforming shall not be increased.
   B.   If a nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of repairs
and maintenance, and is declared by any duly authorized official to be unsafe
or unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be
restored, repaired, or rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
   C.   Nothing in this Title shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, if such
official so orders the strengthening or restoring. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
10-12-7: USES UNDER SPECIAL EXCEPTION OR VARIANCE:
Any use which is permitted as a special exception or a variance from the terms
of this Title (other than a change through Board of Adjustment action from a
nonconforming use to another nonconforming use), shall not be deemed a
nonconforming use in such district, but shall without further action be
considered a conforming use. (Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985)
CHAPTER 13
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-13-1: Off-Street Parking Requirements
10-13-2: Loading And Unloading Requirements
10-13-1: OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum number of off-street parking spaces are required for the
following uses in all districts:
             Type Of Use                      Parking Space Required
A. Dwellings:                                  
             Single-family dwelling unit      2 spaces per dwelling
             Two-family dwelling unit         2 spaces per dwelling
             Multiple-family dwelling unit    1.5 spaces per dwelling
             Rooming houses                   0.5 space per dwelling
             Boarding houses                  0.7 space per living unit
B. Public And Semi-Public Educational And Institutional Uses:
             Auditoriums                      1 space per 100 square feet of
                                               net leasable area
             Churches                         1 space for 4 seats
             Daycare facilities               2 spaces plus 1 additional space
                                               for each 10 children
                                               1 space for each classroom,
              Elementary and junior high       workshop, laboratory or office
             schools                          plus 1 space per 200 square feet
                                               of auditorium, gymnasium and
                                               cafeteria
             Libraries or museums             1 space per 250 square feet of
                                               net leasable area
             Municipal neighborhood,          1 space per 250 square feet of
              community buildings              net leasable area
             Public buildings other than      1 space per 250 square feet of
              elementary and high schools      net leasable area
                                               4 spaces for each classroom,
                                               workshop, laboratory or office
             Senior high school               plus 1 space per 200 square feet
                                               of auditorium, gymnasium and
                                               cafeteria
C. Recreational And Entertainment:
             Bowling alley                    5 spaces per lane
              Gymnasiums, stadiums, field      1 each per 4 seats or spectator
             houses, grandstands, and related spaces
              facilities
                                               1 space per each 2 beds, plus
                                               the number required, based on
                                               square feet measurement for
                                               office, clinic, testing,
                                               research, administrative,
             Hospital, medical center, other  teaching and similar activities
              treatment facility               associated with the principal
                                               use, at 1 space per each 350
                                               square feet of net leasable area
                                               except for teaching facilities
                                               which shall be 1 per each 4
                                               seats
             Medical offices                  1 space per 200 square feet of
                                               net leasable area
              Nursing homes, sanitariums,
             convalescent homes, institutions 1 space per each 2 beds
              for care of aged, children, etc.
              Parks, athletic fields, tennis   As determined by the Planning
             and pool facilities, golf        and Zoning Commission
              courses, etc.
              Public gatherings (general) for
             uses involving public assembly   1 space per each 4 seats, based
              of groups of people for whatever on total capacity
              reason
              Recreational and community       As determined by the Planning
             center buildings, recreation     and Zoning Commission
              clubs, related uses
              Recreational buildings           As determined by the Planning
             (enclosed), specialized          and Zoning Commission
              facilities and related uses
             Theater                          1 space per each 3 seats
D. Commercial Uses, General:
Parking requirements for the following uses shall meet minimum design standards
accepted by the New Mexico Professional Engineers Design Standards:
             Art galleries                     
             Automobile service station and    
              garage for minor repair
             Barbershops                       
             Beauty shops                      
             Bicycle sales and repair          
             Blueprinting and photocopying     
             Business machine sales and        
              service
             Carpet stores                     
             Currency exchanges                
             Drug stores                       
             Dry cleaning establishments       
             Florist shops                     
             Food stores                       
             Fraternal organizations           
             Funeral parlors                   
             Furniture stores                  
             Garden supply and nursery         
             General merchandise and           
              appliance stores
             General repair shops, e.g.,       
              electrical
             Gift shops                        
             Hardware stores                   
             Interior decorators               
             Liquor stores                     
              Merchandise stores, (other
             specific), e.g., draperies,       
              fireplaces, glass, greeting
              cards, jewelry
             Opticians or optometrists         
             Paint and wallpaper stores        
             Physical culture and health       
              salons
             Post offices                      
             Private clubs                     
             Private schools of instruction,   
              e.g., music, karate
             Radio and television service and  
              repair shops
             Restaurants                       
             Sporting goods stores             
             Transportation terminals         1 per each 200 square feet of
                                               net leasable area
E. Commercial Uses, Specific Requirements:
             Auto and junkyards               1 space per 1,700 square feet of
                                               land and building area
                                               1 space per 200 square feet of
             Auto sales, new and used         building area including repair
                                               shop minus area used for
                                               displaying cars
                                               1 space per 350 square feet of
                                               net leasable area plus 1 space
                                               per 30 square feet of drive-in
             Drive-in banks                   teller space, plus customer
                                               drive-in spaces as determined by
                                               the Planning and Zoning
                                               Commission
             Drive-in eating and drinking     1 space per 30 square feet with
              establishments                   a 10 space minimum
             Eating and drinking              1 space per 50 square feet of
              establishments                   serving area
                                               1 space per 200 square feet for
             Home occupation 1                area used for home occupation
                                               purposes
             Hotel and motel                  1 space per rental unit
             Industrial uses and industrial   As determined by the Planning
              parks (other)                    and Zoning Commission
             Industrial uses, specific        1 space per 500 square feet of
              warehouse and distribution       net leasable area
             Mini warehouses                  1 space per 10 storage areas
             Neighborhood groceries and       1 space per 400 square feet of
              laundromats                      net leasable area
             Office uses                      1 space per 350 square feet of
                                               net leasable area
             Shopping centers                 5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                               of net leasable area
 
(Ord. 1985-03, 4-16-1985; amd. 2000 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  3-4-4 of this Code.
10-13-2: LOADING AND UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum loading and unloading requirements shall be complied with
in all districts:
   A.   Loading areas shall be paved in conformance with paving requirements
specified in off-street parking standards.
   B.   All permitted or permissible uses requiring loading space for normal
operations shall provide adequate loading space so that no vehicle being loaded
or unloaded in connection with normal operation shall stand in or project into
any public street, walk, alleyway, required front yard or common ingress-egress
easement.
   C.   Adequate off-street loading facilities shall be separated and not
considered to be a part of required off-street parking facilities. (Ord. 1985-
03, 4-16-1985)
CHAPTER 14
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-14-1: Title
10-14-2: Purpose and Scope
10-14-3: Definitions
10-14-4: Sign Permit Procedure
10-14-5: Variances
10-14-6: Special Use Permit
10-14-7: Prohibited Signs
10-14-8: Permitted Signs General Conditions
10-14-9: Permitted Signs by Zone District
10-14-10: Temporary Signs
10-14-11: Signs Not Requiring Permits
10-14-12: General Provisions
10-14-13: Enforcement
10-14-14: Appendix 1; Illustrations
10-14-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be entitled "The Sunland Park Sign Code" hereinafter
referred to as "this chapter." (Ord. 2006-10, 10-17-2006)
10-14-2: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to permit signs that will
preserve the natural beauty and environment of the city, to safeguard,
stabilize and enhance property values, to insure a consistent and appropriate
visual environment and to protect the public health, safety, and general
welfare. It is the purpose of this chapter to have signs in the city that will
not—by their size, location, or construction—endanger the public health and
safety of individuals, or confuse, mislead, or obstruct the vision necessary
for traffic safety. Furthermore, it is the purpose of this chapter to maintain
property values and to create a more aesthetically pleasing community, through
the preservation of the natural beauty and environment of the city, by
preventing the over-concentration, improper placement, and density of signs
while keeping in mind the importance of signage to the business community.
   B.   Applicability:
      1.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all "signs" as the
term is defined in this chapter.
      2.   Hereinafter, all construction, relocation, enlargement, alteration,
and modification of signs within the city shall conform to the requirements of
this chapter, all state and federal regulations concerning signs and
advertising, and applicable building and construction codes.
      3.   If a permit for a sign has been issued in accordance with law prior
to the effective date of this chapter and provided that construction is begun
within six (6) months of the effective date of this chapter and diligently
prosecuted to completion, said sign may be completed in accordance with the
approved plans on the basis of which the permit has been issued, subject
thereafter, if applicable, to the provisions herein for nonconforming signs.
   C.   Administration: The competent authority shall have the power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. The competent authority
may use discretion to delegate and assign such administrative, enforcement, and
inspection duties hereunder to the appropriate department, person or agency.
   D.   Severability: If any provision of this chapter or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall
not affect any other provision of this chapter which can be given effect
without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of
this chapter are declared to be severable. (Ord. 2006-10, 10-17-2006)
10-14-3: DEFINITIONS:
ABANDONED SIGN: An on- or off-premises sign which no longer directs, promotes,
or advertises a bona fide business, lessee, owner, product, or activity
conducted, or product or service available on- or off- the premises where such
sign(s) is displayed.
ADVERTISING: The action of calling something to the attention of the public by
verbal or visual presentation.
ANIMATED SIGN: Any sign which oscillates, rotates, flashes, varies in intensity
or in color, or automatically changes advertising, or is animated or equipped
with a glaring or rotating strobe light, or with spot lights.
ATTACHED SIGN: Any sign which is fastened to, connected to, or painted on, and
wholly or partially supported by a building.
AWNING: A hood or cover which projects from the wall of a building and is
composed of rigid or non-rigid materials.
AWNING SIGN: A sign which is fastened to or painted on an awning.
BANNER: A sign composed of lightweight, flexible material on which letters,
symbols or pictures are painted or printed.
BENCH SIGN: Any sign affixed to or printed on a functional bench.
BILLBOARD: An off-premises sign directing attention to a business, activity,
commodity, service, entertainment, or communication, none of which may be
conducted, sold or offered on the premises where the billboard is located.
BUILDING FRONTAGE: The total length of a building on which a sign is allowed at
its front facade.
BUS SHELTER: A place to wait for buses that has a roof to provide protection
from the weather or danger.
BUSINESS/SERVICE CENTER:    A group of two (2) or more businesses planned,
constructed, owned and managed independently or as a total entity, which share
access, parking, or landscaping.
CABINET SIGN: Also known as "can sign", any sign that is manufactured so as to
be three (3) dimensional usually made of metal with plexiglass front and
internally illuminated.
CANOPY (OR MARQUEE): A permanent roof-like shelter extending from part or all
of a building or independent of a building.
CANOPY SIGN: A sign attached to or painted on a canopy.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN:       Any sign that is constructed in such a manner as to
allow the business owner to change the copy at will.
CITY: The city of Sunland Park, New Mexico.
CLEAR-SIGHT TRIANGLE: A triangular area of unobstructed vision at street
intersections and at curb cut entrances and exits.
CODES: Any other applicable city, state, or federal codes.
COMPETENT AUTHORITY:          A city official appointed by the city council or
its designated representative to enforce the terms of this chapter.
CONSTRUCTION/      Any temporary sign erected on the premises
RENOVATION SIGN: where construction/renovation is taking place and indicating
the names of the architects, engineers, landscape architects, financial
institutions, contractors or similar artisans, and the owners, sponsors, and
similar individuals or firms having a role or interest with respect to the
structure or project.
COPY: The verbal, visual or pictorial portion of any sign.
CORPORATE: Pertaining to any organization incorporated pursuant to a law.
DEVELOPMENT         A permanent sign installed or constructed at
IDENTIFICATION SIGN: the entrance/exit to a residential or commercial
development to identify the development name and logo only.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN: Any sign erected for the convenience of the public, such as
the directing traffic movement, parking or identifying restrooms, public
telephones, walkways and/or other similar features or facilities, and bearing
no advertising message (excluding those erected by the United States Department
of Transportation and the New Mexico State Highway and Department of
Transportation).
DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY:    An establishment that by design, physical
facilities, service or by packaging procedures, encourages or permits customers
to receive services, obtain goods or be entertained while remaining in their
motor vehicles.
FREESTANDING SIGN: Any sign attached to, or supported from the ground, and not
attached to a building.
GARAGE/YARD SALE SIGN: See definition of PRIVATE SALE or EVENT SIGN.
GATE ENTRANCE SIGN: Any sign installed or constructed over the street entrance
to the premises in specific zoning districts as described herein.
GOVERNMENT SIGN: Any sign erected by any city, county, state or federal agency
or its designee, setting forth information pursuant to law.
HOME OCCUPATION: An incidental accessory use of a dwelling unit for gainful
employment of the residents therein, which use does not change the essential
residential character or appearance of the dwelling unit.
HOUSE OR BUILDING   A sign limited to identifying the street name,
SIGN OR NAMEPLATE: building or property number, and/or the name of the owner or
occupant of the building or property.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: Any sign which is lighted internally, externally or by lights
directed towards the sign by any light source.
INDUSTRIAL CENTER: Industrial building or structure that has the capacity of
leasing, renting or owning two (2) or more than one (1) tenant.
INFORMATION SIGN: Any sign whose purpose is to indicate a business, hours of
operation or similar identification information.
LEGAL NOTICES: Any sign required by law or pursuant to a court order.
MAINTENANCE: The total upkeep of a sign; structurally and electrically, in
terms of safety, and cosmetically, in terms of visual attractiveness.
MAJOR TENANT: Any occupant of a multi-tenant commercial or industrial center
that occupies a space greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
MASTER SIGN PROGRAM:    A program in which a multi-tenant commercial or
industrial center, wishing to place a variety of signs to be located in the
center is required to engage by providing a master plan depicting an
illustrative model design of the proposed sign to be installed.
MARQUEE (OR CANOPY): See definition of CANOPY.
MARQUEE SIGN: A sign attached to, mounted on or painted on a marquee.
MASS TRANSIT SHELTER:   A place to wait for buses that has a roof to provide
protection from the weather or danger.
MINOR TENANT: Any occupant of a multi-tenant commercial or industrial center
that occupies a space less than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
MODEL COMPLEX SIGN: Any sign located on a complex site, limited in time until
the complex ceases to be a model complex.
MONUMENT SIGN: Any sign which is attached to either the ground or to a footing
set flush with the ground.
MULTI-TENANT: Any commercial or industrial building or structure that has the
capacity of leasing or renting two (2) or more than one (1) tenant.
MURAL: A picture or graphic illustration applied directly to a wall of a
building or structure which does not advertise or promote a particular
business, service or product.
NATIONAL, STATE AND CORPORATE FLAGS:    Any rectangular display constructed of
lightweight material used to identify a nation, state or corporation.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign legally erected and permitted in compliance with
codes at the time it was erected and permitted, but which does not conform to
current codes or this chapter.
OFF-PREMISES SIGN: Sign which advertises or directs attention to a business,
product, service or activity which is not available on the premises where the
sign is located.
ON-PREMISES SIGN: Sign which advertises or directs attention to a business,
product, service or activity which is available on the premises where the sign
is located.
OPEN HOUSE: The common real estate practice of showing "for sale" homes to the
public during established hours.
PENNANT: A display made of a lightweight material which tapers to a point,
having no logo or advertising message printed on it.
PERSON: An individual, company, corporation, partnership, association or any
other entity.
POINT-OF-SALE SIGN: Any sign which is located or attached directly to the
product to be sold.
POLE SIGN: Any sign whose primary means of support is one (1) or more poles set
into a concrete footing, located at or below ground level.
POLITICAL SIGN: A sign pertaining to any national, state or local election.
PORTABLE SIGN: A freestanding sign not permanently affixed, anchored or secured
to the ground or the building, which may be rolled or moved about.
PRIVATE SALE OR EVENT SIGN: A temporary sign advertising private sales of
personal property at garage, yard or estate sales and the like, private
fundraising events, such as nonprofit carwash, or food/ clothing drive, etc.
PROHIBITED SIGN: Any sign not expressly permitted within this chapter, or any
sign which is specifically prohibited in this chapter.
PROMOTIONAL DISPLAY (COMMERCIAL):    Special advertising for grand openings,
anniversaries, special or seasonal events, and which is for a limited time, in
addition to the legal signage permitted.
PROMOTIONAL DISPLAY (RESIDENTIAL):   Special advertising using pennants, flags,
streamers, banners, open house signs and other similar signs, the duration of
an open house or similar showing.
PYLON SIGN: Any sign which is supported by structures or supports that are
placed on, or anchored in, the ground and that are independent from any
building or other structures. A pylon sign architecturally complements and is
compatible with the design of the building/center for which the sign is
publicizing.
REAL ESTATE DIRECTIONAL SIGN:    A sign which advertises or directs attention
to real property or properties not available on the premises where the sign is
located.
REAL ESTATE SIGN: A sign intended to advertise the financing, development,
sale, transfer, lease, exchange or rent of real property or properties.
ROOF SIGN: Any sign which is attached to the roof of a building or structure.
SETBACKS: The required distance between every building or structure and any lot
line on the lot on which it is located. Setbacks shall consist of an open
space, unoccupied and unobstructed by any part of a building or structure,
except as may be authorized by this title. Also, for purposes of this chapter,
the distances required from the property line or from other buildings and/or
structures or businesses and/or structures to each other.
SHOPPING CENTER: A group of at least three (3) commercial establishments within
a building or buildings with a gross floor area of eight thousand (8,000)
square feet or more planned, constructed and managed as a total entity with
customer and employee parking provided on-site, provision for goods delivery
separated from customer access, aesthetic considerations and protection from
the elements.
SIGN: Any advertisement, announcement, direction or communication produced in
whole or in part by the construction, erection, attachment or placing of a
structure or object on any land, or on any other structure, or produced by
painting on, posting or placing any printed, lettered, pictured, figured or
colored material on any building, structure or surface.
SIGN AREA: The entire advertising area of the sign containing text, decorative
artwork, logos or other displayed information, including the space within and
between such text and information.
SPECIAL USE SIGN: Any sign intended for use by establishments requiring a
special use permit pursuant to this title.
STREAMERS: A display made of light, flexible material, consisting of long,
narrow, wavy strips having no logo or advertising message printed or painted on
them.
STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS:   The safety standards which apply to those signs
which are governed by the requirements in the applicable building code and
other companion documents.
TEMPERATURE/TIME/DATE SIGN:   Any sign with the purpose of displaying the
temperature, time, date and/or logo/name.
TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign intended for a limited period of display.
TOTAL STREET FRONTAGE:    The total length of a property fronting on any side
of a public street. Each portion of the premises abutting a separate street
shall be considered as a separate street frontage.
TRADEMARK/LABEL/NAME:    Identification applied or attached to each permitted
sign to designate the manufacturer and installer.
UNLAWFUL SIGN: Any sign ever erected which does not have a valid permit, or
after erection, did not comply with all the applicable provisions of the permit
under which it was constructed and erected, or did not comply with all
provisions of codes, or which did not meet the necessary requirements to be
considered nonconforming.
UNSAFE SIGN: Any sign identified by the competent authority or his/her designee
as being improperly constructed and installed, erected or secured, thereby
subject to falling and creating a safety hazard, with supported findings.
VARIANCE: An authorization granted to the applicant to depart from the
numerical requirements of the zoning regulations (as applied here, the sign
regulations).
VEHICLE: Any truck, trailer, pushcart, cart, wagon, conveyance or structure not
permanently fixed to a permanent foundation and which may be moved under its
own power, towed by a motor vehicle or carried upon or in a motor vehicle or
trailer. This definition includes those vehicles known as "catering trucks".
Includes any motor vehicle such as automobile, automobile truck, automobile
wagon, motorcycle, recreational vehicle, trailer or other self-propelled
vehicle or movable device designed for running on land but not on rails.
VEHICLE SIGN: A sign painted on or attached to either a vehicle, or a trailer
designed to be pulled behind a motorized vehicle, which relates to a business,
activity, use, service or product for a legally authorized business.
WALL SIGN: Any sign parallel and attached to a wall, painted or affixed to a
separate surface which is then mounted securely to the building, painted or
produced directly on the building, or composed of separate letters, numbers,
logos or symbols attached to the surface of the building, or erected and
confined within the limits of an exterior wall of a building or structure,
which supported by such wall, and displays one (1) sign surface.
WINDOW SIGN: Any sign that is applied or attached to the exterior or interior
of a window or a window frame. (Ord. 2006-10, 10-17-2006)
10-14-4: SIGN PERMIT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Permit Required. It is unlawful for any person to erect, alter, or to
permit the erection or alteration of a sign, including painted signs, unless
otherwise exempted by this chapter, upon any property without first obtaining a
written sign permit from the city. Application for such permit shall be made on
a form provided by the city and shall be accompanied by a fee as established by
this chapter. In residential zones, signs less than two (2) square feet shall
not require a permit and must meet the requirements set forth in this chapter.
Any signs in commercial or industrial zones greater than four (4) square feet
requires a sign permit. Signs four (4) square feet or less do not require a
sign permit but must meet the requirements set forth in this chapter.
   B.   Sign Permit Application:
      1.   The application shall set forth and contain the following
information and material:
         a.   Name, address, telephone number, and license number of contractor
who will install or erect the sign;
         b.   Name, address, and telephone number of the person who will erect,
alter, construct, or relocate the sign (if different from the applicant);
         c.   Name, address, and telephone number of the person or firm for
whom the sign is being made or installed (if different from the applicant)
along with business registration number;
         d.   Zoning of property upon which the sign is to be located;
         e.   The location and size of any building or structures on the
property, in the control of the applicant, both existing and proposed;
         f.   The location of off-street parking facilities, including major
points of entry and exit for motor vehicles where directional signs may be
proposed;
         g.   The position of the proposed sign and its relation to adjacent
buildings and structures under the control of the applicant;
         h.   The design and size, colors proposed, and proposed location of
the sign or sign structure on the property, under the control of the applicant;
         i.   The method of attachment to any structure;
         j.   A statement showing sizes and dimensions of all other signs
existing on the property, under the control of the applicant;
         k.   A statement showing the size and color relationships of such sign
or sign structure to the appearance and design of existing or proposed
buildings and structures on the property; and
         l.   Any other information as the community development director may
reasonably require to assure compliance with this chapter and the ordinances of
the city.
      2.   New businesses will be required to present a design and construction
drawing of the signs that they will propose at the location where the business
will be located at the same time as a request for a business license or
registration is completed.
   C.   Issuance Of A Sign Permit: The building inspector, or the competent
authority, shall, within thirty (30) days of the filing of the completed
application, grant such permit if and only if:
      1.   The application contains all necessary information;
      2.   The appropriate sign permit fee has been paid;
      3.   The person erecting, altering, constructing, or relocating the signs
holds a valid and current sign license;
      4.   If the sign requires electrical service, proof that the electrical
work will be done by a certified electrician and a proper inspection by the
competent authority is completed;
      5.   The sign complies with this chapter, all other city ordinances, and
all applicable state and federal law.
   D.   Sign Review Criteria:
      1.   All signs which are regulated by this chapter shall be subject to
the approval of the community development director. In approving or rejecting a
particular sign permit, the competent authority shall utilize the following
review criteria:
         a.   That the sign is consistent with the intent and purpose of this
chapter and zoning title;
         b.   That the sign does not constitute a detriment to public health,
safety, and welfare;
         c.   That the size, shape, color, and placement of the sign is
compatible with and bears a harmonious relationship to the building it
identifies;
         d.   That the size, shape, color, and placement of the sign is
compatible with and bears a harmonious relationship to the neighborhood and
other signs in the area;
         e.   That both the location of the proposed sign and the design of its
visual elements (lettering, words, figures, colors, decorative motifs, spacing,
and proportions) are legible under normal viewing conditions prevailing where
the sign is to be installed;
         f.   That the location and design of the proposed sign does not
obscure from view or unduly detract from existing or adjacent signs;
         g.   That the location and design of the proposed sign, its size,
shape, illumination, and color are compatible with the visual characteristics
of the surrounding area so as not to detract from or cause depreciation of the
value of adjacent developed properties;
         h.   That the location and design of a proposed sign in close
proximity to any residential district does not adversely affect the value or
character of the adjacent residential district;
         i.   That the sign does not display any obscene matter as defined in
this code or New Mexico Penal Code;
      2.   The competent authority may grant a permit with the condition that
the work be stopped at specified time(s) to permit inspections.
   E.   Appeal Process For Permits Denied: If the competent authority denies
such permit, he/she shall state the reason(s) for denial to the applicant. If
the competent authority fails to take any action on a completed application (as
provided in subsection C. above) within thirty (30) days, the application is
deemed denied. Permits that are denied may be appealed in writing to the
planning and zoning commission through an appeal process. All appeals shall be
filed with the competent authority within thirty (30) days from the date of the
denial. If the planning and zoning commission affirms the denial of the permit,
the applicant may file a second appeal to the city council. The second appeal
shall be filed with the city clerk within thirty (30) days from the date on the
denial.
   F.   Sign Permit Fee:
      1.   Permanent Signs. The fee for a sign permit shall be a total of
thirty dollars ($30.00) for the review and issuance of the sign permit plus ten
percent (10%) of the total valuation of construction and erection of the sign.
Payment is due at the time of the filing of a permit application. If a permit
is denied, only the percent valuation cost is refundable provided the applicant
makes a written request for a refund.
      2.   Temporary Signs. The fee for a sign permit for a temporary sign
shall be the thirty dollars ($30.00) sign permit issuance fee. Temporary signs
are allowed for no more than one (1) year. After one (1) year, a renewal
application and corresponding fee shall be paid. No more than three (3)
renewals shall be permitted. (Ord. 2006-10, 10-17-2006)
10-14-5: VARIANCES:
Where a literal application of this chapter, due to special circumstances,
would result in an unusual hardship in an individual case, a variance may be
granted by the planning and zoning commission in accordance with the procedure
for obtaining a special use permit set out in sections 10-10-2 and 10-10-4 of
this code, including consideration of the following but not limited to:
   A.   Exceptional conditions pertaining to the property where the sign is to
be located as a result of its size, shape, or topography, which are not
applicable to other lands or structures in the area.
   B.   The applicant would be deprived of rights that are commonly enjoyed by
others similarly situated.
   C.   Granting the variance would not confer on the applicant any significant
privileges which are denied to others similarly situated.
   D.   The exceptional circumstances are not the result of action by the
applicant.
   E.   The requested variance is the minimum variance necessary to allow the
applicant to enjoy the rights commonly enjoyed by others similarly situated.
   F.   Granting of the variance would not violate more than one (1) standard
of this chapter.
   G.   Granting the variance would not result in allowing a sign that
interferes with road or highway visibility or obstruct or otherwise interfere
with the safe and orderly movement of traffic. (Ord. 2006-10, 10-17-2006)
10-14-6: SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
All signs which are regulated by this chapter and require a special use permit
shall follow the procedure set forth in sections 10-10-2 and 10-10-4 of this
code. The following shall require a special use permit:
   A.   Flashing, neon, or animated signs within a commercial district for
entertainment related business;
   B.   Signs on rock or natural features which are professionally installed
and manufactured.
   C.   All multi-tenant commercial or industrial centers consistent with
section 10-14-9. (Ord. 2006-10, 10-17-2006)
10-14-7: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following signs shall not be permitted:
   A.   Any sign not expressly permitted within this chapter, or any sign which
is specifically prohibited in this chapter.
   B.   Billboards (on- and off-premise).
   C.   Roof signs.
   D.   Portable signs.
   E.   Signs in public rights-of-way.
   F.   A sign placed or painted on any motor vehicle, recreational vehicle,
trailer or other movable device that reasonably indicates the use of such
vehicle, trailer or device as a sign is prohibited. This includes the parking
of such vehicle, trailer or device in such a manner as to constitute a sign.
This does not include vehicles, used in the course of normal business
activities parked at the legally registered business with appropriately
installed, business information signs affixed in a professional manner.
Vehicles with signs may not be parked for considerable lengths of time at a
location different from the place of business unless the vehicle with the sign
is providing a service related to the business at that different location.
   G.   A flashing, rotating or animated sign, or a sign with intermittent or
varying intensity of illumination, whether deliberate or resulting from a
defect in the sign or light source in residential, agricultural and industrial
districts.
   H.   Any sign constructed to resemble any official marker or sign normally
erected by a city, state or federal government agency or a sign using words,
phrases, symbols or characters in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead
or confuse traffic.
   I.   A sign advertising activities that are illegal according to federal or
state laws, rules or regulations and county or city ordinances or resolutions.
   J.   Any sign erected on, attached to or painted on retaining walls, fences,
rocks or natural features which are not professionally manufactured.
   K.   Any sign illegally placed, constructed or maintained. (Ord. 2006-10,
10-17-2006)
10-14-8: PERMITTED SIGNS GENERAL CONDITIONS:
   A.   Calculation Of Sign Area:
      1.   The sign area of any sign, including building-mounted or
freestanding signs shall be considered to be the entire advertising area of the
sign containing text, decorative artwork, logos or other displayed information,
including the space within and between such text and information.
      2.   The sign area of a freestanding sign is measured by determining the
sign area of all sides that are visible from any one (1) vantage point, except
only one (1) side of a sign shall be measured if the two (2) sides are back to
back or separated by an angle of forty-five degrees (45°) or less. If the two
(2) sides are not of equal size, the larger side shall be measured.
      3.   The sign area of building-mounted signs shall not include structural
elements used to attach or support the sign that do not contribute to the
display.
      4.   The sign area of freestanding signs shall not include the supporting
base or poles.
   B.   Structural Requirements:
      1.   All signs shall conform to the structural design requirements set
forth in the Uniform Standard Building Code or the International Building Code
and companion documents.
      2.   Sign permit applications for freestanding signs shall have a maximum
height of ten feet (10') - height shall be measured from ground level to edge
of sign. All applications shall be accompanied by an engineer's design drawing
showing the appropriate calculations. Said drawing shall be stamped by an
engineer certified in the state.
   C.   Sign Placement Provisions:
      1.   No sign shall be permitted to violate the "clear-sight triangle" as
defined in this chapter.
      2.   Signs may not be located in a manner that obscures or interferes
with the effectiveness of any official sign, signal or device. A sign shall not
be placed at any location where it obscures or interferes with the clear view
of any traveler on any street.
      3.   No sign shall be constructed within any public right-of-way or
sidewalk nor shall any portion of any sign extend onto or over a public right-
of-way or sidewalk.
      4.   No banner shall be erected across any street or sidewalk in the city
unless express (written) consent has been granted by the city council.
      5.   Any sign extending over an area intended for pedestrian use shall
not be less than seven feet four inches (7'4") above the finished grade below
it and only through specific exception granted by the city council.
      6.   No sign shall be placed on any property without written consent of
the owner(s) or the owner(s)' authorized agent.
      7.   Freestanding signs associated with commercial uses shall maintain a
minimum setback distance of five feet (5') from the back of the sidewalk which,
for the purposes of this section, shall be defined as the edge of the sidewalk
that is farthest away from the curb, gutter and street.
      8.   Distance separation between freestanding signs located on different
street frontages shall be measured along the street frontage to the point of
intersection of both street frontages. Freestanding signs shall be separated by
at least one hundred feet (100').
   D.   Lighting Provisions:
      1.   Light from any (light) source intended to illuminate a sign shall be
shaded, shielded, or directed in such a way so that the light intensity or
brightness shall not adversely affect the safe vision of pedestrian or vehicle
operators on public or private streets, driveways, or parking areas, and shall
not adversely affect any of the surrounding premises.
      2.   Illumination from any sign shall not interfere with the
effectiveness of any official traffic sign, signal or device.
      3.   The illumination shall also be shielded in order to avoid upward
glare that would tend to violate the state "dark sky" provisions.
      4.   Signs which face residentially zoned lots having a linear distance
of one hundred fifty feet (150') or less from the residential zone shall not be
illuminated.
      5.   Unless otherwise authorized by this code or the competent authority,
internally illuminated signs which use the technique known as "push through" as
well as individually illuminated, channel lettering or halo lighting is
required. The competent authority may allow a modification of this requirement
in the interest of aesthetics or compatibility. Illumination of industrial
monument signs shall not occur by the use of internally illuminated signs.
      6.   Signs in residential zones shall not be illuminated with the
exception of the address.
      7.   All lighting fixtures shall be as small as possible and integrated
with the sign design and building architecture.
      8.   All proposed lighting schemes shall be included in tenant's
submission to landlord for approval prior to construction or installation.
      9.   Illumination shall not blink, flash, or fluctuate.
      10.   All freestanding signs which incorporate lighting shall be served
by underground utility. (Ord. 2006-10, 10-17-2006)
10-14-9: PERMITTED SIGNS BY ZONE DISTRICT:
   A.   Residential Zones (RE, R-1, TC, MR, MF):
   1.   Permitted Signs:
         a.   Development identification sign, not more than thirty-two (32)
square feet:
      (1)   Maximum sign area shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet.
      (2)   Maximum height shall not exceed six feet (6').
      (3)   Sign may not be placed in the public right-of-way. This sign may be
used in addition to any other freestanding sign allowed pursuant to this
chapter.
      b.   Directional Sign:
      (1)   Maximum sign area shall not exceed two (2) square feet.
      (2)   Maximum height shall not exceed four feet (4').
      (3)   Sign may not be placed in the public right-of-way. This sign may be
used in addition to any other freestanding sign allowed pursuant to this
chapter.
      c.   Garage Sale, Private Sale Or Event Sign:
      (1)   Signs may be used to advertise any event listed above provided that
the signs are not over two (2) square feet in sign area, and are used only
during the duration of the event.
      (2)   The person erecting the sign and/or the property owner at the sign
location shall be responsible for the sign removal and all other requirements
concerning signs in this chapter.
         d.   Government Sign: Signs by United States or New Mexico Departments
of Transportation (USDOT or NMDOT) and other government signs are allowed to be
located off-premise.
         e.   House or building sign or nameplate (maximum sign area shall not
exceed four (4) square feet).
         f.   Legal notices (maximum sign area shall not exceed four (4) square
feet).
      g.   Model Complex Sign:
      (1)   Maximum sign area shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet.
         (2)   Maximum height shall not exceed six feet (6').
      (3)   Sign may not be placed in the public right-of-way. This sign may be
used in addition to any other freestanding sign allowed pursuant to this
chapter.
      h.   National, state and corporate flags.
         i.   Political sign (Maximum sign area shall not exceed four (4)
square feet).
      j.   Home Occupation Signs:
   (1)   One sign per lot permitted.
         (2)   Maximum sign area shall not exceed two (2) square feet.
      (3)   Shall only be an attached (wall) sign on the front facade of the
property on which a legally registered business is conducted.
   (4)   Must be professionally designed.
   (5)   Administrative approval of said sign shall be issued.
         k.   Real estate signs shall not require a permit if their area is no
more than four (4) square feet and the maximum height is no more than four feet
(4').
   2.   Prohibited Signs:
      a.   Temporary signs.
   B.   Agricultural Zones (RE-1):
   1.   Permitted Signs:
      a.   All signs permitted in residential zones.
         b.   One freestanding sign, one attached sign or combination of both
shall be permitted for advertising purposes only. In no event shall the total
combined square footage of both signs exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in
sign area.
      c.   Point-of-Sale Signs:
         (1)   Maximum sign area shall not exceed four (4) square feet.
         (2)   Sign may not be placed in the public right-of-way.
   2.   Prohibited Signs:
      a.   Temporary signs.
   C.   Residential Commercial Planned Unit Development (RCPUD): Signs in the
RCPUD zones shall be approved through a special use permit (SUP) procedure set
out in sections 10-10-2 and 10-10-4 of this code and all types of signs are
allowed which are compatible with the use of the property.
   D.   Commercial And Industrial Zones (C-1, C-2, M-1, M-2):
   1.   Permitted Signs:
      a.   All signs permitted in residential and agricultural zones.
      b.   Attached Sign:
      (1)   One (1) square foot of signage per one (1) linear foot based on the
length of the exterior building wall at the front facade. The sign(s) shall be
placed on the side of the building used to calculate the square footage of the
sign. The following are considered attached signs:
            A.   Awning/canopy/marquee signs.
            B.   Window signs.
            C.   Wall signs.
      These attached signs are subject to the design standards of all
applicable codes.
      (2)   Attached signs may not extend more than eight inches (8") out
(depth) from the side of the building to which it is attached.
      (3)   Attached signs shall not extend beyond the highest point of roof
line, or project beyond the edge of a side of the building.
      (4)   Attached signs should exhibit an architectural design which is
compatible to the design of the building.
      c.   Window Sign:
      (1)   Permanent window signs may be substituted for attached signage with
a corresponding reduction of attached signage.
      (2)   A window sign does not include merchandise or models of products or
services incorporated in a window display.
      (3)   Window signs are allowed only in C-1 (Light Commercial District)
and C-2 (General Commercial District) zones.
      d.   Drive-thru Menu Boards/Directional Signs:
      (1)   Drive-thru menu boards are permitted for fast food restaurants with
drive-thru service, subject to a size limit of twenty (20) square feet of area
and five feet (5') in height.
      (2)   Drive-thru menu boards/directional signs are allowed only in C-1
(Light Commercial District) and C-2 (General Commercial District).
         e.   Freestanding Sign: There are two (2) types of freestanding signs
allowed by this code: monument - pylon. The number of freestanding signs is
limited to one (1) (either one (1) monument or one (1) pylon) per lot unless
otherwise allowed under the master sign program. This is in addition to any
allowed attached signs. Freestanding signs must comply with the following
conditions:
      (1)   Monument Signs: Monument signs are allowed only in Light Commercial
(C-1), General Commercial (C-2) and Industrial Districts (M-1 and M-2).
         A.   Illumination: Monument signs may be illuminated, consistent with
the lighting provisions set out in this code.
         B.   Landscaping: All monument signs must be surrounded by a minimum
four foot (4') wide landscaped planter area; four feet (4') must be measured in
all directions.
         C.   Mounting: The monument sign must have a solid base rather than
pole supports.
         D.   Height: Height of monument signs shall not exceed the dimensions
listed in the table below unless otherwise allowed for shopping center sign
programs.
         E.   Size: Size of monument signs is determined as follows:
 
Linear Street Frontage Size Allowed    Maximum Height Setback from Front Lot
                                                      Line
0 — 100 feet         100 square feet 4 feet         5 feet
101 — 300 feet       150 square feet 5 feet         5 feet
301 — 600 feet       200 square feet 6 feet         7 feet
> 600 feet             200 square feet 8 feet         7 feet
 
         (2)   Pylon signs.
         A.   Pylon signs are allowed only in C-2 (General Commercial
District).
         B.   Design: The design of the pylon sign shall exhibit an
architectural design which is compatible to the design of the building in which
the business that the sign identifies is located.
         C.   Illumination: Pylon signs shall be illuminated consistent with
the lighting provisions set out in this code.
         D.   Landscaping: All pylon signs must be surrounded by a minimum of a
four foot (4') wide landscaped planter area; four feet (4') must be measured in
all directions.
      E.   Height: Sign height shall not exceed ten feet (10').
      F.   Mounting: The pylon sign must have either a solid base or individual
supports which exhibits an architectural design which is compatible to the
design of the building in which the business that the sign identifies is
located. Raw material poles are not allowed (i.e. steel pole, 4x4 wood poles,
etc).
      G.   Size: Size of pylon signs is determined as follows:
 
Linear Street Frontage Size Allowed    Setback from Front Lot Line
0 — 100 feet         100 square feet 6 feet
101 — 300 feet       150 square feet 7 feet
301 — 600 feet       200 square feet 10 feet
> 600 feet             200 square feet 10 feet
 
         f.   Multi-Tenant Center Signs: For multi-tenant centers, a master
sign program is required. The applicant shall submit to the competent authority
for processing as a special use permit in accordance with the procedure set out
in sections 10-10-2, 10-10-4, and 10-14-6 of this code to be approved by the
planning and zoning commission. The sign requirements of a master sign program
for a multi-tenant center shall supersede the sign requirements as outlined
within this chapter. Multi-tenant center signs are permitted subject to the
following provisions:
      (1)   The developer shall submit to the commission architecturally
precise plans delineating all signs to be used in the center including but not
limited to information as to size, height, letter type, font, color, depth,
illumination, and material to be used.
      (2)   A multi-tenant center five (5) acres in size or less may have one
(1) shopping center sign on each street frontage. The maximum sign face area
limits for such a sign are three hundred (300) square feet.
      (3)   For multi-tenant centers greater than five (5) acres in size may
have one (1) shopping center sign on each street frontage, the maximum sign
face area for a shopping center sign per street frontage shall be four hundred
(400) square feet.
      (4)   The maximum multi-tenant center sign height limit shall be twelve
feet (12') for centers which contain five (5) acres or less.
      (5)   The maximum multi-tenant center sign height limit shall be fifteen
feet (15') for centers which contain more than five (5) acres.
      (6)   Each multi-tenant center sign shall contain graphic identification
of either the name of the multi-tenant center or name or logo of at least one
(1) anchor tenant. An anchor tenant for purposes of this section shall be a
business containing at least fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet of floor
area within the center. This required identification shall contain individual
letters or graphic logos at least eighteen inches (18") in height. Any
additional desired information shall contain individual letters or graphic
logos of at least ten inches (10") in height.
      (7)   Multi-tenant center signs shall be centrally situated within a
landscaped planting area.
         g.   Multi-Tenant Center Pads: Each separate building pad immediately
fronting on a public street within a center is to be made part of the master
sign program of the multi-tenant center. Each pad is allowed to have their own
monument sign.
         h.   Promotional Displays: In addition to authorized attached and
freestanding signs, occasional events requiring special advertising shall be
subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Each business shall be limited to one (1) freestanding and one (1)
attached sign. Each sign shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in size.
      (2)   Displays incorporating balloons, streamers, flags and pennants will
be permitted as outlined in this chapter.
      (3)   Each business shall be allowed one (1) permit for a grand opening
display during its first six (6) months of operation. The temporary permit for
this display shall be for a maximum period of time of no more than one (1)
year. Said sign shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet.
      (4)   Each business shall be allowed four (4) promotional displays during
each calendar year. The permit for each of these displays shall be for ten (10)
consecutive days.
      (5)   Each business shall be allowed one (1) bona fide going out of
business display. The permit for this display shall be for sixty (60)
consecutive days.
      (6)   The applicant shall provide to the competent authority the name and
address of the business where the display is to be placed and the first day of
the display. No portion of a display (i.e., structure or sign) shall be erected
prior to the first day of the event as stated on the permit.
         i.   Changeable Copy Signs: Changeable copy signs may be approved by
the planning and zoning commission through a special use permit in accordance
with the procedure set out in sections 10-10-2 and 10-10-4 of this code,
subject to meeting the following regulations:
      (1)   The sign is for the advertising of upcoming or current
entertainment, events and/or programs associated with one (1) of the following
approved uses:
         A.   Movie theater with at least one thousand (1,000) seats total; all
screens;
         B.   Performing arts theater (with at least five hundred (500) seats);
         C.   Nightclub (not for sexually oriented businesses or activities);
      D.   Public uses (e.g. community center, library);
            E.   Church;
            F.   Manufacturer-licensed new car dealership.
      (2)   Changeable copy signs shall not be allowed as a part of shopping
center signs or in conjunction with the operation of a sexually oriented
business.
      (3)   Those uses listed herein may be permitted one (1) changeable copy
sign of either a monument, freestanding or attached type. The height and area
of such signs shall be regulated by the maximum sign area limits established
for commercial and industrial zones as set forth in this chapter.
      (4)   Display changes on a changeable copy sign may occur at an interval
as requested by the applicant provided the applicant can demonstrate that the
requested interval of change does not work to the detriment of public safety.
      (5)   Except for movie theater marquees, cabinet signs with translucent
backgrounds shall be prohibited.
         j.   Gate Entrance Sign:
      (1)   A gate entrance sign may identify the owner, resident or name of a
certain parcel of property (i.e., John Doe Ranch, etc.).
      (2)   Total height (including poles) for gate entrance signs shall not
exceed ten feet (10'). The sign face itself shall not exceed three feet (3') in
height and ten feet (10') in width.
      (3)   A gate entrance sign may be allowed upon approval by the planning
and zoning commission of a special use permit in accordance with the procedure
set out in sections 10-10-2 and 10-10-4 of this code. The planning and zoning
commission may approve sign of less height and size than the maximum allowed by
this chapter.
         k.   Searchlights: Searchlights or other devices which project a beam
of light into the sky shall be permitted with approval of a temporary sign
permit by the competent authority provided the following conditions shall be
met:
      (1)   Permits shall be issued for grand openings or special events only.
A grand opening shall commemorate an initial building opening, a change in
ownership of an existing business, a remodel of over fifty percent (50%) of the
floor area or a new business in an existing building. A special event may only
occur three (3) times per year.
      (2)   Permits shall be issued for no more than seventy-two (72) hours of
duration.
      (3)   Searchlights shall not be operated so as to constitute a traffic
hazard or a nuisance to adjacent or surrounding properties.
      (4)   Searchlights shall be operated so as to avoid directing the beam at
any building.
      (5)   Searchlights shall be so operated that the beam is not displayed at
an angle greater than forty-five (45) degrees from the vertical.
      (6)   Equipment shall be kept on private property and shall not be
allowed within the public right-of-way.
      (7)   The applicant shall be required to show evidence of insurability by
having liability and property damage insurance in force at all times during the
time a permit is in effect in sufficient amounts to protect permittee from
liability, and to hold the city harmless from any damages, claims or causes of
action by reason of the indemnify and issuance of the permit and operation of a
special advertising device.
      (8)   Notification of permit issuance shall be sent to appropriate
authorities of any airport that may be affected by searchlights.
         l.   Home Occupation Signs: All home occupation signs shall be
consistent with section 3-4-2F of this code and/or any other applicable sign
provision set in this chapter.
         m.   Consistent Design: Signs on all proposed buildings or new
additions to existing buildings shall be designed as an integral part of the
total building design.
   (1)   Sign Colors:
         A.   For shopping center and multi-tenant complex with and without an
approved sign program, all permanent signs may contain no more than four (4)
different sign colors within a shopping center and multi-tenant complex. When
reviewing a sign permit, consideration will be given to the color of adjacent
signs.
         B.   The sign structure and any related supports shall be the same
color and materials throughout a shopping center and multi-tenant complex.
         C.   Pictorial trademarks/logo and trademark signs shall be excluded
from the color limitations as outlined above.
         n.   Off-Premises Signs:
      (1)   No person shall erect or maintain any off-premise sign of any kind
except in compliance with this chapter, and in accordance with other provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   Off-premise signs shall be limited to wall signs set back a minimum
of five (5) feet from every street right-of-way line.
      (3)   Off-premise signs shall be limited to one (1) sign on each side of
a public street for each one thousand (1,000) foot length of right-of-way.
         A.   Attached Signs: No attached signs shall be permitted off-premise.
            B.   Bench Signs:
            i.   Bench signs are only allowed through a special use permit
approved by the planning and zoning commission (in accordance with the
procedure set out in sections 10-10-2 and 10-10-4 of this code) and the city
council. Bus benches, for which a special use permit has been approved, may be
placed in the public right-of-way along bus routes or in areas frequented by
pedestrians.
            ii.   Bus benches are exempt from the location provisions for
freestanding signs only when they are located at designated bus stops.
            iii.   No more than one (1) bench sign shall be allowed per bench.
            iv.   Bench signs shall be located only on one (1) side of the
bench and shall be not larger than ten (10) square feet.
            C.   Mass Transit Shelter Signs:
            i.   No more than three (3) signs allowed upon or within a mass
transit shelter.
            ii.   These type of signs shall be permitted only through
administrative approval.
         D.   Garage, Private Sale Or Event Sign: The person erecting the sign
and/or the property owner at the sign location shall be responsible for the
sign removal and all other requirements concerning signs as listed in this
chapter.
            E.   Political Signs:
            i.   No individual sign shall exceed six (6) square feet in a
residential zone and up to thirty-two (32) square feet for each sign in non-
residential zones.
            ii.   All political signs shall be erected no sooner than sixty
(60) days before the election to which they pertain and shall be removed within
ten (10) days following same election.
            iii.   Political signs may be placed twelve (12) hours prior to an
election around or nearby the polling site subject to federal and state law and
must be removed twelve (12) hours after closing of election polls of set
election.
            iv.   All political signs shall be removed and disposed of
properly.
            v.   Political signs shall not be placed within any public property
or right-of-way.
         F.   Government Signs: Signs by United States or New Mexico
Departments of Transportation (USDOT or NMDOT) and other government signs are
allowed to be located off-premise.
            G.   Open House Signs:
            i.   Open house signs are allowed to be located off-premise in
compliance with this chapter.
            ii.   The person erecting the sign and/or the property owner at the
sign location shall be responsible for sign removal and all other requirements
concerning signs. (Ord. 2006-10, 10-17-2006)
10-14-10: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
   A.   Construction/Renovation Signs: The signage shall not exceed thirty-two
(32) square feet in sign area, and shall not be erected until a building permit
has been secured. The sign shall be removed no later than fourteen (14) days
after the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or the building permit
expires. Such signs shall be limited to one (1) sign per street frontage, not
to exceed two (2) such signs, for the general contractor, including all sub-
contractors.
   B.   Real Estate Signs:
   1.   Residentially-Zoned Lots Or Parcels:
         a.   Less than 1 acre: one (1) sign per street frontage not to exceed
four (4) square feet in sign area per sign. Sign(s) shall not exceed seven feet
(7') in height.
         b.   1.01 to 5.00 acres: one (1) sign per street frontage not to
exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in sign area per sign. Sign(s) shall not
exceed eight feet (8') in height.
         c.   5.01 to 10.00 acres: two (2) signs not to exceed thirty-two (32)
square feet in sign area per sign. Sign(s) shall not exceed eight feet (8') in
height.
         d.   Greater than 10.00 acres: three (3) signs not to exceed thirty-
two (32) square feet in sign area per sign. Sign(s) shall not exceed eight feet
(8') in height.
      2.   All Other Zoned Lots Or Parcels:
         a.   Less than 1.00 acre: one (1) sign per street frontage not to
exceed sixteen (16) square feet in sign area per sign. Sign(s) shall not exceed
eight feet (8') in height.
         b.   1.01 to 5.00 acres: one (1) sign per street frontage not to
exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in sign area per sign. Sign(s) shall not
exceed ten feet (10') in height.
         c.   5.01 to 10.00 acres: two (2) signs not to exceed thirty-two (32)
square feet in sign area per sign. Sign(s) shall not exceed fifteen feet (15')
in height.
         d.   Greater than 10.00 acres: three (3) signs not to exceed sixty-
four (64) square feet in sign area per sign or two (2) signs not to exceed one
hundred twenty-eight (128) square feet in sign area per sign. Sign(s) shall not
exceed fifteen feet (15') in height.
      3.   Real Estate Directional Signs: These signs shall not exceed six (6)
square feet in sign area.
      4.   Model Complex Signs: These signs shall be located on the project
site and conform to the following requirements:
         a.   One (1) sign per complex not to exceed thirty-two (32) square
feet in sign area.
         b.   One (1) sign per model not to exceed four (4) square feet in sign
area.
         c.   Signs are to be removed when the complex ceases to be a model
home complex.
         d.   A temporary permit shall not be approved for longer than twelve
(12) months. If a sign is desired for more than twelve (12) months, the
applicant must re-apply for renewal of a temporary permit after this time.
      e.   Shall be constructed of quality materials.
      5.   Commercial Promotional Displays:
      a.   Temporary signs advertising a new business "coming soon."
         b.   Such signs shall be limited to one (1) sign per street frontage,
not to exceed two (2) signs, for the new business, including all tenants.
         c.   Such signs shall be removed immediately upon the receipt of any
certificate of occupancy for the new business.
         d.   Sign area shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet.
      6.   Removal Of Signs: Signs shall be removed seventy-two (72) hours
after closing of sale or lease of property.
      7.   Placement Near Public Ways: No real estate signs shall be erected in
the public rights-of-way or in clear-sight triangles.
      8.   Time: Any temporary sign will be permitted for no more than one (1)
year; the applicant shall specify the time that the sign will be in place.
(Ord. 2006-10, 10-17-2006)
10-14-11: SIGNS NOT REQUIRING PERMITS:
Sign permits shall be required for all signs unless otherwise stated in this
chapter. Signs that do not require permits, but must follow the requirements as
follows:
   A.   Change of copy on legally established signs.
   B.   Construction/renovation signs (those not exceeding sixteen (16) square
feet in sign area, however, signs exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in sign
area will require temporary permit).
   C.   Decorations for national holidays or community-wide festivals and
fiestas. Decorations shall be removed no later than five (5) days after the
event/holiday.
   D.   Directional signs.
   E.   Garage Sale Signs: Garage sale signs located on the property holding
the event shall not be erected any sooner than the day before the event and
shall be completely removed no later than six (6) hours after the end of the
event.
   F.   Government signs.
   G.   House or building signs or nameplates.
   H.   Legal notices.
   I.   Model complex signs (those not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in
sign area).
   J.   National, state and corporate flags following accepted flag protocol.
   K.   Political signs.
   L.   Private sale or event signs.
   M.   Railroad signs.
   N.   Real estate signs (those not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in sign
area).
   1.   One (1) sign per street frontage. Not to exceed two (2) total signs.
   2.   Can be located in front, side or rear of property.
   3.   Up to a maximum of two (2) sides per any one (1) sign.
   O.   Streamers.
   P.   Vehicle signs.
   Q.   Gasoline Price Signs: Such signs are limited to one (1) per street
frontage, and in no case shall an individual gasoline price sign exceed twelve
(12) square feet in area.
   R.   Directional Sign: Directional signs visible from the public right-of-
way (i.e., entrance/exit) shall not exceed six (6) square feet in sign area and
four feet (4') in height.
   S.   Flags:
      1.   Displays incorporating the identification of a nation, state or
corporation shall follow accepted flag protocol. Only one (1) corporate flag
will be allowed per lot.
      2.   Displays used to serve as decoration (exclusive of decorations used
in fiestas, community-wide festivals or national holidays) shall have no logo
or advertising message printed or painted on them.
   T.   Information Sign: Signs visible from the public right-of-way shall have
a maximum size of four (4) square feet in sign area.
   U.   Pennant: Each sign shall be no larger than two (2) square feet in sign
area.
   V.   Open House Signs: Open house signs located on the property being sold
shall be subject to the following minimum requirements:
      1.   Shall be limited to six (6) square feet in area per side, up to a
maximum of two (2) sides per any one (1) sign.
      2.   Shall not be erected earlier than the day before the event and shall
be completely removed no later than two (2) hours after the end of the open
house. For the purposes of this chapter, open houses are considered a temporary
event rather than taking place for an extended period of time.
      3.   Shall be either A-frame type signs or mounted in a freestanding
manner on either a single stake or on two (2) stakes.
      4.   Maximum Height: The top of the sign shall not exceed four feet (4')
in height.
      5.   Placement: Shall be placed so as not to obstruct traffic or create
an impediment to visibility at street intersections.
      6.   Shall not be mounted to trees or other landscaping, regulatory
traffic signage, utility or light poles or other similar structures. (Ord.
2006-10, 10-17-2006)
10-14-12: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Sign Maintenance And Removal:
      1.   Damaged Signs: When any sign is substantially damaged, destroyed,
taken down or removed for any purpose other than copy change or normal
maintenance operation, it shall not be re-erected, reconstructed or rebuilt
except in full compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Maintenance:
         a.   All signs shall be kept in good repair, both structurally and in
appearance. All braces, bolts, clips, fastenings and supporting frame shall be
securely affixed to the support structure or wall and shall be free from insect
infestation, rot or other deterioration.
         b.   If the message portion of a sign is not maintained or if it is
removed, leaving only the supporting "shell" of a sign or the supporting
braces, anchors or similar components, the owner of the sign or the owner of
the property where the sign is located or other person having control over such
sign shall, within thirty (30) days of the removal of the message portion of
the sign, either replace the entire message portion of the sign or remove the
remaining components of the sign. This subsection shall not be construed to
alter the prohibition on the replacement of a nonconforming sign. Nor shall
this subsection be construed to prevent the changing of the message of the
sign.
         c.   Any written notice to repair, alter, or remove a sign shall be
sent via certified mail, return receipt requested, by the competent authority
to the owner, lessee, or person responsible for the sign. If such order is not
acted on within seven (7) days, the competent authority may initiate
proceedings to revoke the permit and remove the sign at the expense of the
owner, lessee, or person responsible for the sign.
         d.   Repainting of painted wall signs when more than fifty percent
(50%) of the copy has been removed shall require written notice of the proposed
repainting be received by the competent authority at least three (3) days prior
to repainting.
         e.   Damaged Signs: When any sign is substantially damaged, destroyed,
taken down or removed for any purpose other than copy change or normal
maintenance operation, it shall not be re-erected or rebuilt unless a sign
permit has been issued.
   B.   Nonconforming Signs:
      1.   Subject to the remaining restrictions of this chapter, nonconforming
signs that were otherwise lawful on the effective date of this chapter may be
continued.
      2.   No person may engage in any activity that causes an increase in the
extent of nonconformity of a nonconforming sign. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, no nonconforming sign may be enlarged or altered
in such a manner as to aggravate the nonconforming condition. Nor may
illumination be added to any conforming sign.
      3.   Any change in the use of any building or property in which a
nonconforming sign is located, will require that all nonconforming signs on
that property be brought into compliance with all applicable provisions of this
chapter within nine (9) months of said change.
      4.   A nonconforming sign may not be moved or replaced except to bring
the sign into complete conformity with this chapter. For the purpose of this
subsection, "replaced" means the replacing of any or all parts of a sign that
would extend the normal life span of a sign. An example is replacing wood pole
supports with metal I-beam supports.
      5.   If a nonconforming sign is destroyed, damaged or in need of repair,
it may not thereafter be repaired, reconstructed or replaced except in
conformity with all the provisions of this chapter and the remnants of the
former sign structure shall be cleared from the land. For purposes of this
subsection, a nonconforming sign is "destroyed" if damaged up to fifty percent
(50%) of the cost of repairing the sign to its former stature or if the cost of
replacing it equals or exceeds the tax value (tax value if listed for tax
purposes)/sign valuation (as stated on the original permit) of the sign so
damaged, whichever is less.
      6.   The message of a nonconforming sign may be changed so long as this
does not create any new non-conformities (for example, by creating an off-
premises sign under circumstances where such a sign would not be allowed).
      7.   If a nonconforming sign other than a billboard advertises a
business, service, commodity, accommodation, attraction or other enterprise or
activity that is no longer operating or being offered or conducted, that sign
shall be considered abandoned and shall be removed within sixty (60) days after
such abandonment by the sign owner, owner of the property where the sign is
located or other person having control over such sign.
      8.   The city shall reserve the right to remove a nonconforming sign in
accordance with the procedures set out for lien on property.
      9.   This subsection shall not apply to any benches placed under the
terms of any contract in effect on the date of passage of this chapter.
      10.   Trimming Of Trees: No existing tree shall be trimmed, pruned or
removed from a city right-of-way to increase the visibility of any sign, unless
such work is first approved by the competent authority. (Ord. 2006-10, 10-17-
2006)
10-14-13: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Offenses:
      1.   Every violation of this chapter constitutes an offense subject to
the penalty provisions in title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
      2.   Each day a violation of this chapter exists constitutes a separate
offense.
   B.   Double Permit Fee: The applicable fee for a sign permit shall be
doubled when the installation of a sign is commenced before obtaining a permit.
   C.   Abatement Of Illegal Signs: The competent authority shall have the
power to see that this chapter is enforced and to abate any sign within the
city which fails to meet the requirements of this chapter or other applicable
law.
   D.   Enforcement Authority:
      1.   The competent authority or his/her delegate is authorized to issue
citations for violations of this chapter and file criminal complaints in
municipal court alleging violations of this chapter.
      2.   The municipal court may impose a fine for each offense, as provided
in title 1, chapter 4 of this code for each day the violation is found to have
occurred. In addition to any fines thus imposed, the municipal court is
authorized to issue orders for removal, revocation of permit, or other
judgments. Failure to pay fines previously imposed shall constitute contempt of
court and may be separately punished at the discretion of the municipal court.
(Ord. 2006-10, 10-17-2006)
10-14-14: APPENDIX 1; ILLUSTRATIONS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1677.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1675.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1673.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1671.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1669.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1667.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1665.png]
 
CHAPTER 15
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND EXCEPTIONS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Development Standards
10-15-2: Exceptions And Modifications; Height
10-15-1: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
All lots, tracts, buildings, and structures in the city shall be developed in
accordance with the standards below, except as otherwise provided. All
development standards and other provisions of this title shall apply to each
lot, tract, or parcel, independent of all other lots, tracts, or parcels.
         Yards Min. Yards Min. Yards Min. Lots Min. Lots Min. Lots Min. Height
District Front      Rear       Side       Area      Width     Depth     Max.
         Setback    Setback    Setback
         Yards Min. Yards Min. Yards Min. Lots Min. Lots Min. Lots Min. Height
District Front      Rear       Side       Area      Width     Depth     Max.
         Setback    Setback    Setback
RE       20 ft.     15 ft.     5 ft.      6,000 sq. * 60      * 70      35 ft.
                                          ft.
R-1      20 ft.     15 ft.     5 ft.      6,000 sq. * 60      * 70      35 ft.
                                          ft.
TC       15 ft.     15 ft.     0 ft.      3,000 sq. * 60      -         35 ft.
                                          ft.
MR       15 ft.     15 ft.     7.5 ft.    6,000 sq. * 60      -         35 ft.
                                          ft.
MF       15 ft.     15 ft.     7.5 ft.    4,000 sq. * 60      -         45 ft.
                                          ft.
                                          40 acre
PD       -          -          -          net lot   No min.   No min.   -
                                          area
C-1      15 ft.     15 ft.     5 ft.      6,000 sq. * 60      * 70      45 ft.
                                          ft.
C-2      15 ft.     15 ft.     5 ft.      6,000 sq. * 60      * 70      45 ft.
                                          ft.
M-1      15 ft.     15 ft.     5 ft.      6,000 sq. * 60      * 70      45 ft.
                                          ft.
M-2      15 ft.     15 ft.     5 ft.      6,000 sq. * 60      * 70      45 ft.
                                          ft.
 
* Total lot area must be equal to, or greater than, minimum area specified.
Note: All residential rear setback requirements may be encroached by an open
patio (structure) with a footprint area not exceeding thirty percent (30%) of
the area designated as required rear setback. Further, the remaining setback
dimension may not have a linear dimension of less than ten (10) feet.
(Ord. 1999-04, 3-2-1999; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 03-06, 8-5-2003; Ord. 2012-03, 2-
10-2012)
10-15-2: EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS; HEIGHT:
   A.   Spires, Belfries, Flag Poles, And Similar Structures: Such uses may be
constructed in any district to a height ten feet (10') above the normally
permitted by right.
   B.   Television And Radio Towers, Guy Towers And All Other Freestanding
Towers (Public And Private):
      1.   Residential Zoning Districts:
         a.   Towers shall have manufacturer's specifications to withstand a
seventy five (75) mile per hour wind or be set back one foot (1') for each one
foot (1') of height from the property line.
         b.   Towers shall be constructed to meet uniform building code
standards.
         c.   Towers shall conform to federal communication commission and
federal aviation administration regulations if applicable.
         d.   Towers shall not exceed sixty five feet (65') in height. Any
request for a tower to exceed sixty five feet (65') in height shall require a
variance from the board of adjustment.
         e.   Tower height shall be measured from ground level vertically to
the highest point of a tower for both freestanding towers and towers attached
to or built upon structures.
         f.   Towers for commercial purposes shall not be permitted.
      2.   Commercial Zoning Districts:
         a.   Towers shall have manufacturer's specifications to withstand a
seventy five (75) mile per hour wind or be set back one foot (1') for each one
foot (1') of height from the property line.
         b.   Towers shall be constructed to meet uniform building code
standards.
         c.   Towers in commercial zoning districts shall not exceed sixty five
feet (65') in height. A special use permit may be granted to permit tower
heights greater than sixty five feet (65'). The special use permit process
shall be used to determine tower height greater than sixty five feet (65').
         d.   Tower height shall be measured from ground level vertically to
the highest point of a tower for both freestanding towers and towers attached
to or built upon structures.
         e.   Towers for commercial purposes shall not be constructed on lots
adjacent to property zoned R-1 or R-2 unless approved through the special use
permit process. A special use permit may be granted to permit a tower for
commercial purposes adjacent to R-1 or R-2 zoned property.
         f.   Towers for commercial purposes shall be set back one foot (1')
for each one foot (1') in height plus ten percent (10%) of the total height
from a residential use.
      3.   Manufacturing Zoning Districts:
         a.   Towers should have manufacturer's specifications to withstand a
seventy five (75) mile per hour wind or be setback one foot (1') for each one
foot (1') of height from the property line.
         b.   Towers shall be constructed to meet Uniform Building Code
standards.
         c.   Towers shall conform to Federal Communication Commission and
Federal Aviation Administration regulations if applicable.
         d.   Towers in manufacturing zoning districts shall not exceed two
hundred feet (200') in height. A special use permit may be granted to permit
tower height greater than two hundred feet (200'). The special use permit
process shall be used to determine tower height greater than two hundred feet
(200').
         e.   Tower height shall be measured from ground level vertically to
the highest point of the tower for both freestanding towers and towers attached
to or built upon structures.
         f.   Towers for commercial purposes shall be set back one foot (1')
for each one foot (1') in height plus ten percent (10%) of the total height
from any residential zone.
         g.   Towers for commercial purposes shall not be constructed on lots
adjacent to property zoned R-1 or R-2 unless approved through the special use
permit process. A special use permit may be granted to permit a tower for
commercial purposes adjacent to R-1 or R-2 zoned property.
   C.   Towers In Historic Districts:
      1.   Towers for commercial purposes shall not be permitted unless located
within a commercial or industrial zone and granted a special use permit.
      2.   Towers shall not exceed sixty five feet (65') in height. Any request
for tower to exceed sixty five feet (65') in height shall require a variance
from the Board of Adjustment.
   D.   Television And Radio Towers, Guy Towers And Other Freestanding Towers
For Special Use: Request for a special use permit, for any reason, to allow a
tower in excess of sixty five feet (65') in commercial zoning districts and in
excess of two hundred feet (200') in manufacturing zoning districts shall
include:
      1.   A complete description of the commercial communication service to be
provided.
      2.   A complete description of the commercial communication service area.
      3.   A technical analysis prepared by a professional engineer for the
proposed site. The analysis shall contain:
         a.   A comprehensive statement and justification for the proposed
tower location and site.
         b.   A communication coverage pattern calculation for the proposed
tower location at sixty five feet (65') height for commercial zoning districts
and two hundred feet (200') height for manufacturing zoning districts.
         c.   A communication coverage pattern calculation for the proposed
tower at the proposed location and proposed height.
         d.   A communication coverage pattern calculation for the proposed
tower at the proposed location and a height twenty percent (20%) lower than the
proposed height.
         e.   Analytical evidence demonstrating that no other location or
height exists to provide the commercial communication service including
cellular or similar communication services. (Ord. 1999-04, 3-2-1999)
CHAPTER 16
MINING AND RECLAMATION
SECTION:
10-16-1:    Purpose
10-16-2:    Application
10-16-3:    Definitions
10-16-4:    Required Permits
10-16-5:    Guidelines
10-16-6: Standards
10-16-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish reasonable and uniform limitations,
safeguards and controls for mining and accessory uses which will allow for the
reasonable use of an important city resource. These regulations shall also
ensure that mining activities will be conducted in harmony with the environment
and other uses of land within the city and that mineral sites will be
appropriately reclaimed. (Ord. 03-04, 8-5-2003)
10-16-2: APPLICATION:
Unless otherwise indicated herein, the purpose, intent and provisions of this
chapter shall be and are automatically imposed and made a part of any permit
for mining development issued by the city. (Ord. 03-04, 8-5-2003)
10-16-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise defined herein, or unless the text clearly indicates
otherwise, the definition of "mining" shall be the surface or subsurface
extraction of aggregate, minerals, sand or other natural resources. (Ord. 03-
04, 8-5-2003)
10-16-4: REQUIRED PERMITS:
No mining related use may commence without the appropriate conditional use
permit required pursuant to this title. The issuance of a conditional use
permit shall not relieve the operator of the responsibility of securing and
complying with any other permit which may be required by other city ordinances,
or state or federal laws. No condition of a conditional use permit for uses
allowed by this title shall be interpreted as permitting or requiring any
violation of law, or any lawful rules or regulations or orders of an authorized
governmental agency. In instances where more than one set of rules apply; the
stricter one shall take precedence. (Ord. 03-04, 8-5-2003)
10-16-5: GUIDELINES:
The general guidelines that follow shall be used in the development of
conditions, which will help ensure that mining projects generate minimal
negative impacts on the environment. The guidelines shall be applied unless the
strict application of a particular guideline(s) would otherwise defeat the
intent of other guidelines. An applicant should use the guidelines in the
design of the project and anticipate their use as permit conditions.
   A.   All mining and reclamation shall be consistent with the city master
plan.
   B.   Mining and accessory uses of less than nine (9) months in duration are
not renewable nor are such uses allowed to continue operating for any reason
beyond nine (9) months after issuance of the permit.
   C.   No provisions in this title or in the city master plan shall be
construed to encourage any mining operation or facility which would endanger
the public's health, safety or welfare, which would endanger private or public
facilities or which would prohibit the alleviation of a hazard by hampering or
precluding such activities as the maintenance, restoration or construction of
public works facilities.
   D.   In general, projects shall be located, designed and operated so as to
minimize their adverse impact on the physical and social environment, including
natural resources. To this end, dust, noise, vibration, noxious odors,
intrusive light, aesthetic impacts, traffic impacts and other factors of
nuisance and annoyance, erosion and flooding shall be reduced to a minimum or
eliminated through the best accepted mining and reclamation practices,
applicable to local conditions, which are consistent with contemporary
principles and knowledge of resource management, flood control engineering and
floodplain management.
   E.   The extraction of aggregate, mineral, sand, and other natural resources
shall strike a reasonable balance with other resource priorities such as water,
agricultural land, fish and wildlife and their habitat, sediment for
replenishment and the protection of public and private structures and
facilities.
   F.   The extraction of aggregate, mineral, sand, and other natural resources
in rivers and streams shall allow for the ongoing maintenance of viable
riparian ecology by preserving as many natural stream elements as practical.
Mining operations may provide for the enhancement of some riparian ecosystems
as a mitigation to compensate for significant adverse environmental effects on
other riparian ecosystems, thereby preserving the overall quality of the
riparian environment.
   G.   Appropriate and reasonable monitoring and enforcement measures shall be
imposed on each mining operation, which will ensure that all permit conditions,
guidelines and standards of this chapter are fulfilled.
   H.   Reclamation of a site shall include the removal of equipment and
facilities and the restoration of the site so that it is suitable for
subsequent uses which are consistent with the plans for the area as well as the
existing and proposed uses in the general area. Reclamation shall be conducted
in phases on an ongoing basis, where feasible.
   I.   The department of community development shall use the following
procedure in reviewing the application for a permit:
      1.   Upon receipt of the application, the department shall stamp the
application as received.
      2.   The department shall have thirty (30) days in which to find the
application complete or incomplete.
      3.   If the application is found to be complete:
         a.   The applicant shall be notified in writing.
         b.   The department shall schedule a duly noticed public hearing
before the planning and zoning commission for review of the conditional use
permit and environmental documents.
      4.   If the application is found to be incomplete:
         a.   The applicant will be notified in writing no less than fifteen
(15) days from the finding of incompleteness.
         b.   The written notification shall contain the reasons for the
finding of incompleteness.
         c.   The applicant may then resubmit the application once he/she has
complied with the items found lacking in the original application.
         d.   The department shall then review the second submittal for
completeness within the same parameters used in the first review.
         e.   The department shall be constrained to review only those items
that were cited in the incompleteness letter unless it can justify why it must
expand its review to other issues.
      5.   An application shall only be considered as filed once an application
is found to be complete. This is an important distinction since the applicant
shall not gain any vested rights until the letter of completeness is written by
the department. The department shall use the following (but not limited to)
criteria in its review for completeness:
         a.   The department may not find an application complete until such
time as a full environmental assessment has been performed up to and including
an environmental impact statement.
         b.   The applicant must provide all information required on the
application form.
         c.   The applicant must comply with all requirements of this chapter.
         d.   The applicant must meet all the requirements of this code
including, but not limited to, titles 3, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 of this code.
         e.   A finding of incompleteness shall be rendered if the department
has rational for not being able to complete the review in the allotted time
period.
         f.   The planning and zoning commission shall review the application
and make comments which shall be incorporated into the review process by the
department. (Ord. 03-04, 8-5-2003)
10-16-6: STANDARDS:
The following are minimum standards and requirements which shall be applied
pursuant to subsection B of this section:
   A.   General Mining Standards: Projects shall be located, designed, operated
and notice of their activities provided so as to minimize their adverse impact
on the physical and social environment and natural resources. To this end,
dust, noise, vibration, noxious odors, intrusive light, aesthetics, traffic
impacts and other factors of nuisance and annoyance, erosion and flooding shall
be reduced to a minimum or eliminated through the best accepted practices which
are applicable to local conditions and incident to the exploration for and
extraction of aggregate, mineral, sand, and other natural resources. In
addition, mitigation measures should be consistent with contemporary principles
and knowledge of resource management, flood control engineering and floodplain
management. Further, posting of signs and notification to neighboring property
owners of the project's activities shall be required where necessary.
   B.   Setbacks: No processing equipment or facilities shall be permanently
located and no mining shall occur within the horizontal setbacks specified
below:
      1.   One hundred feet (100') of any dedicated public street or highway
unless the community development department determines a lesser distance would
be acceptable;
      2.   One hundred feet (100') of any dwelling not accessory to the
project;
      3.   Two hundred feet (200') of any institution, school or other building
used as a place of public assemblage. Other facilities and structures shall be
set back distances which are applicable for accessory structures for the zone
in which the use is located.
   C.   Obstruction Of Drainage Courses: Mining operations, access roads,
facilities, stockpiling of mineral resources and related mining activities
shall be consistent with current engineering and public works standards and in
no case shall obstruct, divert, or otherwise affect the flow of natural
drainage and floodwaters so as to cause significant adverse impacts, except as
authorized by the public works agency.
   D.   Control Of Contaminants, Runoff And Siltation: Contaminants, water
runoff and siltation shall be controlled and generally contained on the project
site so as to minimize adverse off site impacts.
   E.   Dust Prevention: The project site and all roads or hauling routes
located between the public right of way and the subject site shall be improved
or otherwise treated as required by the city and maintained as necessary to
prevent the emanation of dust.
   F.   Light Emanation: Light emanation shall be controlled so as not to
produce excessive levels of glare or abnormal light levels directed at any
neighboring uses.
   G.   Painting: All permanent facilities and structures on the site shall be
colored so as to mask facilities visible from surrounding uses and roadways in
the area. Said colors shall also take into account such additional factors as
heat buildup and designation of danger areas. Said colors shall be approved by
the director of community development prior to painting of facilities.
   H.   Site Maintenance: The permit area shall be maintained in a neat and
orderly manner so as not to create unsightly conditions visible from outside
the permitted area or any hazardous conditions. Equipment and materials may be
stored on the site which are appurtenant to the operation and maintenance of
mining operations.
   I.   Reclamation Plan: The purpose and intent of a reclamation plan shall be
to return the property to its original natural state. If such a goal cannot be
met due to physical constraints (not monetary) then the applicant shall strive
to create a reuse plan that will be of benefit to the community. No mining
permit shall be approved without an approved reclamation plan which is:
      1.   Consistent with city engineering standards;
      2.   Consistent with any and all locally adopted resource management
goals and policies;
      3.   Compatible with the existing geological and topographical features
of the area, and that considers the following criteria in its design:
         a.   The creation of safe, stable slopes and the prevention of
subsidence;
         b.   Control of water runoff and erosion;
         c.   Protection or enhancement of views of the site from surrounding
areas;
         d.   Availability of backfill material;
         e.   Proposed subsequent use of the land which will be consistent with
the general plan and existing and proposed uses in the general area;
         f.   Removal or reuse of all structures and equipment;
         g.   The time frame for completing the reclamation;
         h.   Provisions of appropriate securities to ensure completion of
approved reclamation plans if the city will need to contract to have the work
performed;
         i.   Revegetation of the site;
         j.   Phased reclamation of the project area;
         k.   Removal of equipment. All equipment on the project site shall be
removed from the site within one hundred eighty (180) days of the termination
of the use, unless a time extension is approved by the director of community
development.
   J.   Application Of Sensitive Use Related Standards: The imposition of
regulations on mining operations, which are based on distances from occupied
sensitive uses, shall only apply to those occupied sensitive uses which were in
existence at the time the permit for the subject mining operations was
approved. The provisions of this section shall continue for the life of the
permitted mining operations at the subject site.
   K.   Reporting Of Accidents: The permittee shall immediately notify the
director of community development of any incidents such as fires, explosions,
spills, land or slope failures or other conditions at the permit site which
could pose a hazard to life or property outside the permit area. Upon request
of any city agency, the permittee shall provide a written report of any
incident within seven (7) calendar days which shall include, but not be limited
to, a description of the facts of the incident, the corrective measures used
and the steps taken to prevent recurrence of the incident.
   L.   Contact Person: The permittee shall provide the director of community
development with the current name(s) and/or position title, address and phone
number of the person who shall receive all orders, notices and communications
regarding matters of condition and code compliance. The person(s) in question
shall be available by phone during the hours that activities occur on the
permit site, even if this means twenty four (24) hours a day.
   M.   Current Mining Plans: For mining projects located in sensitive areas
which operate under regularly changing environmental conditions (e.g., in river
mining), a mining plan shall be prepared by the permittee on a regular basis in
accordance with the applicable conditions of a project's permit. Said plan
shall describe how mining over the next interval will be conducted in
accordance with the intent and provisions of the project's use permit. The plan
shall be reviewed and approved by the city at the permittee's expense. The
review and approval of current mining plans shall not be used in lieu of the
formal modification process to change the text and drawings of the permit
conditions.
   N.   Permit Review: Monitoring of the permit or aspects of it may be
required as often as necessary to ensure compliance with the permit conditions.
In any case, the permit and site shall be reviewed and inspected by the
community development department at least once every three (3) years. The
purpose of said review is to ascertain whether the permittee is in compliance
with all conditions of the permit, and whether there have been significant
changes in environmental conditions, land use or mining technology, or if there
is other good cause which would warrant the director of community development's
filing of an application for modification of the conditions of the permit. If
such an application is filed, it shall be at the city's expense and
modification of conditions would not occur without a duly noticed public
hearing.
      0.   Enforcement Costs: Permit conditions shall be imposed which will
enable the city to recover the reasonable and appropriate costs necessary for
the reviewing and monitoring of permit operations and the enforcing of the
applicable requirements of the zoning ordinance and the conditions of this
permit.
   P.   Civil Penalties:
      1.   In case of any failure by the permittee to perform or comply with
any term or provision of the condition use permit, the final decision making
authority that would act on the permit may, after notice to the permittee and a
public hearing, determine by resolution the amount of the civil penalty to be
levied against the permittee. Said penalty shall be paid within thirty (30)
days unless the penalty is under appeal. Failure to pay the penalty within the
allotted time period shall be considered grounds for suspension of the subject
use.
      2.   The maximum penalty that can be levied against a permittee per
incident at any given time shall be in accordance with the amounts set forth
below. The amounts for a given permit may be increased to adjust for inflation
pursuant to the conditions of the subject permit.
Total Permitted Extraction   Applicable Civil
(Life Of The Project)   Penalty Ceiling
Less than 10,000 cubic yards   $10,000.00
10,000 to 99,999 cubic yards   15,000.00
100,000 to 999,999 cubic yards   25,000.00
1,000,000 plus cubic yards   50,000.00
   Q.   Performance Securities: Performance bonds or other securities shall be
imposed on any permit to ensure compliance with certain specific tasks or
aspects of the permit. The amount of the security shall be based upon the
actual anticipated costs for completing the subject task if the city were
forced to complete it rather than the permittee.
   R.   Insurance: The permittee shall maintain, for the life of the permit,
liability insurance of not less than five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) for one person and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for all
persons, and two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) for property damage. This
requirement does not preclude the permittee from being self-insured. (Ord. 03-
04, 8-5-2003)
CHAPTER 17
RESIDENTIAL/COMMERCIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT ("RCPUD")
SECTION:
10-17-1: Purpose
10-17-2: Permissive Uses and Limitations
10-17-3: Special Use Permit
10-17-4: Uses Permitted Without an RCPUD Permit
10-17-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to provide for residential and/or commercial uses
in a planned, mixed use development. Industrial uses are not allowed under this
designation. The ideal development under this RCPUD will be friendly to the
environment by use of modern planning, architectural and engineering techniques
meant to reduce air, water, ground and scenic contamination. The use of
pedestrian friendly development is also encouraged and will be a standard used
by the planning and zoning commission and the city council in reviewing the
proposed projects. It is also the intent and purpose of this designation that
through the use of a special use permit all adjacent property owners and
citizens will participate in the planning process through public meetings.
Further, it is the expressed intent that development take place in an orderly
manner that includes the existing or potential uses of surrounding properties
and all property under the proponent's control. In order to provide maximum
flexibility in design and quality of development, the city council may agree to
proposed modifications in the requirements of title 10 and title 11 of this
code. (Ord. 2006-07, 5-16-2006)
10-17-2: PERMISSIVE USES AND LIMITATIONS:
Standards for residential/commercial planned unit development (RCPUD) zone.
   A.   Permit: The city council may grant (upon recommendation from the
planning and zoning commission) an RCPUD permit for such land in the RCPUD zone
which it finds meets the requirements of this chapter. For purposes of this
chapter, an RCPUD permit shall be one and the same as a special use permit
("SUP") as issued under chapter 10 of this title, however, with the additional
requirements set out in this chapter. The city council may impose such
additional conditions and requirements upon an RCPUD permit as it finds are
reasonable and necessary to carry out the purposes and requirements of this
chapter.
   B.   General Requirements: The general requirements for the RCPUD zone are
as follows:
      1.   Application: An application for an RCPUD permit may be filed by the
owner of the property or his/her authorized agent. Such application requests
shall be filed with the community development department. No application
request shall be accepted for filing and processing unless it conforms to the
requirements of this title, and the public hearing notice procedures set forth
in chapter 10 of this title for special use permits. The requested average
number of units per acre shall not exceed four (4) per gross acre, and must be
consistent with the master plan land use designation. The city council may
allow density averaging in order to maximize the amount of open space provided.
An increase in density to not more than eight (8) units to the gross acre may
be approved if the development proposes a large amount (1 acre per 20
residential units minimum) of passive or active open space.
      2.   Content Of Applications:
         a.   The content of the RCPUD permit application shall be accompanied
by the prescribed number of copies of a project plan and such other detailed
elevations, plans and other information as may be required to adequately
evaluate the proposed development. For a commercial and/or residential
subdivision project requiring an RCPUD permit, a plat map application shall not
be complete until an application is also filed and determined complete for an
RCPUD permit consistent with the requirements of this chapter and the
provisions of this title.
         b.   The following information is required for submittal for an
application for an RCPUD permit under this chapter which shall be in addition
to that required in chapter 10 of this title for special use permits. The
information is to be supplied in a booklet form (and in digital form) that may
later be used by the city as an addendum to city regulations related to land
use and building permit issuance. The project plans shall include the following
information:
            (1)   A map showing division of the land for the sale of the
individual property, if any;
            (2)   Existing contours at two (2) foot intervals if the existing
ground slope is less than ten percent (10%) and not less than five foot (5')
intervals for existing ground slopes greater than or equal to ten percent
(10%). Contour intervals shall not be spread more than one hundred fifty (150)
feet apart and existing contours shall be represented by dashed lines or by
screened lines;
            (3)   Location of all living trees having a trunk diameter of four
inches (4") or more measured at four and one-half feet (4-1/2') above the root
crown, and other major natural features shall be shown;
            (4)   Proposed automobile and bicycle access and pedestrian way
locations and dimensions. Proposed off-street parking, including the location,
number of stalls, dimensions and circulation system;
            (5)   Proposed loading areas, including the location, dimensions,
and number of berths;
            (6)   Lot dimensions and all recorded easements;
            (7)   Areas proposed to be dedicated or reserved for parks,
parkways, playgrounds, school sites, public or quasi-public buildings and other
uses;
            (8)   Areas proposed for commercial uses, multi- and single-family
dwellings, or other uses proposed to be established within the project;
            (9)   Proposed location and elevations of buildings on land
including dimensions, the size of the structure, height, setback, materials and
yard areas;
            (10)   All proposed signs and their locations, size and height;
            (11)   Proposed landscaping walls, fencing, screening, trash
collection areas, and usable open space areas;
            (12)   Location and size of existing and all proposed utility lines
and drainage;
            (13)   A schedule for the development if phasing is proposed;
            (14)   Tabulation of total number of acres in the proposed project
and the percent thereof designated for various uses; and the number of dwelling
units proposed by type of dwelling for each unit of development;
            (15)   Construction materials and colors;
            (16)   Such additional information as may be required by the
director of the community development department, to clarify, amplify, correct,
or otherwise supplement the information required for the application, and to
comply with the provisions of titles 10 and 11 of this code. The director may
waive or modify the RCPUD permit application requirements, listed above, if
such items are found not to be applicable to the proposed development;
            (17)   If the applicant disagrees with the application requirements
enumerated herein and as determined by the director of the community
development department, he/she may appeal the director's decision to the
planning and zoning commission within sixteen (16) days of the director's
decision and before the application has been determined complete. The cost of
the appeal shall be as established by city council resolution.
      3.   Development Standards: Development standards, including but not
limited to building height, minimum lot size, and setbacks for the respective
residential or commercial zones, shall be consistent with the standards and
requirements set forth in title 10 and title 11 of this code, unless modified
by the city council.
         a.   RCPUD Zone Setback Regulations: The following regulations shall
apply to the RCPUD zone unless modified by the city council. (Setbacks for
structures and uses not listed below shall be consistent with setback
requirements of title 10 of this code as determined by the director of the
community development department to be comparable or equivalent to said
structures and uses. If no such comparable or equivalent can be found, then as
reasonably determined by the director.)
         b.   Setbacks For Single-Family Residential Projects:
            (1)   Front setback: overall average of twenty feet (20') is
required for tract with a minimum setback of twenty feet (20'). The front
setbacks of dwelling units shall be varied so as to provide visual variety.
            (2)   Minimum side setback from any public street: ten feet (10').
            (3)   Minimum side setback on an interior lot: five feet (5').
            (4)   Sum of side yards on any lot: minimum of ten feet (10').
            (5)   Minimum distance between structures that are separated by a
side lot line and do not share a common wall: twelve feet (12') for single
story; fifteen feet (15') for two (2) stories.
            (6)   Minimum setback from a rear lot line: twenty feet (20') for a
house, ten feet (10') for an enclosed patio, ten feet (10') for an open patio
cover or balcony, and five feet (5') for an accessory structure.
            (7)   Two (2) story residences with windows facing the adjacent
property shall have a minimum ten foot (10') side yard setback (second story
only) and a minimum twenty foot (20') rear yard setback from the adjacent
property line,
         c.   Setbacks For Multi-family Residential Development Projects:
            (1)   Minimum landscaped setback of twenty feet (20') with an
average landscaped setback of twenty-four feet (24') from any primary or
secondary arterial street and twenty feet (20') from any collector, minor or
cul-de-sac street.
            (2)   Minimum interior yard side setback: ten feet (10').
            (3)   Minimum rear setback: as determined by the RCPUD Permit.
            (4)   In the case of RCPUD subdivisions involving townhouse
developments, the setbacks shall be measured from the exterior property lines
surrounding the project.
      4.   Height Requirements: The following regulations shall apply to the
RCPUD zone unless modified by the city council or planning and zoning
commission:
         a.   The maximum height of a single-family residence may be increased
above twenty-five feet (25'), to a maximum of thirty-five feet (35'), if the
side yard setback is at least fifteen feet (15').
         b.   The maximum height for a multi-family residential structure shall
be thirty-five feet (35').
         c.   For single-family and multi-family residential structures, no
more than three (3) stories shall be permitted.
         d.   The maximum height of accessory structures shall be fifteen feet
(15'), with the exception that the maximum height of a patio cover shall be
twelve feet (12').
      5.   Minimum Lot Area: Shall be as specified by the RCPUD permit.
      6.   Parking Requirements: Parking shall be provided as required in
chapter 13 of this title.
      7.   Utilities: All utilities shall be located underground.
      8.   Findings: An RCPUD permit may only be granted if all of the
following findings can be made based on factual evidence and testimony
presented at the public hearing:
         a.   Finding that the planned development is consistent with the
intent and provisions of the city's master plan, zoning code and any applicable
specific plan;
         b.   Finding that the planned development is compatible with the
character of surrounding development;
         c.   Finding that the planned development would not be obnoxious or
harmful, or impair the utility of the neighboring property or uses;
         d.   Finding that the planned development would not be detrimental to
the public interest, health, safety, convenience or welfare; and,
         e.   Finding that the planned development has met or exceeded the
requirements and recommendations of the "purpose" of this zone designation.
(Ord. 2006-07, 5-16-2006)
10-17-3: SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
The requirements of title 10 of this code, for granting a special use permit,
shall be followed for purposes of seeking an RCPUD permit. The requirements set
forth in this chapter shall be in addition to and not in lieu of the
requirements for a special use permit found in chapter 10 of this title. (Ord.
2006-07, 5-16-2006)
10-17-4: USES PERMITTED WITHOUT AN RCPUD PERMIT:
Those uses allowed in the RE-1 zone are permitted by right if the property
owner does not wish to proceed with the application for an RCPUD permit. (Ord.
2006-07, 5-16-2006)
CHAPTER 18
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
SECTION:
10-18-1: Short Title
10-18-2: Authority And Purpose
10-18-3: Definitions
10-18-4: Applicability And Exemptions
10-18-5: General Standards And Construction Provisions
10-18-6: Co-Location
10-18-7: Heights, Placement Provisions And Setbacks
10-18-8: Special Use Permits
10-18-9: Buildings Or Other Equipment Storage
10-18-10: Application Review And Inspection Fee
10-18-11: Performance Security Bond
10-18-12: Liability Insurance
10-18-13: Indemnification
10-18-14: Removal Of A Wireless Telecommunications Facility
10-18-15: Required Annual Report
10-18-16: Provision For Waiver Or Variance
10-18-17: Penalty
10-18-18: Default And/Or Revocation
10-18-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the "Wireless Telecommunications Facilities
Ordinance of the city of Sunland Park". (Ord. 2005-07, 10-4-2005)
10-18-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Authority: This chapter is adopted pursuant to the enabling provisions
of Section 3-17-1 and Section 3-21-1 through 3-21-14, NMSA, 1978, as amended.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations and
general guidelines for the siting of wireless telecommunications facilities
("WTFs").
   C.   The goals of this chapter are to:
      1.   Protect residential areas and land uses from potential adverse
impact of WTFs;
      2.   Minimize the total number of towers in the community;
      3.   Strongly encourage the joint use of new and existing tower sites as
a primary option rather than construction of additional single-use towers;
      4.   Encourage users of WTFs to locate them, to the extent possible, in
areas where the adverse impact on the community is minimal;
      5.   Encourage users of WTFs to configure them in a way that minimizes
the adverse visual impact of the towers and antennas through careful design,
siting, landscape screening and innovative camouflaging techniques;
      6.   Enhance the ability of providers of telecommunications services to
provide such services to the community quickly, effectively and efficiently;
      7.   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through engineering and careful siting of tower structures.
   D.   In furtherance of these goals and in approving sites for the location
of towers and antennas, the city shall give due consideration to city's master
plan, its zoning map, existing land uses and environmentally and historically
sensitive areas. (Ord. 2005-07, 10-4-2005)
10-18-3: DEFINITIONS:
ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE:    Such structures as man-made trees, clock
towers, bell steeples, light poles and similar alternative-design mounting
structures that camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
ANTENNA: Any structure that radiates or receives radio or other communication
signals.
CO-LOCATION: The physical attachment and/or placement of one (1) communication
structure upon another communication structure, and may include placing
different or similar communication structures on the receiving structure.
COMMERCIAL TOWER: A freestanding vertical structure that may or may not have
various attachments thereto, which is intended to radiate and/or receive radio
frequency signals for the purpose of providing a commercial service to the
public. Commercial tower uses include, but are not limited to, cellular
communications, paging stations, TV stations, AM and FM radio stations, two-way
radio base stations, communication mobile service, common carrier wireless
services and communications used for intra-business and inter-business
purposes.
COMMUNICATION STRUCTURES:   Any structure, including antennas and satellite
service devices, or any other device which is normally used for radio,
television, microwave or wireless communications. This shall include any device
that is attached to a new or an existing tower, or attached to a building
facade or roof or other non-communication structure, and such attachment is
made to the facade or roof vertically, horizontally and/or diagonally.
FACIAL MOUNT: The physical attachment of a communication structure to a
building or other non-communication structure, which does not substantially
increase the height of the building or structure. This can include attaching
the structure either vertically, horizontally, or diagonally along the
structure's building facade, facades, walls, roofs or other surfaces.
HEIGHT: When referring to a tower or other structure, "height" means the
distance measured from the lowest adjacent ground level of the parcel of land
vertically to the highest point on the tower or other structure, including the
base pad and any antenna and whether attached to the ground, the building, or
other structure(s).
HISTORIC RESOURCES OR DISTRICTS:   For the purposes of this chapter, a resource
or district is considered historic if it is listed individually or collectively
or eligible to be listed in the National Historic Landmark Register, the
National Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Cultural
Properties or if the resource or district has been identified by a governmental
agency, such as the New Mexico Historic Preservation Division, as having
significant value as an historic, cultural or archaeological resource.
PERSONAL (PRIVATE) TOWER:   A freestanding vertical structure that may or may
not have various attachments thereto, which is intended to radiate and/or
receive radio frequency signals for the purpose of radio communications without
the intent of commercial service. Personal tower uses include, but are not
limited to television signal reception, amateur radio stations, AM and FM radio
signal reception and citizen band (CB) base stations.
P&Z: The planning and zoning commission, the body that shall review
applications for WTFs and recommend action to the city council, which is the
governing body of the city.
SATELLITE SERVICE DEVICE (SSD):   Any structure used to receive satellite
programming services specifically associated with television reception from the
transmission of signals from a satellite to a receiver, usually a round "dish"
that can vary in size from eighteen inches (18") to ten feet (10') in diameter.
TOWER: Any structure, vertical in inclination, that is designed and constructed
and normally used for the purpose of supporting one (1) or more antennas for
telephone, radio and similar communication purposes, including self-supporting
lattice towers, guyed towers, or monopole towers. This may include television
and radio transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers,
cellular telephone towers, alternative tower structures, and other free-
standing towers, either for private or commercial purposes. The term includes
the structure and any support thereto.
VERTICAL STRUCTURE: Any built object that is either independent of or attached
to any building or other structure that is perpendicular in its direction to
the nearest adjacent ground, including but not limited to spires, flag poles,
belfries, steeples, chimneys and parapet walls.
VIEW CORRIDORS: An area identified either in the city's master plan or by a
federal or state agency as the location of a particular designated scenic or
cultural resource or trail system and as an area from which a WTF can be seen.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY (WTF):   A WTF includes all equipment,
buildings and structures with which a wireless communications service carrier
broadcasts and receives the radio frequency waves and all locations of said
equipment or any part thereof, including, but not limited to, commercial
towers, communication structures, and towers. (Ord. 2005-07, 10-4-2005)
10-18-4: APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   WTFs: All new towers or antennas in the city shall be subject to these
regulations, except as provided in subsections 4C. and 4D. below.
   B.   Amateur Radio Station Operators/Receive Only Antennas: The sections
that follow shall not govern television antennas, satellite dishes and receive
only antennas, provided that the primary use of the property is not a wireless
telecommunications facility (WTF) and that the antenna use is accessory to the
primary use of the property. Nor shall the sections that follow govern any
freestanding vertical structure or the installation of any freestanding
vertical structure located in any residential zone that is under forty feet
(40') in height.
   C.   Preexisting WTFs: Preexisting WTFs for which a building permit has been
properly issued prior to the effective date of this chapter shall not be
required to meet the requirements of this chapter, other than the requirements
of section 10-18-5 G. and H. of this chapter.
   D.   Public property owned or otherwise controlled by the city shall be
exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
   E.   WTFs shall be regulated and permitted pursuant to this chapter and
shall not be regulated or permitted as essential services, public utilities, or
private utilities. (Ord. 2005-07, 10-4-2005)
10-18-5: GENERAL STANDARDS AND CONSTRUCTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Height: All structure heights shall be measured from the lowest
adjacent ground level vertically to the highest point of all structures,
whether attached to the ground, the building or other structure(s). The
principal supporting structure for WTFs shall be permitted to exceed the height
limit of the zoning district in which it is located, provided that the setback
standards in section 10-18-7 of this chapter shall apply.
   B.   Lot Size: For the purposes of determining whether the installation of a
WTF complies with zoning development regulations, including but not limited to
setback requirements, lot-coverage requirements, and other such requirements,
the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the WTF may be
located on leased parcels within such lot.
   C.   Measurement: For purposes of measurement, WTF setbacks and separation
distances shall be calculated and applied to facilities located in the city
irrespective of municipal and county jurisdictional boundaries.
   D.   Public Notice: For purposes of this chapter, a special use permit
request, a variance request or an appeal of a special use permit or variance
shall require public notice in a local newspaper of general circulation within
the city. In order that the city may notify nearby landowners, the application
shall contain the names and addresses of all property owners of properties that
are located within fifteen hundred feet (1,500') of any property line of the
lot or parcel on which the WTF is proposed to be located. This requirement is
in addition to any and all notice requirements contained in the city's zoning
regulations for the zoning district in which such structure may be permitted.
   E.   Minimum Wind Speed: All structures shall be constructed and installed
to manufacture's specification and constructed to withstand a minimum ninety
(90) mile per hour wind, or the minimum wind speed as required by the city's
building code, as amended, whichever wind speed is greater.
   F.   Building Codes: Structures shall be permitted and constructed to meet
current city building code requirements and required setback provisions as
prescribed for the zoning districts in which such structures may be permitted.
If any setback or buffer yard as prescribed in the city's zoning regulations
for the zoning district in which such structure may be permitted requires a
greater distance than required in this chapter, the greater setback shall
apply.
   G.   Safety Standards: To ensure the structural integrity of WTFs, the owner
of a WTF shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance with the standards
contained in applicable federal, state and city building codes. If, upon
inspection, the city concludes that a WTF fails to comply with such codes and
constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being provided to
the owner of the WTF, the owner shall have thirty (30) days to bring such WTF
into compliance with such standards. Failure to do so shall constitute grounds
for the removal of the WTF at the owner's expense.
   H.   State Or Federal Requirements: All WTFs shall meet or exceed current
standards and regulations of the Federal Communication Commission (FCC), the
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and any other agency of the state or
federal government with the authority to regulate WTFs. If such standards and
regulations are changed, then the owners of the WTFs governed by this chapter
shall bring such WTFs into compliance with such revised standards and
regulations within six (6) months of the effective date of the revisions,
unless a different compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling state or
federal agency. Failure to bring WTFs into compliance with such revised
standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the WTF
at the owner's expense.
   I.   Business Registration Required: Business registrations are required for
each WTF for commercial purposes located within the city limits, regardless of
whether said structure is freestanding, collocated, facial or roof mounted, or
part of an integrated structure or improvement. Business registrations are
renewable annually.
   J.   Inventory Of Existing Sites: Each applicant for a WTF shall provide to
the P&Z an inventory of WTFs or sites approved for WTFs that are located within
the service area proposed to be served by the new WTF, including specific
information about the location, height and design, and the owners/operators of
each WTF or site and indicate the distance of such WTF or sites from the
proposed WTF.
   K.   Aesthetics: WTFs shall meet the following aesthetic requirements:
      1.   Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or, subject
to any applicable standards of the FAA, be painted a neutral color so as to
reduce visual obtrusiveness.
      2.   The design of the buildings and related structures at a WTF site
shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and
landscaping that will blend them into the natural setting and any surrounding
buildings.
      3.   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the
antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral
color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the
supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as
visually unobtrusive as possible.
      4.   All electrical lines and other data cables shall be located inside
the tower in order to reduce the impact of unsightly wiring.
      5.   Guy wires shall not be used under any circumstances.
   L.   Lighting: Only security lighting not to exceed twelve feet (12') in
height or lighting required by a state and/or federal agency is allowed,
provided the location of the lighting fixture together with its cut-off angle
shall be such that it does not shine directly on any public right-of-way, any
residential premises, or release any lighting in an upward direction.
   M.   Signs: No signs shall be allowed on a WTF other than signage required
by the FCC or other regulatory agency and signs that warn of safety hazards or
prohibit access, provided that such signs are no larger than one (1) square
foot and are reviewed by city staff and approved by the P&Z.
   N.   Building And Support Equipment: Buildings and support equipment
associated with WTFs shall comply fully with the city's building codes.
   O.   Health Issues: Every WTF shall meet health and safety standards for
electromagnetic field emissions as established by the Federal Communications
Commission or any successor thereof, and any other federal or state agency.
   P.   View Corridors: No WTF is allowed within two thousand six hundred forty
feet (2,640' or 1/2 mile) of the outer edge of the right-of-way of any city
designated view corridor.
   Q.   Preservation Districts: No WTF is allowed within two thousand six
hundred forty feet (2,640' or 1/2 mile) of the outer edge of property zoned
Preservation District (PD).
   R.   Historic Preservation Review: No WTF that may affect archaeological,
historic or cultural properties that are listed or are eligible for listing on
the National Register of Historic Places shall be constructed, installed or
modified without first obtaining Historic Preservation Division 106 Review as
per 36 CFR part 800 in accordance with the National Historic Preservation Act
of 1966, as amended. A project comment review letter from the State of New
Mexico Historic Preservation Division, Office of Cultural Affairs shall be
filed with the city at the time of filing a business registration application
and/or special use permit application.
   S.   Visual Models: Visual models shall be required of all applicants for a
WTF as follows:
      1.   Photographic Simulation: The applicant shall be required to provide
a photographic simulation with the image of a tower or other proposed
communications structure and all structures associated with the site
superimposed over the existing view to provide a sense of the visual impact
expected from the proposed WTF.
      2.   Site-located Height Model Or Balloon Test: A height model, which
shall be a pole or other object erected or floated at the site to the requested
height of the proposed WTF, may be required as a condition of the special use
permit. If required, the following conditions shall apply:
         a.   The applicant shall submit photographs of the height model or
balloon test from neighboring residential areas and public roadways and other
locations around the city as specified by the P&Z within three (3) miles from
which the height model or balloon is visible. The height model or balloon shall
be a minimum of three (3) feet in diameter.
         b.   Photographs of the height model or balloon test shall be
submitted no less than ten (10) days prior to the scheduled public hearing date
for the special use permit.
         c.   Height models or balloon tests shall be erected for a minimum of
three (3) days no less than fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled public
hearing date for the special use permit. The legal notice for the special use
permit shall state the dates and location during which the height model or
balloon test will be erected.
         d.   The P&Z may require this test if it is determined that the
photographic simulation is not adequate to address any and all visual impact
issues.
         e.   City staff shall issue administratively any permit necessary for
a temporary height model required for staff and public inspection purposes.
   T.   All utilities at a WTF site shall be installed underground and in
compliance with all laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of the city and the
city building codes.
   U.   All applicants for a WTF or any modification to an existing WTF should
develop their plans to allow reasonable requests from the city to use space on
its towers and space within the existing or planned compound for deploying and
operating public service radio facilities at no cost to the city. Provisions
for adequate advance notice regarding city access to the WTF for routine
activities will be arranged with the applicant. (Ord. 2005-07, 10-4-2005)
10-18-6: CO-LOCATION:
To minimize adverse visual impacts associated with the proliferation and
clustering of WTFs, co-location or shared use of WTFs by more than one (1)
carrier on existing WTFs shall take precedence over the construction of new
WTFs, provided such co-location is accomplished in a manner consistent with the
following:
   A.   The WTF complies with all applicable FCC and FAA regulations.
   B.   A WTF which is modified or reconstructed to accommodate the co-location
of an additional antenna shall be of the same tower type as the existing tower,
unless the P&Z allows reconstruction as a monopole.
   C.   Height: An existing WTF may be modified or rebuilt to a taller height
not to exceed thirty feet (30') over the WTF's existing height, to accommodate
the co-location of an additional antenna. This height change may occur only one
(1) time per WTF and the additional height cannot require an additional
distance separation as set forth in section 10-18-8D. The WTF's pre-
modification height shall be used to calculate such distance separations.
   D.   Onsite Location: A WTF which is being rebuilt to accommodate the co-
location of an additional antenna may be moved onsite within fifty feet (50')
of its existing location. If the WTF is moved to accommodate co-location, only
one (1) WTF may remain on the site. A relocated onsite WTF shall continue to be
measured from the original WTF location for purposes of calculating separation
distances between WTFs pursuant to section 10-18-8D. (Ord. 2005-07, 10-4-2005)
10-18-7: HEIGHTS, PLACEMENT PROVISIONS AND SETBACKS:
   A.   Heights:
Zone                  WTF
PD               Expressly prohibited
WTFs are also expressly prohibited within two thousand six hundred forty feet
(2,640' or 1/2 mile) of the boundary of an historic resource or district, view
corridor, or property zoned PD.
Residential          Up to 40 feet
Zones            For non-commercial use only.
Commercial          Up to 65 feet for a single user.
Zones            Up to 75 feet for three users.
               Up to 100 feet for four or more users.
Industrial             Up to 65 feet for a single user.
Zones            Up to 75 feet for three users.
               Up to 100 feet for four or more users.
The applicant shall submit documentation justifying the total height of any WTF
and the basis therefore. Such documentation will be analyzed, to the extent
practicable, in the context of the justification of the height needed to
provide service primarily and essentially within the city boundaries and the
immediately surrounding area, to the extent practicable.
   B.   The following placement and setback requirements shall apply to all
WTFs under forty-five feet (45') in height for which a special use permit is
not required:
      1.   WTFs and satellite service devices in the residential zones, shall
be placed within the primary buildable area for the lot's zone and must be to
the side and/or rear of any and all residential dwelling structures, including
houses, apartments, duplexes, etc.
      2.   WTF shall be setback from any adjoining property line one foot (1')
for each one foot (1') in height plus ten percent (10%) of the total height of
the structure.
      3.   Additional set-backs may be required in both this Section and in the
following Section to meet the distance equal to at least the potential fall
radius of a support structure as certified by a licensed New Mexico
Professional Engineer or to preserve the privacy and integrity of adjoining
residential, public or historic properties.
      4.   Guy wires used to secure and steady a tower and accessory buildings
shall conform to the minimum setback requirements for the lot's zone.
   C.   The following placement and setback requirements shall apply to all
WTFs for which a special use permit is required:
      1.   WTFs for which a special use permit is required shall be placed
within the primary buildable area for the lot's zone and must be to the side
and/or rear of the primary building structure. If the WTF is the primary
structure, then such structure shall be within the primary buildable area,
including all equipment buildings.
      2.   WTFs located or proposed to be located in or adjacent to a district
which permits residential use, or where a residential structure is located,
shall be set back from the nearest residential use or residential structure as
follows:
         a.   Up to seventy-five feet (75'), the setback is one-half feet
(1.5') for each foot of height, plus twenty percent (20%) of the total height
of the structure;
         b.   From seventy-six feet (76') to one hundred twenty-five feet
(125'), the setback is two and one-half feet (2.5') for each foot of height;
         c.   From one hundred twenty-six feet (126') to one hundred fifty feet
(150'), the setback is three and one-half feet (3.5') for each foot of height.
      3.   A special use permit shall be required for WTFs proposed to be
constructed on lots adjacent to property zoned residential. (Ord. 2005-07, 10-
4-2005)
10-18-8: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   General: The following provisions shall govern the issuance of special
use permits for the siting of a WTF, including but not limited to the
construction of a tower and the placement of an antenna, by the P&Z.
      1.   Applications for special use permits under this Section shall be
subject to the procedures and requirements of sections 10-10-1 through 10-10-
6 of this code.
      2.   The P&Z in granting a special use permit, may impose conditions and
limitations to the extent the P&Z concludes such conditions and limitations are
necessary to minimize any adverse effect of the proposed WTF on adjoining
properties.
      3.   Any engineering information submitted by the applicant, whether
civil, mechanical, or electrical, shall be certified by a professional engineer
licensed in the state.
      4.   An applicant for a special use permit shall submit the information
described below in this section and a non-refundable filing fee as established
by city council resolution, as amended from time to time.
   B.   WTFs; Information Required: In addition to any information required for
applications for special use permits pursuant to sections 10-10-1 through 10-
10-6 of this code, applicants for a special use permit for a WTF shall submit
the following information:
      1.   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type and height
of the proposed tower; on-site land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses and
zoning, including, when adjacent to the county or another municipality;
adjacent roadways; proposed means of access; setbacks from property lines;
elevation drawings of the proposed WTF; topography; parking and other
information deemed by city staff to be necessary to assess compliance with this
chapter.
      2.   Legal description of the property upon which or upon part of which
the applicant proposed to locate the WTF and a list of all mortgages on the
property at the time of application.
      3.   The setback distance between the proposed WTF and the nearest
residential unit or the nearest platted or unplatted residentially zoned
properties.
      4.   The separation distance from other existing WTFs within one thousand
feet (1,000') of the proposed tower. The applicant shall also identify the type
of construction of such existing WTF(s) and their owner(s)/operator(s).
      5.   The landscape screening plan showing specific landscape materials.
      6.   Method of providing security, fencing or wall, and finished color
and, if applicable, the method of camouflage and illumination.
      7.   A description of compliance with sections 10-18-5E. to H. and 10-18-
5K. to R. of this chapter and all applicable federal, state and local laws.
      8.   A notarized statement by the applicant as to whether construction of
the WTF will accommodate co-location of additional antennas for future users.
      9.   Identification of the entities providing the network connections for
the proposed WTF and other WTF sites owned or operated by the applicant in the
city.
      10.   A statement as to the projected number and locations of any WTFs
proposed to be built in the city within two (2) years of the date of the
current application and that are part of the same system as the WTF for which a
special use permit is currently being sought.
      11.   The applicant shall submit documentation of the legal right to
install the WTF, including ingress and egress easements, and shall include
original signature(s) of such land owner(s) and a copy of the property deed,
plus a full copy of any proposed lease agreement with subject property owner
(s).
      12.   A copy of the tax map and parcel identification code number of the
subject property as shown in the records of the Dona Ana County Assessor's
office.
      13.   A site plan showing all property within fifteen hundred feet
(1,500') of the perimeter of the proposed property that will house the proposed
WTF. A list of the owners of each of the affected properties and their mailing
addresses as shown by the Dona Ana County Assessor's Office. The data shall be
submitted in digital formal as well as a hard copy.
      14.   A copy of the FCC license for the WTF and a notarized statement
from the owner or operator of the WTF attesting that the WTF complies with
current FCC regulations.
      15.   Photo simulations and, if required, the photographic results of the
site-located height model or balloon test.
      16.   Propagation maps showing the cellular coverage that the site will
provide.
      17.   A written report indicating the applicant's efforts to secure
shared use or co-location with existing WTFs or alternative technology or
buildings within the city and neighboring areas within the City of El Paso and
Dona Ana County. Copies of written requests and responses for shared use shall
be provided to the P&Z along with the application for a special use permit.
   C.   Demonstration Of Need: An applicant shall submit to the P&Z
documentation that demonstrates the need for the WTF to provide service within
the geographical area proposed to be serviced by such WTF. The documentation
shall include propagation studies of the proposed site and all adjoining
planned, proposed, in-service or existing sites.
   D.   Separation Distances: When a second WTF is proposed near an existing
WTF, there shall be a minimum separation distance between them of not less than
the combined height of the existing WTF and the proposed WTF, which distance
shall be measured by drawing or following a straight line between the base of
the existing WTF and the proposed base, pursuant to a site plan of the proposed
WTF. The same separation distance shall apply when more than one (1) WTF is
proposed at one (1) location.
   E.   Security Fencing: WTFs shall be enclosed by a security fence or wall
not less than six feet (6') in height which is equipped with an appropriate
anti-climbing device other than barbed or other cutting wire.
   F.   Screening: WTFs shall be landscaped with a buffer of plant material
that effectively screens the view of the tower compound. The standard buffer
shall consist of a landscaped strip at least four feet (4') wide outside the
perimeter of the compound.
   G.   Existing mature tree growth and natural land forms on the site shall be
preserved to the maximum extent possible. (Ord. 2005-07, 10-4-2005)
10-18-9: BUILDINGS OR OTHER EQUIPMENT STORAGE:
The following requirements shall apply to the buildings and all other equipment
storage space associated with a WTF requiring a special use permit:
   A.   The related unmanned equipment structure or cabinet, being part of the
WTF, used in association with an antenna(s) located on a WTF shall not contain
more than one hundred twenty (120) square feet of gross floor area or be more
than ten feet (10') in height and shall be located in accordance with the
minimum yard requirements of the zone in which it is located.
   B.   Such equipment structures or cabinets shall comply with all applicable
building codes.
   C.   Security lighting, if required, shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in
height and the location of the lighting fixture together with its cut-off angle
shall be such that it does not shine directly on any public right-of-way, any
residential premises, or release any lighting in an upward direction.
   D.   Mobile or immobile equipment not used in direct support of the WTF
shall not be stored or parked on the site, unless repairs or maintenance to the
WTF or related equipment structure or cabinet are being made. (Ord. 2005-07,
10-4-2005)
10-18-10: APPLICATION REVIEW AND INSPECTION FEE:
An application review and engineering inspection fee as established by city
council resolution, as amended from time to time, shall be paid by the
applicant upon filing of an application for a special use permit with the city.
The purpose of the fee shall be to cover the city's administrative costs for
reviewing and processing the application and any related costs for engineering
review, inspection, evaluation and consultation. (Ord. 2005-07, 10-4-2005)
10-18-11: PERFORMANCE SECURITY BOND:
The applicant and the owner of record of any proposed WTF property site shall,
at their own cost and expense, be jointly required to execute, file and
maintain with the city a bond or other form of security acceptable to the city
as to type of security and the form and manner of execution, in the amount of
at least seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000.00) to assure the faithful
performance of the terms and conditions of this chapter and the conditions of
any special use permit issued pursuant to the chapter.
The full amount of the bond or security shall remain in full force and effect
through the term of the special use permit and/or until any necessary site
restoration is completed to restore the site to a condition comparable to that
which existed prior to the issuance of the original special use permit. (Ord.
2005-07, 10-4-2005)
10-18-12: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
   A.   A holder of a special use permit for a WTF shall secure and at all
times maintain public liability insurance for personal injuries, death and
property damage and umbrella insurance coverage for the duration of the special
use permit in the following amounts:
      1.   Commercial general liability covering personal injuries, death and
property damage and automobile coverage each at one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and two million dollars ($2,000,000.00)
aggregate and the commercial liability policy shall specifically include the
city as an additional named insured.
      2.   Workers compensation at not less than minimum statutory limits.
   B.   The insurance policies shall be issued by an insurance agent of an
insurance company licensed to do business in the State of New Mexico with a
Best's rating of at least A and shall contain an endorsement obligating the
insurance company to furnish the city with at least thirty (30) days prior
written notice in advance of the cancellation of the insurance. Renewal or
replacement policies or certificates shall be delivered to the city at least
fifteen (15) days before the expiration of the insurance that the policies are
to renew or replace.
   C.   The holder of a special use permit for a WTF shall deliver to the city
a copy of each of the policies or certificates representing the insurance in
the required amounts before construction of the permitted WTF is initiated.
(Ord. 2005-07, 10-4-2005)
10-18-13: INDEMNIFICATION:
Any application for a WTF that is proposed for city property pursuant to this
chapter shall contain an indemnification provision. Such indemnification
provision shall require the applicant, to the extent permitted by the law, to
at all times indemnify, hold harmless and defend the city from and against all
claims, actions, demands, losses, costs expenses, liabilities, assessments,
penalties, and damages, including attorney's fees, in connection with or which
might arise out of, result from, or be caused by the performance of work in the
location, construction, modification, use, maintenance, repair, replacement or
removal of the WTF or any part thereof, which causes bodily injury, illness or
death or any other injury or for property damage caused by the negligent act or
omission of the owner/operator/applicant or any of its/their agents, employees,
servants, representatives, officers, directors or shareholders of the WTF.
(Ord. 2005-07, 10-4-2005)
10-18-14: REMOVAL OF A WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY:
   A.   Under the following circumstances, the city may determine that the
health, welfare and safety of the city residents warrant and require the
removal of a WTF:
      1.   A permitted WTF has not been operated as a WTF for a continuous
period of six (6) months and is therefore considered to have been abandoned;
      2.   A permitted WTF falls into such a state of disrepair that it creates
a health or safety hazard as determined by city staff;
      3.   A WTF has been located, constructed or modified without first
obtaining, or in a manner not authorized by, the required special use permit.
   B.   If the city makes such a determination as appears in subsection A. of
this Section, then the city shall provide the owner of such WTF with a notice
of abandonment and an order to remove the same within ninety (90) days of
receipt of the notice of abandonment from the city.
   C.   Failure by the owner or his/her successors or assigns to remove the
abandoned WTF and all associated structures and facilities from the site and to
restore the site to as close to its original condition as is possible or to
take substantial steps toward removing the abandoned WTF within said ninety
(90) days shall be grounds to remove the WTF at the owner's expense. (Ord.
2005-07, 10-4-2005)
10-18-15: REQUIRED ANNUAL REPORT:
In conjunction with the annual renewal of their business registration, the
owner of each WTF shall submit a report to the city clerk, 1000 McNutt Rd.,
Suite "A", Sunland Park, New Mexico 88063, stating the current user status of
the WTF and providing proof of renewal of the insurance policies or certificate
required pursuant to sections 10-18-11 and 10-18-12 of this chapter. (Ord.
2005-07, 10-4-2005)
10-18-16: PROVISION FOR WAIVER OR VARIANCE:
   A.   An administrative waiver of up to a ten percent (10%) difference,
except for height, or a variance for over a ten percent (10%) difference,
except for height, may be requested by the applicant at the time of filing for
the special use permit. The conditions regulating the process for waiver and
variance requests are set forth in sections 10-10-1 through 10-10-6 of this
code and shall apply in this chapter.
   B.   In instances where strict compliance with this chapter would result in
a violation of a clearly established, applicable provision of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 or other federal law or regulation, a minimal
easing of the provision of this chapter may be approved by the approving
authority to the extent required to comply with such law. (Ord. 2005-07, 10-4-
2005)
10-18-17: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any special use permit
issued pursuant to this chapter shall be charged with a petty misdemeanor and
upon conviction may be punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) or imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days or both such fine
and imprisonment as provided for in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord.
2005-07, 10-4-2005)
10-18-18: DEFAULT AND/OR REVOCATION:
   A.   If a WTF is repaired, rebuilt, placed, moved or modified in a way that
is inconsistent or not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter or of
the special use permit, then the city shall notify the holder of the special
use permit in writing of such violation. Such notice shall specify the nature
of the violation(s) or noncompliance and that action to begin correction of the
violation(s) must be commenced within seven (7) days of the date of the
postmark or personal service of the notice, whichever is earlier, and completed
within forty-five (45) days of such date. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this subsection or any other section of this chapter, if the
violation causes or presents an imminent danger to the health or safety of
lives or property, the city may, at its sole discretion, order the violation
remedied within twenty-four (24) hours.
   B.   If within the forty-five (45) day time period set forth above in
subsection A. of this section, the WTF is not brought into compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or of the special use permit, or substantial steps
are not taken in order to bring the affected WTF into compliance, then the city
may revoke such special use permit for the affected WTF and shall notify the
holder of the special use permit within forty-eight (48) hours of such action.
(Ord. 2005-07, 10-4-2005)
CHAPTER 19
NEW URBANISM DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-19-1: Short Title
10-19-2: Authority
10-19-3: References and Purpose
10-19-4: Applicability and Administration
10-19-5: Definitions
10-19-6: Adoption of Zoning Map
10-19-7: STV1ZO Zone Districts
10-19-8: Land Use and Zoning Regulations
10-19-9: Special Provisions
10-19-10: Parking Requirements
10-19-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the "Santa Teresa Village One Zoning Ordinance" or
the "STV1ZO" for purposes of adopting the Santa Teresa Master Development
Concept and the Santa Teresa Village One Specific Plan. However, provided that
this chapter shall be integrated into the Sunland Park city code which shall be
known as the "New Urbanism District" to be made part of this title.
Notwithstanding that any verbiage referencing the specific Santa Teresa Master
Development Concept or Santa Teresa Village One Specific Plan shall be
applicable to said development concept and specific plan, all provisions and
standards set out in this chapter shall be of general applicability to this
type of district or other areas under the city's jurisdiction as specified in
accordance with the memorandum of understanding dated February 10, 2005. (Ord.
2005-08, 12-6-2005)
10-19-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the enabling provisions of Section 3-17-
1 and Section 3-21-1 through 3-21-14, NMSA, 1978, as amended. (Ord. 2005-08,
12-6-2005)
10-19-3: REFERENCES AND PURPOSE:
   A.   A reference in this chapter to "Santa Teresa-Village One" means and
refers to the area designated on the Santa Teresa Village One Zoning Map.
   B.   This chapter is adopted with the intent and effect of promoting and
allowing "pedestrian-oriented mixed-use" developments within Santa Teresa-
Village One, which development shall have no less than twenty percent (20%) of
the total development area dedicated to parks and open space and open space
(within a lot).
   C.   This chapter shall govern and control all development within Santa
Teresa-Village One. Any contradiction, inconsistency or ambiguity between the
requirements of this chapter and any other provisions of the this title and
title 11, chapter 8 of this code, shall be governed and controlled by the
requirements of this chapter. If not specifically covered in STV1ZO, the
provisions of the this title and title 11, chapter 8 of this code, shall apply.
   D.   The Santa Teresa lands affected by the STV1ZO sit north of Columbus
Highway and east of Pete Dominici International Beltway; generally west of the
current city of Sunland Park municipal boundaries. Map 3.1 and Map 3.2
illustrates the context of the approximate one thousand one hundred (1,100)
acre STV1ZO boundary in the greater Sunland Park area.
Map 3.1: Santa Teresa Regional Context Map
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1681.png]
 
Map 3.2: Santa Teresa Village One Site Context Map
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1679.png]
 
(Ord. 2005-08, 12-6-2005)
10-19-4: APPLICABILITY AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Applicability: The zones described in this chapter are established to
regulate and separate the locations of land uses as appropriate.
   B.   Administration And Enforcement:
      1.   Zoning Administrator
         a.   Appointment: The community development director shall be the
designated zoning administrator. Any reference to "zoning administrator"
throughout this chapter shall be interchangeable and synonymous with "community
development director".
         b.   Duties:
      (1)   The zoning administrator shall administer the provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   Notice Of Violation To Responsible Person: If the zoning
administrator shall find that any of the provisions of this chapter are being
violated, he/she shall notify in writing the person(s) responsible for such
violations, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action
necessary to correct it.
      (3)   Remedial Action: He/she shall order discontinuance of illegal use
of land, buildings, or structures; removal of illegal buildings or structures
or of illegal additions, alterations, or structural changes; discontinuance of
any illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this
chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
      2.   Certificates Of Zoning Compliance:
         a.   Certificate Required: It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or
permit the use or occupancy of any building or premises, or both, or part
thereof hereafter created, erected, changed, converted, or wholly or partly
altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of zoning
compliance shall have been issued therefore by the zoning administrator stating
that the proposed use of the building or land conforms to the requirements of
this chapter.
         b.   Nonconforming Structure Or Use: No existing, nonconforming
structure or use shall be changed until a certificate of zoning compliance has
been issued by the zoning administrator. The certificate of zoning compliance
shall state specifically how the nonconforming use differs from the provisions
of this chapter; provided that upon enactment of the chapter, owners or
occupants of nonconforming uses or structures shall have thirty (30) days to
apply for certificates of zoning compliance.
         c.   Application For Certificate: No permit for erection, alteration,
moving or repair of any building shall be issued until an application has been
made for a certificate of zoning compliance, and the certificate shall be
issued in conformity with the provisions of this chapter upon completion of the
work.
         d.   Maintain Records: The zoning administrator shall maintain a
record of all certificates of zoning compliance, and a copy shall be furnished
upon request to any person.
         e.   Failure To Obtain Certificate: Failure to obtain a certificate of
zoning compliance shall be a violation of this chapter and punishable under
subsection B4 of this chapter.
      3.   Construction And Use; Compliance With Plans And Permits: Building
permits or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the zoning administrator authorize only the use,
arrangement, and construction set forth in such approved plans and
applications, and no other use, arrangement, or construction. Use, arrangement,
or construction at variance with that authorized shall be a violation of this
chapter and punishable as provided by subsection B4 of this chapter.
      4.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in the city code, section 1-4-
1. Each day of a violation shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 2005-
08, 12-6-2005)
10-19-5: DEFINITIONS:
In interpreting this chapter, the following terms, words, or phrases used
herein shall be defined and interpreted as follows:
   A.   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, the plural number includes the singular, the masculine
includes the feminine, and the feminine includes the masculine.
   B.   The words "shall" and "must" are mandatory, the word "may" is
permissive.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT: Accessory dwelling units are a residential unit
located on the same parcel of land as a single-family unit, which is secondary
in size and use to the single-family unit.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A detached subordinate building, the use of which is
customarily incidental to that of the main building or to the main use of the
land and which is located on the same lot with the main building or use.
ACCESSORY USE: A use of the land or a building that are subordinate to the
principal use.
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW: Review of a zoning or other application to the city that
is reviewed and approved, approved with conditions, or denied by staff.
ALLEY: A public or private thoroughfare which affords typically a secondary
means of access to abutting property.
ANIMAL SHELTER: A facility providing animal care or boarding services not
restricted to household pets with overnight accommodations, animal hospitals,
boarding kennels, and/or the maintaining, raising, harboring and/or boarding of
four (4) or more dogs or six (6) or more cats or six (6) or more dogs and cats.
ANTENNAS: Any structure that radiates or receives radio or other communication
signals.
ASSISTED LIVING/RETIREMENT FACILITY:    A community residence(s) specifically
designed for those who are able or wish to live an independent lifestyle but
may need assistance with daily chores, such as, cooking, cleaning, laundry,
and/or driving. On-site, skilled nursing care or medical facilities may be
permitted. Any living facility or part thereof which requires licensing by the
New Mexico State Health Department shall be considered a nursing home.
ATTACHED: The physical union of two (2) otherwise independent structures or
objects, or the relation between two (2) parts of a single structure, each
having its own function.
AUDITORIUM: A large room to accommodate an audience in a building such as a
school or theater, or, an indoor or outdoor facility to hold public meetings or
performances.
AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE & REPAIR:    An establishment engaged in performing major
repairs to the servicing of automobiles. Such work excludes commercial
wrecking, dismantling, junkyard, tire, and truck-tractor repair. Major repair
may include engine overhaul, brake repair, glass replacement, repair of
electrical accessories such as starters and alternators, frame alignment, and
rebuilding of wrecked automobiles. Outdoor storage of vehicles awaiting repair,
materials, or supplies is controlled by enclosure requirements of the specific
use district; however, any unenclosed areas shall be provided with a fence or
wall constructed to a height adequate to conceal any vehicles, equipment or
supplies located on the lot; proper maintenance to keep the areas in good
condition, free of weeds, dust, trash, and debris.
AWNINGS: A detachable, rooflike cover, supported from the walls of a building
for protection from sun or weather.
BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES:   A facility engaged in deposit banking or
   extending credit in the form of loans. This definition includes, but is not
limited to, all uses in the following similar uses: depository institutions,
non-depository institutions.
BAR: An establishment or room at which drinks, especially alcoholic drinks, and
sometimes food are served.
BED & BREAKFAST: An owner-occupied or manager-occupied residential structure
providing rooms for temporary, overnight lodging, with or without meals, for
paying guests.
BOARDING OR ROOMING HOUSE:    A dwelling unit containing up to and including
five (5) guest rooms where lodging is provided, with or without meals, for
compensation.
BLOCK: The enclosed area within the perimeter of the street's right-of-way
lines.
BLOCK FACE: One (1) side of a block.
BUILD: To erect, convert, enlarge, reconstruct, or structurally alter a
building.
BUILDING: Any structure built for use of persons or animals.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The height of a building measured from the lowest adjacent
ground surface level to the highest point of the building.
CARPORT: Space for the housing or storage of motor vehicles and enclosed on not
more than two (2) sides by walls.
CHURCH OR RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION:    A building, together with its accessory
buildings and uses, where persons regularly assemble for religious worship and
which is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain
public worship.
CLUB: Any membership organization catering exclusively to members and their
guests and whose facilities are limited to meeting, eating and/or recreational
uses, and further, whose activities are not conducted for monetary gains;
including, but not limited to, civic, fraternal, charitable, religious, social
and patriotic organizations.
CO-LOCATION: The physical attachment and/or placement of one (1) communication
structure upon another communication structure, and may include placing
different or similar communication structures on the receiving structure. For
example, a cellular transmitter being placed on a television receiver tower or
a cellular transmitter on another cellular transmitter tower.
COMMERCIAL COMMUNICATION STRUCTURES:    Any structure, including antennas and
satellite service devices, or any other device which is normally used for
radio, television, microwave, or wireless communications. This shall include
any device that is attached to a new or an existing tower, or attached to a
building facade or roof or other non-communication structure, and such
attachment is made to the facade or roof vertically, horizontally and/or
diagonally.
CONDOMINIUM: A residential, professional, commercial, office, or industrial
development in which each unit is owned individually, whether the unit includes
the ground beneath, air space, walls, floors, or any combination thereof, and
in which other areas and facilities within the development are owned and
maintained jointly by a group, association, or corporate entity.
COURT: An open space or plaza that is surrounded by a single building or
several individual buildings.
DAY/CHILD CARE: Child care center, group child care home, family child care
home, preschool, nursery school, day nursery, kindergarten and similar uses
shall be in accord with state licensing requirements.
DRIVE THROUGH FACILITY: Drive-in or drive-up facilities for ordering associated
with commercially oriented uses.
DUPLEX: One (1) building arranged, intended or designed to be occupied by two
(2) families living independently of each other and having separate cooking
facilities in each dwelling unit.
DWELLING UNIT: One (1) or more connected rooms and a single kitchen designed
for and occupied by no more than one (1) family for living and sleeping
purposes.
DWELLING UNIT, SINGLE FAMILY ATTACHED (SFA):   A residential structure on a
private lot or lots, which is attached to other units horizontally or
vertically.
DWELLING UNIT, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED (SFD):   A residential structure on a
private lot, detached from other units and designed for and occupied by no more
than one (1) family for living purposes.
FACIAL MOUNT: The physical attachment of a communication structure to a
building or other non- communication structure, which does not substantially
increase the height of the building or structure. Examples of other structures
include, but are not limited to: freestanding signs and billboards, stadium
lights, gas station canopies, electric poles, area and street lights, and
church spires. This can include attaching the structure either vertically,
horizontally, or diagonally along the structure's building facade, walls,
roofs, or other surfaces.
FAMILY: Persons related by blood or marriage, or a group of persons who need
not be related by blood or marriage, living together as a single housekeeping
unit in a dwelling.
FARM: An area which is used for the growing of the usual farm products such as
vegetables, fruit, fodder, trees and grain, and their storage on the area.
FINISHED GRADE: The average of the finished ground level at the center of all
walls of a building.
FLOOR AREA: The total gross area of all floors of a building.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The total gross square footage of a structure or building
divided by the total square footage of the lot, parcel, or tract on which the
structure is located or to be placed.
FRONTAGE: The distance along a street right-of-way line from one (1)
intersecting street to another or from one (1) intersecting street to the end
of a dead-end street.
GARAGE, COMMERCIAL: Any building or structure where automobiles, trucks,
tractors, or other vehicles are stored, painted, repaired or equipped for a
charge, and where the service and sale of gasoline and oil are incidental to
the principal building use.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: Any accessory building for the primary purpose of housing
vehicles which are owned and used by the occupants of the main building.
GAS STATION: A business where the primary use is to sell motor vehicle fuels at
retail prices.
GROCERY: A store selling foodstuffs and various household supplies.
GROUND OR STRUCTURE MOUNTED COMMUNICATION APPURTENANCE:   Minor, mountable
communication device that receives programming through the transmission of
signals. These devices are small and generally serve the building on which they
are attached. These may include, but are not limited to, television antennas or
satellite appurtenances.
HEALTH CLUB: A place of business with equipment and facilities for exercising
and improving physical fitness.
HOME ARTISAN BUSINESS: A home artisan business shall be considered artist's
studios, cabinet making, dress making, engraving, furniture making, hobby
crafts, jewelry making, sewing, tailor, writing studio and similar uses.
HOME OCCUPATION: A home occupation use is a combination of residential
occupancy and commercial activity located within a dwelling unit. The work
activities shall not adversely impact the public health, safety, and welfare,
or the livability, functioning, and appearance of the adjacent property. This
definition excludes TIENDITAS.
HOSPITAL: An institution providing health services, primarily for inpatients,
and medical or surgical care of the sick or injured, including as an integral
part of the institution, such related facilities as laboratories, outpatient
departments, training facilities, central service facilities and staff offices.
HOTEL: One (1) or more buildings providing temporary lodging primarily to
persons who have residences elsewhere, or both temporary and permanent lodging
in guest rooms, or apartments. The building or buildings have an interior hall
and lobby with access to each room from such interior hall or lobby. Accessory
uses may include an eating place, meeting rooms, and other similar uses.
Notwithstanding the gross floor limitations for accessory uses, conference
facilities not exceeding fifteen percent (15%) of the gross floor area of the
hotel are permitted in addition to the floor area occupied by all other
accessory uses.
INDOOR RECREATION CENTER:   Indoor recreational uses and structures including
but not limited to game rooms, bowling alleys, pool rooms, or skating rinks.
INSTRUCTIONAL SERVICE: An instructional service use shall be considered
educational tutoring, music lessons and similar instructional services. A
maximum of five (5) students may be at the dwelling at any one (1) time. No
music instruments may be amplified.
LOT: Any parcel of land platted and placed on record in accordance with laws
and ordinances described by plat or metes and bounds and having frontage on a
public right-of-way or private street or alley.
LOT AREA: The aggregate lot area measured to property lines.
LOT, CORNER: Any lot located at the intersection of, and having frontage on,
two (2) or more streets.
LOT DEPTH: The average distance between the front and rear lot lines measured
in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: Any lot with frontage on two (2) parallel or
approximately parallel streets.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The boundary of a lot bordering on a street.
LOT LINE, REAR: The lot boundary line which is opposite and most distant from
and not coterminous with the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary line, not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
LOT WIDTH: The width of a lot measured ten feet (10') from the lot line on the
narrowest portion of the lot.
MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT:    Include boats and boat trailers, travel
trailers, pickup campers or coaches (designed to be mounted on automotive
vehicles), used for transporting recreational equipment, whether occupied by
such equipment or not.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A factory-built dwelling, which is manufactured or
constructed under the authority of 42 USC section 5403, Federal Manufactured
Home Construction and Safety Standards, which is not constructed with a
permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other than for the
purpose of moving to a permanent site, and which does not have permanently
attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles. For the purpose of any of
these regulations, manufactured homes shall be considered the same as a single-
family detached dwelling.
MEDICAL USE-CLINIC: An establishment occupied by one (1) or more members of the
medical or dental profession for the purpose of providing health services.
MERCHANDISE SALES: General retail related sales of durable and non-durable
goods.
MIXED-USE:   A land use pattern which provides for the integration of
appropriate residential and non-residential uses, both vertically and
horizontally.
MUSEUMS AND OTHER CULTURAL INSTITUTIONS:   A public or private facility,
including an aquarium, operated as a repository or a collection of natural,
scientific, or literary curiosities or objects of interest, not including the
regular sale or distribution of the objects collected. Activities may include
the sale of crafts work and artwork, boutiques, and the holding of meetings and
social events.
NURSING HOME, HOSPICE: An establishment licensed by the State Department of
Public Health, which establishment maintains and operates continuous day and
night facilities providing room and board, personal services and skilled
nursing care, including hospices, specifically excluding, however, hospitals.
OFFICE: Occupancy primarily for the provision of professional, executive,
management, or administrative services; excluding, however, dental or medical
clinic or office. Typical uses include real estate offices, brokerage firms,
legal offices, or architectural firms.
ON-STREET PARKING: This type of parking exists on a dedicated public street
within the right-of-way.
OPEN SPACE (WITHIN A LOT):
   A.   Residential: Open space includes softscape, hardscape, driveways and
other non-vertical structures that are permanent or semi-permanent.
   B.   Non residential: Open space includes softscape and/or hardscape areas
of a site. Structures, parking lots, and drives shall not be counted towards
open space.
OUTDOOR MARKET: An occasional or periodic market held in an open area or
structure where groups of individual sellers offer goods for sale to the
public.
OUTDOOR STORAGE: The storage of goods outside of a building for sale or storage
related to a principal use.
PARKING GARAGE: A structure for automobile storage/parking. The parking garage
may serve uses such as residential developments, entire commercial districts,
or a single use such as an office building.
PARKING LOT: An area provided for self-parking by employees, visitors,
residents, and/or patrons of any public/institutional, commercial, industrial,
or multi-family residential use.
PARKS AND OPEN SPACE: An area of land which is developed or intended for
development with landscaping or associated accessory improvements which promote
recreational activities by the public. Drainage facilities and associated
features designed for a dual purpose use as a recreation and drainage feature
shall be included in this definition. May be either publicly or privately
owned.
PERMITTED USE: Any use listed as a use by right, a use by temporary permit, a
home occupation or an accessory use in any given district, and/or other uses
allowed in all districts unless restricted by special limitations, and/or any
conditional use or by special review which has been approved according to the
required procedure.
PERSONAL SERVICES: Establishments primarily engaged in providing services
involving the care of a person or his or her personal goods or apparel. They
include but are not limited to uses such as barbershops, beauty shops, dry
cleaning, shoe repair shops, tanning salons, linen supply, diaper service,
funeral services and domestic services.
POSTAL FACILITY, NEIGHBORHOOD: A facility that has distribution boxes (cluster
boxes) and collection services for the general public, mail carriers, and
retail services; excluding however, the distribution of bulk mail or packages
to other postal facilities.
PRIVATE GARAGE: An accessory structure that typically accom- panies a dwelling
unit principal structure.
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE: A professional office shall be considered an office for
accountants, appraisers, architects, attorneys, contractors, engineers,
financial planners, insurance agents, consulting services, real estate and
similar office uses. Dentist and medical doctor offices shall not be considered
as a professional office.
PROFESSIONAL SERVICE: Uses such as accounting, auditing, bookkeeping,
architectural, engineering, planning and surveying services, bank, bonding and
financial institutions/ facilities (no drive thru), real estate, tax
preparation, legal services, insurance.
PUBLIC/CIVIC USE: A facility utilized for public use by a government entity
such as, but not limited to, municipal offices, libraries, or schools.
PUBLIC RECREATIONAL FIELD/COURT:    An area of public land used for traditional
sports activities that include football, baseball, softball, soccer, field
hockey, basketball, tennis, racquetball, volleyball, and running track.
RECREATION SERVICES/CENTER: Establishments providing indoor and/or outdoor
sports or recreation by and for participants; excluding, however, community
centers. Any spectators would be incidental and attend on an irregular basis.
This definition includes, but is not limited to, the following:
   A.   Dance studios and schools;
   B.   Producers, orchestras;
   C.   Bowling centers;
   D.   Sports clubs;
   E.   Physical fitness facilities;
   F.   Amusement center;
   G.   Membership sports and recreation clubs;
   H.   Batting cages;
   I.   Golf-course.
RESTAURANT (SIT DOWN): An establishment where food/drink is typically consumed
on-site. This type of restaurant may include indoor or outdoor seating for
serving and consumption of food on-site.
RESTAURANT (DRIVE THRU): An establishment where food/drink is consumed on or
off-site. Off-site consumption.
RETAIL: Sale to the ultimate consumer for direct consumption or use and not for
resale.
ROOM: Any enclosed division of a building containing over seventy (70) square
feet of floor space and commonly used for living purposes, not including
lobbies, halls, closets, storage space, bathrooms, utility rooms and unfinished
attics, cellars or basements.
SATELLITE APPURTENANCE/DEVICE: Any structure used to receive satellite pro-
gramming services specifically associated with television reception from the
transmission of signals from a satellite to a receiver, usually a round "dish"
that can vary in size. This does not include those dishes or devices used for
two-way communications.
SCHOOL, ELEMENTARY, MIDDLE, OR HIGH:   A public or private school meeting all
requirements of the compulsory education laws of the state and providing
instruction to students in kindergarten through grade twelve (12). Middle and
high schools are generally grades six (6) through twelve (12).
SETBACK: The required distance between every building or structure and any lot
line on the lot on which it is located. Setbacks shall consist of an open
space, unoccupied and unobstructed by any part of a building or structure, as
defined except as may be authorized by this chapter.
SIGHT TRIANGLE: The area of unobstructed vision at street intersections,
intersections of streets and alleys and multiple parking areas entrances/exits
permitting a vehicle driver to see approaching vehicles to the right or left.
SMALL ITEM REPAIR SERVICE: A small item repair service shall be considered
locksmith repair, watch repair, tool repair, shoe repair and similar repair
services.
STORAGE SHED: A structure or part of a structure designed for storing goods;
business, personal, or household effects; and other items of personal property
by or with permission of the owner of that personal property. Examples include
gardening or tool sheds. Storage sheds are regulated in this chapter based on
square footage of structure.
TEMPORARY USE: A temporary use is a use (business, sale, display or event)
which is conducted for a limited time. Temporary uses may be conducted in
tents, temporary or permanent buildings, vehicles, trailers or outside. Other
temporary uses not listed in this section may be listed under permitted uses
for a specific zone.
THEATRE: A structure used for dramatic, operatic, motion pictures or other
performance, for admission to which entrance money is received and no audience
participation or meal service is allowed.
TIENDITA: A commercially focused space within a principal structure in a
primarily residential area that is </= 650 square feet in size. The
commercially focused space shall be limited to a single personal service,
professional service or small merchandising use. The commercial space must have
a separate entrance door easily accessible from a public street. These uses are
typically located on corner lots and within activity centers and shall be
recorded on the final plat.
TOWER: Any structure, vertical in inclination, which is normally used to
support antenna or other commercial communication structures. This may include
television and radio towers, guy towers, and all other free standing towers,
either for private or commercial purposes.
TOWNHOUSE: One (1) of a group of attached dwelling units divided from each
other by common walls and each having a separate entrance leading directly to
the outdoors at ground level.
TRANSPORTATION CENTER: Facilities including but not limited to bus, taxi,
charter bus, and railroad stations or depots.
USE, ACCESSORY: Subordinate and incidental to a principal use or structure on
the same lot.
USE, CONDITIONAL: An allowable land use, but which shall not be undertaken
until such use is reviewed and approved by the city planning and zoning
commission. Since it is an allowable use, the city planning and zoning
commission may not deny it outright; however, the commission may require the
applicant to enter into enforceable agreements or undertakings restricting such
use in the interest of the public welfare and the value of the property in that
area.
UTILITIES: Minor structures and appurtenances associated with public or private
utility companies to provide services to uses developed.
VARIANCE: An amendment to the terms of this chapter where such variance will
not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar
to the property and not the result of actions of the applicant, a literal
enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary and undue hardship. As
used in this chapter, a variance may be authorized only for area, height,
dimension, distance, setback, off-street parking, and off-street loading
requirements or as elsewhere specifically authorized by this chapter.
VERTICAL STRUCTURE: Any built object that is either independent of or attached
to any building that is perpendicular in its direction to the nearest adjacent
ground. May include such structures as spires, belfries, flag poles, steeples,
and other similar structures, but does not include antennas, towers,
communication structures, and satellite service devices. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-6-
2005)
10-19-6: ADOPTION OF ZONING MAP:
The Santa Teresa Village One Zoning Map** (Map 6.1) herein is hereby adopted
and incorporated into the Santa Teresa Village One Zoning Ordinance (STV1ZO).
The zoning districts depicted and shown on Map 6.1 are hereby created,
established and adopted.
   A.   Zone Boundary Description: The Santa Teresa Village One zone boundary
and sub-district boundaries in the STV1ZO have been established on the Village
One Zoning Map** (Map 6.1). The exact location of the village one boundaries
shall be described by a boundary survey and the subdistrict boundaries shall be
described by metes and bounds in conformance with the adopted Village One
Zoning Map (Map 6.1).
   B.   Zone Map Amendment: All zone map amendments shall follow the public
hearing and notice procedure mandated by § 3-21-6 NMSA 1978, as amended from
time to time.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1683.png]
 
(Ord. 2005-08, 12-6-2005)
10-19-7: STV1ZO ZONE DISTRICTS:
   A.   Zone Districts: The following five (5) zone districts are hereby
created in the STV1ZO. Three (3) of the zone districts are true mixed use zones
that are envisioned to primarily permit commercial uses. The two (2)
residential zones are meant to primarily allow for various residential uses,
but do not preclude non-residential uses.
      1.   Mixed Use Neighborhood Commercial (MU-NC): The mixed use
neighborhood commercial zone is intended to accommodate limited commercial uses
typically associated with a neighborhood-oriented retail center. Limited uses,
limited square footages, and smaller floor plates for commercial uses are
permitted. Development assumes primarily an inline (zero setback) approach to
buildings to ensure a neighborhood retail street character. Vertical mixed-use
development is encouraged.
      2.   Mixed Use Main Street Commercial (MU-MSC): The mixed use main street
commercial zone is intended to accommodate a broader range of commercial uses
typically associated with a community serving retail center. Slightly larger
square footages and floor plates are permitted. Development assumes primarily
an inline (zero setback) approach to buildings to ensure a neighborhood retail
street character, but permits some structures to be setback for specific
circulation needs, such as a gas station. Vertical mixed-use development is
encouraged.
      3.   Mixed Use Community Commercial (MU-CC): The mixed use community
commercial zone is intended to accommodate mid to large box commercial uses
typically associated with a community to regional serving retail centers. The
largest floor plates are permitted in this zone. Development here assumes a
combination of inline (zero setback) and pad (building setback) approach to
building placement. Vertical mixed-use development is allowed.
      4.   Santa Teresa Residential One (STR-1): The STR-1 zone is intended
primarily for single-family detached homes on various lot sizes. Attached
products up to a certain density are also allowed for variation in neighborhood
character and to accommodate market needs. Limited non-residential uses are
permitted.
      5.   Santa Teresa Residential Two (STR-2): The STR-2 zone is intended to
accommodate slightly higher residential development that may include a greater
combination of single-family detached and attached product types on various lot
sizes. Limited non-residential uses are permitted.
   B.   Regulations Governing Zone Districts:
      1.   Basic Regulations: The regulations governing zone districts in the
STV1ZO are set forth in the Zone District Matrices, Exhibit 7.1 and 7.2 below,
which are hereby adopted and incorporated herein. The following regulations
apply to principal structures. Also refer to subsection B2 for supplementary
regulations.
Exhibit 7.1: Zone District Matrix - Commercial Zones
 
         Front Yard Rear Yard Side Yard Max. FAR
Land Use Setback    Setback   Setback   (Floor Area Height   Min. Open Space
                                        Ratio)
MU-NC*   0' min.    15'       0'        2.0 FAR     24' min. 10%
         12' max.                                   42' max.
MU-MSC*  0' min.    15'       0'        4.0 FAR     24' min. 10%
         12' max.                                   65' max.
MU-CC*   10' min.   15'       0'        2.0 FAR     24' min. 15%
                                                    65' max.
 
*   If purely residential uses are developed (not mixed-use) refer to STR-
2 below for regulations.
Exhibit 7.2: Zone District Matrix - Residential Zones
     Min. Lot                   Front   Rear    Side    Max.            Min.
Land Size     Min. Lot Min. Lot Yard    Yard    Yard    Density  Height Open
Use  (sq.     Depth    Width    Setback Setback Setback per acre        Space
     ft.)
                   Min.                                      Max.
                   Lot   Min.  Min.  Front   Rear    Side    Density        Min.
Land Use           Size  Lot   Lot   Yard    Yard    Yard    per     Height Open
                   (sq.  Depth Width Setback Setback Setback acre           Space
                   ft.)
STR-1
SFD — Facing                       6' min.         0' or   10 du/  35'
Street             4,050 90'   45'   17'     20'     4'(a)   ac      max.   30%
                                     max.
SFD — Not Facing                   6' min.         0' or   15 du/  35'
Street             1,500 30'   30'   17'     4'      4'(a)   ac      max.   30%
                                     max.
                                     6' min.                 15 du/  35'
SFA                1,120 70'   16'   17'     4'      0'      ac      max.   20%
                                     max.
STR-2
                   2,800 70'   40'   6' min.
SFD — Facing     or    or    or    15'     4'      0' or   18 du/  35'    20%
Street             4,050 90'   45'   max.            4'(a)   ac      max.
                   (b)   (b)   (b)
SFD — Not Facing                   0' min.         0' or   25 du/  35'
Street             1,500 30'   30'   15'     4'      4' (a)  ac      max.   20%
                                     min.
                                     0' min.                 25 du/  60'
SFA                1,120 70'   16'   15'     4'      0'      ac      max.   20%
                                     max.
 
Notes:      (a)   Up to ten percent (10%) of the total SFD residential lots
within the STR-1 and STR-2 zone districts may have a zero setback (i.e., 0') on
one (1) side yard, provided that the other side yard setback is a minimum of
ten feet (10'). All other SFD residential lots within the STR-1 and STR-2 zone
districts shall have a minimum side yard setback of four feet (4').
      (b)   Up to twenty percent (20%) of the total land area within the STR-
2 zone district may have SFD-facing street residential lots with a minimum lot
depth of seventy feet (70') and a minimum lot width of forty feet (40'),
corresponding to a minimum lot size of two thousand eight hundred (2,800)
square feet. All other SFD-facing street residential lots shall have a minimum
lot depth of ninety feet (90') and a minimum lot width of forty-five feet
(45'), corresponding to a minimum lot size of four thousand fifty (4,050)
square feet.
   2.   Supplementary Regulations:
         a.   Side yard setback along a street shall be increased by a minimum
of five feet (5').
         b.   Front side-entry attached garages shall have a minimum front yard
setback of twelve feet (12'). (See Exhibit 7.2A)
         c.   Front-loaded garages shall set back a minimum of thirty feet
(30') from the front lot line. (See Exhibit 7.2B)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1685.png]
 
10-19-8: LAND USE AND ZONING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: Permitted uses may be proposed anywhere within a sub-
district in which they are allowed pursuant to the permitted use matrix
(Exhibit 8.1). Land uses not explicitly listed herein are not permitted uses.
Exhibit 8.1: Permitted Use Matrix
Permitted Use Residential Zones Commercial Zones
              STR-1 STR-2       MU-NC MU-MSC MU-CC
Permitted Use                                 Residential Commercial Zones
                                              Zones
                                              STR-1 STR-2 MU-NC MU-MSC MU-CC
Animal shelter                                                         x
Automotive service and repair < 5,000 sq. ft.                   x
site
Automotive service and repair > 5,000 sq. ft.                          x
site
Banking or financial services                             x     x      x
Bed and breakfast - <= 8 rooms                      x     x     x      x
Church or religious institution                           x     x      x
Day/child care –As regulated by state of NM             x     x      x
(<= 10 kids in residential zones)
Drive through facilities                                               x
Dwelling – SFA <=15 units/ac                x     x     x     x      x
Dwelling – SFA > 15 units/ac                      x     x     x      x
Dwelling - carriage units/guest houses < 650  x     x     x     x      x
sq. ft.
Dwelling – SFD                              x     x     x     x      x
Gas station                                                     x      x
Grocery <= 20,000 sq. ft.                                 x     x      x
Grocery > 20,000 sq. ft.                                        x      x
Health club                                               x     x      x
Hospital                                                               x
Hotel                                                           x      x
Medical use - clinic                                      x     x      x
Merchandise sales                                         x     x      x
Museum and cultural institutions                          x     x      x
Nursing home, hospice                                           x      x
Office <= 15,000 sq. ft.                                  x     x      x
Office > 15,000 sq. ft.                                         X      x
Open space                                    x     x     x     x      x
Outdoor market                                            x     x      x
Parking garage                                                  x      x
Park                                          x     x     x     x      x
Personal service                                          x     x      x
Professional service                                      x     x      x
Public/civic use                              x     x     x     x      x
Restaurant <= 70 seats                                    x     x      x
Restaurant > 70 seats                                           x      x
School – elementary                         x     x     x     x      x
School – middle                             x     x           x      x
School – high                               x     x           x      x
Theatre (<= 6 screens)                                          x
Theatre (> 6 screens)                                                  x
 
*   Tienditas require a conditional use permit and are only permitted on lands
identified for such use on the original, recorded plat of the land. Additional
tiendita uses will not be permitted if such use is not explicitly identified on
the original plat.
   B.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Accessory uses include uses of land or
buildings that are subordinate to the principal use. The accessory use is
located on the same lot or parcel serving a principal use.
Exhibit 8.2: Accessory Use Matrix
 
Special Use                               Residential Zones Commercial Zones
                                          STR-1-SF STR-2-SF MU-NC MU-MSC MU-CC
Carport                                   x        x        x     x      x
Storage sheds < = 200 sq. ft.             x        x
Ground or structure mounted communication x        x        x     x      x
appurtenances
Private garage (detached)                 x        x        x     x      x
 
Telecommunication structures, facilities, towers, and related accessory
structures and uses shall be exclusively regulated by this title, chapter 18 of
this code. Accessory uses are permitted in any district as may be specified in
the appropriate district regulations or herein. An accessory use building
permit shall be required where specifically noted in this section. Accessory
uses are permitted only after their principal structure is present or under
construction. The use and/or location requirements stipulated elsewhere in this
chapter may be modified for accessory uses as follows subject to planning and
zoning commission approval:
      1.   General Architectural And Aesthetic Compatibility: All accessory
structures shall be architecturally compatible with the principal structure.
Exterior building materials and colors should not unduly contrast with the
site's background. Inappropriate exterior building materials include, but are
not limited to, untextured exposed concrete, untextured or unfinished unit
masonry, highly reflective glass, reflective metal roof, and unpainted aluminum
window frames.
      2.   Accessory Uses And Detached Accessory Structures: Accessory uses and
detached accessory structures shall be permitted in the rear yard only, unless
otherwise specified; may be located on an interior lot line; and shall not
exceed fifteen feet (15') in height. Accessory structures shall not occupy more
than twenty percent (20%) of the rear yard in all districts except the
commercial districts where such uses and structures shall not occupy more than
thirty-five percent (35%) of the rear yard setback. When permitted in the side
or front yard, accessory structures shall not occupy more than fifteen percent
(15%) of the respective side or front yard area.
         a.   Accessory uses (and structures) permitted in the rear yard area
only.
      (1)   Accessory structures one hundred twenty (120) square feet or less
in area provided they are located at least ten feet (10') from the principal
building. Such buildings shall not require the issuance of a building permit.
The zoning administrator may grant a waiver from the requirement that an
accessory use (or structure) be located at least ten feet (10') from a
principal building and permit such accessory use (or structure) within five
feet (5') of the principal structure. Such waiver shall only be granted when
the accessory structure is not designed or intended to store or contain any
flammable liquid or vehicles or equipment containing flammable liquids; or
where the accessory structure is constructed with a fire wall as if it were
attached to the principal building; or where the accessory use (or structure)
is not detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of the surrounding uses
or structures within two hundred feet (200'). The zoning administrator shall
consider the health, safety, general welfare, and aesthetics of the proposed
construction before granting such a waiver.
      (2)   Fire wood pile provided that the fire wood is neatly stacked and
does not exceed a height of five feet (5') unless it is stacked against a
permitted principle or accessory building.
         (3)   Gardens.
      (4)   Gazebo provided they are located at least ten feet (10') from the
principal building and any other accessory building or structure. Such
buildings shall require the issuance of a building permit.
      (5)   Jacuzzi/hot tub. Such equipment shall require the issuance of a
building permit.
         (6)   Patio, not including a covered patio.
         (7)   Permanent volleyball court.
      (8)   Playhouse provided they are located at least ten feet (10') from
the principal building and any other accessory building or structure.
      (9)   Swimming pool provided they are located at least ten feet (10')
from the principal building and any other accessory building or structure. A
swimming pool shall require the issuance of a building permit.
         (10)   Swing sets and gym sets.
         (11)   Tennis court.
      (12)   Wood deck, not including a covered deck. A deck projecting from a
building with a deck elevation four feet (4') or more above grade shall be
considered a balcony for the purpose of regulation and shall meet requirements
thereof. Decks may extend into the side yard provided that the side yard
setback for the district in which it is located shall be complied with. A deck
shall require the issuance of a building permit.
      (13)   Similar items determined to be appropriate by the zoning
administrator.
      b.   Accessory uses (and structures) permitted in any side or rear yard.
         (1)   Basketball hoops.
         (2)   Bird baths.
         (3)   Flag poles.
         (4)   Fountains.
         (5)   Lawn sculpture.
         (6)   Religious statue.
         (7)   Wishing well.
      (8)   Similar items determined to be appropriate by the zoning
administrator.
         c.   Unless otherwise noted, the following uses, which may be
accessory to a principal use, shall meet all the front, side, and rear yard
requirements of the district in which they are located. All uses listed below
shall require the issuance of a building permit.
      (1)   Accessory buildings more than one hundred twenty (120) square feet
in area provided they are located at least ten feet (10') from the principal
building and any other accessory building or structure. The zoning
administrator may grant a waiver from the requirement that an accessory
building be located at least ten feet (10') from a principal building and
permit such accessory building within five feet (5') of the principal
structure. Such waiver shall only be granted when the accessory building is not
designed or intended to store or contain any flammable liquid or vehicles or
equipment containing flammable liquids; or where the accessory building is
constructed with a fire wall as if it were attached to the principal building.
The zoning administrator shall consider the health, safety, general welfare,
and aesthetics of the proposed construction before granting such a waiver.
         (2)   Balconies.
      (3)   Central air conditioning compressor provided that the air
conditioning compressor is located no more than five feet (5') from the
principal building and is located no closer than two feet (2') to a lot line.
Air conditioning compressors shall not be located or extend into the front yard
area.
         (4)   Covered patios or decks.
         (5)   Enclosed porches.
         (6)   Private garages (detached):
         (A)   Detached garages are permitted on an interior lot line (i.e.,
zero lot line).
         (B)   Detached garages that are alley loaded shall be set back a
minimum of four feet (4') from the rear lot line.
         (C)   Detached garages that are loaded from a street may be located on
the rear lot line.
         (D)   Detached garages shall be located a minimum of ten feet (10')
from the principal building and any other accessory building or structure.
         (E)   Detached garages shall not extend into the front yard area
without planning and zoning commission approval.
      (7)   Carports provided that they are a supplement to a required attached
or detached garage rather than a substitute for a garage. Detached carports
shall be located at least ten feet (10') from the principal building and any
other accessory building or structure. Carports shall not extend into the front
yard area.
         d.   The zoning administrator may allow detached accessory buildings
and structures to be located closer than ten feet (10') to a principle building
if they are designed in such a manner to be attractive and constructed to meet
all codes and requirements as though they were attached to the principal
structure.
         e.   Accessory buildings and tool sheds one hundred twenty (120)
square feet or less in area shall be placed on a pad of concrete, asphalt, or
patio block. Accessory buildings greater than one hundred twenty (120) square
feet in area shall be constructed on a foundation or concrete slab.
         f.   No more than one (1) accessory building one hundred twenty (120)
square feet or less in area and one (1) accessory building larger than one
hundred twenty (120) square feet in area shall be placed on any residential lot
less than one (1) acre in area.
         g.   Material may be stored in the accessory yard setback area if a
minimum five foot (5') high fence is constructed between the accessory
structure and adjacent lot. No parking shall be permitted in the accessory yard
setback area. The accessory yard setback shall be kept free from accumulation
of debris or refuse. Only fences, drainage swales, utilities, and landscaping
may be permitted within the accessory yard setback area.
   C.   Conditional Uses:
      1.   Conditional uses require a more detailed study prior to approval.
The zoning administrator may require additional submittals in order to evaluate
the potential effects of the use development.
Exhibit 8.3: Conditional Use Matrix
Conditional Use Residential Zones Commercial Zones
                STR-1-SF STR-2-SF MU-NC MU-MSC MU-CC
Conditional Use                                                          Residential Commercial
                                                                         Zones       Zones
                                                                         STR- STR-2- MU- MU- MU-
                                                                         1-SF SF     NC  MSC CC
Accessory dwelling unit                                                  x    x      x
Auditorium                                                               x    x      x   x   x
Awnings                                                                  x    x      x   x   x
Bar                                                                                  x   x   x
Bed and breakfast - <= 8 rooms                                           x
Church or religious institution                                          x    x
Day/child care – As regulated by state of NM (<=10 kids in residential x    x
zones)
Drive-through facility                                                                   x
Storage sheds > 200 sq. ft.                                                              x   x
Home occupation (shall be exclusively regulated by title 3, chapter 4 of x    x      x   x   x
this code)
Outdoor café                                                                        x   x   x
Outdoor storage                                                                          x   x
Parking lot                                                                          x   x   x
Recreation service/center                                                x    x      x   x   x
Tiendita*                                                                x    x
Utilities (above ground structures)                                      x    x      x   x   x
 
   *   Tienditas require a conditional use permit and are only permitted on
lands identified for such use on the original, recorded plat of the land.
Additional tiendita uses will not be permitted if such use is not explicitly
identified on the original plat.
      2.   In approving a conditional use, the zoning administrator shall
consider the following:
         a.   The proposed use is appropriate and compatible in the specific
location. Environmental impacts including, without limitation, noise, lighting,
traffic and visibility effects generated as a result of the development are
mitigated so that the effects on the adjoining properties are minimized;
         b.   The intent and principles of the STV1ZO are implemented by the
approval of the proposed use at the proposed location; and
         c.   The proposed use meets the conditions outlined herein and in
section 10-19-9 of this code.
   D.   New Uses: Any proposed permitted or accessory use currently not listed
herein may be proposed by the applicant. If the zoning administrator recommends
approval of such use, possibly with conditions, the proposed use shall then go
through a formal text amendment process for ordinances mandated by §§ 3-17-
1 through 3-17-6 NMSA 1978, as amended from time to time. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-6-
2005)
10-19-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Applicability: The following regulations stipulate the provisions for
allowance of variances to any structure or accessory structures for numerical
standards such as set backs, floor area, height, and minimum open space.
   B.   Variances: Any development proposed that does not conform to any of the
standards of development in this chapter must obtain a variance. A variance
shall not be granted unless the variance is found to meet the requirements of
subsection B6 below. In granting a variance, any reasonable conditions may be
imposed to minimize any adverse effects the variance might otherwise have on
property within the area of notification or on the development generally.
      1.   Applications For Variances: An application for a variance shall be
submitted to the zoning administrator by the owner of the property that is the
subject of the variance request or by the owner's agent. A completed copy of
the application, an appropriate site plan that meets the criteria set forth in
this chapter, and a non-refundable filing fee shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator in accordance with subsection B3 below.
      2.   Administrative Variances: An administrative variance request may be
granted by the zoning administrator. The zoning administrator may grant
administrative variances under the following circumstances:
         a.   The variance would represent a deviation of ten percent (10%) or
less from a numerical standard.
         b.   The zoning administrator finds that the request meets the
standards set forth in subsection B6 below.
         c.   No written objections to the variance are received within fifteen
(15) calendar days from the date that notice is provided as set out in
subsection B3 below. The notice shall identify the property and state the
nature of the variance requested, and shall also state that if no written
objections to the variance are received within fifteen (15) calendar days of
the date of the notice, the variance may be granted administratively without a
hearing, and that if written objections are received within that fifteen (15)
day period, the variance request will be submitted to the planning and zoning
commission for a public hearing upon payment of the variance fee.
         d.   A denial by the zoning administrator under this paragraph may be
appealed to the planning and zoning commission.
   3.   Application And Hearing Procedures:
         a.   Generally: A schedule of fees to be charged for variance
applications under this section, which are designed to partially defray the
costs of administering and enforcing this section, shall be established by
resolution of the city council. Applications for requested variances shall be
made according to the following procedures:
      (1)   Prospective applicants shall first confer with the zoning
administrator, who shall initially review the proposed request and shall issue
applications forms and methods prescribed by the zoning administrator.
      (2)   The applicant shall complete and submit the prescribed application
forms provided by the zoning administrator in accordance with prescribed
methods, along with the required non-refundable processing fee, in advance of
the time and date established as the deadline.
      (3)   The zoning administrator shall review the application and after
consultation with and review by other agencies as deemed appropriate by the
zoning administrator shall prepare a recommendation to be presented within
thirty (30) days before the planning and zoning commission. Said recommendation
shall be supported and based on the provisions contained in this chapter and/or
other applicable regulations.
      (4)   The zoning administrator may advise and make recommendations to the
applicant in an effort to arrive at a favorable recommendation but will not
prevent by any means the applicant from making his, her or its request. A
recommendation not to approve shall be explained and made available to the
applicant no less than five (5) days prior to the public hearing before the
planning and zoning commission.
         b.   Public Hearing; Notice Requirements: Variances may become
effective only after a public hearing has been held at which all interested
parties and/or citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. Signs, supplied
by the zoning administrator, shall be posted a minimum of fifteen (15) days on
at least four (4) corners of the subject property, to notify adjacent property
owners of the proposed variance request. Notice of the time and place of the
public hearing shall be published at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date
of the hearing in a newspaper with general circulation in the jurisdiction of
the city. Notice of the public hearing shall also be mailed by certified mail,
return receipt requested to the owners, as shown by the records of the Dona Ana
County Tax Assessor, of lots of land within one hundred feet (100') of and in
every direction from the area under consideration, excluding distances devoted
to public rights-of-way.
      4.   The zoning administrator shall submit all applications for variances
that represent a deviation of more than ten percent (10%), along with the
required site plan and the zoning administrator's findings of fact and
recommendations, to the planning and zoning commission for the earliest hearing
practicable.
      5.   A denial of a variance by the planning and zoning commission may be
appealed to the city council.
   6.   The following findings are required for approval of any variance:
         a.   Granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, or welfare, or be materially injurious to properties or
improvements in the area of notice.
         b.   Granting of the variance is justified because there is a physical
hardship or extraordinary economic hardship for the applicant resulting from
the size, shape, existing structures, or topographical or other physical
conditions on the site or in the area of notice.
         c.   Granting the variance will uphold the spirit and intent of this
chapter and accomplish substantial justice.
   C.   Conditional Uses:
      1.   Accessory Dwelling Unit: Accessory dwelling units shall meet the
following criteria:
         a.   The total dwelling area of such unit shall be no greater in size
than one-third (1/3) of the total dwelling area of the single-family unit;
         b.   The total dwelling area of such unit shall be no greater in size
than six hundred and fifty (650) square feet;
         c.   Legal title to such unit and single-family unit shall be held in
the same name; and
         d.   Must comply with all requirements found in sections 10-10-1 and
10-10-2 and title 1, chapter 9 of this code.
   2.   Outdoor Café:
         a.   Outdoor cafés are permitted as a conditional use in the
commercial zones, but shall also be considered for tienditas.
         b.   Outdoor cafés shall be allowed on private property without a
conditional use permit.
      c.   Outdoor cafés shall be allowed in public right-of-way as long as:
      (1)   An encroachment permit is obtained in accordance with subsection F.
      (2)   The outdoor eating area is enclosed/separated from the public
travel area via a low fence/wall.
      (3)   A minimum forty-two inch (42") clearance is maintained for
pedestrian movement within the public walk-way.
      (4)   Adequate ingress and egress to the outdoor eating area is provided.
      (5)   Outdoor cafés serving alcohol meet all state standards and have
adequate liquor license in place.
   3.   Tiendita:
         a.   Tienditas are only permitted on lands identified for such use on
the original, recorded plat of the land. Additional tiendita uses will not be
permitted if such use is not explicitly identified on the original plat.
         b.   Tienditas shall have specific hours of operation identified as a
condition of the conditional use permit.
         c.   Tienditas shall not sell, store, fabricate, generate, or produce
noxious materials that may constitute a hazard for adjacent uses and
structures.
         d.   Operation of the tiendita shall not create a nuisance for
adjacent residential uses from noise, overflow onto adjacent private
properties, excessive vehicular movements and parking adjacent to the use, and
other like nuisances.
   4.   Awnings:
         a.   Awnings are permitted as a conditional use in all the residential
and commercial zones.
         b.   Awnings shall be allowed on private property without a
conditional use permit.
      c.   Awnings shall be allowed in public right-of-way as long as:
      (1)   An encroachment permit is obtained in accordance with subsection F.
      (2)   The awnings do not protrude at a distance or height so as to create
a danger to pedestrian or vehicular movement within the public walk-way or
public right-of-way.
   D.   Temporary Uses: The purpose of this section is to identify specific
temporary uses that may be conducted within listed zoning districts for certain
time periods and under special conditions.
      1.   Submittal Requirements: To obtain a permit for a temporary use, the
following information must be provided for the permit.
      a.   A description of the temporary use.
         b.   A site plan showing the location of all structures (both
temporary and permanent) which includes the distance from these structures to
the property lines and each other. Temporary structures must be at least five
feet (5') from all side and rear property lines and at least fifteen feet (15')
from property lines along a roadway. These structures shall not violate the
clear sight triangle. These structures, excluding fences and signs, must be at
least ten feet (10') from all other buildings on the property.
         c.   The site plan must also show the traffic circulation including
parking spaces and driving aisles on the property. There shall be adequate room
for traffic circulation around the temporary use. Temporary uses are not
permitted to obstruct more than:
      (1)   Twenty-five percent (25%) of the parking area if there are twenty
(20) parking spaces or less;
      (2)   Fifteen percent (15%) of the parking area if there are between
twenty-one (21) and fifty (50) parking spaces;
      (3)   Ten percent (10%) of the parking area if there are more than fifty
(50) parking spaces; and
      (4)   The temporary use shall not obstruct disabled accessible parking
spaces.
         d.   The date the temporary use will start and end and the hours of
operation.
         e.   The name and address of the property owner at the location of the
temporary use. Property owners must consent in writing to the temporary use on
their property.
   2.   Time Limitations:
         a.   Temporary uses are restricted to the time limits and zoning
districts listed below.
         b.   Temporary uses not listed in this section shall be permitted for
up to fourteen (14) calendar days at one (1) location in a calendar year. A
single temporary use conducted for longer than the time limits stated in this
section for that use shall be considered a permanent use and shall comply with
all municipal and other city code requirements.
      (1)   Carnival, amusement park or hall, circus: These uses are permitted
for no more than fourteen (14) calendar days at a single location one (1) time
in a calendar year (not including the time required to set up and take down the
structures associated with the use). Permitted in MU-NC, MU-MSC, and MU-CC
zones.
      (2)   Christmas tree stands: Sales of Christmas trees shall not occur
before November 15 or after December 31. Permitted in MU-MSC and MU-CC zones.
      (3)   Community wide event: Temporary uses at the time of a community
wide event are permitted to begin one (1) week (seven (7) calendar days) before
the beginning of the community wide event and shall end three (3) calendar days
from the last day of the community wide event. These temporary uses are
permitted in addition to other types of temporary uses such as tent sales and
outdoor sales and displays. Permitted in STR-2, STR-1, MU-NC, MU-MSC, and MU-CC
zones.
      (4)   Firework stands: Sale of fireworks shall not occur before June 20
or after July 6. Sale of fireworks is also permitted three (3) calendar days
preceding and including each of the following holidays: New Year's Day, Chinese
New Year and Cinco de Mayo of each year. Permitted in MU-CC zone.
      (5)   Flea markets: Temporary flea markets shall operate for no more than
thirty (30) calendar days at one (1) location in a calendar year. Permitted in
MU-MSC and MU-CC zones.
      (6)   Kiddie ride carnival and exhibits: These uses shall be permitted
for no more than fourteen (14) calendar days at a single location one (1) time
in a calendar year. Permitted in MU-NC, MU-MSC, and MU-CC zones.
      (7)   Special events: These events shall be permitted for no more than
fourteen (14) calendar days at a single location one (1) time in a calendar
year. Permitted in MU-MSC and MU-CC zones.
      (8)   Temporary outside sales and displays: These types of sales and
displays shall be permitted for no more than twenty-one (21) calendar days at a
single location one (1) time in a calendar year. Permitted in MU-NC, MU-MSC,
and MU-CC zones.
      (9)   Temporary stands: These uses are permitted for no more than three
(3) months for the sale of seasonal merchandise and for no more than thirty
(30) calendar days for nonseasonal merchandise. Permitted in MU-NC, MU-MSC, and
MU-CC zones.
      (10)   Tent sales and activities: These types of sales and activities
shall be permitted for no more than twenty-one (21) calendar days at a single
location one (1) time in a calendar year. Permitted in MU-MSC, and MU-CC zones.
The fire department has several requirements for tents which must also be met.
      (11)   Yard, garage or rummage sales, fund raising or celebration
activities for nonprofit organization: These types of uses shall be conducted
for no more than four (4) calendar days, three (3) times at one (1) location in
a calendar year. No permits are required for these uses when conducted from an
individual's dwelling or an institution. If conducted from a business or other
property not used mainly for residential or institutional purposes, all
requirements for temporary uses must be met. This use is permitted in all
zones.
   3.   Signs: Signs shall be regulated exclusively by this title, chapter 14.
   E.   Fences And Walls: Fences and walls are permitted accessory uses in all
districts and are further regulated as follows:
   1.   Zoning Permit:
         a.   No fence or wall shall be constructed or altered until a zoning
permit for such erection or alteration shall have been issued by the zoning
administrator. Such permit shall be valid for a period of one hundred and
eighty (180) days after which period the permit shall lapse and become void
unless a building permit has been issued within said period and is not
thereafter canceled. This zoning permit is a prerequisite for a building permit
that must be obtained from Dona Ana County.
   2.   Fence and Wall Location:
         a.   No fence or wall shall be located in the front yard setback of
the principal structure, unless required for grading between adjacent parcels
and in that case shall be only tall enough as needed for grading/retaining
purposes.
         b.   No fence in the vision clearance triangle shall exceed two and a
half (2.5) feet in height above mean street grade.
      c.   All walls and fences shall require a building permit.
         d.   Walls and fences constructed as part of a master planned
subdivision may be constructed straddling lot lines.
         e.   Retaining walls constructed after original development shall be
located such that no part of the wall or footing is outside the property
boundaries (i.e., no encroachment on adjacent property).
         f.   Retaining walls retaining more than thirty (30) inches of soil or
other fill material and all walls exceeding seventy-two (72) inches in height
shall be designed by a professional engineer licensed to practice in the state.
         g.   Fences shall be located outside of easement areas unless planning
and zoning commission approval is granted to place a fence in or on the
easement.
   3.   Fence And Wall Construction:
         a.   All structural and support components of a fence shall face away
from adjacent properties.
         b.   All fences shall be constructed in such a manner and of such
materials and colors as to not adversely affect the appearance of the
neighborhood or adjacent property values.
      c.   Permissible fence and wall materials:
         (1)   Rock and mortar walls;
         (2)   Solid Masonry:
            A.   Brick and mortar;
            B.   Split-faced CMU; and
            C.   CMU must have integral earth tone color;
         (3)   Wrought Iron;
         (4)   Stucco (finish);
   (5)   Panelized system if reviewed and approved by the zoning administrator.
      d.   Prohibited Fence Materials/Colors:
         (1)   Smoothed faced CMU, unless covered with a stucco finish;
         (2)   Plain concrete colored CMU.
         e.   All walls shall have adequate footings such that they remain in a
straight and plumb condition.
         f.   Chain link fences shall be allowed only in public recreational
field/court conditions not perimeter boundaries or for civic use subject to the
conditional use provisions in section 10-19-8C2.
   4.   Maintenance:
         a.   All fences and walls shall be maintained in good repair at all
times. No signs or advertising shall be permitted on a fence or wall. No
materials shall be stored between the fence/wall and the lot line.
   F.   Encroachments:
   1.   Encroachment Permits:
         a.   Person seeking to obtain encroachments into or onto public
rights-of-way or other public property shall follow the following procedure:
      (1)   An application shall be submitted to the zoning administrator
requesting an encroachment permit.
         (2)   The zoning administrator shall:
            A.   Prepare a staff report and forward to the city council;
            B.   Set a city council public hearing date;
      C.   Notify the public. Notification to occur through the posting of the
city council agenda.
      (3)   The city council shall hear the comments in response to the
application and shall either:
            A.   Approve;
            B.   Approve with additional conditions; or
            C.   Deny the application.
         b.   The zoning administrator shall notify the applicant within ten
(10) days of the city council meeting of the final decision.
         c.   The issuance of an encroachment permit by the city council shall
require the payment of a fee to be established by city council resolution.
(Ord. 2005-08, 12-6-2005)
10-19-10: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Definitions:
AUDITORIUM: A large room to accommodate an audience in a building such as a
school or theater, or, an indoor or outdoor facility to hold public meetings or
performances.
ASSISTED LIVING: A living arrangement in which people with special needs,
especially seniors with disabilities, reside in a facility that provides help
with everyday tasks such as bathing, dressing, and taking medication.
BACK-OUTS: Additional area within a parking lot to adequately assist vehicles
backing out of spaces with the proper turning radius.
CHURCH OR RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION:    A building, together with its accessory
buildings and uses, where persons regularly assemble for religious worship and
which is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain
public worship.
CLINIC: A facility which is often associated with a hospital or medical school
that is devoted to the diagnosis and care of outpatients.
DAY/CHILD CARE: Child care center, group child care home, family child care
home, preschool, nursery school, day nursery, kindergarten and similar uses
shall be in accord with state licensing requirements.
DUPLEX: One (1) building arranged, intended or designed to be occupied by two
(2) families living independently of each other and having separate cooking
facilities in each dwelling unit.
DWELLING UNIT, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED (SFA):    A residential structure on a
private lot or lots, which is attached to other units horizontally or
vertically.
DWELLING UNIT, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED (SFD):   A residential structure on a
private lot, detached from other units and designed for and occupied by no more
than one (1) family for living purposes.
GROSS SQUARE FEET (GSF): Total building area measured from outside walls. For
example, a building that is sixty feet (60') by one hundred feet (100') would
have a gross square footage of six thousand (6,000) square feet.
HOSPITAL: An institution providing health services, primarily for inpatients,
and medical or surgical care of the sick or injured, including as an integral
part of the institution, such related facilities as laboratories, outpatient
departments, training facilities, central service facilities and staff offices.
HOTEL/LODGING: One (1) or more buildings providing temporary lodging primarily
to persons who have residences elsewhere, or both temporary and permanent
lodging in guest rooms, or apartments.
INDEPENDENT LIVING: A living arrangement that maximizes independence and self-
determination, especially of disabled persons living in a community instead of
in a medical facility.
LANDSCAPE ISLAND: Space reserved within a parking lot to contain landscaping.
LIBRARY: A publicly operated facility housing a collection of books, magazines,
multi-media, or other material for use by the general public.
LONG TERM PARKING/STORAGE:   An area dedicated for the storage of household
goods or the parking of boats, trailers, and other larger vehicles for a period
of thirty (30) days or more.
MULTI-FAMILY: Three (3) or more dwelling units attached with a common wall.
Multi-family units may also have shared common amenities on the property.
MUSEUM: A building, place, or institution devoted to the acquisition,
conservation, study, exhibition, and educational interpretation of objects
having scientific, historical, or artistic value.
OFFICE: Occupancy primarily for the provision of professional, executive,
management, or administrative services; excluding, however, clinic or office,
dental or medical. Typical uses include real estate offices, brokerage firms,
legal offices, or architectural firms.
ON-STREET PARKING: Areas within the right-of-way of a public street that is
designated to parking. This parking is typically designed to be parallel or
angled.
OPACITY: An object or group of objects that causes an area to be of obscurity
or impenetrability.
PARKING LOT: An area provided for self-parking by employees, visitors,
residents, and/or patrons of any public/institutional, commercial, industrial,
or multi-family residential use.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:
   A.   Travel trailers, camping trailers, fifth-wheel trailers, and all other
vehicles that are constructed to include a chassis, integral wheels and a
towing hitch, and are primarily designed or constructed to provide temporary,
readily moveable living quarters for recreation, camping, or travel uses.
   B.   Pickup campers, either mounted or non-mounted, or any structure
designed to be mounted in the bed of a truck and providing living quarters for
recreation, camping, or travel uses.
   C.   Chassis mount, motor home, mini-motor home or other recreational
structure or vehicles constructed integrally with a truck or motor van chassis
and incapable of being separated therefrom, and designed to be used for
moveable living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel uses.
   D.   Recreational vans or converted and chopped vans or other vehicles which
are either initially constructed or converted to contain living quarters for
recreational, camping, or travel uses.
   E.   Trailers, boats, etc.
RESTAURANT (SIT DOWN): An establishment where food/drink is typically consumed
on-site. This type of restaurant may include indoor or outdoor seating for
serving and consumption of food on-site.
RESTAURANT (DRIVE THRU): An establishment where food/drink is consumed on or
off-site. This establishment may include a drive thru operation where food/
drink is purchased for off-site consumption.
RETAIL: Sale to the ultimate consumer for direct consumption or use and not for
resale.
SENIOR HOUSING/ASSISTED   A living arrangement in which people with special
LIVING: needs, especially seniors with disabilities, reside in a facility that
provides help with everyday tasks such as bathing, dressing, and taking
medication.
SCHOOL, ELEMENTARY, MIDDLE, OR HIGH:   A public or private school meeting all
requirements of the compulsory education laws of the state and providing
instruction to students in kindergarten through grade twelve (12). Middle and
high schools are generally grades seven (7) through twelve (12).
SPORTS FIELD: This area is designated as recreational sporting facilities to
include baseball, softball, or full size soccer uses.
YEAR ROUND LANDSCAPING: Coniferous landscape material that does not lose its
foliage. Foliage exists all year long.
   B.   Parking Spaces Required:
   1.   Residential:
      a.   Single-family dwellings:
         (1)   Single-family detached: 2 off-street spaces per dwelling;
      (2)   Single-family attached: 1.5 off-street spaces per dwelling on
average;
      (3)   Two (2) car garages are required for all single-family detached
residential dwellings;
      (4)   One (1) car garage is required for all single-family attached
residential dwellings.
      b.   Multiple family dwellings/senior housing-Independent living:
         (1)   Studio or 1 bedroom = 1 off-street space;
         (2)   2 bedrooms = 1.75 spaces;
         (3)   3 bedrooms or more = 2.25 spaces;
         (4)   0.5 spaces per unit for guest parking;
   (5)   On-street parking adjacent to the site can count toward guest parking.
      c.   Senior housing-assisted living:
         (1)   0.5 spaces per dwelling unit;
         (2)   0.2 spaces per unit for guest parking;
         (3)   0.2 spaces per unit for employee parking;
   (4)   On-street parking adjacent to the site can count toward guest parking.
   2.   Non-residential Uses:
      a.   Auditorium: 1 space per 200 gsf;
      b.   Churches: 1 space per 5 seats;
         c.   Day/child care: 2 spaces, plus 1 additional space per 10
children, plus .75 space per every employee;
      d.   Hospitals: 2 spaces per room;
      e.   Library/museums: 1 space per 300 gsf;
      f.   Lodging: .75 space per room, 1 per employee;
      g.   Office: 1 space per 300 gsf;
      h.   Restaurants and clinics: 1 space per 200 gross square feet;
      i.   Retail/merchandising: 1 space per 300 gsf;
         j.   Schools: 1 space per teacher/staff member, and 1 space for every
5 students 16 years of age and older. Additional parking may be required if the
facility has an auditorium or gymnasium - 1 space per every 5 seats;
      k.   Sports field: 30 spaces per field.
   3.   On-Street Parking Credit:
         a.   Seventy-five percent (75%) of on-street parking on the side of
the street immediate to any public street frontage of a use/building can be
included towards the required parking count (see Exhibit 10.1) for the use/
building fronting such on-street parking.
         b.   To receive credit for on-street parking, stalls shall meet the
stall dimensional requirements and the street shall meet the city's design
standards. In the event that the street is later widened, or the status changed
to prohibit on-street parking, the use on the property will become legal
nonconforming (see Exhibit 10.1).
Exhibit 10.1: On-Street Parking
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1693.png]
 
   4.   Off-site Parking Credit (MU-NC And MU-MSC Zones Only):
         a.   Off-site parking ownership or current lease of parking spaces
within a seven hundred fifty foot (750') radius measured from the perimeter
boundary of the site dedicated to the use in question during its hours of
operation shall be considered towards parking requirement.
         b.   This off-street parking credit should only account for no greater
than fifty percent (50%) of the total required spaces.
         c.   The zoning administrator shall have the authority to approve such
a parking strategy, through a zoning permit, that ultimately meets the parking
requirements identified in subsection B1 and provided for via adjacent off-
street parking or via subsection B3 through B5.
         d.   The uses upon which the parking agreement/lease is approved shall
not be changed without the zoning administrator's approval.
         e.   Dedicated parking spaces via lease or the shared parking
agreement shall be established for off-site spaces.
         f.   Divesting ownership or terminating lease of the required parking
spaces shall result in termination of the zoning permit until the deficiency is
rectified.
   5.   Shared Parking:
         a.   To reduce the amount of land dedicated to parking lots, an
applicant may propose a parking strategy using shared parking and differential
time use.
         b.   The minimum lease for this parking agreement would be five (5)
years.
         c.   The zoning administrator shall have the authority to approve such
a parking strategy, through a zoning permit, that ultimately meets the parking
requirements identified in subsections B1 through B4 above, after determining
that adequate parking is provided for the proposed uses.
         d.   The uses upon which the parking agreement/lease is approved shall
not be changed without the zoning administrator's approval.
         e.   Divesting ownership or terminating lease of the required parking
spaces shall result in termination of the use permit until the deficiency is
rectified.
   C.   Parking Lots:
   1.   Location:
         a.   Parking lots shall in general be located behind the principal
building.
         b.   Parking lots shall be set back a minimum of six (6) feet from a
public street to accommodate adequate screening.
   2.   Surfacing:
         a.   All off-street parking areas and aisles shall be graded and
surfaced to be properly drained.
         b.   Parking areas shall be paved with concrete or asphalt surfacing,
or with special paving materials such as brick.
   3.   Landscaping:
         a.   All off-street parking areas which serve twenty (20) vehicles or
more shall be provided with landscape islands within the parking lot totaling
not less than five percent (5%) of the surfaced area.
         b.   The minimum size of each landscape island shall be one hundred
seventy (170) square feet (see Exhibit 10.2).
         c.   Landscape islands shall consist of trees, shrubs and other low
water plantings (see Exhibit 10.3).
         d.   Any landscape island less than one hundred seventy (170) square
feet shall not count towards the requirement.
         e.   One (1) canopy tree shall be provided for every fifteen (15)
parking spaces.
         f.   Canopy trees must be evenly distributed throughout the parking
lot.
         g.   In areas where a canopy tree would be located in the landscape
buffer adjacent to a sidewalk/parkway, up to fifty percent (50%) of the street
trees immediate to the lot may be counted towards the minimum parking lot tree
requirement.
         h.   Structurally covered or underground motor vehicle parking spaces
are not included in calculating the required number and location of canopy
trees.
Exhibit 10.2: Landscape Island
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1691.png]
 
Exhibit 10.3: Landscaped Island Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1689.png]
 
   4.   Screening:
         a.   All commercial and multi-family parking lots shall be screened
from all adjacent residential uses.
         b.   Screening shall be between thirty inches (30") and forty-two
inches (42") in height.
         c.   Low masonry walls, fences, and/or landscaping that provides
minimum seventy-five percent (75%) opacity for the length of the screening
counts as screening.
      d.   All landscape screening shall be year-round.
   5.   Size Of Parking Stalls And Drive Aisles:
         a.   The minimum dimensional requirements for parking stalls and
driving aisles are shown in the following table (Exhibit 10.4).
Exhibit 10.4: Parking Stall Requirements
 
Parking                                                    Width of Width of
Angle      Stall Width Stall Length Stall Base Stall Depth One- Way Two- Way
                                                           Aisle    Aisle
30°       9'          19'          18'        17.3'       11'      24'
45°       9'          19'          12.7'      19.8'       13'      24'
60°       9'          19'          10.4'      21'         18'      24'
90°       9'          20'          9'         20'         24'      24'
0°        9'          22'          22'        9'          12'      22'
(parallel)
 
      b.   General Notes:
   (1)   All angle parking, except ninety (90) degree and parallel parking,
shall have aisles designed for one-way traffic flow only, except that two-way
traffic is permitted where angled and ninety (90) degree parking share a drive
lane and as reviewed and approved by the zoning administrator.
   (2)   All parking lot designs shall have primary ingress and egress to a
public street, access easement or alley.
   (3)   Circulation within a parking lot shall be designed to minimize aisles
with one (1) inlet/outlet. Aisles with only one (1) inlet/outlet shall provide
"back outs" for end spaces. (see Exhibit 10.5)
Exhibit 10.5: Back Outs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1687.png]
 
   (4)   All parking spaces abutting walkways and buildings shall provide
parking stops.
   (5)   All off-street parking areas must comply with State of New Mexico
Accessibility requirements and with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
   D.   Parking Storage: The long-term parking or storage of: boats/
recreational vehicles, semi-tractors and semitrailers, and construction
vehicles and equipment (except during periods of permitted construction
activity and/or deliveries) is prohibited in the MU-NC, MU-MSC, MU-CC, STR2 and
STR-1 zones. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-6-2005)
CHAPTER 20
ENTERTAINMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-20-1: Title
10-20-2: Purpose
10-20-3: Creation
10-20-4: Applicability
10-20-5: Special Uses
10-20-6: Development Site Plans
10-20-7: Dimensional Standards
10-20-8: Parking Requirements
10-20-9: Building Design Standards
10-20-10: Illustrations
10-20-11: Supplemental Nature
10-20-12: Zoning Map Amended
10-20-1:  TITLE:  
This chapter shall be entitled "Entertainment District Overlay Zone Ordinance"
hereinafter referred to as "this chapter." (Ord. 2022-2, 1-4-2022)
10-20-2: PURPOSE: 
The purpose of this chapter is to enact the standards necessary to promote the
development of a thriving entertainment district in the City of Sunland Park
with distinctive aesthetic characteristics. (Ord. 2022-2, 1-4-2022)
10-20-3: CREATION: 
The Entertainment District Overlay Zone is hereby created and shall have the
boundaries and standards reflected in this chapter. (Ord. 2022-2, 1-4-2022)
10-20-4: APPLICABILITY: 
The boundaries of the Entertainment District Overlay Zone are synonymous with
the boundaries labeled as "Entertainment District Overlay" in Figure 1 (below).
This area and the Entertainment District Overlay Zone may be referred to
interchangeably as the "Entertainment District."
   Figure 1: Entertainment District Overlay Zone Boundaries
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1828.png]
 
(Ord. 2022-2, 1-4-2022)
10-20-5:  SPECIAL USES: 
The following special uses may be approved by the planning and zoning
commission in accord with the provisions of this chapter and the procedures set
forth in city code section
10-10-2 (Ord. 1998-02, 4-7-1998):
   A.   Auditoriums;
   B.   Arenas;
   C.   Communication facilities;
   D.   Antennas mounted on existing buildings and water towers;
   E.   Conference facilities;
   F.   Casinos and gambling;
   G.   Amusement parks;
   H.   Miniature golf;
   I.   Museums;
   J.   Restaurants and bars;
   K.   Retail;
   L.   Recreational and medical cannabis retail facilities;
   M.   Convention centers;
   N.   Breweries and micro-breweries;
   O.   Wineries;
   P.   Hotels and lodging;
   Q.   Sports or recreational facilities of all types;
   R.   Mixed-use commercial-residential units; and
   S.   Any use which would otherwise be permitted by the base zoning within
the Entertainment District. (Ord. 2022-2, 1-4-2022; amd. Ord. 2022-8, 6-21-
2022)
10-20-6:  DEVELOPMENT SITE PLANS: 
New developments within the Entertainment District shall require a site plan to
be included with the application for special use permit which shall include the
following:
   A.   Proposed uses;
   B.   Building locations;
   C.   Building setbacks and heights;
   D.   Architectural materials;
   E.   Access to site;
   F.   Internal traffic circulation;
   G.   Parking;
   H.   Pedestrian accommodations;
   I.   Landscaping;
   J.   Walls and fences;
   K.   Sign locations; and
   L.   Lighting. (Ord. 2022-2, 1-4-2022)
10-20-7:  DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Lot Size, Minimum: The minimum lot size within the Entertainment
District is five thousand (5,000) square feet. This is designed to accommodate
three (3) story mixed-use structures with two (2) floors of minimum five
hundred (500) square feet apartment units that are able to provide on-street
parking. Should parking need to be handled on-site, either the lot size
increases, or the number of units decreases to meet this demand.
      1.   Upon application, City Council may allow density averaging in order
to maximize the amount of open space provided.
         (a)   An increase in density application must to include the addition
of passive or active open space.
      2.   For mixed-use developments that include residential units above
first floor commercial, the requested average number of units shall not exceed
two (2) per one thousand (1,000) square feet and must be consistent with the
master plan land use designation.
   B.   Lot Width, Minimum: Lot size, including width and dimension shall be
included in the site plan and shall be compatible with surrounding established
neighborhoods and able to accommodate the setback, open space, and all other
relevant requirements of the Entertainment District.
   C.   Front Yard Setback: Front yard setbacks shall be zero (0) feet in the
Entertainment District.
      1.   The purpose of this setback is to help bring activity to the public
realm and provide street enclosure for passing vehicles narrowing their field
of vision and resulting in slower speeds. A front yard setback of zero (0) feet
is also intended to ensure parking is located at the rear of the building,
allowing for a more-dense and lively streetscape.
      2.   All setback lines shall be measured between the nearest points
between any building facade and the nearest property line or right-of-way.
      3.   Outdoor patios at the front yard setback must be designed in a way
to structurally be a part of the building and provide the zero setback.
      4.   Front yard setback above the first floor of development shall be
five (5) feet to ensure patios and balconies for residential units in a mixed-
use building. The presence of patrons, resident and visitors provides 'eyes on
the street' and increases the feeling of safety and accountability, as well as
adds life to the district.
   D.   Side Yard Setback: The minimum setback for side yards not facing a
public street shall be fifteen (15) feet.
      1.   The purpose of this setback is to accommodate growth in the area as
common driveways to shared rear parking lots are utilized.
   E.   Side Yard Setback, Corner Lot: For corner lots, where common access
will not be necessary, the side yard setback shall be five (5) feet.
      1.   The purpose of this setback is to contribute to the dense built
environment. This also provides an opportunity to include additional greenspace
as the front yard setback is at the back of sidewalk and provide hierarchy
within the street network.
   F.   Rear Yard Setback, Minimum: The minimum setback from a rear lot line
shall be fifteen (15) feet for primary and accessory structures.
   G.   Building Height Requirements: The maximum height of any structure in
the Entertainment District shall be forty-two (42) feet, except as otherwise
provided herein.
      1.   This design accommodates three-story mixed-use developments with
retail or restaurant space on the first floor that requires ceiling or utility
space greater than ten (10) feet. The height maximum is intended to serve the
usable space of a building, and therefore shall not include any necessary
rooftop screening structures.
      2.   It is encouraged that the building cornice be designed and utilized
in a way to provide screening of rooftop units.
      3.   For Mixed-Use and Retail structures, no more than three (3) stories
shall be permitted. The maximum height of accessory structures shall be fifteen
(15) feet.
      4.   For hotels and convention centers, the maximum height shall be
fifty-two (52) feet.
      5.   For amusement parks, there shall be no maximum height restriction.
   H.   A summary of the above dimensional standards is contained in Figure 2,
below:
Figure 2: Entertainment District Overlay Zone (ENT) Dimensional Standards
Summary
Lot Standards Overlay Zone
Figure 2: Entertainment District Overlay Zone (ENT) Dimensional Standards
Summary
Lot Standards              Overlay Zone
A Lot size, minimum        5,000 sq. ft.
B Lot width, minimum       75 ft.
Setback Standards
C Front, minimum general   0 ft.
D Side, minimum general    15 ft.
E Side, minimum corner lot 5 ft.
F Rear, minimum            15 ft.
Building Height
                           42 ft. (general)
G Building height, max     52 ft. (hotel and convention center)
                           N/A (amusement parks)
 
(Ord. 2022-2, 1-4-2022; amd. Ord. 2022-8, 6-21-2022)
10-20-8:  PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Intent. To promote shared parking within the Entertainment District
where visitors are able to 'park once' and visit multiple businesses.
   B.   The following parking minimums shall apply to each development, and
where on-street, public or shared parking is within one hundred (100) feet.
      1.   Residential: one (1) space per dwelling unit.
      2.   Retail/Commercial: three (3) spaces per one thousand (1,000) square
feet.
      3.   Restaurant: one (1) space per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
common area and one (1) space per three (3) seats based on occupant load or
dining layout.
   C.   Development site plans that utilize on-street parking shall provide for
curb-and-gutter with bump-outs to enclose parking from the travel lanes as well
as necessary sidewalk connections with ADA accessibility and marked crossings.
(Ord. 2022-2, 1-4- 2022)
10-20-9:  BUILDING DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Four-Sided Design:
      1.   Intent: Buildings shall not look like they have a fake facade pasted
on the front of them. Buildings shall be designed to ensure that they look like
the same building on all sides. Consistent building details and proportions on
all sides ensure a "four-sided" quality to a building.
      2.   The design of the building shall provide consistent architectural
details and avoid monotonous building massing and design. Architectural details
and colors shall be consistent on all building walls. All sides of a building
shall display a similar level of quality and architectural interest. The
majority of a building's architectural features and treatments shall not be
restricted to a single facade.
      3.   All building elevations shall contain windows.
   B.   Signage:
      1.   Intent: A building shall not be dominated by corporate or trademark
architectural details; a building shall be compatible with other surrounding
buildings and should not consist of building forms that primarily serve as
signage and marketing elements. To achieve this, the total area of a building
sign shall not exceed ten (10) square feet or five (5) percent of the building
face. The area of the sign shall be calculated by encompassing it in a four-
sided rectangular shape.
      2.   Dimensions: The total area of a building sign shall not exceed ten
(10) square feet or five (5) percent of the building face, whichever is
smaller. The area of the sign shall be calculated by encompassing it in a four-
sided rectangular shape.
      3.   Design Integration: On all street frontages, signage material shall
be integrated into the overall design of the building. Signs shall be located
to complement the architectural features of a building such as above the
building entrance, storefront opening, or other similar features.
      4.   Prohibited Signs: In addition to those signs prohibited by the
City's Sign Ordinance, the following signs are prohibited within the
Entertainment District:
         (a)   Pole Signs;
         (b)   Digital Displays. Exception: If and when device is allowed by
special event permit;
         (c)   Attention-Attracting Devices. This includes, but is not limited
to, pennants, streamers, searchlights, and air and gas filled balloons and
figures. Exception: If and when device is allowed by special event permit.
         (d)   Directly Illuminated Signs. Exception: when approved by the
Planning Commission or City Council as architectural lighting for a building.
      5.   Sign Illumination:
         (a)   Permanent signs may be illuminated via internal, indirect, and
halo illumination configurations, unless otherwise indicated. Temporary signs
shall not be illuminated.
         (b)   Illuminated signs shall not operate at brightness levels of more
than three-tenths foot-candles above ambient light conditions at the property
line, as measured using a foot-candle meter. Illumination levels shall be
measured in foot-candles with a meter sensor in a horizontal position at an
approximate height of three (3) feet above grade.
         (c)   Illuminated signs shall not consist of a static image projected
upon a stationary object.
      6.   Monument Signs. Developments or parcels with four (4) or more
tenants may be allowed a detached monument sign to serve all businesses on
location. The monument sign shall remain outside of the sight triangles and is
not permitted in the right-of-way.
         (a)   The depth of the sign base shall be at least one-fourth the
length of the width of the sign.
         (b)   The sign base shall consist of metal (rust and corrosion
resistant) or a masonry or concrete substructure with an exterior consisting of
durable masonry materials and include brick, split-face block, or natural or
synthetic cementitious stone or brick. The sign base shall be composed of
architectural features, forms, colors and materials consistent with the primary
architectural elements and materials consistent with or used in the development
or on the principal building.
         (c)   Individual signs are not to exceed six (6) square feet. Where
more than four (4) tenants are present on a monument sign, individual signs are
not to exceed four (4) square feet.
         (d)   Monument signs shall only display development or tenant names in
two (2) directions.
         (e)   Mixed-use developments are permitted a monument sign regardless
of number of first floor retail tenants.
   C.   Building Materials:
      1.   Intent. Buildings shall be attractive and durable. To ensure this,
buildings shall be constructed of high-quality materials and require minimal
maintenance. These standards shall apply to the first floor of mixed-use
properties and commercial properties. Brick, stone, and other types of masonry
or masonry veneer shall be detailed as masonry bearing walls, especially at
openings. Proper masonry detailing allows the building to be more pleasing to
the eye because masonry openings and corners appear to be structurally
supported.
      2.   All buildings within the Entertainment District, including pad site
buildings, shall be constructed of building materials and colors approved by
the Community and Economic Development Department as part of the development
application. Applications shall include illustrations and examples of building
materials and/or colors.
      3.   Permitted Materials. Exterior building materials are classified
according to their visual weight; exterior building materials shall include,
but shall not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Heavy:
            (1)   Stone;
            (2)   Cast stone;
            (3)   Brick;
            (4)   Integrally-colored split-face block.
         (b)   Medium Materials:
            (1)   Stucco;
            (2)   Exterior Insulated Finishing System (EIFS).
         (c)   Light Materials:
            (1)   High-quality solid wood;
            (2)   Cement board;
            (3)   Synthetic wood;
            (4)   Metal;
            (5)   Glass curtain wall.
      4.   Location.
         (a)   Heavy materials shall be located below medium and light
materials;
         (b)   Medium materials shall be located below light materials.
         (c)   Heavy materials shall extend to grade and not terminate at an
exterior or interior corner.
      5.   Required Masonry. At least forty (40) percent of the total exterior
wall area of each building elevation, excluding windows, doors, and related
trim, shall be heavy materials. The balance of exterior wall area shall be
medium or light materials.
      6.   Vertical Change of Materials. A vertical change of materials shall
occur at an interior corner or shall not occur within two (2) feet of an
exterior corner.
      7.   Materials Offset. Where there is a change in material on the same
wall, there shall be a minimum offset of four (4) inches. The change in
material is intended to apply to surface type such as masonry to stucco or wood
siding.
      8.   Prohibited Materials. Unless approved by the Site Plan Review
Committee, exterior building materials shall not include the following:
         (a)   Split shakes;
         (b)   Rough-sawn wood;
         (c)   Board and batten wood;
         (d)   Vinyl siding;
         (e)   Smooth-faced gray or stained concrete block;
         (f)   Painted concrete block;
         (g)   Tilt-up concrete panels; or
         (h)   Corrugated metal siding.
   D.   Building Modulation and Articulation:
      1.   Intent. Long, large buildings can be monotonous if they contain
large or long expanses of surface area with no detailing or shadow lines;
recesses and projections in building walls help to proportion and subdivide the
massing of large buildings. Tall building walls with little detailing emphasize
their height and dwarf human beings. Tall building walls shall have an apparent
base, middle, and top.
      2.   Facade Modulation. Any facade exceeding thirty (30) feet in length
shall include at least one change in wall plane such as projections or
recesses, having a depth of at least three (3) percent of the entire length of
the facade; this projection or recess shall extend over at least twenty (20)
percent of the entire length of the facade. Mixed-use developments shall be
exempt from the facade modulation standard.
      3.   Vertical Architectural Features. Columns, pilasters, piers, vertical
changes in wall planes, or vertical changes in texture or material shall be
considered vertical architectural features.
      4.   Building Base. A recognizable base shall include, but shall not be
limited to:
         (a)   Thicker walls, ledges, or sills.
         (b)   Integrally textured, colored, or patterned materials such as
stone or other masonry.
         (c)   Raised planters which are integral to the building facade.
   E.   Gutters and Downspouts:
      1.   Intent. Building devices used to control rainwater shall be
compatible with the roofing system and shall not dominate the facade of a
building. Parapets and cornices shall not be interrupted by stormwater
elements.
      2.   Exposed gutters are prohibited for use with flat roofs.
      3.   Exposed downspouts shall only be allowed at interior corners.
      4.   Gutters and downspouts shall be constructed of high-quality,
commercial-grade metal.
   F.   Windows:
      1.   Intent. Windows shall be vertically proportioned; this allows the
window opening to appear to be structurally supported. Upper-story windows
shall logically align with buildings bays and windows on the ground floor so
the upper floors look like they are part of the same building as the ground
floor.
      2.   Proportions. Window panes shall be vertically proportioned.
      3.   Trim. Window openings on brick, stone, cast stone, or synthetic
stone buildings shall not be trimmed. Lintels, sills, and arches are not
considered trim. Window openings without trim or moulding shall have window
frames at least two (2) inches wide when looking at the finished facade of the
building.
      4.   Upper Story Windows. Windows located above the ground floor shall
align with ground floor windows, ground floor doors, and the building
modulation.
   G.   Glazing:
      1.   Intent. The primary facade of a ground floor of a building shall
include transparent building materials. Ground floor transparency guarantees a
visual connection to the passers-by and is usually necessary for most retail
structures. By exposing the ground floor to the exterior, there is an
invitation to participate with the activity inside.
      2.   Required Transparency. Primary facades shall provide a minimum of
twenty-five (25) percent glazing or transparency. This calculation includes the
area of a building on the same plane of the glazing material and not intended
to include articulation or recessions.
      3.   Primary Facade. A primary facade shall be considered any front
facade or facade that fronts onto a street, accessway, pedestrian walkway, or
internal drive; alleys and service drives shall not be considered streets,
accessways, or internal drives for the purposes of this requirement.
      4.   Pedestrian View Plan. The pedestrian view plane shall be defined as
the exterior wall area located between two (2) feet and ten (10) feet above the
exterior grade.
      5.   Transparency. Glazing shall be considered to be transparent if it is
one hundred (100) percent transparent from both the exterior and the interior
of the building.
   H.   Awnings:
      1.   Intent. Because they provide shade, protect buildings and
pedestrians from sun, rain and snow, and add a more intimate scale to the
building, awnings are encouraged but not required for use on the ground floor
of a building with retail uses.
      2.   Length. Awnings shall be no longer than a single storefront, and not
intended to extend between multiple tenant spaces.
      3.   Height. The bottom of the awning shall not be higher than the top of
the windows. The bottom of the awning shall generally be no higher than nine
(9) feet above the average exterior grade.
      4.   Shape. Awnings shall fit the character and design of the building
and be pedestrian-scaled. Awnings for rectangular openings shall be simple,
shed shapes.
      5.   Material. Awnings shall be constructed of fabric, metal, or glass.
Fabric awnings are encouraged; canvas awnings with a matte finish are
preferred. Awnings with high gloss finish are discouraged. Illuminated, plastic
awnings are prohibited.
      6.   Color. Awnings shall be constructed of fabric, metal, or glass.
Fabric awnings are encouraged; canvas awnings with a matte finish are
preferred. Awnings with high gloss finish are discouraged. Illuminated, plastic
awnings are prohibited.
   I.   Building-Mounted lighting:
      1.   Intent. Building-mounted lighting shall be ed to highlight the
architectural features of the building and shall not completely light up the
entire facade of the building.
      2.   Building-mounted lighting may be used only to highlight specific
architectural features or primary customer or building entrances. General
floodlighting of building facades is not permitted.
      3.   Building-mounted neon or LED lighting is allowed only when recessed
or contained in an opaque cap or architectural reveal.
   J.   Pedestrian Accommodations:
      1.   Walkways. Walkways shall directly connect each front door or
entrance with surrounding sidewalks, walkways, or paths. In the Entertainment
District, a sidewalk shall have a minimum width of ten (10) feet when directly
adjacent to a public roadway and five (5) feet elsewhere. All properties and
tenant spaces shall provide a means of ADA access between the storefront and to
the public sidewalk network and/or parking fields where applicable.
      2.   Crosswalks. Pedestrian crossing zones shall be highlighted by the
use of white traffic marking paint to delineate the crossing path. The area may
be striped in, linearly with the crossing, or in boxes as 'continental
stripping'. To shorten the crossing distances for pedestrians, and protect on-
street parking, bump outs should be utilized to extend the sidewalk area and
narrow the roadway.
   K.   Landscaping:
      1.   Intent. The intent of this section is to provide greenery to
visually soften paved areas and buildings; to establish optimum environmental
conditions by providing shade, air purification, oxygen regeneration,
utilization of groundwater, retardation of stormwater runoff, and abatement of
noise, glare and heat; to ensure the replenishment of the local stock of native
trees by utilizing plant materials that are generally native or hearty to the
region; to preserve existing trees; to screen certain unsightly equipment or
materials from the view of persons on public streets or adjoining properties;
and to buffer uncomplimentary land uses and generally enhance the quality and
appearance of developed properties within the city.
      2.   General Requirements. All land area which are to be unpaved or not
covered by buildings shall be brought to finished grade and planted with turf
or native grass or other appropriate ground cover. In addition to the minimum
number of trees required to be planted by this section, an appropriate number
or amount of shrubs, ground cover and/or turf area plantings shall be included
within each project. Street trees are required along all streets and roadways.
Street trees provide continuous shade as well as a physical and visual barrier
between pedestrians on the sidewalk and vehicles in the roadway. For the
purpose of this standards, alleyways and service drives shall not be considered
a street or roadway.
      3.   Minimum Tree Requirements. Each parcel or development shall provide
a minimum of one tree per forty (40) feet of public or private street frontage.
Street trees shall be spaced a minimum of fifteen (15) feet and a maximum of
forty (40) feet for the full length of all streets and roadways. Where not
allowed within the public right-of-way, street trees shall be planted on the
private lots along the right-of-way.
      4.   Minimum Planting Requirements shall be as follows:
         (a)   Medium and large deciduous shade trees - two (2) inch caliper as
measured six (6) inches above ground.
         (b)   Small deciduous or ornamental trees - six (6) feet in height.
         (c)   Conifers - five (5) to six (6) feet in height.
         (d)   Upright evergreen trees - four (4) feet in height.
         (e)   The size of deciduous and conifer shrubs, including spreader and
globe tree forms, shall be determined by the applicant.
         (f)   Ground cover plants, whether in the form of crowns, plugs or
containers, shall be planted in a number as appropriate by species to provide
fifty (50) percent surface coverage after two growing seasons.
   L.   Screening Requirements. Plans for all residential projects containing
multifamily dwellings, all non-residential projects, and all commercial
projects shall provide screening of utility units by use of landscaping or
architectural elements.
      1.   Trash containers, trash compactors, roll-off recycling containers,
and groupings of three or more recycling containers and/or recycling containers
larger than ten (10) cubic yards shall be screened from public view on all four
sides with a solid wall constructed of masonry and a gate constructed of
compatible, durable, low-maintenance materials, and shall be appropriately
landscaped.
      2.   All rooftop equipment shall be screened from public view with an
architectural treatment which is compatible with the building architecture.
      3.   For purposes of this section, the phrase "screened from public view"
means not visible from any adjoining properties or any street right-of-way.
(Ord. 2022-2, 1-4-2022)
10-20-10: ILLUSTRATIONS: 
Illustrations of the design standards and the dimensional standards contained
within this chapter are reflected in the Figures 3 and 4, below:
   Figure 3: Application of Dimensional and Building Standards
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1830.png]
 
   Figure 4: Application of Dimensional and Building Standards
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1832.png]
 
(Ord. 2022-2, 1-4-2022)
10-20-11: SUPPLEMENTAL NATURE:
   A.   The Entertainment District Overlay Zone supplements but does not
replace the base zoning of the property within the Entertainment District's
boundaries. In the case of a conflict between the provisions of the
Entertainment District Overlay Zone's standards and those of the base zoning or
any other zoning regulation, the Entertainment District Overlay Zone's
provisions shall prevail.
   B.   Exception. The standards and restrictions contained within Sections
10-20-5 through
10-20-10 of this chapter shall not apply to properties within the Entertainment
District which are zoned R-1 Single Family Residential." (Ord. 2022-2, 1-4-
2022; amd. Ord. 2022-8, 6-21-2022)
10-20-12: ZONING MAP AMENDED: 
The Official Zoning Map for the city is hereby amended to reflect the adoption
of the Entertainment District Overlay Zone.
(Ord. 2022-2, 1-4-2022)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Jurisdiction And Applicability
11-1-4: Definitions
11-1-1: TITLE:
For the purpose of this Title these requirements may be referred to as the land
subdivision regulations of the City. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
These land subdivision regulations are adopted and shall be invoked to provide
for harmonious development of the City and its environs; to coordinate streets
within subdivisions with other existing or planned streets or with other
features of the City of Sunland Park Comprehensive Plan and of the territory
lying within three (3) miles of the City; to provide for adequate open spaces
for traffic, recreation, drainage, light and air; and to provide for a
distribution of population and traffic which will tend to create conditions
favorable to health, safety, convenience, prosperity or general welfare. (Ord.
2019-2, 4-12-2019)
11-1-3: JURISDICTION AND APPLICABILITY:
The land subdivision regulations shall be applicable to all of the territory
within the present Municipal boundary of the City, and all territory within
three (3) miles of such present Municipal boundary and shall be under the
jurisdiction of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Governing Body. If
annexation of land to the City should occur, these regulations automatically
apply to the annexed land and that land lying up to three (3) miles therefrom.
(Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
11-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases appearing in these land subdivision regulations
will be defined and interpreted as are set forth below. For this purpose, the
singular includes the plural and the plural includes the singular; the words
“shall” and “will” are mandatory the word “may” is permissive, and the
masculine gender includes the feminine gender.
                                        A public way used primarily as a
ALLEY:                                  service access to the rear or side of a
                                        property which abuts on a street.
                                        A major street or thoroughfare that
                                        carries, or will carry, a considerable
ARTERIAL:                               volume of traffic of more than
                                        neighborhood character and also serves
                                        abutting properties.
                                        The distance measured along a street
                                        between intersecting streets from
                                        center line to center line; and where
BLOCK:                                  the context requires, it also means the
                                        enclosed area within the perimeter of
                                        the streets or property lines enclosing
                                        it.
                                        Lines on a final plat that delineate
                                        where on the lot no building may be
BUILDING SETBACK LINES:                 erected. Building setbacks are defined
                                        in the City of Sunland Park Zoning
                                        Regulations.
                                        The regional agency with the authority
                                        to adopt and administer Subdivision,
CAMINO REAL REGIONAL UTILITY AUTHORITY  Zoning, Planning, and Platting Rules
(CRRUA):                                and Regulations within the CRRUA
                                        Subdivision, Zoning, Planning, and
                                        Platting Areas (SZPPA) within Dona Ana
                                        County.
CITY:                                   The City of Sunland Park, New Mexico.
                                        A street of relatively short length
                                        that serves as a connection between a
                                        major or secondary thoroughfare and
COLLECTOR STREET:                       several minor streets. The term
                                        includes the principal entrance streets
                                        of a residential development and
                                        streets for major circulation within
                                        such a development.
COMMISSION:                             The City Planning and Zoning
                                        Commission.
COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT      The Community and Economic Development
DEPARTMENT:                             Department of the City of Sunland Park.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:                     The Comprehensive Plan of the City of
                                        Sunland Park, New Mexico.
CRRUA SUBDIVISION, ZONING, PLANNING,    The area encompassing the City of
AND PLATTING AREAS (SZPPA):             Sunland Park extraterritorial planning
                                        and platting jurisdiction.
                                        A minor street with only one outlet and
CUL-DE-SAC:                             culminated by a turnaround at the dead
                                        end.
 
DRAINAGE COURSE:              A natural watercourse or indenture for the
                              drainage of surface waters.
                              A grant by the property owner of the use, for a
EASEMENT:                     specific purpose, of a strip of land by the
                              general public, a corporation, or a certain
                              person or persons.
                              A high capacity and high speed major thoroughfare
EXPRESSWAY OR FREEWAY:        with partially or fully controlled access to
                              abutting properties.
GOVERNING BODY:               The Governing Body of the City of Sunland Park,
                              consisting of the Mayor and City Council.
                              Financial guarantee issued by a federally insured
                              institution made payable to the City of Sunland
                              Park as the sole beneficiary in an amount equal
                              to the full cost of the improvements which are
IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT: required by this Title, said cost being estimated
                              by the City of Sunland Park and said letter of
                              credit being legally sufficient to secure that
                              the said improvements will be constructed in
                              accordance with this Title.
                              One which consists of not less than fifty (50)
LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT:      acres of land, all of which lies in a contiguous
                              and integrated tract.
                              A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of
LOT:                          land intended for the purpose, whether immediate
                              or future, of transfer of ownership or for
                              building development.
                              A street of considerable length that carries, or
                              that planning evidence indicates will carry, a
                              large volume of traffic, and is usually planned
MAJOR THOROUGHFARE:           in conjunction with State or Federal agencies and
                              is not to serve immediately abutting properties,
                              as designated in the City of Sunland Park
                              Comprehensive Plan, Thoroughfare Plan.
                              A street adjacent to a major thoroughfare which
MARGINAL ACCESS STREET:       provides access from the thoroughfare to abutting
                              properties.
                              A plan showing spatial layout of land use,
MASTER PLAN, SUBDIVISION:     circulation and proposed parcels, created for a
                              planned development or for an area that will be
                              subdivided in phases.
                                        A street of relatively short length
MINOR INDUSTRIAL OR COMMERCIAL STREET:  that provides direct access to an
                                        industrial district and is designed to
                                        discourage its use by through traffic.
                                        A street of relatively short length
                                        that provides direct access to a
MINOR, OR LOCAL, RESIDENTIAL STREET:    limited number of abutting residential
                                        properties and is designed to
                                        discourage its use by through traffic
                                        A surety bond or cash deposit made out
                                        to the City of Sunland Park in an
                                        amount equal to the full cost of the
                                        improvements which are required by this
                                        Title, said developer's cost estimate
PERFORMANCE BOND:                       being reviewed and accepted by the City
                                        Engineer and said surety bond or cash
                                        deposit being legally sufficient to
                                        secure that the said improvements will
                                        be constructed in accordance with this
                                        Title.
                                        Map, chart, survey, plan or replat
                                        certified by a licensed registered land
PLAT:                                   surveyor which contains a description
                                        of the subdivided land with ties to
                                        permanent monuments.
                                        Private deed restrictions or covenants,
                                        conditions and restrictions (CCRs) are
                                        imposed on land by private land owners
                                        by deed in writing, and recorded with
PRIVATE DEED RESTRICTIONS OR COVENANTS: Dona Ana County. They bind and restrict
                                        the land in the hands of present owners
                                        and subsequent purchasers. They are
                                        enforced by the parties to the
                                        agreement.
                                        A formal letter from CRRUA stating that
READY, WILLING AND ABLE LETTER:         CRRUA is ready, willing and able to
                                        provide water and sewer service.
                                        Adjustment of platted lot lines for the
RESUBDIVISION:                          purpose of increasing or reducing the
                                        size of contiguous lots, but to not
                                        less than the City minimum size.
                                        That portion of the street available
ROADWAY:                                for vehicular traffic and where curbs
                                        are laid, the portion from back-to-back
                                        of curbs.
                                        All properties dedicated or intended
                                        for public or private use for access to
                                        abutting lands or subject to public
                                        easements therefor, and whether
STREET:                                 designated as a street, highway,
                                        thoroughfare, parkway, throughway,
                                        expressway, road, avenue, boulevard,
                                        lane, place, circle, or however
                                        otherwise designated.
 
STREET       The distance between the lot lines measured at right angles to the street
WIDTH:       center line.
             A.   For the purpose of approval by the City means: For the area of land within
SUBDIVIDE OR the corporate boundaries of the City, the division of land into two (2) or more
SUBDIVISION: parts by platting or by metes and bounds description into tracts for the
             purposes numbered below;
             1.   Sale for building purposes;
             2.   Laying out any part of the City;
             3.   Adding to the City;
             4.   Laying out suburban lots; or
             5.   Resubdivision.
             B.   For the area of land within the City extra territorial subdivision and
             platting jurisdiction, the rules and regulations of the Camino Real Regional
             Utility Authority Extraterritorial Zoning, Planning and Platting Areas apply.
             The term means any person, individual, firm, partnership, association, estate,
SUBDIVIDER:  corporation, trust, or any other group or combination acting as a unit,
             dividing or proposing to divide land so as to constitute a “subdivision” as
             defined herein and includes any agent of the subdivider.
SUBDIVISION, Any subdivision that does not meet the requirements for the alternative summary
MAJOR:       procedure and is not classified as a minor subdivision.
             Any subdivision containing not more than ten (10) lots fronting an existing
SUBDIVISION, street, not involving any new street or any change in an existing street, not
MINOR:       involving the extension of City facilities or the creation of any public
             improvements, and not adversely affecting in any way the remainder of the
             parcel or adjoining property. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
 
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Platting Requirement
11-2-2: Suitability Of Land
11-2-3: Large Scale Development Standards
11-2-4: Relationship To Private Agreements And Covenants
11-2-5: Repeals
11-2-1: PLATTING REQUIREMENT:
Every person who desires to subdivide land shall furnish a plat of the proposed
subdivision prepared by a registered, licensed surveyor of New Mexico in
accordance with the laws of the State and this Title; provided, however, a
resubdivision by description is authorized pursuant to Section
11-5-3 of this Title. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
11-2-2: SUITABILITY OF LAND:
   A.   Land subject to natural hazards such as flooding or adverse earth
formation shall be considered unsuitable for any occupancy that may impair the
health, safety, or welfare of the occupants of the subdivision. Such land shall
be identified and no preliminary plat shall be approved until the hazards have
been mitigated or will be mitigated by the subdivision as evidenced improvement
plans acceptable to the City Engineer. Where such hazardous conditions are
adjacent to lands proposed for subdivision, the potentially hazardous
conditions must be appropriately mitigated per this Title.
   B.   Any land identified as an area of special flood hazard or a risk
premium zone by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) shall be
considered unsuitable for occupancy unless the requirements of Title 12, the
City of Sunland Park Flood Control Ordinance are met. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
11-2-3: LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The standards and requirements of the City subdivision ordinances may, by the
granting of variances, be modified by the Governing Body in the case of a plan
and program for a new town, a complete community, or a neighborhood unit,
which, in the judgment of the Governing Body, provides adequate public spaces
and improvements for the circulation, recreation, light, air, and all City
service needs of the tract when fully developed and populated, and which also
provides such covenants or other legal provisions as will assure conformity to
and achievement of the plan. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
11-2-4: RELATIONSHIP TO PRIVATE AGREEMENTS AND COVENANTS:
   A.   These subdivision regulations apply to all development within the
municipal limits of the City of Sunland Park, regardless of whether they impose
a greater or lesser restriction on the development of land than a private
agreement or restriction. These regulations have no impact on the applicability
or enforceability of any private agreement or restriction between the parties
to that agreement or restriction.
   B.   The City has no obligation to conform the terms or applicability of
these subdivision regulations to any private or agreement or restriction. The
City has no obligation to enforce any private covenant or agreement unless it
is a party to the covenant or agreement; if the City is a party to the covenant
or agreement, enforcement is at the discretion of the City. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-
2019)
11-2-5: REPEALS:
The City of Sunland Park Ordinance No. 1984-09, 6-5-1984; amd. Ord. 1993-12,
12-28,1993; Ord. 1984-10, 7-17-1984; amd. Ord 2005-02, 4-5-2005; Ord. 2006-11,
11-7-2007; amd Ord. 2006-11m; 11-7-006; 2000 Code are hereby replaced and
repealed. The adoption of the ordinance codified in this title, however, shall
not affect nor prevent any pending or future prosecution of, or action to
abate, any existing violation of said Ordinance No. Ord. 1984-09, 6-5-1984 if
the violation is also a violation of the provisions of this Title. (Ord. 2019-
2, 4-12-2019)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-3-1: General
11-3-2: Approval Necessary For Utility Service
11-3-3: Standards For Approval
11-3-4: Procedures
11-3-5: Fees
11-3-6: Penalty
11-3-1: GENERAL:
All proposed subdivisions, resubdivisions, replats or vacations of all or part
of an existing subdivision shall comply with the standards and requirements of
this Title. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
11-3-2: APPROVAL NECESSARY FOR UTILITY SERVICE:
Until a final plat has been approved by the Governing Body, any official of the
City or public utility company who shall serve or connect the land within the
subdivision with any public utility such as water, sewer, electric or gas is
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
11-3-3: STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL:
The Governing Body shall approve a final plat if:
   A.   It conforms to the City of Sunland Park Comprehensive Plan and other
adopted plans and ordinances related to the development of land in the City of
Sunland Park.
   B.   It complies with the standards and requirements of this Title.
   C.   It complies with the requirements of CRRUA, private utilities, NMDOT
and other public agencies that serve the property or regulate the development
of land within the City (for example FEMA).
   D.   Infrastructure improvements are complete and approved or financial
guarantees as required by Section
11-3-4.D.2 are filed with the City of Sunland Park, if applicable. (Ord. 2019-
2, 4-12-2019)
11-3-4: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Preapplication Meeting: Before submitting an application for
subdivision, the subdivider shall first schedule a meeting with the Community
and Economic Development Department for review and advice concerning the
correct subdivision process and the relation of the Comprehensive Plan and
other adopted plans of the City to the proposed subdivision. Prior to the
preapplication meeting, the subdivider shall submit a location map, sketch plan
showing in general the proposed layout of the subdivision, and a written
description of the proposal. A phased subdivision or large scale development
requires at least one preapplication meeting.
      1.   Location map: The location map shall consist of data added to an
existing base map such as a United States Coast and Geodetic Survey or City of
Sunland Park base map, covering an area of at least one mile radius from the
tract proposed for development. The location map shall show the following
information:
         a.   Name(s) of the owner(s) of the land to be subdivided.
         b.   Existing streets and roads, principal utility lines and storm
drainways on adjoining properties to service the area.
         c.   North point, scale and date.
         d.   Approximate total acreage within proposed subdivision.
         e.   Title of proposed subdivision; names and addresses of property
owner, subdivider, land planner, engineer and land surveyor.
      2.   Sketch plan: The sketch plan shall show the proposed layout in
simple sketch form on the base map used for the location map or a current
survey. The sketch plan shall show the following information:
         a.   General proposed layout of blocks, lots and other features.
         b.   Proposed layout of streets.
         c.   Proposed locations of public spaces, residential and
nonresidential areas and approximate acres of each.
         d.   Existing easements.
         e.   One hundred (100)-year floodplain from FEMA approved maps or
superceding report and general concept of modification of the floodplain, if
proposed.
         f.   Identification of any major thoroughfare as shown in the Sunland
Park Comprehensive Plan that abuts or is located within the proposed
subdivision
      3.   Additional information may include the following if available:
         a.   Description of how subdivider intends to meet the park dedication
requirement.
         b.   Information on existing and proposed covenants.
         c.   Description of physical characteristics of the land, including
topography, surface drainage and proposed grading.
         d.   Preliminary drainage or other engineering studies.
         e.   Purpose of the subdivision if other than creating lots for
development.
   B.   Alternative Summary Procedure: The Community and Economic Development
Department, upon recommendation by the City Engineer that the plat complies
with this Title, is hereby authorized to approve and sign certain subdivision
plats as follows:
      1.   Subdivisions of not more than two (2) parcels of land; or
      2.   Resubdivision, where the combination or recombination of portions of
previously platted lots does not increase the total number of lots by more than
two (2), provided that no streets or other public areas are created through the
plat which are intended to be dedicated for public maintenance; or
      3.   Subdivisions of two (2) or more parcels of land in areas zoned for
industrial use, provided that no streets or other public areas are creaed
through the plat which are intended to be dedicated for public maintenance.
      4.   Filing With County: The final plat is not in full force and effect
until it has been duly recorded in the office of the Dona Ana County clerk and
copies filed with the Community and Economic Development Department. Approval
of the final plat shall become null and void if the plat is not recorded within
six (6) months after the date of approval unless an extension of time is
granted by the Governing Body. The subdivider is responsible for submitting the
final plat for recording. After filing the original plat drawing and the
required number of copies with the Dona Ana County Clerk, the subdivider shall
submit to the Community and Economic Development Department one copy of the
final plat as recorded and stamped by the Dona Ana County Clerk. No building
permit shall be issued until the copy of the recorded final plat as been placed
on file with the City.
      5.   Any subdivision approved as authorized in this Section shall be in
substantial conformity with this Title. Approval by this summary procedure
shall be endorsed on the plat or on the instrument of conveyance in lieu of a
plat and such approval shall be conclusive evidence of the approval of the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
   C.   Minor Subdivision: An application for subdivision or plat amendment
shall be reviewed by Minor Subdivision procedures if the proposed subdivision
or plat amendment meets the definition of a Minor Subdivision. The Minor
Subdivision review process includes the following procedures:
      1.   Final Plat:
         a.   Plat Submittal:
            (1)   Following review of the preapplication sketch, the
application shall be filed on a form available from the Community and Economic
Development Department together with the required fee. The application shall be
accompanied by the required number of copies of a plat meeting the requirements
for final plat as described in this Title. The plat shall be submitted to the
Community and Economic Development Department in advance of the time and date
established as the deadline for the regular meeting of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
            (2)   Before accepting the submittal as complete, the Community and
Economic Development Department will review the application. Within five (5)
business days, the Department will accept the application if it is determined
to be complete or return the application to the subdivider if the application
is incomplete. The submittal will not be accepted for a public hearing until it
is complete.
         b.   Public Hearing And Notice Requirements:
            (1)   Required notice, whether posted or mailed, shall state the
date, time and place of the hearing, reasonably identify the tract of land that
is the subject of the submittal, and give a brief description of the action
requested or proposed. Notices shall indicate how the public can get additional
information or review the submittal at the Community and Economic Development
Department.
            (2)   Notification Of Property Owners: The applicant, at their
expense, shall notify, by certified mail, the owners of all property within two
hundred (200) feet of the proposed plat, excluding the distance devoted to
existing rights-of-way, the intent to subdivide the subject property. The
notice shall state the date, time, and place of the public hearing that the
proposed subdivision is to be considered. The applicant shall provide a copy of
the notice sent and the original mailing receipts with their completed
application. If the mailing receipts are not provided with the preliminary
application, the applicant shall provide them within two (2) business days of
the date the application is accepted as complete. The City shall provide the
applicant with the mailing list of all owners of record with Dona Ana County at
the time of the application.
            (3)   Advertisement Of Public Hearing: The city shall post notice
of the date, time, and place of the public hearing to be held before the
Planning and Zoning Commission on the proposed subdivision at least fifteen
(15) days prior to the date of the hearing in locations where public hearings
are typically posted. The location of the proposed subdivision and other
pertinent information shall be included.
            (4)   Posted Sign: The City will post at least one notice on each
public right-of-way abutting the property that is the subject of the
application at a point that is visible from the right-of-way. The sign will be
posted for at least fifteen (15) consecutive days prior to the hearing. The
sign will indicate the case number reference, legal description or address of
the property, the type of request, contact for additional information about the
application, and the date, time and place of the Planning and Zoning Commission
public hearing.
      2.   Planning And Zoning Commission Public Hearing: After staff has
reviewed the application and determined it to be complete, the final plat will
be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission for public hearing and
recommendation to the Governing Body. Final submission of a plat under the
terms of this Title shall be deemed to occur on the date that the application
is accepted as complete. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review all
materials required to be submitted, consider the comments of the public
received at the public hearing or submitted in writing, as well as the comments
of city staff and other governmental agencies. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall then make a recommendation to the Governing Body to approve
the application, disapprove the application, or approve the application subject
to certain conditions. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall set forth the
reasons for its decision in writing. If the Planning and Zoning Commission
lacks a quorum, the final plat will be forwarded to the Governing Body without
a recommendation unless an extension is requested by the applicant.
      3.   The applicant may agree to an extension of time for the Planning and
Zoning Commission to hold the required public hearing, in which case the time
within which the Governing Body is required to act on the final plat is
extended. Provide For Improvements: The subdivider shall provide for the
required public improvements as part of its final plat submittal according to
the method required under Chapter 6 of this Title, and as provided in Chapter 6
of this Title.
      4.   Governing Body Approval Required: The Governing Body shall act to
approve or disapprove the application for final plat approval within thirty-
five (35) days from the date of the submission of a complete application for
final plat unless the applicant agrees to an extension.
         a.   The Governing Body shall consider the recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, and shall review all of the materials and
written comments submitted to the Commission, as well as the comments made at
the public hearing held before the Commission. The Governing Body may also
consider other materials or public comments received at the meeting when the
recommendation is considered.
         b.   The applicant may agree an extension of time for the Governing
Body to act upon the application for final plat approval, in which case the
time within which the Governing Body is required to act on the application is
extended to the next regularly scheduled Governing Body meeting.
         c.   If the final plat is approved by the Governing Body, such
approval shall be recorded on the cover sheet of the original drawing of the
final plat and on three (3) copies and shall be dated and verified by the
signature of the Mayor or designated representative of the Governing Body.
         d.   If the final plat is disapproved, the Governing Body shall
provide the reasons for disapproval in writing. The reasons for disapproval
will be attached to two (2) copies of the final plat. One copy shall be
returned to the subdivider and one copy shall be retained in the files of the
Community and Economic Development Department.
         e.   If the Governing Body fails to approve or disapprove the
application for final plat approval within thirty-five (35) days from the date
of the final submission of the plat, other than from any extension of time
agreed to by the applicant before the Planning and Zoning Commission or before
the Governing Body, then the plat is deemed to be approved, and upon demand,
the Governing Body shall issue a certificate approving the plat which the mayor
shall sign and to which the city clerk shall attest.
      5.   Filing With County: The final plat is not in full force and effect
until it has been duly recorded in the office of the Dona Ana County clerk and
copies filed with the Community and Economic Development Department. Approval
of the final plat shall become null and void if the plat is not recorded within
six (6) months after the date of approval unless an extension of time is
granted by the Governing Body. The subdivider is responsible for submitting the
final plat for recording. After filing the original plat drawing and the
required number of copies with the Doha Ana County Clerk, the subdivider shall
submit to the Community and Economic Development Department one copy of the
final plat as recorded and stamped by the Doha Ana County Clerk. No building
permit shall be issued until the copy of the recorded final plat as been placed
on file with the City.
   D.   Major Subdivision: An application for subdivision or plat amendment
that does not meet the requirements for the alternative summary procedure or
the definition of a minor subdivision shall be reviewed by major subdivision
procedure. The Major Subdivision Procedure includes the following steps:
      1.   Preliminary Plat:
         a.   Plat Submittal: Following review of the preapplication meeting,
if applicable, the application shall be filed on a form available from the
Community and Economic Development Department together with the required fee.
The application shall be accompanied by the required number of copies of a plat
meeting the requirements for final plat as described in this Title. After staff
has reviewed the application and determined it to be complete, the preliminary
plat will be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
recommendation of approval.
         b.   Notification Of Property Owners: The applicant shall notify, by
certified mail, the owners of all property within two hundred (200) feet of the
proposed plat, excluding the distance devoted to existing rights-or-way, the
intent to subdivide the subject property. The notice shall state the date,
time, and place of the public hearing that the proposed subdivision is to be
considered.
         c.   Advertisement of Public Hearing: The city shall post notice of
the date, time, and place of the public hearing to be held before the Planning
and Zoning Commission on the proposed subdivision at least 15 days prior to the
date of the hearing in locations where public meetings are typically posted.
The location of the proposed subdivision and other pertinent information shall
be included.
         d.   Posted Sign: The City will post at least one notice on each
public right-of-way abutting the property that is the subject of the
application at a point that is visible from the right-of-way. The sign will be
posted for at least fifteen (15) consecutive days prior to the hearing. The
sign will indicate the case number reference, legal description of the
property, the type of request, contact for additional information about the
application, and the date, time and place of the Planning and Zoning Commission
public hearing.
         e.   Hearing On Preliminary Plat: A hearing upon such proposal for
subdivision as stated in the preliminary plat shall be had before the Planning
and Zoning Commission not later than its second regular meeting following
filing. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review all materials required
to be submitted, consider the comments of the public received at the public
hearing or submitted in writing, as well as the comments of city staff and
other governmental agencies. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall approve
the application, disapprove the application, or approve the application subject
to certain conditions. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall set forth the
reasons for its recommendation in writing.
            (1)   The applicant may agree to an extension of time for the
Planning and Zoning Commission to hold the required public hearing, or to
review and make its recommendation to the Governing Body, in which case the
time within which the Governing Body is required to act on the final plat is
extended.
            (2)   If the Planning and Zoning Commission fails to approve or
disapprove the preliminary plat on the date of the first scheduled public
hearing, unless an extension is agreed to by the applicant, then the
application shall be deemed approved and upon demand the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall issue a certificate approving the preliminary plat. One copy
of the preliminary plat shall be returned to the subdivider with the date and
reason for approval or disapproval and any changes or additions that may be
required.
         f.   Notice thereof shall be given by the Community and Economic
Development Department on behalf of the Planning and Zoning Commission by
mailing a notice to the person or persons who filed the preliminary plat to the
address or number set forth in the filed papers.
         g.   Approval And Form Of Preliminary Plat:
            (1)   If upon the conclusion of such hearing the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall find that such preliminary plat satisfied the
requirements of this Title, the chairman of the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall sign and date approval thereof in substantially the following language:
The proposed plan of subdivision as shown in the preliminary plat herein is
approved and the Planning and Zoning Commission now is ready to receive the
final plat of said subdivision for consideration.
            (2)   One print of said preliminary plat so endorsed shall be
returned to the subdivider by personal delivery or mail, another print so
endorsed shall be retained by the Planning and Zoning Commission and one print
with said findings shall be placed in the files of the Community and Economic
Development Department. A subdivider may submit to the Planning and Zoning
Commission an amended preliminary plat for the purpose of complying with any
order of the Planning and Zoning Commission. In such event, twelve (12) prints
thereof shall be filed with the Community and Economic Development Department
for resubmission to the required agencies and the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
         h.   Provide For Improvements: The subdivider shall provide for the
required public improvements according to the method required under this Title
and the plat shall be submitted to the Governing Body for final approval, all
as provided in this Title.
         i.   Effective Period Of Preliminary Plat Approval: The approval of
the preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of one year, at the end of
which time the recommendation for final plat approval of all or a portion of
the preliminary plat must have been obtained from the Planning and Zoning
Commission or the applicant must have applied for and been granted an extension
by the Planning and Zoning Commission. An extension of one year will
automatically be granted upon approval of improvement plans within the initial
one-year period. Any preliminary plat not receiving a recommendation for final
plat approval of all or a portion of the preliminary plat or obtaining an
extension within this time period shall be null and void, and the subdivider
shall be required to resubmit a new plat for preliminary plat approval subject
to any new zoning and subdivision regulations.
      2.   Final Plat: Following the approval of the preliminary plat, the
applicant shall file an application for final plat approval on a form available
from the Community and Economic Development Department together with the
required fee. The application shall be accompanied by the required number of
copies of a plat meeting the requirements for final plat as described in this
Title and the completed agreement providing for public improvements.
         a.   Submission For Review By Planning And Zoning Commission:
            (1)   The final plat may, in the discretion of the subdivider,
constitute only such portion of the tract covered in the preliminary plat as
the subdivider proposes to presently record and develop.
            (2)   If a final plat of the entire subdivision or of such portion
as the subdivider proposes to presently record and develop, is not submitted
within the effective period of preliminary plat approval, shall become null and
voidunless the applicant requests and is granted an extension.
            (3)   Where a portion of a plat has been approved as a final plat
and has been developed, and within six (6) months after completion of such
development, an additional final plat or improvement plans have not been
submitted for additional approval or the subdivider has not requeste an
extension, the provisions of this subsection providing that it shall become
null and void will apply.
            (4)   Four (4) prints of the final plat shall be filed with the
Community and Economic Development Departments least fifteen (15) days before
the next regular meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
         b.   Advertisement Of Public Hearing: The city shall post notice of
the date, time, and place of the public hearing to be held before the Planning
and Zoning Commission on the proposed subdivision at least fifteen (15) days
prior to the date of the hearing in locations where public meetings are
typically posted. The location of the proposed subdivision and other pertinent
information shall be included.
         c.   Posted Sign: The City will post at least one notice on each
public right-of-way abutting the property that is the subject of the
application at a point that is visible from the right-of-way. The sign will be
posted for at least fifteen (15) consecutive days prior to the hearing. The
sign will indicate the case number reference, legal description of the
property, the type of request, contact for additional information about the
application, and the date, time and place of the Planning and Zoning Commission
public hearing.
         d.   Planning And Zoning Commission Review: When the Planning and
Zoning Commission has determined that the plat conforms to the previously
approved preliminary plat, including any condition which may have been required
by the Planning and Zoning Commission in approving said preliminary plat, and
that said final plat meets all requirements of this Title, the following shall
be printed or stamped upon the original plat and prints thereof and signed by
the chairman of the Planning and Zoning Commission:
This final plat of subdivision is recommended to the Governing Body for
approval, subject to certifications by the Community and Economic Development
Department that all arrangements for public improvements required by the land
subdivision regulations have been made in accordance with the requirements of
Section
11-6-2 of the City Code.
Dated                          
CITY OF SUNLAND PARK PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
By                                                
Chairman
By                                                 
City Clerk
         e.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall then transmit the
endorsed final plat and three (3) prints thereof to the office of the Community
and Economic Development Department for immediate reference to the Governing
Body, with a letter of transmittal in duplicate calling attention to any
variations or modifications of the requirements of this Title recommended by
the Planning and Zoning Commission under this Title and setting forth its
reasons for recommending the same. One print of said final plat so endorsed
shall remain on file in the office of the Community and Economic Development
Department.
      3.   Submission To Governing Body; Certificate Of The Community And
Economic Development Department: Upon receipt of a final plat and prints
thereof so endorsed by the Planning and Zoning Commission, the Community and
Economic Development Department shall refer the final plat with said letter of
transmittal to the Governing Body at its next regular meeting. Thereupon said
plat shall remain pending on the agenda of the Governing Body until the
Community and Economic Development Department has certified thereon that:
         a.   The public improvements required by this Title have been
constructed in a satisfactory manner in accordance with the minimum standards
established by the City and as approved by the City Engineer; or
         b.   Financial Guarantees, Acceptable Form Of Guarantee: In lieu of
such prior construction, the subdivider has filed with the Community and
Economic Development Department either of the following methods of posting
security on the condition that public improvements will be completed within one
year after approval of the final plat.
            (1)   A duly executed performance bond with a financially qualified
surety in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of the
total public improvements yet to be constructed and on all of the property and
providing for the installation of such improvements and utilities within a
period not to exceed one year. The form of the bond must have prior approval by
the City Attorney.
            (2)   An irrevocable letter of credit meeting the following
requirements with prior approval of the City Attorney:
               (A)   The letter of credit must be from an institution that is
federally insured.
               (B)   The letter of credit shall list as sole beneficiary the
City of Sunland Park and shall not expire before fifteen (15) months from the
date of plat recording.
               (C)   The letter of credit shall be conditioned on installation
or construction of all improvements meeting the standards of this Title as
approved by the City Engineer.
               (D)   The Governing Body may extend the period of time for
completion for an additional period of time not to exceed twelve (12) months if
the subdivider has not completed the required improvements or completed such
improvements in compliance with this Title. Any extension of time granted for
construction of improvements shall be accompanied by a revised Letter of Credit
reflecting the time extension.
      4.   Governing Body Approval Required: The Governing Body shall act to
approve or disapprove the application for final plat approval within thirty-
five (35) days from the date of the submission of a complete application for
final plat unless the applicant agrees to an extension.
         a.   The Governing Body shall consider the recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, and shall review all of the materials and
written comments submitted to the commission, as well as the comments made at
the public hearing held before the commission. The Governing Body may also
consider other materials or public comments received at the meeting when the
recommendation is considered.
         b.   The applicant may agree an extension of time for the Governing
Body to act upon the application for final plat approval, in which case the
time within which the Governing Body is required to act on the application is
extended to the next regularly scheduled Governing Body meeting.
         c.   If the final plat is approved by the Governing Body, such
approval shall be recorded on the cover sheet of the original drawing of the
final plat and on three (3) copies and shall be dated and verified by the
signature of the Mayor or designated representative of the Governing Body.
         d.   If the final plat is disapproved, the Governing Body shall
provide the reasons for disapproval in writing. The reasons for disapproval
will be attached to two (2) copies of the final plat. One copy shall be
returned to the subdivider and one copy shall be retained in the files of the
Community and Economic Development Department.
         e.   If the Governing Body fails to approve or disapprove the
application for final plat approval within thirty-five (35) days from the date
of the final submission of the plat, other than from any extension of time
agreed to by the applicant before the Planning and Zoning Commission or before
the Governing Body, then the plat is deemed to be approved, and upon demand,
the Governing Body shall issue a certificate approving the plat which the mayor
shall sign and to which the city clerk shall attest.
      5.   Filing With County: The final plat is not in full force and effect
until it has been duly recorded in the office of the Dona Ana County clerk and
copies filed with the Community and Economic Development Department. Approval
of the final plat shall become null and void if the plat is not recorded within
six (6) months after the date of approval unless an extension of time is
granted by the Governing Body. The subdivider is responsible for submitting the
final plat for recording. After filing the original plat drawing and the
required number of copies with the Dona Ana County Clerk, the subdivider shall
submit to the Community and Economic Development Department one copy of the
final plat as recorded and stamped by the Dona Ana County Clerk. No building
permit shall be issued until the copy of the recorded final plat as been placed
on file with the City. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
11-3-5: FEES:
Since the Municipal administrative staff and City Engineer will be involved in
reviewing plats, advertising notification and attendance of public hearings,
property investigations and other costs involving or incidental to processing
of subdivisions, a fee will be charged in accordance with the City fee schedule
available from the Community and Economic Development Department.
   A.   Major Subdivision, Preliminary Plat:
      1.   Upon submission of a preliminary plat, the engineer for the
subdivider shall submit a list of all public improvements to be constructed in
or adjacent to, or serving the proposed subdivision by the subdivider.
      2.   The subdivider shall pay to the City, upon submission of the
preliminary plat, a fee in accordance with the current fee schedule. The fee
will cover all costs of processing the preliminary and final plat.
      3.   Fees shall be used by the City to defray its costs related to the
subdivision review and approval process.
      4.   An additional review fee shall be charged if and when a subdivider
makes major design changes or layout changes in his plans that must be reviewed
again, or if more than three (3) reviews are necessary due to carelessness or
neglect of the subdivider or his agents.
   B.   Minor Subdivision, Final Plat: Upon submission of a final plat, the
subdivider shall pay a fee based on the cost of improvements at a rate set by
the Governing Body and documented in the current fee schedule at the time of
application to the Community and Economic Development Department.
   C.   Summary Subdivision: The subdivider shall pay a fee based upon the
current fee schedule at the time of application to the Community and Economic
Development Department of a plat falling under the provisions of Section
11-3-2 of this Chapter.
   D.   Resubmission: A review fee as established in the fee schedule will be
required upon resubmission of a plat. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
11-3-6: PENALTY:
Whoever being the owner, or agent of the owner, of any land located in the City
or within three (3) miles of the City, transfers, sells, or agrees to sell or
negotiates to sell such land by reference to any exhibition of or by other use
of a plat or subdivision of such land before such plat has been approved as
herein provided for in this Title and recorded in the office of the Dona Ana
County Clerk, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Upon conviction, he
shall forfeit and pay a penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each lot
so transferred or sold, or agreed, or negotiated to be sold. The City, through
its attorney or other official designated by the Governing Body, may enjoin
such transfer or sale or agreement by action for injunction or may recover the
penalty by civil action. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1766.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7009f9bf3dba1358d9b99c59ee8328bce8cace2a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1764.png]
 
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-4-1: General
11-4-2: Streets And Alleys
11-4-3: Size Of Blocks
11-4-4: Arrangement Of Lots
11-4-5: Public Use And Service Areas
11-4-6: Open Space Recreational Areas And Parks
11-4-7: Easements For Utilities
11-4-8: Drainage Courses
11-4-1: GENERAL:
   A.   The design standards contained in these regulations, and elsewhere, are
intended to implement the Sunland Park Comprehensive Plan. Construction
standards and specifications which apply to the actual construction of a
facility or utility are found in the New Mexico Standard Specifications for
Public Works Construction, NMAPWA, most current edition.1 Traffic standards
which apply to these regulations are found in the latest edition of the
Institute of Traffic Engineers "Transportation and Traffic Engineering
Handbook2. "
   B.   All improvements must meet current Federal ADA Regulations. (Ord. 2019-
2, 4-12-2019)
11-4-2: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Minimum Requirements For Streets And Alleys:
      1.   Conformity To Thoroughfare Plan: The location and width of all
streets shall conform to the latest Comprehensive Plan and to the provisions
herein.
      2.   Street Right-Of-Way Widths: The minimum street right-of-way width
shall be shown on the Thoroughfare Plan Map or, if not shown on such Plan,
shall be not less than fifty feet (50') wide unless otherwise approved in a
planned unit development.
   B.   Additional Width Of Existing Or Planned Streets: Subdivisions that
adjoin existing or planned streets shall dedicate the right-of-way as necessary
to meet the minimum street width requirements set forth in this Section as
follows:
      1.   Both Sides Of Street: The entire additional right of way shall be
provided where the subdivision is on both sides of the street.
      2.   One Side Of Street; Land Dedication: When the subdivision is located
on only one side of an existing or planned major street, as shown on the
Thoroughfare Plan, the subdivider shall dedicate right of way and build
improvements for half the street as long as there are two (2) travel lanes and
required improvements on the side that is constructed.
   C.   Restriction Of Access: When a subdivision or portion thereof adjoins a
major thoroughfare, no single-family residential lot shall have direct access
thereto. Said lots shall be provided with frontage on a marginal access street
or street other than a thoroughfare with adequate depth for screen planting of
the portion of any such lot contiguous with said major thoroughfares.
   D.   Street Grades: Grades on a major thoroughfare shall not exceed five
percent (5%). Grades on other streets shall not exceed ten percent (10%).
Minimum grades on all streets shall be 0.30 percent.
   E.   Street Curves:
      1.   Horizontal Curves: Where a deflection angle of more than ten degrees
(10°) in the alignment of a street occurs, a curve of reasonably long radius
shall be introduced, as follows: on streets sixty feet (60') or more in width,
the center line radius of curvature shall be not less than three hundred feet
(300'); on other streets, not less than one hundred feet (100').
      2.   Vertical Curves: Design standards for changes in grade shall be
determined by the more stringent of the following standards:
         a.   All changes in grade shall be connected by vertical curves of
minimum length in feet equal to fifteen (15) times the algebraic difference in
rates of grade for major thoroughfares and one-half (½) this minimum length for
other streets.
         b.   The minimum length of a vertical curve in a street shall be
determined by the larger of two (2) values, one being fifteen (15) times the
algebraic difference in the rates of grade for major thoroughfares and one-half
(½) this minimum length for other streets as set out in subsection E.2.a.
above, the other being three (3) times the design speed of the street in
question. Profiles of all streets showing natural and finished grades drawn to
a scale of not less than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100')
horizontal, and one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20') vertical, shall be
required of the subdivider.
   F.   Intersections: Street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles
as is possible, and no intersection shall be at an angle of less than seventy-
five degrees (75°). Four (4) way intersections shall be discouraged in
residential areas. Alternatives that meet AASHTO geometric design guidance3
will be considered.
   G.   Street Jogs: Street jogs with center line offsets of less than one
hundred seventy-five feet (175') from centerline to centerline for
intersections of local streets or three hundred feet (300') for major
thoroughfares shall not be allowed, whether between two (2) proposed streets or
between an existing and a proposed street unless a Traffic Impact Analysis
recommends a greater distance to preserve safe and efficient traffic
operations.
   H.   Dead-End Streets:
      1.   No dead-end streets shall be permitted except in cases where such
streets are designed to connect with future streets on abutting land, in which
case a temporary turnaround easement shall be provided.
      2.   Where it is necessary to provide for street access to adjoining
property not yet subdivided, proposed streets shall be extended by dedication
to the boundary of such unsubdivided property. Such temporary dead-end streets
shall be no more than five hundred feet (500') measured from the centerline of
the intersecting street and provided with a temporary turnaround with the same
dimensions as required for a cul-de-sac.
      3.   A dead end street that is intended to provide access to adjoining
property not yet subdivided and extends along a side yard less than one hundred
fifty feet (150') in length with no direct access shall not require a
turnaround easement.
   I.   Cul-de-Sacs:
      1.   Minor residential streets that end in a cul-de-sac shall be no more
than five hundred feet (500') measured from the centerline of the intersecting
street to the center of the turnaround.
      2.   No more than thirty-five (35) dwelling units may be served by a cul-
de-sac unless otherwise specifically approved by the City.
      3.   Circular turnarounds with no center island must have a minimum
radius of forty-five feet (45') of right of way and a radius of forty feet
(40') of paved area measured to the curb.
      4.   Circular turnarounds with an approved center island must have a
minimum radius of fifty-two feet (52') of right of way and a radius for the
paved area of forty-seven feet (47') measured to the curb, including a maximum
center island radius of seventeen feet (17').
   J.   Private Streets And Reserve Strips: Every subdivided lot shall be
served from a publicly dedicated street. There shall be no reserve strip
controlling access to streets, except where the control of such strip is
definitely placed with the City under conditions approved by the Governing
Body.
   K.   Street Names: A proposed street which is in alignment with and joins an
existing and named street shall bear the name of the existing street. In no
case shall the proposed name of a street duplicate the name of an existing
street within the area covered by this Title. The use of a suffix “street”,
“avenue”, “boulevard”, “drive”, “place”, “court” or similar description shall
not be a distinction sufficient to constitute compliance with this Title. In
general, northwest trending right of way shall be called “street”, while
northeast trending ones shall be called “trail”. Dead-end rights of way shall
be called “court”.
   L.   Alleys:
      1.   Alleys twenty feet (20') wide shall be provided to the rear or side
of all lots to be used for commercial or industrial uses.
      2.   Alleys may be required by the Planning and Zoning Commission in
apartment or multifamily subdivisions.
      3.   Dead-end alleys shall not be allowed; “L” shaped alleys shall be
beveled twenty-five feet (25') at the inside of the “L”. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-
2019)
1 New Mexico Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction, New Mexico
Chapter of the American Public Works Association, Current Edition
2 Institute of Traffic Engineers, Transportation and Traffic Engineering
Handbook, Current Edition
3 American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, A Policy
on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets, current edition.
11-4-3: SIZE OF BLOCKS:
   A.   Block length shall not be less than three hundred feet (300') nor more
than one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') measured along the greatest
dimension of the enclosed block.
   B.   In blocks over eight hundred feet (800') in length, the Planning and
Zoning Commission may require at the time of preliminary plat approval one or
more public crosswalks or right of way not less than ten feet (10') in width to
extend entirely across the street and/or traffic calming measures at locations
deemed necessary at intervals not closer than four hundred feet (400'). Refer
to ITE/FHWA Traffic Calming ePrimer for suggested traffic calming measures.4
The traffic calming measures must be designed by a licensed professional civil
engineer and approved by the City engineer.
   C.   Block width shall be sufficient to allow two (2) tiers of lots of a
minimum depth of one hundred feet (100') for each tier. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-
2019)
4 ITE/FHWA Traffic Calming ePrimer, https://safety.fhwa.dot.gov/speedmgt/
traffic calm.cfm. Note that the ePrimer does not constitute a standard or
specification
11-4-4: ARRANGEMENT OF LOTS:
   A.   Side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street lines or
radial to curved street lines.
   B.   Each lot must front upon a public street not less than fifty feet (50')
in width unless otherwise approved in a planned unit development.
   C.   Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements of the City of Sunland
Park Zoning Ordinance; provided, that the depth of a lot shall not exceed three
(3) times the width, unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
   D.   Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from both streets.
   E.   Lots with double frontage shall be avoided except where necessary when
single-family residential development abuts arterial streets. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-
12-2019)
11-4-5: PUBLIC USE AND SERVICE AREAS:
Due design consideration shall be given to the allocation of areas suitably
located and of adequate size for playgrounds and parks for local or
neighborhood use as well as public service areas. Specific consideration shall
be given to corners, islands or other special locations designed for school bus
loading purposes. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
11-4-6: OPEN SPACE RECREATIONAL AREAS AND PARKS:
   A.   Land Dedication: The City of Sunland Park shall require adequate
provision for public park land that is suitable for playgrounds or other public
recreation within or accessible to each subdivision. The guiding standards for
suitability, facility type and size of parks are found in the City of Sunland
Park Comprehensive Plan.
      1.   Land Dedication For Parks: The subdivider shall dedicate to the City
by recording of the final plat with Dona Ana County land suitable for a public
park or recreational facilities for the future residents of the subdivision.
Steep slopes or land within the flood plain shall not be accepted as park land
unless expressly approved by the Governing Body. Park land equal to one acre
per one hundred (1/100) dwelling units for single family and duplex lots and
one acre per two hundred (1/200) units for multifamily development will be
provided by the subdivider within the subdivision or at another location
approved by the Governing Body as part of the final plat.
      2.   Land Dedication For Open Space: Where proposed adequate open space
for recreation is shown on the Comprehensive Plan and it is located in whole or
in part in the proposed subdivision, as a condition of preliminary plat
approval, the subdivider shall dedicate such land or part thereof to the City
in the final plat without charge for recreational purposes. Land within the
City that is so dedicated and is suitable for a public park or recreational
facility will count towards the subdivider's park dedication requirement.
   B.   Fee In Lieu Of Land: As an alternative for subdivisions other than
large scale development, the subdivider pay a fee per the City of Sunland Park
fee schedule to be held in trust by the City to provide parks or recreational
facilities for the benefit of the future residents of the proposed subdivision
and for no other purpose. In lieu of such fee, approved improvements by the
subdivider to existing or proposed recreational areas serving residents of the
proposed subdivision may be approved by the Governing Body. In the event a
reasonable compromise is not agreed to by the Governing Body and the
subdivider, the Governing Body shall require as a condition of final approval
that such land be reserved and not developed for a period of five (5) years
from the date of final approval by the Governing Body so that within that time,
the City, the County or other public agency may acquire said land for park
purposes in the manner provided by law. If not then so acquired, or a petition
for condemnation filed whichever is later, the restriction shall expire. (Ord.
2019-2, 4-12-2019)
11-4-7: EASEMENTS FOR UTILITIES:
   A.   Except where alleys are provided for this purpose, utility easements
not less than ten feet (10') in width shall be provided along front or side lot
lines where necessary for use in erecting, constructing and maintaining poles,
wires, conduits, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, surface drainage, gas mains,
water mains, electrical lines and other public utilities reasonably required
for an urban structure. Utility companies are to be contacted by the subdivider
to determine the easements needed.
   B.   Whenever practical, per the utility, all utilities shall be placed
underground.
   C.   No building shall be erected on said easement.
   D.   All final plats should be accompanied with evidence that water, sewer,
gas, electric, and other applicable utilities concur, and that easements
indicated on the plat are suitable for servicing the area. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-
2019)
11-4-8: DRAINAGE COURSES:
   A.   Routing Of Storm Water: Where storm water from adjacent areas naturally
passes through a subdivision, adequate provision shall be included in the
facilities to route the storm water through the subdivision to its natural
outlet, including necessary easements and provision for lining and checking the
rain way, if open, for the installation, or provision for the installation, of
storm sewer conduit.
   B.   Report By Civil Engineer; Required Conditions: A report by a civil
engineer, registered in New Mexico, must accompany the preliminary plat of a
subdivision giving the quantity, velocity and depth of flow in all drainage
courses at points of entering and leaving the subdivision and at key points
within the subdivision for flows anticipated, after development of the area,
from floods with an average recurrence interval of ten (10) years and twenty
five (25) years. The effect of such flows at these points on hydraulic
structures, streets, street intersections, and private structures should be
presented in the report. Any open channel must be structurally lined with
adequate checks to prevent excessive velocities. The design requirements for
storm sewer, flood control easements and channels, and for hydraulic structures
will be provided by the Governing Body, which must approve plans and
specifications for these structures. Right-of-way easements for all open
channels shall be dedicated to the City. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
CHAPTER 5
PLATTING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Preliminary Plat
11-5-2: Final Plat
11-5-3: Resubdivision By Description
11-5-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
A.   Submission For Review:
1.   Filing Copies; Payment Of Fees: Following review of a location map and
sketch plan, said location map or sketch plan being optional with the
subdivider, any subdivider proposing to subdivide the land described in said
location map or portion thereof shall file in the office of the Community and
Economic Development Department, a written application on prescribed forms
together with six (6) printed copies and a pdf version of a preliminary plat
and all supporting materials and pay the required processing fees for said
subdivision. Said preliminary plat shall be submitted at least thirty (30)
calendar days prior to the regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning and
Zoning Commission. The Community and Economic Development Department shall
deliver one print to the Mayor or designee, one for engineering review, one to
each utility affected and shall retain the remaining prints on file for
transmittal to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
2.   Subdividing In Phases: If the subdivider of a proposed subdivision owns,
is in control of, or has option to purchase land adjacent, contiguous or in the
area of the land proposed to be subdivided and the subdivider contemplates
development or subdivision of such other land in the future, along with the
preliminary plat, the subdivider shall submit a proposed master plan for
subdivision showing the entire tract of land under his ownership or control.
The master plan shall show the spatial layout of land use, circulation and
proposed parcels, including the layout of each individual proposed subdivision
unit if the subdivider contemplates subdivision in phases.
B.   Preliminary Plat Requirements: The preliminary plat shall show at least
the following:
1.   Title and Heading: The title under which the proposed subdivision is to be
recorded and the name of the land planner, engineer, the registered land
surveyor and the subdivider and owner of the tract, with the address to which
any notice is to be sent.
2.   Surveyor's Certification And Seal: Certification and seal by a land
surveyor, in accordance with the laws of the State of New Mexico, certifying
the accuracy of the survey and plat, that preparation of the plat was
supervised by said surveyor, and that all easements of record are shown.
3.   Location map showing location of the site in relation to well-known
landmarks, adjacent streets, contiguous property owners, and municipal
boundaries.
4.   Benchmark Locations And Monuments: Proposed benchmark locations, proposed
location and method of tie to permanent survey monuments and proposed location
and type of subdivision control monuments, descriptions of all monuments found
or set, and certification that all monuments are in place.
5.   The legal description of the areas being platted.
6.   The layout, numbers and approximate dimensions of proposed lot.
7.   The zoning classification and proposed use for the area being platted.
8.   Proposed names for all streets in the area being platted.
9.   The location of all existing property lines, Municipal boundaries, section
lines, streets, buildings, watercourses, and other existing features within the
area to be subdivided and similar information (except buildings and property
lines) regarding land immediately adjacent thereto.
10.   The proposed location and width of all proposed streets, alleys, front
setback lines, utility easements, and areas to be reserved for public use,
including land proposed to be dedicated for public parks and recreational use.
11.   Existing utilities, drainage courses and culverts, within the tract or on
streets immediately abutting thereto; the location and size of the nearest
water mains and sewer lines.
12.   Contours, referring to the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey Datum
with intervals of five feet (5') or less in all areas excepting on slopes
averaging less than six percent (6%) where two foot (2') intervals shall be
required.
13.   The north point, scale one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') and
date.
14.   The acreage of the land to be subdivided.
15.   Statement that the subdivision on the plat is with the free consent and
in accordance with the desire of the undersigned owner and proprietor of the
land, acknowledged by the owner and proprietor or his authorized agent in the
manner required for the acknowledgment of deeds. If the plat is filed by a
corporation, the acknowledgment shall be made by its president and secretary.
16.   Other supporting information:
   a.   Drainage report as required by section 11-4-8 of this title.
   b.   Grading Plan, including location and dimensions of proposed retaining
walls.
   c.   Geotechnical report, if required. Subsurface conditions on the tract,
if required by the City Engineer, including such information as the location
and results of tests made to ascertain subsurface soil, rock and ground water
conditions; depth to ground water; soil percolation and any other subsurface
conditions.
   d.   Ready, willing, and able letter from CRRUA indicating acceptance of
water and wastewater infrastructure and ability to serve the property.
   e.   Proof of approval of the proposed infrastructure by CRRUA and private
utilities.
   f.   Proof of acceptance by GISD of any land proposed to be dedicated for
schools.
   g.   Proof of approval of agreement with El Paso Electric Company for the
design and installation of street lights.
   h.   Cross sections and construction details of proposed streets.
   i.   Proof that subdivider has met all requirements of the New Mexico
Department of Transportation for traffic impact analysis and access as required
by 18.31.6.16 NMAC.
   j.   Draft of existing and proposed protective covenants.
   k.   Proposed phasing and schedule of development. If the subdivider
proposes to submit the final plat in phases, then a phasing plan must be
approved in conjunction with preliminary plat approval. If the application
includes a master plan, a proposed schedule of development must be submitted
for all properties covered by the master plan.
17.   Public Improvements List: Public improvements list of all required
infrastructure improvements, including how and when the subdivider proposes to
provide and install all required sewer or other disposal of sanitary wastes,
pavement, sidewalks, drainage structures and water supply system.
18.   Such other information and material as may be applicable or required by
ordinance or rules and regulations pertaining to utilities within the
Municipality. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
11-5-2: FINAL PLAT:
A.   Preparation By Registered Licensed Surveyor; Minimum Public Improvements:
1.   Receipt by the subdivider of the print of the preliminary plat approved by
the Planning and Zoning Commission as aforesaid shall constitute authority for
the subdivider to proceed with further plans and specifications for
installation of public improvements in accordance with the minimum standards
established by this Title and the preparation of a final plat.
2.   The final plat must be prepared, stamped and signed by a registered,
licensed surveyor of New Mexico.
B.   Contents Of Final Plat:
1.   The final plat shall be in conformity with the requirements of the
Community and Economic Development Department and shall be an accurate drawing
designating specifically the land so laid out, and particularly describing the
portions thereof intended to be dedicated for public use. Said final plat shall
be drawn in black ink to a scale of not more than one inch equals one hundred
feet (1" = 100') from an accurate survey. It shall contain one or more sheets
of dimensions not exceeding twenty-four inches by thirty-six inches (24" x
36"). If more than two (2) sheets are submitted, an index sheet of the same
dimensions shall be attached showing the entire subdivision on one sheet and
the component areas on the remaining sheets.
2.   Final plat shall be substantially the same as the preliminary plat with
changes requested and approved by the City Engineer. Minor changes are allowed
as defined by the City Engineer.
3.   Said final plat of the subdivision and accompanying documents shall show:
   a.   Boundary lines with accurate distances and angles.
   b.   Correct legal description which shall refer to permanent monuments,
number of each lot in progression, and dimensions of same.
   c.   Lines of all proposed streets and alleys with their width and names.
   d.   Accurate outline of any portions of the land to be dedicated for public
parks or recreational use and all other property intended to be dedicated for
public use or for the use of the owners of lots fronting or adjacent to the
land, together with dimensions of same.
   e.   Line of departure of one street from another.
   f.   Names with widths of adjoining streets and alleys abutting the
subdivision.
   g.   All lots designated by numbers or letters and streets, avenues and
other grounds designated by names, letters or numbers, and designating building
numbers (street addresses).
   h.   Building setback lines shown by narrow dashed lines.
   i.   Location of all easements provided for public use, services or
utilities.
   j.   All dimensions, both linear and angular, necessary for locating the
boundaries of the subdivision, lots, streets, alleys, easements, and other
areas for public or private use.
   k.   Radii, arcs, or chords, points of tangency and central angles for all
curvilinear streets and radii for rounded corners.
   I.   Location of all survey monuments and their descriptions.
   m.   Name of the subdivision and the scale of the plat, north arrow, the
names of owners and subdividers and date.
   n.   Certificate of registered land surveyor, attesting to the accuracy of
the survey and the correct location of all monuments shown.
   o.   Certificate of licensed engineer attesting to the adequacy of, and in
compliance with, engineering provisions and requirements.
   p.   Acknowledgment: Every plat shall contain a statement that the land
being surveyed, and the streets, alleys, easements, drainways and other public
ways appearing on the plat are with the free consent and in accordance with the
desire of the undersigned owner and proprietor of the land and are dedicated to
the public use and shall be acknowledged.
   q.   Certification: A certification by the owner or owners and spouse, if
any, or a duly authorized attorney that there are no delinquent taxes, suits,
actions at law, easements, restrictive covenants or rights of way affecting the
property except those stated on the plat.
   r.   Affidavit: The plat shall also contain an affidavit by the City that
the proposed subdivision lies within the municipal boundary of the City.
   s.   Proof of final approval of utilities as indicated by separately signed
approval blocks with the names of each utility company involved typed under the
signature along with the date of each signature. Signatures shall be obtained
from CRRUA, and providers of telephone, electric, gas, cable and internet
service, and other utilities as applicable. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
11-5-3: RESUBDIVISION BY DESCRIPTION:
A.   Certificate Of Survey: Every person who desires to subdivide land shall
furnish a plat of the proposed subdivision, prepared by a registered, licensed
surveyor of New Mexico; except that the resubdivision of platted tracts that
are less than one acre and which are contiguous with each other, for the
purpose of increasing or reducing the size of such contiguous tracts, but not
less than the minimum standard size required by the City, shall not require the
furnishing of a plat of the proposed resubdivision; provided, that a
certificate of survey setting forth the legal description of tracts resulting
from such resubdivision shall be filed with the Planning and Zoning Commission,
the Community and Economic Development Department and County Assessor of Dona
Ana County, and such filing shall be considered as a rededication of said
described lots in all respects.
B.   Description Of Lots: The plat shall refer to permanent monuments and shall
accurately describe each lot, number each lot in progression, give its
dimensions and the dimensions of all land dedicated for public use or for the
use of the owners of lots fronting or adjacent to the land. Description of the
lots by number and plat designation are valid in conveyances and for the
purpose of taxation. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
CHAPTER 6
IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Authorization To Construct Public Improvements
11-6-2: Completion Of Improvements
11-6-3: Improvements Standards
11-6-4: Improvements Requirements
11-6-1: AUTHORIZATION TO CONSTRUCT PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
A.   Signed Copy Of Preliminary Plat: Receipt of the signed copy of the
preliminary plat is authorization for the subdivider to proceed with the
preparation of plans and specifications for the minimum improvements that will
be required as long as the subdivision conforms to the minimum standards
required by this chapter. Where the subdivider is requesting a modification to
the standards of this Title, receipt of the signed copy of the preliminary plat
is authorization for the subdivider to proceed with the preparation of plans
and specifications.
B.   Plans And Information Required: Prior to the construction of any
improvements, the subdivider shall furnish the Community and Economic
Development Department all plans, information and data necessary for the
construction of said improvements, both on-site and off-site.
C.   Approval Of Plans: The plans shall be examined by the City Engineer, and
will be approved if in accordance with the following requirements in this
Chapter. Following the approval, construction can be started. The subdivider
may prepare and secure approval of the preliminary plat and then install
improvements only in the portion of the area covered by the preliminary plat or
offsite improvements that will serve the proposed project. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-
2019)
11-6-2: COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
Plans for improvements shall be prepared by a qualified engineer registered in
accordance with the laws of New Mexico. The improvements listed below shall be
installed pursuant to the method decided upon under subsection 11-3-4D(3) of
this Title, and with the provision that no residence or other building shall be
constructed until the street, curb and gutter, sidewalk, water and sewer
improvements, underground utilities, or storm drain provisions as may be
required have been installed for the entire block in which the residence or
other building shall be located.
(Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
11-6-3: IMPROVEMENTS STANDARDS:
Standards for design, construction, specifications and inspection of street
improvements, curbs and gutters, sewers, sidewalks and drainage facilities
shall be prepared by the City Engineer, or in the case of state roadways, the
New Mexico Department of Transportation. Similar standards for street lights;
electrical, gas and water distribution facilities; fire hydrants, sewage
disposal; garbage disposal; and sanitation facilities shall be prepared by the
City Engineer in conformance with applicable State requirements and the
requirements of CRRUA and private utilities. In the absence of City
improvements standards, the standards of the utility or other service provider
shall apply. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
11-6-4: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIREMENTS:
The improvements to be installed shall include the following:
A.   Permanent Markers: All subdivision boundary corners and the intersections
of street center lines shall be marked with a permanent monument. A permanent
monument shall be deemed to be concrete with a minimum dimension of four inches
(4"), extending three feet (3') below the surface of the ground, or steel pipe
firmly imbedded in concrete which extends at least three feet (3') below the
surface of the ground. Should conditions prohibit the placing of monuments on
line, offset marking will be permitted; provided, however, the offset courses
and distances are shown on the plat. A permanent benchmark shall be accessibly
placed within the subdivision, the elevation of which shall be referred to the
USC and GS datum and accurately noted on the subdivision plat.
B.   Street Improvements: All streets shall be graded and the roadway improved
by paving under the supervision of the City Engineer and subject to his
approval. Curbing, gutter, and sidewalks shall be installed in a similar
manner. No paving is to be installed unless all utility lines have been placed
and stubbed out under the areas to be paved. Roadway surfacing shall include
standard curb and twenty-two-inch (22") gutter on both sides of the street not
closer than thirty-six feet (36') from the face of curb to face of curb with
the area between the curbs surfaced with concrete or asphalt meeting the
specifications of the City Engineer.
C.   Major Streets: Major streets shall be at a width determined by study of
the City Engineer, recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, and
approval of the Governing Body.
D.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall have a minimum width of five feet (5") and
shall be constructed under the supervision of, and subject to the approval of,
the City Engineer in accordance with specifications of the City Engineer.
Sidewalks shall be located with back abutting the street right-of-way line. All
sidewalks must meet ADA Standards for Accessible Design5.
E.   Water Lines: The subdivider shall make necessary arrangements with CRRUA
to serve each lot and provide evidence from CRRUA that water service is
available and proposed infrastructure meets CRRUA standards. Water lines shall
be installed to at least the back side of proposed sidewalks before any paving
is installed.
F.   Sanitary Sewers: The subdivider of land within the City limits shall make
necessary arrangements with CRRUA to serve each lot and provide evidence from
CRRUA that sanitary sewer service is available and proposed infrastructure
meets CRRUA standards.
G.   Drainage: Adequate provision shall be made for drainage of storm water
subject to the approval of the City Engineer. Drainage improvements shall
maintain any natural watercourse and shall prevent the collection of water in
any low spot. No lot shall be platted to obstruct natural water flow. Storm
water drainage shall not be permitted to combine with sanitary sewer. Drainage
channels must be lined and provided with required checks or be installed in
concrete storm sewer conduit in accordance with the requirements of the City
Engineer. Please see Sunland Park drainage plan for further information.
H.   Alleys: Alleys shall be graded to their maximum usable width to a grade
sloped to drain. Valley gutters, at least eighteen inches (18") wide shall
border the paving on both sides.
I.   Street Signs: A four (4) way metal street sign shall be installed at each
street intersection by the City and billed to the subdivider. The letters shall
be at least four inches (4") high. The signs shall be plain with white letters
and the style, color, and material must be approved in advance by the City.
Signs on State roadways shall meet the standards of the State Highway
Commission.
J.   Street Lights: Street lights shall be designed in accordance with El Paso
Electric Company's Line Extension Policy and Construction Charges. Street
lighting systems are normally installed, owned and maintained by the El Paso
Electric Company and billed to the City monthly. The subdivider is responsible
for coordinating the power source, design of the distribution system and light
pole locations, and construction of the distribution system with the City and
El Paso Electric Company. Aluminum poles and LED lighting are required for
street lights on major streets and street lights that will be maintained by the
City of Sunland Park. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
                                              
5 ADA Standards for Accessible Design, https://www.ada.gov/regs2010/
2010ADAstandards.htm, or current standards
CHAPTER 7
VARIANCES
SECTION:
11-7-1: Modification of Requirements, Hardship
11-7-1: MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS, HARDSHIP:
A.   Conditions For Allowing Variance: Where in the case of a particular
proposed subdivision it can be shown that strict compliance with the
requirements of this Title would result in extraordinary hardship to the
subdivider because of unusual topography or other non-self-inflicted condition,
or that these requirements would result in inhibiting the achievement of the
objectives of this Title, the Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend to
the Governing Body to vary, modify, or waive the requirements so that
substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured; provided, that
such variance, modification, or waiver will not have the effect of nullifying
the intent and purpose of this Title or any utility regulations or other
requirements of the City or interfere with carrying out the Comprehensive Plan.
B.   Application For Variance: Application for any variance shall be submitted
in writing by the subdivider at the time the preliminary plat is filed and
shall state fully the grounds for the application and the facts relied upon by
the subdivider. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall give its written
recommendation thereon at the time of its approval or disapproval of said
preliminary plat.
C.   Limitations On Allowing Variance: In no case shall any variation or
modification be contrary to the mandatory requirements of State law, nor be
more than a minimum easing of the requirements. In no case shall it have the
effect of reducing the traffic capacity of any street below that shown on the
Comprehensive Plan or be in conflict with the Zoning Ordinance.
D.   Planning and Zoning Commission Recommendations To Governing Body: In
granting variances and modifications, the Planning and Zoning Commission may
recommend such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
objective of the requirements so varied or modified. In all cases the decision
of the Governing Body shall be final.
E.   Authorization to Construct Public Improvements: In the event that the
subdivider has requested a modification of requirements, approval of the
preliminary plat is confirmation of approval of requested modifications and is
authorization for the subdivider to proceed with the preparation of plans and
specifications for required improvements. (Ord. 2019-2, 4-12-2019)
CHAPTER 8
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-8-1: General Policies
11-8-2: Pre-Application Meeting With PID Review Staff
11-8-3: Application Contents
11-8-4: Application And Approval Process
11-8-5: PID Operations And Debt Financing
11-8-6: Miscellaneous
11-8-1: GENERAL POLICIES:
A.   General Use: PIDs should be utilized primarily in connection with the
financing of infrastructure for development of residential projects, master
planned communities or substantial commercial development and redevelopment.
PIDs may also be utilized to provide an enhanced level of public infrastructure
amenities and/or municipal services. In order to avoid inefficient use of the
limited resources of the City, unless otherwise agreed by the Council, PIDs
will not be approved to finance projects estimated at less than three million
dollars ($3,000,000.00). The City's approval of a PID shall be based on an
applicant's demonstration, to the satisfaction of the City, that the PID will
provide benefit to the end-users of the PID-financed infrastructure or to the
City which would not otherwise be available, which benefit may include, without
limitation, additional amenities, services, increased quality of development or
pricing benefits. Public improvements financed by a PID shall conform to
applicable City policies for development. Except as expressly agreed by the
City based upon its determination that City-owned utilities will not be
adversely affected, "stand alone" utilities which compete directly or
indirectly with City services shall not be financed through PIDs. Real property
dedications and conveyances required by existing City policies for development,
growth management and conservation shall remain in effect notwithstanding the
establishment of a PID. The Council may agree to participate in various
projects depending on project type, location and cost when such factors have a
clear benefit to the public. Public infrastructure proposed for the PID shall
be concurred to by the Council and must be of the types specified in §5-11-2(P)
of the Act (NMSA 1978 Chapter 5, Article 11), namely:
1.   Sanitary sewage systems, including collection, transport, storage,
treatment, dispersal, effluent use and discharge;
2.   Drainage and flood control systems, including collection, transport,
diversion, storage, detention, retention, dispersal, use and discharge;
3.   Water systems for domestic, commercial, office, hotel or motel,
industrial, irrigation, municipal or fire protection purposes, including
production, collection, storage, treatment, transport, delivery, connection and
dispersal;
4.   Highways, streets, roadways, bridges, crossing structures and parking
facilities including all areas for vehicular use for travel, ingress, egress
and parking;
5.   Trails and areas for pedestrian, equestrian, bicycle or other non-motor
vehicle use for travel, ingress, egress and parking;
6.   Pedestrian malls, parks, recreational facilities and open space areas for
the use of members of the public for entertainment, assembly and recreation;
7.   Landscaping, including earthworks, structure, lakes and other water
features, plants, trees and related water delivery systems;
8.   Public buildings, public safety facilities and fire protection and police
facilities;
9.   Electrical generation, transmission and distribution facilities;
10.   Natural gas distribution facilities;
11.   Lighting systems;
12.   Cable or other telecommunications lines and related equipment;
13.   Traffic control systems and devices, including signals, controls,
markings and signage;
14.   School sites and facilities with the consent of the governing board of
the public school district for which the site or facility is to be acquired,
constructed or renovated;
15.   Library and other public educational or cultural facilities;
16.   Equipment, vehicles, furnishings, and other personally related to the
items listed in this subsection; and
17.   Inspection, construction management and program management costs.
B.   Cost And Expenses: Unless otherwise agreed by the City, all costs and
expenses incurred by the City in connection with (i) its review of a PID
application; and (ii) the formation of a PID shall be paid by the applicant
through advance payments as provided in this chapter. Costs and expenses
incurred by the City in connection with the application and formation of a PID
shall not be a liability of the City. Costs and expenses shall include the
costs of services rendered by City staff and services rendered by outside
consultants and other service providers who may be retained by the City
including, but not limited to, bond counsel, financial advisers, engineers,
appraisers, tax consultants and attorneys, at the rates and charges normally
charged by those consultants. All costs and expenses incurred by the applicant
shall be promptly paid by the applicant.
C.   Reimbursement: If authorized by the PID, all or part of such advanced
payments may be reimbursed to the applicant from a PID tax levy, PID
assessments, PID revenues or PID bond proceeds, provided that such
reimbursement shall be in conformity with federal law, state law and these
guidelines.
D.   Construction Or Financing Of Improvements. Except as otherwise agreed by
the City, PIDs will facilitate the construction or financing of improvements on
such terms with such persons as the PID board of directors determines to be
appropriate, in accordance with §5-11-10(D) of the Act.
E.   Cost Of Administration And Operation: Unless otherwise agreed by the City,
all costs of administration and operation of the PID and the operation and
maintenance of public infrastructure in the PID which has not been dedicated to
and accepted by the City (or other appropriate public agency), shall be the
responsibility of the PID, the applicant, applicable homeowners' associations,
or any combination of the foregoing, as may be acceptable to the City and the
PID.
F.   PID Boards of Directors - Delegated Authority: PIDs will initially be
governed by a five (5)-member board of directors appointed by the Council in
accordance with §5-11-9(A) of the Act which shall be composed of two (2) full-
time employees of the City, two (2) persons selected by the applicant with the
approval of the Council, and a fifth member selected by the other four (4)
members. Three (3) of the appointed directors shall serve an initial term to
expire following a regular local election and not to exceed six (6) years. Two
(2) of the appointed directors shall serve an initial term to expire following
a regular local election and not to exceed four (4) years. The appointment of
the initial board of directors and their respective terms of office shall be
set forth in the Formation Resolution. The Council may, in accordance with the
Act, delegate certain responsibilities of governance of PIDs to public
officials employed by the City. Day-to-day responsibilities of PIDs may be
performed by outside personnel pursuant to a PID Development Agreement entered
into pursuant to section 5-11-10(A)(2) of the Act or City staff. In order to
avoid confusion with other development agreements entered into by the parties
with respect to real property within the City, a development agreement entered
into regarding the administration of a PID may be denominated as a "PID
Development Agreement". Each PID Development Agreement shall implement this
Chapter. Upon execution by the City and the applicant, the PID Development
Agreement shall supersede this Chapter in the event of a conflict. After the
formation of a PID, at the end of the appointed directors' terms, the Council
shall resume governance of the PID as its board either directly or through the
Council's designees, or, at the Council's option, shall hold an election of new
directors in accordance with the Act.
G.   Self-Supporting - No Impact On City: Unless otherwise agreed to by the
City, PIDs shall be self-supporting with regard to financing, operations and
maintenance, and City funds will not be used for PID purposes. Notwithstanding
anything contained in this Chapter, neither the City's property, its full faith
and credit nor its taxing power shall be pledged to the payment of any PID
obligation or indebtedness. The amount and structure of debt of a PID shall not
have any direct negative material impact on any debt ratings maintained by the
City.
H.   PID Development Agreement - Feasibility Reports: The amount, timing and
form of financing to be used by a PID shall be determined by the PID board
based upon a project feasibility report and established by agreement of the
City, the PID and the applicant through a PID Development Agreement pursuant to
Section 5-11-10(A)(2) of the Act. (Ord. 2020-1, 3-17-2020)
11-8-2: PRE-APPLICATION MEETING WITH PID REVIEW STAFF:
A.   PID Pre-application with City Staff. The City hereby establishes and
appoints a PID review staff (the "PID Review Staff), which shall be composed of
the City Manager, Economic Development Director, Finance Director and City
Attorney, or successors in function to those City officials. Potential
applicants for a PID are required to meet with the PID Review Staff for a pre-
application meeting in order for the PID Review Staff to accomplish the
following preliminary tasks:
1.   Make an initial determination whether the proposed PID is consistent with
the City's growth policies, land use and development policies, zoning and other
applicable regulation;
2.   Make an initial determination whether the PID applicant's ownership
interest, delegation of ownership rights or other legal control of the real
property proposed to be included in the PID to have standing to submit a PID
application;
3.   Establish a proposed schedule for application review, including (i) the
applicant's submittal of a PID application, (ii) PID Review Staff review of the
application for completeness, and (iii) Council meeting for consideration of
and action on the application; and
4.   Identify any related City approvals or requirements that will be required
to permit the PID, if approved by the Council, to construct the proposed
improvements.
B.   Role of PID Review Staff: The determinations by PID Review Staff shall be
of an advisory nature, for the purposes of assisting applicants in submitting
completed applications with detail and information required to enable
meaningful consideration by the Council. Determinations and recommendations of
the PID Review Staff shall be considered by but not be binding on the Council.
C.   Invitation To Apply For PID: If the PID Review Staff concludes that an
application is consistent with City policies and regulations, including this
Chapter, then an invitation to submit an application will be extended to the
applicant. If the PID Review Staff determines that the proposed PID is not
consistent with City policies and regulations and does not extend an invitation
to submit an application, the applicant may appeal that determination to the
Council, which will determine whether or not an invitation to apply for a PID
will be extended. (Ord. 2020-1, 3-17-2020)
11-8-3: APPLICATION CONTENTS:
After the applicant has met with the PID Review Staff and received an
invitation to submit an application, the applicant may submit a PID application
to the City. Each application shall, at a minimum, contain the following:
A.   Legal Description - Qualified Electors' Consent: A description of the
proposed PID, including a legal description of its boundaries, the identity and
addresses of all persons or entities with any interest in the property (and
descriptions of the nature of such interests), the names and addresses of any
qualified electors, as defined in §3-l-2(K) of the Act, who are located within
the proposed PID boundaries, and an explanation as to how the PID boundaries
were chosen. A current title report on the property shall be submitted as
evidence of the names of persons or entities with any interest in the land. The
applicant shall also submit a list of qualified electors located within
proposed PID boundaries provided by the county board of elections, or provide
evidence satisfactory to the City that no qualified electors are located within
the proposed PID boundaries. The application shall include evidence
satisfactory to the City of the irrevocable consent of the property owners and
approval of the qualified electors (as applicable) required by the Act for the
creation of the PID.
B.   General Plan: A detailed description of the types of public infrastructure
to be financed by the PID, including the estimated construction or acquisition
costs of the public infrastructure, information regarding the future ownership
of public infrastructure improvements, projection of working capital needs
(including adequate funds for repair and replacement of infrastructure), the
annual operation and maintenance costs of the public infrastructure, and the
governmental approvals that will be required for both the public and private
improvements to be constructed and operated. The description shall contain
adequate information to establish financial parameters for the operation and
financing of the PID as set forth in Section
11-8-5 of this chapter.
C.   Preliminary Financing Plan and Schedule:
1.   An estimated project schedule for commencement and completion of
construction of:
   a.   The public infrastructure; and
   b.   The private development, which shall include a financing plan for the
public infrastructure, including both capital and operating/maintenance costs
for all undedicated improvements undertaken by the PID.
2.   The financing plan shall include projections for a period covering:
   a.   The expected term of existence of the PID;
   b.   Thirty (30) years following the creation of a PID property tax or
special levy; or
   c.   The last bond payment date of any bonds expected to be issued by the
PID, whichever shall be the longest.
3.   The financing plan shall include:
   a.   The estimated cost of improvements;
   b.   Projected costs of maintenance after construction; and
   c.   A preliminary description of the improvements to be owned and
maintained by the City (or other public agency) and the PID.
D.   Feasibility Study: A financial feasibility study prepared by an
independent professional with appropriate expertise for the entire project (or
such phases of the project that are expected to be constructed during the term
of the development), covering both the public infrastructure and the private
development. The feasibility study should include the information required
under Section 5-11-16 of the Act.
E.   Appraisal: To the extent necessary to support a request for debt financing
(i.e., to satisfy the requirements of the Act for the issuance of special levy
bonds), the applicant shall provide a current appraisal (the "MAI appraisal")
of the fair market value of the property within the proposed PID, including:
1.   The improvements to be financed by the PID; and
2.   Other improvements being constructed by the applicant during the PID
construction period, the completion of which is guaranteed by the applicant.
The MAI appraisal shall be prepared by a person who is designated as a Member
Appraisal Institute ("MAI") and a certified general real estate appraiser (such
person hereafter referred to as an "MAI appraiser"). The form and substance of
the MAI appraisal shall be acceptable to the City, in its discretion.
F.   Market Demand Study: A market demand study for private development in the
PID shall be prepared or reviewed and concurred in by an independent consultant
acceptable to the City. Such study shall include estimates of the revenue to be
generated by the development and estimated market absorption of the
development.
G.   Applicant Financial Information: A description of the applicant's
professional experience and evidence demonstrating its financial capacity to
undertake the development associated with the public infrastructure and private
development. Such information may be accompanied by audited, reviewed or at a
minimum, compiled financial statements for the most recent three (3) years and
a description of past projects and disclosure of any material litigation.
H.   Draft Disclosures: An initial draft form of disclosure to prospective PID
landowners to be filed and recorded with the county clerk pursuant to the Act
at the time of each sale of real property within the PID, stating that the
applicant intends to file an application for formation of a public improvement
district, describing the purpose of the proposed public improvement district,
providing a description of what a public improvement district is, and providing
the rate, method of apportionment and manner of collection of a special levy,
if one is proposed, in sufficient detail to enable each owner or resident
within the district to estimate the maximum amount of the proposed levy,
together with any other assessment, charge, or other financial obligation that
is anticipated to be imposed on real property within the PID, which shall be
subject to City review and approval.
I.   Operating Plan: A draft operating plan for the PID describing the
operation and maintenance of the infrastructure and all other services in the
PID, the estimated costs of the same, and whether operation and maintenance is
proposed to be provided by the PID or the City.
J.   Draft PID Development Agreement: A proposed form of PID Development
Agreement.
K.   Draft Formation Resolution: A proposed form of resolution of the Council
effecting the formation of the PID, approving the PID Development Agreement,
and reflecting related matters.
L.   Compliance Certificate: A certificate that the PID will comply with the
City's current zoning requirements.
M.   Other Information: Such other information as the City may reasonably
require after its initial review of the application, including preliminary
legal opinions, further information regarding the relationship of the plan to
City's development objectives, additional proof of financial capability,
business references, and term sheets for financing and financial commitment
letters. The City shall endeavor to provide as complete as practicable a list
of additional information items needed within fifteen (15) days following the
application conference; provided that the failure to provide such list shall
not prejudice the City's rights to request any desired information at any time.
(Ord. 2020-1, 3-17-2020)
11-8-4: APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS:
A.   Application Submission: Ten print copies and one digital pdf copy (on CD
or flash drive) of the application for the formation of a PID (including all
attachments and exhibits) and an application fee of thirty thousand dollars
($30,000.00) (the "application fee") shall be submitted to the City Manager.
B.   Application Fees: The application fee shall be utilized by the City for
initial application review and project feasibility analysis, including the
payment of the City's financial and legal advisors, at their customary rates,
to assist in the evaluation of the feasibility of the proposed PID project. Ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) of the application fee shall be nonrefundable.
The balance of the application fee shall be used by the City in connection with
its review of the application. If the applicant withdraws its application prior
to the City's completion of its application review, the City shall remit the
unused portion (if any), of the application fee (but not the nonrefundable
$10,000.00 portion) to the applicant. Upon the applicant's request, the City
will provide an accounting of expenditures of funds advanced. Any unused
portion of advances shall be refunded to the applicant at such time as the City
determines that all costs and expenses have been paid. If at any time the
anticipated costs of review and/or remaining third-party expenses exceed the
amount of the remaining application fee on hand with the City, the City may
require the applicant to deposit additional funds and may suspend its review
pending receipt of such additional funds. The City and its legal consultants
shall use reasonable efforts to determine whether any features of a PID
proposed in an application appear not to be feasible, and to advise the
applicant early in the review process, for the purpose of avoiding unnecessary
additional costs of review.
C.   Post-Application Conference: After the application and the application fee
have been submitted, the City Manager, or designee thereof, will arrange a
conference with the PID Review Staff for the purpose of reviewing the
application and determining whether the application is complete. If, following
the application conference or any other time during the application process,
PID Review Staff requests additional information, the applicant shall provide
any and all supplemental information requested, in accordance with the
provisions of Section
11-8-3 K.
D.   PID Review Staff Report: After analysis of an application is completed,
PID Review Staff, under the direction of the City Manager, or designee thereof,
will prepare a report including recommendations relating to the PID and an
analysis of the impact of the formation of the PID and its effects on the City.
The report may provide a recommended disposition of the application and any
additional requirements that are recommended in connection with the applicant
and/or the PID. If all costs billed to or incurred by the City have been paid
by the applicant by a date at least fourteen (14) days prior to the date of the
meeting of the Council at which the appropriate resolution(s) approving the
application is to be introduced, and if the application otherwise meets the
qualifications provided herein and in the Act, the application, along with any
report and recommendations by PID Review Staff, will be forwarded to the
Council for consideration.
E.   PID Development Agreement: If the Council approves an application for
formation of a PID, the applicant and the staff of the City shall coordinate a
schedule of events for the formation of the PID and shall negotiate an
appropriate PID Development Agreement which, if approved by the Council, shall
incorporate the recommendations of the PID Review Staff relating to such PID,
and any other restrictions, provisions and agreements required by the City.
F.   Preliminary Approval: As an alternative to seeking final approval of its
application, an applicant may request preliminary, nonbinding approval of its
application by the Council ("preliminary approval").
1.   A request for preliminary approval will be considered following payment of
the initial application fee and information such as the following:
   a.   A description of the proposed PID boundaries, together with a
preliminary description (to the best knowledge of the applicant) of the
ownership of property within the PID boundaries and whether any qualified
electors are located within the PID boundaries;
   b.   A description of the improvements to be constructed by the applicant;
   c.   The estimated construction costs of the improvements and anticipated
completion time;
   d.   A description, by category, of improvements and related costs to be
financed by the PID;
   e.   The estimated issuance amount of PID;
   f.   The total annual special levy amount (i.e., estimated aggregate annual
debt service on bonds); and
   g.   To the extent applicable, the maximum annual PID property tax, the
allocation method and maximum special levy per dwelling unit (single-family
residences) or per acre (multifamily and commercial), and the methods by which
the levy will be apportioned.
A request for preliminary approval need not include all of the elements of a
completed application described in subsection 3.
2.   The PID Review Staff report will advise the Council whether preliminary
approval is recommended, not recommended, or that no recommendation is made.
3.   Additional Fees: An applicant that has received preliminary approval may
be required to make such additional advances as the City staff determines are
necessary to pay the costs of reviewing the applicant's request for final
approval of the formation of the PID, as described in subsection 11-8-4 B. An
applicant may be required to submit a full additional initial application fee
under subsection 11-8-4 A. (including another non-refundable portion thereof as
described in 4 B.) if, in City staffs determination, the application for final
approval of a PID departs substantially from the parameters set forth in the
application for preliminary approval.
4.   Preliminary Approval Not Binding: Preliminary approval, if granted by the
counsel under this subsection 11-8-4 F., shall not bind the Council to approve
or take any other action with respect to the submission of a completed final
application for formation of the PID; the Council may in its sole discretion
disapprove a final application notwithstanding that it has previously granted
preliminary approval for the same or a similar project.
G.   Notice Of Public Hearing: Pursuant to §5-11-4 of the Act, no PID
application shall be acted on without a duly noticed public hearing. The notice
of public hearing shall be mailed by registered or certified United States
mail, postage prepaid, to all owners of real property in the proposed district
at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of the hearing. In addition, notice
shall be published once each week for two (2) successive weeks in a newspaper
of general circulation in the City. The last publication shall be at least
three (3) days before the date of the hearing. The notice shall comply with
requirements of subsections B and C of §5-11-4 of the Act.
H.   Approval Of Formation And PID Financing: The Council may include in its
approval of the PID formation the issuance of one or more series of PID bonds,
subject to the terms and conditions of the formation resolution, the PID
General Plan and the PID Development Agreement. The Council's approval of PID
formation and issuance of bonds shall be conditioned on the requirement that
the PID shall utilize bond counsel, underwriters and/or other consultants
selected by or otherwise acceptable to the Council, and that each issue of PID
bonds shall be subject to the review and approval of the Council prior to
issuance.
I.   Extension Of Application Review Period Beyond 90 Days: In the event that
the City for any reason does not take formal action on the PID application
within the 90 day review period described in §5-11-3(A) of the Act, the
developer may withdraw and resubmit its application with no penalty. No
additional fee shall be due in connection with such resubmission as long as
there are no material changes to the form and substance of the application.
(Ord. 2020-1, 3-17-2020)
11-8-5: PID OPERATIONS AND DEBT FINANCING:
A.   PID Administration Expense Fee: In addition to the amounts set forth in
Section
11-8-4 B., within ten (10) days following formation of a PID the applicant
shall deposit with the PID a nonrefundable administrative expense fee in the
amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The administrative expense fee
shall be applied by the PID to the costs and expenses incurred in connection
with the formation, review of any feasibility study, election costs,
administration, operation and maintenance of the PID or its public
improvements. From time to time, upon depletion of the administrative expense
fee, the PID may request, and the developer landowner shall promptly deposit
with the PID, additional amounts deemed by the City to be necessary for the
purposes contemplated in this section. Nothing in this subsection preclude the
reimbursement of such expenses from PID taxes, levies, charges or bond
proceeds, as permitted by the Act.
B.   Administration, Operation And Maintenance Charge: In order to provide for
the PID to be self-supporting of its administrative, operation and maintenance
expenses, and to finance services in addition to those provided by the City,
the City may condition its approval of a PID, on the PID's imposition of up to
three dollars ($3.00) per one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) of assessed value ad
valorem tax, not as tax or charge of the City, but in accordance with the
provisions of section 5-11-23 of the Act, as amended, upon the PID taxable
property which is not City-owned infrastructure otherwise maintained by the
City or otherwise exempt from taxation; provided, however, that to the extent
permitted by law the PID shall be entitled to charge such rates, fees, and
charges to property owners as are necessary to address any shortfall in the
expense required to operate and maintain the PID improvements, and that such
rates, fees and charges shall be established in the development agreement for
the PID.
C.   General Obligation Bonds: No general obligation bonds shall be issued by a
PID, notwithstanding that general obligation bonds may be authorized under the
Act.
D.   Special Levy Bonds: Special levy bonds may be issued by the PID if
contemplated in the General Plan and Feasibility Study. Special levy bonds
shall be secured by a first lien (coequal to the lien for general taxes and
prior special assessments) on the property benefited in the manner contemplated
by section 5-11-20(G) of the Act.
1.   Applicants for special levy bonds shall describe in each project
feasibility report, the following:
   a.   The current direct and overlapping tax and assessment burden and
special levy on real property to comprise the PID and the full cash value and
assessed valuation of that property as shown on the most recent assessment
roll;
   b.   The projected amount and timing of the PID special levy bonds to be
issued;
   c.   The projected market absorption of development on the PID;
   d.   The projected special levy burden to be placed on the assessed parcels
and the anticipated methodology of assessment;
   e.   An estimate of the applicant's construction cost associated with the
public improvements in excess of the estimated PID-funded costs of the project;
and
   f.   The necessity of the applicant and the PID entering into a contribution
agreement, which may require a letter of credit or other third-party guarantee
of the bonds by the applicant.
2.   The value to lien ratio, after the issuance of the bonds and construction
of the improvements to be financed by the PID, will be at least three to one
(3:1) based on an MAI appraisal.
3.   As provided in the Act, at the time the PID is formed, the maximum
allowable rate of special levy for residential property shall not cause the
total tax and assessment obligation for such property, including projected ad
valorem taxes, special levies and special assessments, to exceed 1.95 percent
of the anticipated market value of residential property as determined by a then
current MAI appraisal. The 1.95 percent shall include all known and authorized,
but unissued debt and any other anticipated fees or assessments which may be
imposed by the City or special district on a property within the PID, i.e.,
special assessment districts, including the proposed maximum special levy,
except service charges for utilities and refuse.
E.   Revenue Bonds:
1.   Revenue bonds may be issued by the PID if contemplated in the General Plan
and Feasibility Study. Revenue Bonds shall be payable from a PID revenue
source.
2.   An applicant for revenue bonds shall describe in each project feasibility
report, the following:
   a.   The current fee structure for comparable services or otherwise incurred
by persons who would be responsible for paying the proposed rates, fees, and
charges;
   b.   The revenue source from which bonds will be payable. The City reserves
the right to require the applicant to produce such independently prepared
feasibility studies or reports as it deems necessary to confirm the amount and
availability of revenues;
   c.   The projected market absorption of development within the PID;
   d.   The projected amount and timing of PID revenue bonds to be issued;
   e.   The financial impact of the proposed rates, fees, and charges on
prospective residents or other users of such rates, fees and charges;
   f.   An estimate of the applicant's construction cost associated with the
public improvements in excess of the estimated PID-funded costs of the project;
and
   g.   The necessity of the applicant and the PID to enter into an as
appropriate contribution agreement, which may require a letter of credit or
other third-party guarantee of the bonds by the applicant.
F.   Suitability: The City intends that the PID only have the power to sell the
proposed bonds to suitable investors. If the proposed bond issue is not rated
(either on its own merits or by the use of appropriate credit enhancement) in
one of the three highest investment grade ratings issued by the Standards &
Poor's Corporation, Moody's Investors Services, Inc., Fitch Investors Services,
Inc. or any other nationally recognized bond-rating agency service, then the
bonds must have minimum denominations of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) and be available for purchase and restricted with respect to sale
to “Qualified Institutional Buyers” (as such term is defined in Rule 144A of
the Securities and Exchange Commission) or to “accredited investors” (as such
term is defined in Rule 501 of Regulation D of the Rules Governing the Limited
Offering and Sale Securities without Registration under the Securities Act of
1933). It is the intention of the City to have investor suitability achieved
through the rating requirements set forth in the preceding sentence or the
establishment of large minimum denominations (e.g., not less than one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00)) and, if the City or the PID determines it is
appropriate, covenants limiting secondary market sales of PID bonds through
registered broker-dealers. Notwithstanding the restrictions pertaining to
public sales and private placements of bonds set forth in this section, the
restrictions may be modified or relaxed, subject to the requirements of the
Act, if other financing structures or features are presented which, in the sole
discretion of the Council, provide other means to address investor suitability
concerns.
G.   Contribution: At the time the PID is formed financial projections must
demonstrate that the landowners shall provide over the life of the project at
least twenty-five cents ($0.25) in infrastructure or community improvement
(which may include, for example, dry utilities and other improvements for the
benefit of the property owners within the PID, irrespective of whether such
improvements are publicly or privately owned) for each one dollar ($1.00) of
debt to be issued by a PID to finance public infrastructure purposes, except as
otherwise determined by the City in its discretion. The City, in its
discretion, may condition approval of PID formation on additional financing
requirements, including, without limitation, the deposit of cash, or letter of
credit (or similar credit facility) as security for completion of the
infrastructure development. If agreed to by the City or PID board, as
applicable, in the discretion of the City or PID board, infrastructure and
community improvement constructed or acquired by the applicant prior to,
contemporaneously with or subsequent to the formation of the PID may be
included in calculating the applicants compliance with this subsection;
provided, that no improvements which have not already been constructed or
acquired shall be included in that calculation unless the completion of the
improvements is guaranteed or secured by an appropriate completion bond, cash
deposit or other security acceptable to the City or PID board, as applicable.
H.   Debt Service Reserve Funds: If allowed by law (including any applicable
federal laws relating to the tax-exempt status of the bonds), bond issues may
include a debt service reserve fund in an amount acceptable to the PID board.
I.   Environment Site Assessments: Unless otherwise provided to the City
pursuant to the other requirements prior to PID financing and acquisition by
the PID or City, the PID and City will require an independent environmental
report or assessment of any real property which will be dedicated to or
otherwise owned, leased or operated by the City or the PID and a proposed form
or indemnity agreement with respect to all environmental law liability.
J.   Refinancing And Refunding Bonds: Refinancing and refunding of bonds issued
on behalf of a PID will be considered utilizing the same criteria set forth in
this section and shall be subject to the review and approval of the Council or
its designee. Refinancing and refunding will be expected to either:
1.   Generate interest rate or net present value savings;
2.   Restructure payment of principal;
3.   Reimburse the applicant for actual costs expended for public improvements
contemplated to be part of the proposed project; or
   4.   Eliminate burdensome covenants.
K.   Cost Of Change: Applicants shall be responsible for all additional costs
and expenses incurred in any special levy or property tax modifications
resulting from changes to the development not anticipated in the application.
(Ord. 2020-1, 3-17-2020)
11-8-6: MISCELLANEOUS:
A.   Discretion And Waiver:
1.   Based upon the recommendations of PID Review Staff and/or financing legal
consultants retained by the City, the Council may approve PID applications
which do not meet the foregoing criteria, if the Council, in its discretion,
determines:
   a.   That the particular features of the proposed PID, likelihood that the
PID's projects and purposes will be successfully completed and mechanisms
protecting against default on bonds, warrant that the foregoing criteria need
not be applied, and
   b.   The application otherwise complies with the requirements of the Act.
2.   In making that determination, the Council may consider an opinion of a
financial advisor, an underwriter, or other qualified professional with a
reputation satisfactory to the Council that the particular features of the PID,
the proposed projects and the bonds proposed to be issued can be successfully
marketed and that the plan of finance is feasible.
B.   Timeframe To Commence PID Development Activities: The City will require
any PID within its boundary make an annual report to Council on the status of
development. The report shall include the estimated construction periods for
any and all infrastructure expected to be constructed within the boundaries of
the PID. Annual reports shall be made at the first Council meeting of each
calendar year (or as otherwise scheduled by the Council). If construction has
not begun prior to the presentation of the fifth annual report, then Council
may review the parameters established by the PID formation resolution.
C.   Purchaser Disclosure Marketing Materials: Each purchaser of real property
located in the PID shall execute an acknowledgement of the PID disclosure form.
The applicant shall also supply the City with a copy of the receipt.
(Applicants are required to describe in their promotional material the
financial and other relative impacts on the development being induced in a PID.
Copies of the disclosure form must be placed on file with the City.)
D.   Indemnity: The applicant (or such other third party acceptable to the City
and the PID), shall indemnify the City and the PID and their agents and
employees and shall hold the City and the PID and their agents, officers,
advisors, counsel and employees harmless for, from and against any and all
liabilities, claims, costs and expenses, including attorneys' fees, incurred in
any challenge or proceeding to the formation, operation, administration of the
PID, the offer and sale of PID bonds, the levying by the PID of any tax,
assessment, special levy or charge and the operation and maintenance of public
infrastructure financed or owned by the PID.
E.   Financial Advisor: Prior to a PID Board establishing any special levy,
issuing any bonds or other indebtedness, or entering into any binding
agreements related thereto, the PID may engage a financial advisor to review
any such proposals and advise the PID as to the implications thereof. The costs
of such financial advisor may be paid by the developer or from proceeds of PID
bonds.
F.   Amendment: Except to the extent approved by the qualified electors in the
PID (if any) as required by law and approved by the holders of bonds issued by
the PID and then outstanding (if any), all amendments to this chapter shall
have a prospective effect only and shall not in any way effect or otherwise
modify the approval of preexisting PID. (Ord. 2020-1, 3-17-2020)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
12-1-1: Stationary Authorization
12-1-2: Findings of Fact
12-1-3: Statement of Purpose
12-1-4: Methods of Reducing Flood Losses
12-1-5: Definitions
12-1-6: Lands to Which this Chapter Applies
12-1-7: Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard
12-1-8: Establishment of Development Permit
12-1-9: Compliance
12-1-10: Abrogation and Greater Restrictions
12-1-11: Interpretation
12-1-12: Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
12-1-13: Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
12-1-14: Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
12-1-15: Permit Procedures
12-1-16: Variance Procedures
12-1-17: Flood Hazard Reduction; General Standards
12-1-18: Flood Hazard Reduction; Specific Standards
12-1-19: Standards for Subdivision Proposals
12-1-20: Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
12-1-21: Penalties for Non-Compliance
12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The Legislature of the State of New Mexico has in NMSA § 3-18-7, delegated the
responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City of Sunland Park in New Mexico, does
ordain as follows. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas for the City of Sunland Park are subject to
periodic inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, flood proofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this Chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this Chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning
they have in common usage and to give this Chapter it's most reasonable
application.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
APPEAL BOARD: Referring to the City Council of Sunland Park, New Mexico.
APPURTENANT STRUCTURE: A structure which is on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to the
use of the principal structure.
AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD: The land area that would be inundated
by the one-percent (1%) annual chance (100 year) flood based on future
conditions hydrology.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING:    A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO zone on a
community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one (1) to three (3) feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:   Is the land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any
given year. The area may be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary
Map (FHBM). After detailed rate-making has been completed in preparation for
publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30,
AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE):   The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones
A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a one percent (1%) chance of equaling or
exceeding that level in any given year - also called the Base Flood.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BREAKAWAY WALL: A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any man-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING: For insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which has
its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures."
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION:    A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM):    An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS):   See “Flood Elevation Study”.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA:    Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of flooding).
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT   Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
REGULATIONS: building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM:   Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOOD PROOFING: Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY: See “Regulatory Floodway”.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE:   A use, which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of Interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
      2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of Section 60.3 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one (1) or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION:   A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION:   A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is (i) built on a single chassis; (ii)
four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections; (iii) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a
light duty truck; and (iv) designed primarily not for use as a permanent
dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or
seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY:   The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
RIVERINE:    Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA:   See “Area of Special Flood Hazard.”
START OF CONSTRUCTION: (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT:   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of
construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either: (1) Any project for improvement of
a structure to correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary,
or safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions or (2) Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure."
VARIANCE: A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements see Section 60.6 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in Section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program
is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION:   The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-6: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
The Chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard with the
jurisdiction of Dona Ana County unincorporated areas. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-7: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the current scientific and engineering report entitled,
"The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Dona Ana County," dated July 6, 2016, with
accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps dated July 6, 2016, and any revisions
thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
Chapter. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-8: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-9: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this Chapter and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-10: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This Chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this Chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 2016-04,
7-6-2016)
12-1-11: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this Chapter, all provisions shall be;
(1) considered as minimum requirements; (2) liberally construed in favor of the
governing body; and (3) deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers
granted under State statutes. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-12: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OR LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this Chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This Chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This Chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
Chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 2016-04,
7-6-2016)
12-1-13: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Building Inspector/CFM is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this Chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 CFR (Emergency Management and Assistance - National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain management. (Ord. 2016-
04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-14: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   C.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this Chapter.
   D.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental
agencies (including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) from which prior approval is required.
   E.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
   F.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency which is the Texas Water Development Board (TWDB) and also
the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   G.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   H.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
Section
12-1-7 of this Chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a Federal, State or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
Sections
12-1-17 through 12-1-21 of this Chapter.
   I.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community.
   J.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one (1) foot, provided
that the community first completes all of the provisions required by Section
65.12 of the National Flood Insurance Program. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-15: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application for a Floodplain Development Permit shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be flood proofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential flood proofed structure shall meet the flood proofing
criteria of Section
12-1-18B. of this Chapter;
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with Section
12-1-14A. of this Chapter;
   B.   Approval or denial of a Floodplain Development Permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this Chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-16: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
Chapter.
   B.   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this Chapter.
   C.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may
appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   E.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this Chapter.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in Section
12-1-15B. of this Chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
   G.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
Chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
Chapter (Section
12-1-3).
   H.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   I.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   J.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon: (i) showing a good and
sufficient cause; (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and (iii) a determination that
the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with
existing local laws or ordinances.
      3.   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   K.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that (i) the criteria outlined in Section
12-1-16A. through I. are met, and (ii) the structure or other development is
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
create no additional threats to public safety. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-17: FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION; GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and,
   G.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-18: FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION; SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in (i) Section
12-1-7, (ii) Section
12-1-14H., or (iii) Section
12-1-19C., the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: new construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this subsection as proposed in
Section
12-1-15A.1., is satisfied.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: new construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are flood
proofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   C.   Enclosures: new construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings on separate walls having a total net
area of not less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding shall be provided.
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot
above grade.
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   D.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable State and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      2.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites (i)
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, (ii) in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, (iii) in an expansion to an existing manufactured
home park or subdivision, or (iv) in an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a
result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest
floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      3.   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones A1-30,
AH and AE on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
subsection D. of this section be elevated so that either:
         a.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base
flood elevation, or
         b.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty-six (36) inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
   E.   Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM either (i) be on
the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days, or (ii) be
fully licensed and ready for highway use, or (iii) meet the permit requirements
of Section
12-1-15A.1. of this Chapter, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
"manufactured homes" in subsection D. of this section. A recreational vehicle
is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and
has no permanently attached additions. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-19: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with Sections
12-1-2,
12-1-3, and 12-1-4 of this Chapter.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet Floodplain
Development Permit requirements of Section
12-1-8; Section
12-1-15; and the provisions of Sections
12-1-17 through 12-1-21 of this Chapter.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres,
whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to Section
12-1-7 or Section
12-1-14H. of this Chapter.
   D.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-20: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES):
Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in Section
12-1-7 of this Chapter, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas
have special flood hazards associated with flood depths of one (1) to three (3)
feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding
is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions
apply:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the
base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the
depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least two (2) feet
if no depth number is specified); or
   B.   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures;
      1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the
base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the
depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least two (2) feet
if no depth number is specified); or
      2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed
so that below the base specified flood depth in an AO Zone, or below the Base
Flood Elevation in an AH Zone, level the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
   C.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
Section, as proposed in Section
12-1-15 of this Chapter are satisfied.
   D.   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around structures
on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
12-1-21: PENALTIES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this court
order and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this
court order by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this court
order or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction
thereof be fined, not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each day the
violation is found to have occurred, and in addition shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City
of Sunland Park from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-6-2016)
 
