HUMBOLDT, KANSAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1546, passed 6-10-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 1536
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF HUMBOLDT,
KANSAS, AUTHORIZED BY ORDINANCE NO. 1536 PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN
OTHER ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN, EXCEPTING CERTAIN ORDINANCES FROM REPEAL
AND SAVING CERTAIN ACCRUED RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   Be it Ordained by the Governing Body of the City of Humboldt, Kansas:
   Section 1. The codification of ordinances of the City of Humboldt, Kansas,
authorized by Ordinance No. 1536 and K.S.A. 12-3014 and 12-3015, as set out in
the following chapters, Chapters I to XVI and Appendices A and B, all
inclusive, and entitled the "Code of the City of Humboldt, Kansas, 2022," is
hereby adopted and ordained as the "Code of the City of Humboldt, Kansas,
2022," and said codification shall become effective upon publication of no
fewer than ten copies of said code in book form.
   Section 2. All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a general nature passed
prior to February 14, 2022, in force and effect at the date of the publication
of no fewer than ten copies of the "Code of the City of Humboldt, Kansas,
2022," and this ordinance, are hereby repealed as of the date of publication of
said code except as hereinafter provided.
   Section 3. In construing this ordinance, the following ordinances shall not
be considered or held to be ordinances of a general nature:
      (a)   Ordinances pertaining to the acquisition of property or interests
in property by gift, purchase, devise, bequest, appropriation or condemnation;
      (b)   Ordinances opening, dedicating, widening, vacating or narrowing
streets, avenues, alleys and boulevards;
      (c)   Ordinances establishing and changing grades of streets, avenues,
alleys and boulevards;
      (d)   Ordinances naming or changing the names of streets, avenues and
boulevards;
      (e)   Ordinances authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
      (f)   Ordinances creating districts for public improvements of whatsoever
kind or nature;
      (g)   Ordinances levying general taxes;
      (h)   Ordinances levying special assessments or taxes;
      (i)   Ordinances granting any rights, privileges, easements or franchises
therein mentioned to any person, firm or corporation;
      (j)   Ordinances authorizing the issuance of bonds and other instruments
of indebtedness by the city;
      (k)   Ordinances authorizing contracts;
      (l)   Ordinances establishing the limits of the city or pertaining to
annexation or exclusion of territory;
      (m)   Ordinances relating to compensation of officials, officers and
employees of the city:
      (n)   Ordinances of a temporary nature;
   Provided, That the above enumeration of exceptions shall not be held or
deemed to be exclusive, it being the purpose and intention to exempt from
repeal any and all ordinances not of a general nature and general ordinances
specifically excepted by this section.
    Section 4. The arrangement and classification of the several chapters,
articles, and sections of the code adopted by Section 1 of this ordinance and
the headnotes and footnotes at the ends of the sections, are made for the
purpose of convenience and orderly arrangement, and do not constitute a part of
the ordinances, and therefore, no implication or presumption of legislative
intent or construction is to be drawn therefrom.
   Section 5. The repeal of ordinances as provided in Section 2 hereof, shall
not affect any rights acquired, fines, penalties, forfeitures or liabilities
incurred thereunder, or actions involving any of the provisions of said
ordinances or parts thereof. Said ordinances above repealed are hereby
continued in force and effect after the passage, approval and publication of
this ordinance for the purpose of such rights, fines, penalties, forfeitures,
liabilities and actions therefor.
   Section 6. If for any reason any chapter, article, section, subsection,
sentence, portion or part of the "Code of the City of Humboldt, Kansas, 2022,"
or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision will not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this code.
   Section 7. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after
the publication of the "Code of the City of Humboldt, Kansas, 2022," as
provided in K.S.A. 12-3015.
   Passed by the Governing Body of the City of Humboldt, Kansas, this 13th day
of March, 2023.
                                              /s/ Nobby Davis , Mayor
                                             Nobby Davis
         
ATTEST:  /s/ Staci Johnson , City Clerk
       Staci Johnson
(SEAL)
CHAPTER I: ADMINISTRATION
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   GOVERNING BODY
      
3.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
4.   PERSONNEL POLICY
      
5.   OATHS AND BONDS
      
6.   OPEN RECORDS
      
7.   INVESTMENT OF IDLE FUNDS
      
8.   PETTY CASH FUND
      
9.   FIREMEN’S RELIEF FUND
      
10.   HEALTH INSURANCE
      
11.   PUBLIC BUILDING COMMISSION
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-101   Code designated
   
1-102   Definitions
   
1-103   Existing ordinances
   
1-104   Effect of repeal
   
1-105   Catchlines of sections
   
1-106   Parenthetical and reference matter
   
1-107   Amendments; repeal
   
1-108   Ordinances
   
1-109   Same; subject and title; amendment
   
1-110   Same; publication
   
1-111   Same; ordinance book
   
1-112   Resolutions, motions
   
1-113   City records
   
1-114   Altering code
   
1-115   Scope of application
   
1-116   General penalty
   
1-117   Severability
§ 1-101 CODE DESIGNATED.
   The chapters, articles and sections herein shall constitute and be
designated as “The Code of the City of Humboldt, Kansas,” and may be so cited.
The code may also be cited as the “Humboldt City Code.”
§ 1-102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Humboldt, Kansas.
   CODE. The code of the City of Humboldt, Kansas.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; and if the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
   COUNTY. The County of Allen in the State of Kansas.
   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision appears requiring or
authorizing the head of a department or officer of the city to do some act or
perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department head or
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required
act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate
otherwise.
   GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender include the feminine and
neuter.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Mayor and City Council, or those persons appointed to
fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor or the City Council as provided in this
code.
   IN THE CITY. Includes all territory in which the city now has, or shall
hereafter acquire jurisdiction for the exercise of its police powers or other
regulatory powers.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the
plural include the singular.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an OATH, and in such cases the word “swear” is
equivalent to the word “affirm.”
   OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS AND THE LIKE. Officers, departments, boards,
commissions and employees referred to in this code shall mean officers,
departments, boards, commissions and employees of the city, unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include not only the owner of
the whole but any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or joint tenant of
the whole or a part of such building or land.
   PERSON. Includes a firm, partnership, association of persons, corporation,
organization or any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal and mixed property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments, and all rights
thereto and interest therein, equitable as well as legal.
   SHALL, MAY. SHALL is mandatory and MAY is permissive.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE, SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write, when
his or her name is written near such mark, and is witnessed by a person who
writes his or her own name as a witness.
   STATE. The State of Kansas.
   STREET. Includes public streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto and all other
public thoroughfares in the city.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any person
holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such
building or land, whether alone or with others.
   TENSES. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
   WRITING or WRITTEN. May include printing, engraving, lithography and any
other mode of representing words and letters, except those cases where the
written signature or the mark of any person is required by law.
   YEAR. A calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
§ 1-103 EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are in substance the
same as those of ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this
code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
§ 1-104 EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive an ordinance previously
repealed, nor shall such repeal affect any right that has accrued, any duty
imposed, any penalty incurred, or any proceeding commenced under or by virtue
of the ordinance repealed, except as shall be expressly stated therein.
§ 1-105 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the sections of this code printed in capital letters are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall
not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of any
section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any
section, including its catchline, is amended or reenacted.
§ 1-106 PARENTHETICAL AND REFERENCE MATTER.
   The matter in parenthesis at the ends of sections is only for information
purposes and is not a part of the code. Citations indicate only the source and
the text may or may not be changed by this code. This code is a new enactment
under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-3014 and 12-3015. Reference matter not in
parenthesis is only for information purposes and is not a part of this code.
§ 1-107 AMENDMENTS; REPEAL.
   Any portion of this code may be amended by specific reference to the section
number as follows: “Section _____ of the code of the City of Humboldt is hereby
amended to read as follows: (the new provisions shall then be set out in full).
. .” A new section not heretofore existing in the code may be added as follows:
“The code of the City of Humboldt is hereby amended by adding a section (or
article or chapter) which reads as follows: . . .(the new provisions shall be
set out in full)...” All sections, or articles or chapters to be repealed shall
be repealed by specific reference as follows: “Section (or article or chapter)
__________ of the code of the City of Humboldt is hereby repealed.”
§ 1-108 ORDINANCES.
   The Governing Body shall have the care, management and control of the city
and its finances, and shall pass all ordinances needed for the welfare of the
city. All ordinances shall be valid when a majority of all the members-elect of
the City Council shall vote in favor. Where the number of favorable votes is
one less than required, the Mayor shall have power to cast the deciding vote in
favor of the ordinance.
(K.S.A. 12-3002)
§ 1-109 SAME; SUBJECT AND TITLE; AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall contain more than one subject, which shall be clearly
expressed in its title; and no section or sections of an ordinance shall be
amended unless the amending ordinance contains the entire section or sections
as amended and the section or sections amended shall be repealed.
§ 1-110 SAME; PUBLICATION.
   (a)   No ordinance, except those appropriating money, shall be in force
until published in the official city newspaper by the City Clerk. One
publication of any such ordinance shall be sufficient unless additional
publications are required by statute or ordinance. The publisher of the
newspaper shall prefix such published ordinance by a line in brackets stating
the month, day and year of such publication.
   (b)   In lieu of subsection (a) above, the city may opt to publish a summary
of an ordinance so long as:
      (1)   The publication is identified as a “summary” and contains notice
that the complete text of the ordinance may be obtained or viewed free of
charge at the office of the City Clerk;
      (2)   The City Attorney certifies the summary of the ordinance prior to
publication to ensure that the summary is legally accurate and sufficient; and
      (3)   The publication contains the city’s official website address where
a reproduction of the original ordinance is available for a minimum of one week
following the summary publication in the newspaper.
   (c)   If an ordinance is subject to petition pursuant to state law, then the
summary shall contain a statement that the ordinance is subject to petition.
(K.S.A. 12-3007)
§ 1-111 SAME; ORDINANCE BOOK.
   Following final passage and approval of each ordinance, the City Clerk shall
enter the same in the ordinance book of the city as provided by law. Each
ordinance shall have appended thereto the manner in which the ordinance was
passed, the date of passage, the page of the journal containing the record of
the final vote on its passage, the name of the newspaper in which published and
the date of publication.
(K.S.A. 12-3008)
§ 1-112 RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS.
   Except where a state statute or city ordinance specifically requires
otherwise, all resolutions and motions shall be passed if voted upon favorably
by a majority present at a meeting of the City Council.
§ 1-113 CITY RECORDS.
   The City Clerk or any other officer or employee having custody of city
records and documents shall maintain such records and documents in accordance
with K.S.A. 12-120 to 12-121 inclusive, which is incorporated by reference
herein as if set out in full and as provided in the Kansas Open Records Act and
the city policy regarding open public records.
(K.S.A. 12-120 to 12-121)
§ 1-114 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend
by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby. This restriction shall not apply to amendments or revisions of this
code authorized by ordinance duly adopted by the Governing Body.
§ 1-115 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   Any person convicted of doing any of the acts or things prohibited, made
unlawful, or the failing to do any of the things commanded to be done, as
specified and set forth in this code, shall be deemed in violation of this code
and punished in accordance with §
1-116. Each day any violation of this code continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
§ 1-116 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever any offense is declared by any provision of this code, absent a
specific or unique punishment prescribed, the offender shall be punished in
accordance with this section:
   (a)   A fine of not more than $1,000;
   (b)   Imprisonment in jail for not more than 179 days; or
   (c)   Both such fine and imprisonment not to exceed subsections (a) and (b)
above.
§ 1-117 SEVERABILITY.
   If for any reason any chapter, article, section, subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase of this code or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance, is declared to be unconstitutional or invalid or unenforceable,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
code.
ARTICLE 2: GOVERNING BODY
Section
   
1-201   Governing Body
   
1-202   Same; powers generally
   
1-203   Same; meetings
   
1-204   Same; quorum
   
1-205   Powers of the Mayor
   
1-206   President of the Council
   
1-207   Administrative powers
   
1-208   Vacancies in Governing Body; how filled
   
1-209   Compensation
   
1-210   Expenses
   
1-211   Incorporating Code of Procedure for Kansas Cities
   
1-212   Code of Ethics
§ 1-201 GOVERNING BODY.
   The Governing Body shall consist of a Mayor and City Council, to be elected
as set out in Ch. VI of this code.
§ 1-202 SAME; POWERS GENERALLY.
   All powers exercised by cities of the second class, or which shall hereafter
be conferred upon them, shall be exercised by the Governing Body, subject to
such limitations as prescribed by law. All executive and administrative
authority granted or limited by law shall be vested in the Mayor and Council as
Governing Body of the city.
(K.S.A. 12-103)
§ 1-203 SAME; MEETINGS.
   (a)   Regular meetings of the Governing Body shall be held on the second
Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m. In the event that the regular meeting day
shall fall on any legal holiday or any day observed as a holiday by the city
offices, the Governing Body shall fix the succeeding day not observed as a
holiday as a meeting day.
   (b)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or Acting Mayor, on the
written request of any three members of the Council specifying the object and
purpose of such meeting. The written request shall be read at the beginning of
the special meeting and entered at length in meeting minutes.
   (c)   Regular or special meetings of the Governing Body may be adjourned for
the completion of its business at such subsequent time and place as the
Governing Body shall determine in its motion to adjourn.
(K.S.A. 14-111) (Prior Code, § 1-203) (Ord. 1526, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 1-204 SAME; QUORUM.
   In all cases, it shall require a majority of the Council-elect to constitute
a quorum to do business.
(K.S.A. 14-111)
§ 1-205 POWERS OF THE MAYOR.
   (a)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Governing Body. The
Mayor shall have the tie-breaking vote on all questions when the members
present are equally divided.
   (b)   The Mayor shall:
      (1)   Have the superintending control of all officers and affairs of the
city;
      (2)   Take care that the ordinances of the city are complied with;
      (3)   Sign the commissions and appointments of all officers elected or
appointed;
      (4)   Endorse the approval of the Governing Body on all official bonds;
      (5)   From time to time communicate to the City Council such information
and recommend such measures as he or she may deem advisable;
      (6)   Have the power to approve or veto any ordinance as the laws of the
State of Kansas shall prescribe; and
      (7)   Sign all orders and drafts drawn upon the city treasury for money.
§ 1-206 PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall elect one of its own body as President of the
Council. The President of the Council shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of both the Mayor and the
President of the Council, the Council shall elect one of its members as “Acting
President of the Council.” The President and Acting President, when occupying
the place of Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other Council members but
shall exercise no veto.
(K.S.A. 14-204)
§ 1-207 ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS.
   The Governing Body may designate whether the administration of a policy or
the carrying out of any order shall be performed by a committee, an appointive
officer or the Mayor. If no administrative authority is designated, it shall be
vested in the Mayor.
§ 1-208 VACANCIES IN GOVERNING BODY; HOW FILLED.
   (a)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of the Mayor by death, resignation,
removal from the city, removal from office, refusal to qualify or otherwise,
the President of the Council shall become Mayor until the next regular city
election and the vacancy created in the office of the Council member becoming
Mayor shall be filled by the Governing Body of the city. Thereupon, the Council
shall elect from its membership a new President of the Council.
   (b)   If any Council member moves from the ward from which elected, the
office shall be deemed vacant. Whenever a vacancy occurs, the Governing Body
shall appoint an elector of the ward where the vacancy occurs to be Council
member for the balance of the unexpired term.
(K.S.A. 14-204) (Prior Code, § 1-208)
§ 1-209 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Governing Body shall receive as compensation such amounts as
may be fixed by ordinance.
§ 1-210 EXPENSES.
   Each member of the Governing Body shall receive for his or her services and
as reimbursement for his or her expenses, compensation as follows:
   (a)   Mileage at the same rate as is established by law by the State of
Kansas for state employees for each mile traveled by the shortest route upon
the performance of duties assigned by the Mayor and/or Council; and/or
   (b)   Reimbursement for actual food and lodging expenses upon the
performance of duties assigned by the Mayor and/or Council, provided such
expenses shall be documented by proper receipts.
§ 1-211 INCORPORATING CODE OF PROCEDURE FOR KANSAS CITIES.
   (a)   Incorporating Code of Procedure for Kansas Cities. There is hereby
incorporated by reference for the purpose of establishing a code of procedure
for the conduct of City Council meetings for the City of Humboldt, Kansas, that
certain model code know as the “Code of Procedure for Kansas Cities,” Second
Edition (2006) prepared and published in book form by the League of Kansas
Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas.
   (b)   Official copies. At least three copies of the “Code of Procedure for
Kansas Cities” shall be marked or stamped “OFFICIAL COPY AS INCORPORATED BY
ORDINANCE NO. 1461,” to which shall be attached a copy of this section. All
official copies shall be filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection by
the public during all reasonable business hours. Official copies of the “Code
of Procedure for Kansas Cities” shall be furnished to all members of the city’s
Governing Body and to any city employee, city officers or any other person to
whom such code, or its enforcement, is applicable or otherwise deemed
necessary. All such copies shall be furnished at the cost of the city.
(Ord. 1461, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 1-212 CODE OF ETHICS.
   (a)   Declaration of policy. The proper operation of the government requires
that public officials and employees be independent, impartial and responsible
to the people; that governmental decisions and policy be made in the proper
channels; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its
government. In recognition of those goals, there is hereby established a Code
of Ethics for all officials and employees, whether elected or appointed, paid
or unpaid. The purpose of this Code is to establish ethical standards by
setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the best
interests of the city.
   (b)   Responsibilities of public office. Public officials and employees are
agents of public purpose and hold office for the benefit of the public. They
are bound to uphold the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Kansas and to carry out impartially the laws of the nation,
state and city and thus to foster respect for all government. They are bound to
observe in their official acts the highest standards of morality and to
discharge faithfully the duties of their office regardless of personal
considerations, recognizing that the long-term public interest must be their
primary concern. Their conduct in both their official and private affairs
should be above reproach.
   (c)   Dedicated service.
      (1)   All officials and employees of the city should be responsive to the
political objectives expressed by the electorate and the programs developed to
attain those objectives. Appointive officials and employees should adhere to
the rule of work and performance established as the standard for their
positions by the appropriate authority.
      (2)   Officials and employees should not exceed their authority or breach
the law or ask others to do so, and they should work in full cooperation with
other public officials and employees unless prohibited from so doing by law or
by officially recognized confidentiality of their work.
   (d)   Fair and equal treatment.
      (1)   Interest in appointments. Canvassing of members of the City
Council, directly or indirectly, in order to obtain preferential consideration
in connection with any appointment to the municipal service shall disqualify
the candidate for appointment except with reference to positions filled by
appointment by the City Council.
      (2)   Use of public property. No official or employee shall request or
permit the use of city- owned vehicles, equipment, materials or property for
personal convenience or profit, except when such services are available to the
public generally or are provided as city policy for the use of such official or
employee in the conduct of official business.
      (3)   Obligations to citizens. No official or employee shall grant any
special consideration, treatment or advantage to any citizen beyond that which
is available to every other citizen.
   (e)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   Financial or personal interests. No elected or appointive city
official or employee, whether paid or unpaid, shall engage in any business or
transaction or shall have a financial or other personal interest, direct or
indirect, which is incompatible with the proper discharge of his or her duties
in the public interest or would tend to impair his or her independence of
judgment or action in the performance of his or her official duties. Personal,
as distinguished from financial, interests includes an interest arising from
blood or marriage relationships or close business or political association.
      (2)   Specific conflicts of interests. Specific conflicts of interest are
enumerated below for the guidance of officials and employees.
         (A)   Incompatible employment. No elected or appointive city official
or employee shall engage in or accept private employment or render services for
private interests when such employment or service is incompatible with the
proper discharge of his or her official duties or would tend to impair his or
her independence of judgment or action in the performance of his or her
official duties.
         (B)   Disclosure of confidential information. No elected or appointive
city official or employee shall, without proper legal authorization, disclose
confidential information concerning the property, government or affairs of the
city, nor shall he or she use such information to advance the financial or
other private interest of himself, herself or others.
      (3)   Gifts and favors. No elected or appointive city official or
employee shall accept any valuable gift, whether in the form of service, loan,
thing or promise, from any person, firm or corporation which to his or her
knowledge is interested directly or indirectly in any manner whatsoever in
business dealings with the city; nor shall any such official or employee accept
any gift, favor or thing of value that may tend to influence him or her in the
discharge of his or her duties or grant in the discharge of his or her duties
any improper favor, service or thing of value. The prohibition against gifts or
favors shall not apply to an occasional non-pecuniary gift, of only nominal
value, an award publicly presented in recognition of public service, or any
gift which would have been offered or given to him or her if not an official or
employee.
      (4)   Representing private interest before city agencies or courts. No
elected or appointive city official or employee whose salary is paid in whole
or in part by the city shall appear in behalf of private interest before any
agency of this city. He or she shall not represent private interests in any
action or proceeding against the interest of the city in any litigation to
which the city is a party.
ARTICLE 3: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
1-301   Appointment
   
1-302   Employees
   
1-303   Removal
   
1-304   Vacancy in office
   
1-305   City Clerk
   
1-306   Same; fiscal records
   
1-307   Same; seal; oaths
   
1-308   Same; withholding agents
   
1-309   Assistant City Clerk
   
1-310   City Treasurer
   
1-311   City Attorney; office; duties
   
1-312   City Administrator; office established
   
1-313   Same; duties
   
1-314   Same; term
   
1-315   Same; salary
   
1-316   Appointment or employment in more than one position
   
1-317   Conflict of interest
§ 1-301 APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the consent of the Council, a Municipal
Judge of the Municipal Court, a City Attorney, a City Treasurer and any other
officers deemed necessary. Any officers appointed and confirmed shall hold an
initial term of office of not to exceed one year and until their successors are
appointed and qualified. Any officers who are reappointed shall hold their
offices for a term of one year and until their successors are appointed and
qualified. The Council shall by ordinance specify the duties and compensation
of the office holders, and by ordinance may abolish any office created by the
Council whenever deemed expedient.
(Charter Ord. 24, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 1-302 EMPLOYEES.
   The Personnel Committee, with the consent of the Council, shall have
authority to hire all other employees, or such authority may be delegated to
the respective department heads.
(Prior Code, § 1-302)
§ 1-303 REMOVAL.
   (a)   A majority of all members-elect of the Council may remove any
appointed officer.
   (b)   The Mayor may suspend at any time any appointed officer.
   (c)   Employees, other than appointed officers, may be removed by the Mayor
upon recommendation of the respective department heads.
§ 1-304 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   Whenever a vacancy occurs in any appointive office for whatever reason, the
vacancy shall be filled by the Governing Body. Any person appointed to fill
such vacancy shall serve only until the next regular time for appointment.
§ 1-305 CITY CLERK.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Be custodian of all city records, books, files, papers, documents and
other personal effects belonging to the city and not properly pertaining to any
other office;
   (b)   Carry on all official correspondence of the city;
   (c)   Attend and keep a record of the proceedings of all regular and special
meetings of the Governing Body;
   (d)   Enter every appointment of office and the date thereof in the journal;
   (e)   Enter or place each ordinance of the city in the ordinance books after
its passage; and
   (f)   Publish all ordinances, except those appropriating money, and such
resolutions, notices and proclamations as may be required by law or ordinance.
§ 1-306 SAME; FISCAL RECORDS.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Prepare and keep suitable fiscal records according to generally
accepted accounting principles;
   (b)   Assist in preparing the annual budget;
   (c)   Audit all claims against the city for goods or services rendered for
the consideration of the Governing Body. His or her accounts shall properly
show the amounts paid from any fund of the city and the cash balance existing
in each fund;
   (d)   Keep an accurate account of all bonds issued by the city; and
   (e)   Keep a record of all special assessments.
§ 1-307 SAME; SEAL; OATHS.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Have custody of the corporate seal of the city and shall affix the
same to the official copy of all ordinances, contracts and other documents
required to be authenticated;
   (b)   Have power to administer oaths for all purposes pertaining to the
business and affairs of the city; and
   (c)   Keep suitable files of all such oaths required to be deposited in his
or her office.
§ 1-308 SAME; WITHHOLDING AGENTS.
   The City Clerk is designated as the withholding agent of the city for the
purposes of the Federal Revenue (Income) Act, and shall perform the duties
required of withholding agents by said Act or any other Act requiring
withholding from the compensation of any city officer or employee. The Clerk
shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Governing Body or
the state statutes.
§ 1-309 ASSISTANT CITY CLERK.
   (a)   The office of Assistant City Clerk is hereby established. The Mayor
shall appoint, by and with the consent of the City Council, the Assistant City
Clerk. The person so appointed and confirmed shall hold the office for a term
of one year and until a successor is appointed and confirmed.
   (b)   The Assistant City Clerk shall perform those duties assigned to that
office by the City Clerk.
   (c)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in the position of City Clerk and the city
is without a person appointed, confirmed or qualified to hold that office, the
Assistant City Clerk shall become the acting City Clerk and fulfill the duties
of that office.
   (d)   Compensation of the Assistant City Clerk shall be set by ordinance
passed by the Governing Body.
§ 1-310 CITY TREASURER.
   The City Treasurer shall:
   (a)   Keep a full and accurate record of all money received and paid out in
a ledger book provided by the Governing Body;
   (b)   Publish a quarterly financial statement;
   (c)   Deposit all public monies and sign all checks of the city;
   (d)   Pay out city funds only upon orders or warrants properly signed by the
Mayor and City Clerk; and
   (e)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Governing Body
or the state statutes.
(K.S.A. 10-803, 12-1608)
§ 1-311 CITY ATTORNEY; OFFICE; DUTIES.
   (a)   There is hereby established the office of City Attorney. No person
shall be eligible for the office of City Attorney who is not an attorney at law
admitted to practice in the Supreme Court of the State of Kansas. The City
Attorney shall be charged with the general direction and supervision of the
legal affairs of the city.
   (b)   The City Attorney shall:
      (1)   Attend meetings of the City Council when so directed to attend by
the Council;
      (2)   Advise the Mayor and City Council and all officers of the city upon
such legal questions affecting the city and its offices as may be submitted to
him or her;
      (3)   When requested by the City Council, give opinions in writing upon
any such questions;
      (4)   Draft such ordinances, contracts, leases, easements, conveyances
and other instruments in writing as may be submitted to him or her in the
regular transaction of affairs of the city;
      (5)   Approve all ordinances of the city as to form and legality;
      (6)   Attend Planning Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals meetings
when so directed by the Boards;
      (7)   Appear and prosecute all violations of city ordinances in Municipal
Court when his or her services shall be required; and
      (8)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Governing
Body and the state statutes.
§ 1-312 CITY ADMINISTRATOR; OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   The office of City Administrator is hereby established effective December 1,
1990.
(Prior Code, § 1-312) (Ord. 1231, passed 11-13-1990)
§ 1-313 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Governing Body of the city shall designate the duties of the City
Administrator by resolution and may change or modify such duties by resolution
at any time it deems such action advisable.
(Prior Code, § 1-313) (Ord. 1231, passed 11-13-1990)
§ 1-314 SAME; TERM.
   The City Administrator shall hold office for a term of two years commencing
on May 1 of each odd numbered year and until a successor is appointed and
qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-314) (Ord. 1231, passed 11-13-1990)
§ 1-315 SAME; SALARY.
   The salary of the City Administrator shall be fixed or adjusted by
resolution of the Governing Body and shall be payable semi-monthly. The salary
shall be fixed or adjusted within the foregoing limits by resolution of the
Governing Body at any time it deems such action advisable.
(Prior Code, § 1-315) (Ord. 1231, passed 11-13-1990)
§ 1-316 APPOINTMENT OR EMPLOYMENT IN MORE THAN ONE POSITION.
   The same person may be appointed to more than one appointive office, or
employed in more than one department, except that the same person shall not be
appointed to incompatible offices. Salaries or wages of such persons shall be
prorated between the proper funds of the several offices or departments.
(Prior Code, § 1-316)
§ 1-317 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (a)   No city officer or employee shall be signatory upon, discuss in an
official capacity, vote on any issue concerning or otherwise participate in his
or her capacity as a public official or employee in the making of any contract
with any person or business:
      (1)   In which the officer or employee owns a legal or equitable interest
exceeding $5,000 or 5%, whichever is less, individually or collectively with
his or her spouse;
      (2)   From which the officer or employee receives, in the current or
immediately preceding or succeeding calendar year, any salary, gratuity, other
compensation or a contract for or promise or expectation of any such salary,
gratuity or other compensation or remuneration having a dollar value of $1,000
or more; or
      (3)   In which he or she shall hold the position of officer or director,
irrespective of the amount of compensation received from or ownership held in
the business.
   (b)   The prohibitions contained in subsection (a) above shall not apply to
the following:
      (1)   Contracts let after competitive bidding has been solicited by
published notice; and
      (2)   Contracts for property or services for which the price or rate is
fixed by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-317)
ARTICLE 4: PERSONNEL POLICY
Section
   
1-401   Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual
   
1-402   Employee pay plan
§ 1-401 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES MANUAL.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of establishing
personnel rules and procedures the document entitled Personnel Policies and
Procedures Manual of the City of Humboldt, Kansas. No fewer than three copies
of such Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual of the city shall be marked or
stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No. 1414,” and to which shall be
attached a copy of the ordinance from which this section is derived, and filed
with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable hours.
(Ord. 1414, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 1-402 EMPLOYEE PAY PLAN.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of promoting
continued employment and adjustment of employees’ compensation for each year of
service based upon satisfactory and/or outstanding job performance evaluations
the document entitled Employee Pay Plan of the City of Humboldt, Kansas. No
fewer than three copies of such Employee Pay Plan of the City of Humboldt,
Kansas shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No.
1416,” and to which shall be attached a copy of this ordinance, and filed with
the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable hours.
(Ord. 1416, passed 1-14-2008)
ARTICLE 5: OATHS AND BONDS
Section
   
1-501   Oath; affirmation
   
1-502   Oaths filed
   
1-503   Bonds required
   
1-504   Same; premiums
   
1-505   Condition of bonds
   
1-506   Approval of bonds
§ 1-501 OATH; AFFIRMATION.
   All officers and employees of the city, whether elected or appointed, either
under the laws of the State of Kansas or ordinances of the city, shall, before
entering upon the duties of their respective offices, take and subscribe an
oath or affirmation as follows.
   (a)   Oath. “I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will
support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State
of Kansas and faithfully discharge the duties of __________ (here enter name of
office or position). So help me God.”
   (b)   Affirmation. “I do solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of the State of
Kansas and faithfully discharge the duties of ___________ (enter name of office
or position). This I do under the pains and penalties of perjury.”
(K.S.A. 54-104, 54-106, 75-4308)
§ 1-502 OATHS FILED.
   All officers and employees required to take and subscribe or sign an oath or
affirmation shall be supplied the forms for the purpose at the expense of the
city, and upon taking and subscribing or signing any such oath or affirmation,
the same shall be filed by the City Clerk.
§ 1-503 BONDS REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   The following city officers shall each, before entering upon the
duties of his or her office, give a good and sufficient corporate surety bond
to the city.
      (2)   The bond shall be in the following amount, to wit:
         (A)   City Treasurer: $10,000;
         (B)   City Clerk: $10,000;
         (C)   Clerk of Municipal Court: $1,000; and
         (D)   Judge of Municipal Court: $1,000.
   (b)   The Governing Body may provide for the coverage by blanket bond of
such officers and employees and in such amounts as the Governing Body may, by
resolution, designate.
§ 1-504 SAME; PREMIUMS.
   All premiums on surety bonds shall be paid by the city.
(K.S.A. 78-111)
§ 1-505 CONDITION OF BONDS.
   Each of the bonds required in §
1-503 shall be conditioned for the faithful performance of duty and all acts
required by the laws of the State of Kansas and of the city, and for the
application and payment over to the proper persons of all monies or property
coming into the hands of each such officer by virtue of his or her office.
§ 1-506 APPROVAL OF BONDS.
   All bonds given to the city shall be approved as to their form by the City
Attorney and as to surety and sufficiency by the Governing Body, unless
otherwise provided by the laws of the State of Kansas.
ARTICLE 6: OPEN RECORDS
Section
   
1-601   Policy
   
1-602   Record custodians
   
1-603   Local Freedom of Information Officers
   
1-604   Public request for access
   
1-605   Facilities for public inspection
   
1-606   Procedures for inspection
   
1-607   Appointment of official custodians
   
1-608   Appointment of Local Freedom of Information Officer
   
1-609   Designation of additional record custodians
   
1-610   Duties of custodians
   
1-611   Requests to be directed to custodians
   
1-612   Fee administration
   
1-613   Inspection fee
   
1-614   Copying fee
   
1-615   Prepayment of fees
   
1-616   Payment
§ 1-601 POLICY.
   (a)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that all public
records which are made, maintained or kept by or are in the possession of the
city, its officers and employees, shall be open for public inspection as
provided by, and subject to the restrictions imposed by, the Kansas Open
Records Act.
   (b)   Any person, upon request, shall have access to such open public
records for the purpose of inspecting, abstracting or copying such records
while they are in the possession, custody and control of the appointed or
designated record custodian thereof, or his or her designated representative.
(Prior Code, § 1-601) (Ord. 1145, passed 3-11-1985)
§ 1-602 RECORD CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   All city officers and employees appointed or designated as record
custodians under this article shall: protect public records from damage and
disorganization; prevent excessive disruption of the essential functions of the
city; provide assistance and information upon request; ensure efficient and
timely action and response to all applications for inspection of public
records; and shall carry out the procedures adopted by this city for inspecting
and copying open public records.
   (b)   The official custodian shall prominently display or distribute or
otherwise make available to the public a brochure in the form prescribed by the
Local Freedom of Information Officer that contains basic information about the
rights of a requester, the responsibilities of a public agency and the
procedures for inspecting or obtaining a copy of public records under the
Kansas Open Records Act. The official custodian shall display or distribute or
otherwise make available to the public the brochure at one or more places in
the administrative offices of the city where it is available to members of the
public who request public information in person.
§ 1-603 LOCAL FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICERS.
   The Local Freedom of Information Officer shall:
   (a)   Prepare and provide educational materials and information concerning
the Kansas Open Records Act, being K.S.A. 45-215 et seq.;
   (b)   Be available to assist the city and members of the general public to
resolve disputes relating the Kansas Open Records Act, being K.S.A. 45-215 et
seq.;
   (c)   Respond to inquiries relating to the Kansas Open Records Act, being
K.S.A. 45-215 et seq.; and
   (d)   Establish the requirements for the content, size, shape and other
physical characteristics of a brochure required to be displayed or distributed
or otherwise made available to the public under the Kansas Open Records Act,
being K.S.A. 45-215 et seq.. In establishing such requirements for the content
of the brochure, the Local Freedom of Information Officer shall include plainly
written basic information about the rights of a requester, the responsibilities
of the city and the procedures for inspecting and obtaining a copy of public
records under the Act.
§ 1-604 PUBLIC REQUEST FOR ACCESS.
   All city offices keeping and maintaining open public records shall establish
office hours during which any person may make a request for access to an open
public record. Such hours shall be no fewer than the hours each business day
the office is regularly open to the public. For any city office not open Monday
through Friday, hours shall be established by the record custodian for each
such day at which time any person may request access to an open public record.
§ 1-605 FACILITIES FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   All city offices keeping and maintaining open public records shall provide
suitable facilities to be used by any person desiring to inspect and/or copy an
open public record. The office of the City Clerk, being the principal record-
keeper of the city, shall be used as the principal office for providing access
to and providing copies of open records to the maximum extent practicable.
Requesters of records shall be referred to the office of the City Clerk, except
when the requested records are not in that office and are available in another
city office.
§ 1-606 PROCEDURES FOR INSPECTION.
   Any person requesting access to an open public record for purposes of
inspecting or copying such record, or obtaining a copy thereof, shall abide by
the procedures adopted by the Governing Body for record inspection and copying,
including those procedures established by record custodians as authorized by
the Governing Body. Such procedures shall be posted in each city office keeping
and maintaining open public records.
§ 1-607 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICIAL CUSTODIANS.
   The following city officers are hereby appointed as official custodians for
purposes of the Kansas Open Records Act, being K.S.A. 45-215 et seq. and are
hereby charged with responsibility for compliance with that Act with respect to
the hereinafter listed public records:
   (a)   City Clerk. All public records kept and maintained in the City Clerk’s
office and all other public records not provided for elsewhere in this section;
   (b)   City Treasurer. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Treasurer’s office;
   (c)   Chief of Police. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Police Department;
   (d)   Fire Chief. All public records not on file in the office of the City
Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Fire Department;
   (e)   City Attorney. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Attorney’s office; and
   (f)   Clerk of the Municipal Court. All public records not on file in the
office of the City Clerk and kept and maintained in the Municipal Court.
§ 1-608 APPOINTMENT OF LOCAL FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICER.
   The City Clerk is hereby appointed as the Local Freedom of Information
Officer and charged with all of the duties as set forth in §
1-603.
§ 1-609 DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL RECORD CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   Each of the official custodians appointed in §
1-607 is hereby authorized to designate any subordinate officers or employees
to serve as record custodian. Such record custodians shall have such duties and
powers as are set out in the Kansas Open Records Act, being K.S.A. 45-215 et
seq.
   (b)   Whenever an official custodian shall appoint another person as a
record custodian he or she shall notify the City Clerk of such designation and
the City Clerk shall maintain a register of all such designations.
§ 1-610 DUTIES OF CUSTODIANS.
   All city officers and employees appointed or designated as record custodians
under this article shall protect public records from damage and
disorganization; prevent excessive disruption of the essential functions of the
city; provide assistance and information upon request; ensure efficient and
timely action and response to all applications for inspection of public
records; and shall carry out the procedures adopted by this city for inspecting
and copying open public records.
(Prior Code, § 1-608)
§ 1-611 REQUESTS TO BE DIRECTED TO CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   All members of the public, in seeking access to, or copies of, a
public record in accordance with the provisions of the Kansas Open Records Act,
shall address their requests to the custodian charged with responsibility for
the maintenance of the record sought to be inspected or copied.
   (b)   Whenever any city officer or employee appointed or designated as a
custodian under this article is presented with a request for access to, or copy
of, a public record which record the custodian does not have in his or her
possession and for which he or she has not been given responsibility to keep
and maintain, the custodian shall so advise the person requesting the record.
Further, the person making the request shall be informed as to which custodian
the request should be addressed to, if such is known by the custodian receiving
the request.
§ 1-612 FEE ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to provide the Clerk’s office, and the
office of each record custodian, with sufficient cash to enable the making of
change for record fee purposes. Each custodian shall transmit all record fee
monies collected to the City Treasurer not less than monthly. Each custodian
shall maintain duplicates of all records and copy request forms, completed as
to the amount of fee charged and collected, which amounts shall be periodically
audited by the Clerk-Finance Officer and Treasurer of the city.
§ 1-613 INSPECTION FEE.
   (a)   Where a request has been made for inspection of any open public record
which is readily available to the record custodian, there shall be no
inspection fee charged to the requester.
   (b)   In all cases not covered by subsection (a) above, a record inspection
fee shall be charged at the rate of $5 per hour per employee engaged in the
record search. A minimum charge of $2.50 shall be charged for each such
request.
(Prior Code, § 1-612) (Ord. 1145, passed 3-11-1985)
§ 1-614 COPYING FEE.
   (a)   A fee of $0.25 per page shall be charged for photocopying public
records, such fee to cover the cost of labor, materials and equipment.
   (b)   For copying any public records which cannot be reproduced by the
city’s photocopying equipment, the requester shall be charged the actual cost
to the city, including staff time, in reproducing such records.
(Prior Code, § 1-613) (Ord. 1145, passed 3-11-1985)
§ 1-615 PREPAYMENT OF FEES.
   (a)   A record custodian may demand prepayment of the fees established by
this article whenever he or she believes this to be in the best interest of the
city. The prepayment amount shall be an estimate of the inspection and/or
copying charges accrued in fulfilling the record request. Any overage or
underage in the prepayment shall be settled prior to inspection of the
requested record or delivery of the requested copies.
   (b)   Prepayment of inspection and/or copying fees shall be required
whenever, in the best estimate of the record custodian, such fees are estimated
to exceed $20.
   (c)   Where prepayment has been demanded by the record custodian, no record
shall be made available to the requester until such prepayment has been made.
(Prior Code, § 1-614) (Ord. 1145, passed 3-11-1985)
§ 1-616 PAYMENT.
   All fees charged under this article shall be paid to the custodian of the
records inspected and/or copied unless the requester has established an
account, for purposes of billing and payment, with the city.
ARTICLE 7: INVESTMENT OF IDLE FUNDS
Section
   
1-701   Purpose and goals
   
1-702   Active funds; designation of depositories; eligible depositories
   
1-703   Definitions
   
1-704   Investment of idle funds
   
1-705   Procedures and restrictions
   
1-706   Custody and safekeeping
   
1-707   Sale or transfer
   
1-708   Interest on time deposits
§ 1-701 PURPOSE AND GOALS.
   (a)   It is the purpose of this statement to set forth the public policies
of the city relating to the investment of public monies, and establish
procedural requirements as to investment management practice.
   (b)   The objective of the investment policy and program of the city shall
be as follows.
      (1)   The safeguarding of all public monies shall be of the highest
priority. Public money shall not be invested or managed in any matter which
would jeopardize the safety of the principal.
      (2)   Consistent with the requirement of safety, the objective of the
investment program shall be to aggressively manage and invest all public monies
to maximize net earnings, consistent with the public responsibility to secure
maximum, safe investment return possible from monies assigned to its
stewardship, to relieve demands on the property tax, and to otherwise reduce
the cost of public services.
§ 1-702 ACTIVE FUNDS; DESIGNATION OF DEPOSITORIES; ELIGIBLE DEPOSITORIES.
   (a)   The governing body shall designate the banks, savings and loan
associations and savings banks which shall serve as depositories of its funds.
The Clerk, Treasurer or other city officer or employee having the custody of
city funds shall deposit such funds only at the designated banks, savings and
loan associations and savings banks. Only banks, savings and loan associations
and savings banks that have main or branch offices in the county shall be
designated as official depositories. No such bank, savings bank or savings and
loan association shall be designated as a depository until the city is assured
that it can obtain satisfactory security for its deposits.
   (b)   The Clerk, Treasurer or other city officer or employee depositing
public funds shall deposit all such public funds coming into such person’s
possession in his, her or their name and official title as such officer. If the
governing body fails to designate an official depository or depositories, the
officer thereof having custody of city funds shall deposit such funds with one
or more banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks which have main
or branch offices in the county if satisfactory security can be obtained
therefor and if not then elsewhere. In such event, the officer or employee
shall serve notice in writing on the governing body showing the names and
locations of such banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks where
such funds are deposited, and upon so doing, the officer or employee having
custody of such funds shall not be liable for the loss of any portion thereof
except for official misconduct or for the misappropriation of such funds by the
officer or employee.
   (c)   If eligible banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks
under subsections (a) or (b) above cannot or will not provide an acceptable
bid, which shall include services for the depositing of public funds under this
section, then banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks that have
main or branch offices in any immediately adjoining county may receive deposits
of the city’s active funds, if such banks, savings and loan associations or
savings banks have been designated as official depositories under subsection
(a) above and the city can obtain satisfactory security therefor.
§ 1-703 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANK. Any bank incorporated under the laws of the State of Kansas or any
other state, or organized under the laws of the United States and which has a
main or branch office in the State of Kansas.
   BRANCH. Any office within the State of Kansas, other than the main office,
that is approved by a federal or state supervisory agency at which deposits are
received, checks paid or money lent. BRANCH does not include an automated
teller machine, remote service unit or similar device or a loan production
office.
   INVESTMENT RATE. A rate which is the equivalent yield for United States
government securities having a maturity date as published in the Wall Street
Journal, nearest the maturity date for equivalent maturities. The zero- to 90-
day rate shall be computed on the average effective federal funds rate as
published by the Federal Reserve System for the previous week.
   MAIN OFFICE. The place of business specified in the articles of association,
certificate of authority or similar document, where the business of the
institution is carried on and which is not a branch.
   SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION. Any savings and loan association incorporated
under the laws of the State of Kansas or any other state, or organized under
the laws of the United States and which has a main or branch office in the
State of Kansas.
   SAVINGS BANK. Any savings bank organized under the laws of the United States
and which has a main or branch office in the State of Kansas.
(K.S.A. 12-1675a)
§ 1-704 INVESTMENT OF IDLE FUNDS.
   Temporarily idle moneys of the city, not currently needed, may in accordance
with the procedure hereinafter described be invested:
   (a)   In temporary notes or no-fund warrants issued by the city;
   (b)   In savings deposits, demand deposits, time deposit, open accounts,
certificates of deposit or time certificates of deposit with maturities of not
more than two years:
      (1)   In banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks which
have main or branch offices located in the city; or
      (2)   If no main or branch office of a bank, savings and loan association
or savings bank is located in the city, then in banks, savings and loan
associations and savings banks, which have main or branch offices in the county
or counties in which all or part of the city is located.
   (c)   In repurchase agreements with:
      (1)   Banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks, which have
main or branch offices located in the city, for direct obligations of, or
obligations that are insured as to principal and interest by, the United States
government or any agency thereof;
      (2)   If no main or branch office of a bank, savings and loan association
or savings bank, is located in the city: if no such bank, savings and loan
association or savings bank having a main or branch office located in the city
is willing to enter into such an agreement with the city at an interest rate
equal to or greater than the investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g),
and amendments thereto, then such repurchase agreements may be entered into
with banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks which have main or
branch offices in the county or counties in which all or part of the city is
located; or
      (3)   If no bank, savings and loan association or savings bank having a
main or branch office in such county or counties is willing to enter into such
an agreement with the city at an interest rate equal to or greater than the
investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto, then
such repurchase agreements may be entered into with banks, savings and loan
associations or savings banks located within the State of Kansas.
   (d)   In direct obligations of or obligations that are insured as to
principal and interest by the United States or any agency thereof, not
including mortgage-backed securities with maturities as the Governing Body
shall determine, but not exceeding two years. Such investment transactions
shall only be conducted with banks, savings and loan associations and savings
banks; the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, Missouri; or with primary
government securities dealers which report to the market report division of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or any broker-dealer engaged in the business
of selling government securities which is registered in compliance with the
requirements of §§ 15 or 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, being 15
U.S.C. 78a et seq., and registered pursuant to K.S.A. 17-12a401, and amendments
thereto;
   (e)   In the Municipal Investment Pool Fund established in K.S.A. 12-1677a,
and amendments thereto;
   (f)   In the investments authorized and in accordance with the conditions
prescribed in K.S.A. 12-1677b, and amendments thereto;
   (g)   In multiple municipal client investment pools managed by the trust
departments of banks which have main or branch offices located in county or
counties where city is located or with trust companies incorporated under the
laws of the State of Kansas which have contracted to provide trust services
under the provisions of K.S.A. 9-2107, and amendments thereto, with banks which
have main or branch offices located in the county or counties in which the city
is located. Public monies invested under this subsection (g) shall be secured
in the same manner as provided for under K.S.A. 9-1402, and amendments thereto.
Pooled investments of public monies made by trust departments under this
subsection (g) shall be subject to the same terms, conditions and limitations
as are applicable to the municipal investment pool established by K.S.A. 12-
1677a, and amendments thereto;
   (h)   The investments authorized in subsections (d), (e), (f) or (g) above
shall be utilized only if the banks, savings and loan associations and savings
banks eligible for investments authorized in subsection (b) above, cannot or
will not make the investments authorized in subsection (b) above available to
the city at interest rates equal to or greater than the investment rate, as
defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto; or
   (i)   In selecting a depository pursuant to subsection (b) above, if a bank,
savings and loan association or savings bank eligible for an investment deposit
thereunder has an office located in the city and such financial institution
will make such deposits available to the city at interest rates equal to or
greater than the investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and
amendments thereto, and such financial institution otherwise qualifies for such
deposit, the Governing Body shall select one or more of such eligible financial
institutions for deposit of funds pursuant to this section. If no such
financial institution qualifies for such deposits, the city shall select for
such deposits one or more eligible banks, savings and loan associations or
savings banks which have offices in the county or counties in which all or a
part of the city is located which will make such deposits available to the city
at interest rates equal to or greater than the investment rate, as defined in
K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto, and which otherwise qualify for
such deposits.
(K.S.A. 12-1675)
§ 1-705 PROCEDURES AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Clerk shall periodically report to the Governing Body as to the
amount of money available for investment and the period of time such amounts
will be available for investment, and shall submit such recommendations as
deemed necessary for the efficient and safe management of city finances. The
recommendations of the City Clerk shall provide for an investment program which
shall so limit the amounts invested and shall schedule the maturities of
investments so that the city will, at all times, have sufficient monies
available on demand deposit to assure prompt payment of all city obligations.
§ 1-706 CUSTODY AND SAFEKEEPING.
   Securities purchased pursuant to this article shall be under the care of the
City Clerk and Mayor, and shall be held in the custody of a state or national
bank or trust company, or shall be kept by such officers in a safety deposit
box of the city in a bank or trust company. Securities in the original or
receipt form held in the custody of a bank or trust company shall be held in
the name of the city, and their redemption, transfer or withdrawal shall be
permitted only upon the written instruction of the city officers. Securities
not held in the custody of a bank or trust company shall be personally
deposited by such officer in a safety deposit box in the name of the city in a
bank or trust company, access to which shall be permitted only in the personal
presence and under the signature of two of the abovementioned officers.
§ 1-707 SALE OR TRANSFER.
   If, in order to maintain sufficient monies on demand deposit in any fund as
provided in §
1-705, it becomes necessary to transfer or sell any securities of such funds,
the officers specified in §
1-706 may transfer said securities to any other fund or funds in which there
are temporarily idle monies, or shall sell such securities, and for such
purpose they shall have authority to make any necessary written direction,
endorsement or assignment for and on behalf of the city.
§ 1-708 INTEREST ON TIME DEPOSITS.
   The City Clerk shall deposit the interest earned on invested idle funds to
the General Fund, unless otherwise required or authorized by law.
ARTICLE 8: PETTY CASH FUND
Section
   
1-801   Established
   
1-802   Amount; deposits; disbursements
   
1-803   Checks; payee certification
   
1-804   Depletion; restoration
§ 1-801 ESTABLISHED.
   There is established a Petty Cash Fund for the use of any public utilities
owned and operated by the city for the purpose of paying postage, freight,
temporary labor and other emergency expenses including refund of deposits made
to secure payment of accounts.
(Prior Code, § 1-801)
§ 1-802 AMOUNT; DEPOSITS; DISBURSEMENTS.
   The Petty Cash Fund shall not exceed the sum of $2,000 and shall be
deposited in the designated city depository bank and paid out on the order of
the cashier of the utility by checks which clearly state the purpose for which
issued.
(Prior Code, § 1-802) (Ord. 1176, passed 11-10-1986)
§ 1-803 CHECKS; PAYEE CERTIFICATION.
   The payees of the checks shall certify thereon over their signatures that
services were rendered, supplies furnished or refunds received, as the case may
be, in payment of which the checks were delivered.
(Prior Code, § 1-803)
§ 1-804 DEPLETION; RESTORATION.
   Whenever the Petty Cash Fund becomes low or depleted, the cashier shall
prepare vouchers covering such expenses as have been paid from the Petty Cash
Fund and shall submit the vouchers, together with the paid checks, to the
Governing Body for audit and allowance of the amount from the regular funds of
the utility. Warrants issued therefor shall be payable to the Petty Cash Fund
and shall be deposited therein to restore the Petty Cash Fund to its original
amount for use as provided.
(Prior Code, § 1-804)
ARTICLE 9: FIREMEN’S RELIEF FUND
Section
   
1-901   Organization; Relief Fund
   
1-902   Funds; disbursal
   
1-903   Treasurer; duties
   
1-904   Funds; use
   
1-905   Same; investment
   
1-906   Same; loan to city
§ 1-901 ORGANIZATION; RELIEF FUND.
   (a)   The Firemen’s Relief Association of the city shall be composed of the
members of the Fire Department of the city. The officers of the Association
shall consist of a President, Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer.
   (b)   The Treasurer of the Firemen’s Relief Fund shall receive from the
Commissioner of Insurance all moneys belonging to the Firemen’s Relief Fund.
The fund shall be held in trust and used as a fund for the relief of members of
the Fire Department as provided by law. No part of the fund shall be paid out
except upon orders of the city’s Firemen’s Relief Association.
(Prior Code, § 1-901)
§ 1-902 FUNDS; DISBURSAL.
   The Firemen’s Relief Association as defined in §
1-901 shall have supervision of the disbursement of the Firemen’s Relief Fund
and shall also have supervision of the investment of the fund. The Treasurer of
the Firemen’s Relief Fund shall pay out funds only on warrants issued by the
Association, which warrants shall be signed by the President, countersigned by
the Secretary and shall bear the seal of the association. The Treasurer shall
keep an accurate and detailed account of all warrants drawn on the fund and the
purposes for which they are drawn and shall make a quarterly report to the
relief association and to the Governing Body as to the condition of the fund.
In all cases involving expenditures or payments in an amount of $500 or more,
prior certification shall be obtained from the City Attorney that such
expenditure or payment complies with the requirements of law.
(Prior Code, § 1-902)
§ 1-903 TREASURER; DUTIES.
   The Treasurer of the Firemen’s Relief Association shall give bond for the
safekeeping of the Firemen’s Relief Fund and for the faithful performance of
his or her duty in such sum with such sureties as may be approved by the
Governing Body. The Treasurer shall, on behalf of the Relief Association, on or
before March 1 of each year, submit to the Commissioner of Insurance a verified
account showing in full the receipts and disbursements and general condition of
its funds for the year ending on the preceding December 31.
(Prior Code, § 1-903)
§ 1-904 FUNDS; USE.
   The Firemen’s Relief Association is authorized to disburse the Firemen’s
Relief Fund for the following purposes and no other:
   (a)   For the relief of any member of the Fire Department when injured or
physically disabled in or by reason of the discharge of his or her duties;
   (b)   For the relief of or the payment of gratuities to the spouse or those
dependent upon any member of the Fire Department who may be killed in the
discharge of his or her duties as firefighters or who may die from the effect
of injuries so received or disease contracted by reason of his or her duties;
   (c)   For the payment of the necessary funeral expenses of any member of the
Fire Department when killed in the discharge of his or her duties as
firefighters or in case of death resulting from the injuries so received or
disease contracted by reason of his or her duties; and
   (d)   For the purchase of insurance which would provide for any or all of
the foregoing purposes for which the fund is authorized to be expended.
(Prior Code, § 1-904)
§ 1-905 SAME; INVESTMENT.
   The Firemen’s Relief Association, through its officers, may invest any
amount not to exceed 90% of all such Relief Fund in purchasing bonds of the
city. When such bonds are not obtainable, United States government bonds or any
municipal bonds of the State of Kansas may be purchased. The Relief Fund shall
not be invested in any bonds where the bonded indebtedness of any municipality
exceeds 15% of its total assessed valuation as shown by the last assessment
preceding the investment. The investment must be approved by the Governing
Body. It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to examine all bonds as to
their validity and report in writing to the Governing Body and the Firemen’s
Relief Association. No bonds shall be purchased by the Firemen’s Relief
Association until they have been approved and found valid by the City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 1-905)
§ 1-906 SAME; LOAN TO CITY.
   The Firemen’s Relief Association is authorized to loan part or all of such
funds to the city to be used by such city in the improvement of its Fire
Department and equipment. The city is hereby authorized to borrow the same and
issue to the Treasurer of the Firemen’s Relief Association its warrant therefor
bearing interest payable semiannually at a rate not to exceed 6% per year.
(Prior Code, § 1-906)
ARTICLE 10: HEALTH INSURANCE
Section
   
1-1001   Fund created
   
1-1002   Insurance premium payment
   
1-1003   City to pay; employee; family coverage
   
1-1004   Payment procedure
   
1-1005   Contracts with insurance companies
   
1-1006   Deductions; records
§ 1-1001 FUND CREATED.
   There is created an Employees’ Insurance Fund for the purpose of paying
premiums for group health, accident, medical and hospitalization insurance for
the benefit of the city's employees who elect to receive such benefits.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001) (Ord. 1538, passed 5-8-2023)
§ 1-1002 INSURANCE PREMIUM PAYMENT.
   There is appropriated monthly from the various funds of the city amounts
sufficient to pay the insurance premium for each employee who elects to receive
such benefits. Such amount shall be paid into the Employees’ Insurance Fund
from the various funds of the city from which the employees are paid their
salaries or compensation.
(Prior Code, § 1-1002) (Ord. 1538, passed 5-8-2023)
§ 1-1003 CITY TO PAY; EMPLOYEE; FAMILY COVERAGE.
   (a)   Employee. The city will provide every employee of the city who elects
to receive group health, accident, medical, and hospitalization insurance on
the employee's person.
   (b)   Family. The city will provide coverage under the city's group health,
accident, medical, and hospitalization insurance for any employee's qualified
family members who files with the City Clerk in writing their election to have
other members of their family included in such insurance plan. The city shall
then obtain such coverage for such members of the employee's family as such
group insurance plan permits. The written election constitutes authorization
for the city to deduct from the employee's compensation such amount at each
regular compensation payment time as will be sufficient at premium payment time
to pay the additional premium incurred by the inclusion of the employee's other
family members under the group insurance. The written election shall continue
in effect until the employee files a written statement with the City Clerk that
they no longer desire to have to have their family covered by the insurance.
(Prior Code, § 1-1003) (Ord. 1538, passed 5-8-2023)
§ 1-1004 PAYMENT PROCEDURE.
   All money shall be paid from the Employees' Insurance Fund upon vouchers
approved by the Governing Body in the same manner as other city expenditures
are made.
(Prior Code, § 1-1004) (Ord. 1538, passed 5-8-2023)
§ 1-1005 CONTRACTS WITH INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   The Governing Body shall enter into insurance contracts with an insurance
company or companies which, in the opinion of the Governing Body, are in the
best interests of the city and its employees.
(Prior Code, § 1-1005) (Ord. 1538, passed 5-8-2023)
§ 1-1006 DEDUCTIONS; RECORDS.
   The City Clerk shall at the close of the calendar year, certify in writing
to each employee from whose compensation deductions were made during the year,
the amount so deducted. Appropriate records showing such deductions shall be
kept by the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-1006) (Ord. 1538, passed 5-8-2023)
ARTICLE 11: PUBLIC BUILDING COMMISSION
Section
   
1-1101   Public Building Commission created
   
1-1102   Powers
   
1-1103   Members
   
1-1104   Revenue bonds
   
1-1105   Limitations on power
   
1-1106   Rates for buildings
   
1-1107   Authority to rent
   
1-1108   Powers to operate
§ 1-1101 PUBLIC BUILDING COMMISSION CREATED.
   Pursuant to provisions of K.S.A. 12-1757 et seq., the Governing Body of the
city hereby creates the City Public Building Commission (the “PBC”) for the
purposes of acquiring a site or sites within the county for construction,
reconstruction, equipping and furnishing a building or buildings or other
facilities of a revenue producing character, including parking facilities, and
for purchasing or otherwise acquiring such building or buildings or facilities.
Such building or buildings or other facilities shall be maintained and operated
for the affairs and activities of any federal, state, city, school district or
county governmental agency, or any municipal corporation, quasi-municipal
corporation, political subdivision or body politic, or agency thereof, doing
business, maintaining an office or rendering a public service within the
county, without, in any way, limiting the generality or scope of the foregoing,
such buildings or facilities may specifically include buildings or other
facilities of a recreational nature located or to be located within the county,
including, but not limited to, swimming pools, amphitheaters, gazebos, band
stands, athletic fields and shelter houses.
(Ord. 1425, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 1-1102 POWERS.
   The PBC shall have all powers of said commission authorized by K.S.A. 12-
1760, which powers includes the power to do all things necessary or incidental
to the purpose of acquiring, purchasing, constructing, reconstructing,
furnishing, equipping, operating and maintaining revenue producing buildings or
facilities as provided herein, including, but not limited to, a swimming pool
facility and/or a city hall to be leased to the city.
(Ord. 1425, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 1-1103 MEMBERS.
   The PBC herein created shall consist of no fewer than three nor more than
nine members, which members shall be approved by the Governing Body of the city
by resolution
(Ord. 1425, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 1-1104 REVENUE BONDS.
   The PBC herein created and the Governing Body of the city shall negotiate
for a lease of the swimming pool and/or city hall and appurtenances thereto to
be acquired or constructed under the authority granted to the PBC pursuant to
K.S.A. 12-1757 et seq. Upon completion of said negotiations, the PBC may issue
revenue bonds of the Commission to provide funds for the purpose of acquiring,
purchasing, constructing, reconstructing, erecting, equipping, repairing,
maintaining and operating the swimming pool facility and/or the city hall and
appurtenances thereto and to acquire sites necessary and convenient therefor
and to pay all costs and expenses incident thereto, or to refund its
outstanding bonds through the issuance of refunding bonds in the manner
prescribed by and, except as otherwise herein provided, subject to the
provisions of K.S.A. 10-116a. Except as otherwise provided by K.S.A. 10-116a,
as amended, such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the rents and
revenues to be derived from the operation, management and use of the swimming
pool and/or city hall and appurtenances thereto acquired by the commission.
(Ord. 1425, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 1-1105 LIMITATIONS ON POWER.
   The PBC herein created shall have no power to levy taxes, and bonds issued
by the PBC shall not constitute a debt of the PBC or of any public body within
the meaning of any statutory or constitutional limitation as to debt, all as
set forth in K.S.A. 12-1761, as amended.
(Ord. 1425, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 1-1106 RATES FOR BUILDINGS.
   The PBC hereby created shall be authorized to establish and fix rates,
rentals, fees and charges for the use of the swimming pool and/or city hall and
appurtenances thereto, sufficient at all times to pay maintenance and operation
costs of such facility, the principal and the interest on the bonds issued by
the Commission as the same becomes due and payable and to make all payments to
any accounts created by any bond resolution.
(Ord. 1425, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 1-1107 AUTHORITY TO RENT.
   The PBC shall have the authority to rent all or any part of the swimming
pool and/or city hall appurtenances thereto to the city a municipal
corporation, all as set forth in K.S.A. 12-1763, as amended.
(Ord. 1425, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 1-1108 POWERS TO OPERATE.
   The PBC created herein shall have the power to have all things necessary or
incidental to the purpose of acquiring, purchasing, constructing,
reconstructing, equipping and/or furnishing and operating and maintaining
buildings and other facilities to be made available to any federal, state,
city, school district or county governmental agency, or any municipal
corporation, quasimunicipal corporation, political subdivision or body politic
or agency thereof, doing business, maintaining an office or rendering a public
service within the county. The PBC shall have all powers authorized by law
pursuant to K.S.A 12-1757 et seq., as amended, and by Charter Ord. 21 of the
city, including the power and authority to issue revenue bonds.
(Ord. 1425, passed 6-9-2008)
CHAPTER II: ANIMAL CONTROL AND REGULATION
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   DOGS AND CATS
      
3.   OTHER ANIMALS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
2-101   Definitions
   
2-102   Animal Control Officer; duty to impound; citation alternative
   
2-103   Same; capture/destruction
   
2-104   Same; right of entry; unlawful interference
   
2-105   Municipal pound established
   
2-106   Breaking pound
   
2-107   Cruelty to animals
   
2-108   Same; exceptions
   
2-109   Keeping animals
   
2-110   Animal traps
   
2-111   Nuisance; animal activities prohibited
   
2-112   Animal confines; shelters
   
2-112   ASame; stockyards; commercial holding pens
   
2-113   Death of animals
   
2-114   Vicious animals
   
2-115   Running at large
   
2-116   Impoundment; fee; notice; record
   
2-117   Redemption of impounded animals
   
2-118   Impoundment of rabies suspects
   
2-119   Animals bitten by rabid animals
   
2-120   Vehicular accidents involving animals
   
2-121   Emergency; proclamation
   
2-122   Kennel licenses
§ 2-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Includes the leaving of an animal by its owner or other person
responsible for its care or custody without making effective provisions for its
proper care over a 48-hour-period.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The facility or facilities operated by the city or its
authorized agents for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals under the
authority of this chapter or state law.
   ANIMALS. All vertebrate and invertebrate animals, such as, but not limited
to, bovine cattle, horses and other equines, hogs, goats, dogs, cats, rabbits,
sheep, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, pigeons and other fowl or wild animals,
reptiles, fish, bees or birds that have been tamed, domesticated or captivated.
   AT LARGE. To be outside of a fence or other enclosure that restrains the
animals to a particular premises or not under the control, by leash or lead, of
the owner or other authorized person capable of restraining the animal. Animals
tethered to a stationary object within range of public thoroughfares are deemed
to be AT LARGE.
   BITE. Any actual or suspected abrasion, scratch, puncture, tear, bruise or
piercing of the skin, caused by any animal, which is actually or suspected of
being contaminated or inoculated with the saliva from the animal, directly or
indirectly, regardless of the health of the animal causing such bite.
   CAT. Any member of the species felis catus, regardless of sex.
   DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal deemed to be dangerous or vicious
per §
2-115.
   DOG. Any member of the species canis familiaris, regardless of sex.
   FOWL. All animals that are included in the zoological class Aves, which
shall include, but not limited to, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, guineas and
pigeons.
   HARBOR. Any person who shall allow any animal to habitually remain or lodge
or to be fed within his or her home, store, yard, enclosure or place of
business or any other premises where he or she resides or controls.
   HUMANE LIVE ANIMAL TRAP. Any cage trap that upon activation encloses an
animal without placing any physical restraint upon any part of the body of such
animal.
   HUMANELY EUTHANIZE. The proper injection of a substance that quickly and
painlessly terminates the life of an animal, or any other method approved by
the American Veterinary Medical Association or the American Humane Society.
   IMMEDIATE CONTROL. The regulation and supervision by a competent person so
that an animal is unable to run or get loose at will.
   KENNEL. Any establishment, commercial or otherwise, maintained for breeding,
rearing, grooming, boarding or otherwise harboring in an enclosure in one
location only, more than six dogs or cats.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes, but is not limited to, cattle, horses, goats, sheep or
other animals commonly regarded or used as farm or ranch animals.
   NEUTERED. Any male or female cat or dog that has been permanently rendered
sterile.
   OWN. Includes own, keep, harbor, shelter, manage, possess or have a part
interest in any animal. If a minor OWNS any such animal subject to the
provisions of this chapter, the head of the household of which such minor is a
member shall be deemed to OWN such animal for the purposes of this chapter.
   OWNER. The one who owns, or his or her employee, agent or other competent
person into whose charge an animal has been placed by the actual owner as
described in the definition for “own” above.
   VACCINATION. An injection of a vaccine, approved by the State Board of
Public Health, and administered by a licensed veterinarian for the purpose of
immunizing an animal against rabies.
   VETERINARIAN. A doctor of veterinary medicine licensed by the State of
Kansas.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
§ 2-102 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; DUTY TO IMPOUND; CITATION ALTERNATIVE.
   (a)   There is hereby created the position of Animal Control Officer for the
city, and such officer shall be charged with the enforcement of this article.
Any person employed by the city as an Animal Control Officer and commissioned
by the City Council shall have such powers and authority as allowed by law in
the enforcement of this article. All Animal Control Officers shall be subject
to the supervision and direction of the Chief of Police of the city.
   (b)   Except as provided in subsection (c) below, it shall be the duty of
the Animal Control Officer to take up and impound all animals found in the city
in violation of the provisions of this article.
   (c)   If, in the opinion of the Animal Control Officer or any law
enforcement officer involved in responding to or investigating a possible
violation of this article, the violating animal does not pose a threat or
safety concern to the general public based upon the animal’s current or past
behavior, the Animal Control Officer or such law enforcement officer may, as an
alternative to the provisions of subsection (b) above, issue to the owner,
harborer or keeper of such an animal in violation of this article, a citation
to appear in the City Municipal Court to answer the charged violation of this
article.
(Ord. 1407, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 2-103 SAME; CAPTURE/DESTRUCTION.
   When deemed necessary by law enforcement officers or the Animal Control
Officer for the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city, such
officers and/or their agents may:
   (a)   Place a humane trap on public or a requesting resident’s property for
the purpose of capturing any animal defined in this chapter as creating a
nuisance in the city;
   (b)   Use any tranquilizer guns, humane traps or other suitable devices to
subdue and capture any animal that is deemed by the Animal Control Officer, in
his or her discretion, to be of a danger to itself or to the public health and
safety; or
   (c)   Use firearms or other suitable weapons to destroy any rabid animal,
any vicious animal as defined in §
2-115 or any animal creating a nuisance as defined in §
2-111, where such animal is impossible or impractical to catch, capture or
tranquilize.
§ 2-104 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY; UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE.
   (a)   The Animal Control Officer or any law enforcement officer shall have
the right of entry upon any private unenclosed lots or lands for the purpose of
collecting any animal whose presence thereupon is a violation of this chapter,
to the extent allowed by law.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the Animal
Control Officer in the exercise of his or her duties.
§ 2-105 MUNICIPAL POUND ESTABLISHED.
   (a)   A municipal pound shall be established to carry out the provisions of
this chapter. Such a pound may be operated by a contractor and all services
required herein may be provided by a contractor.
   (b)   When so contracted, the pound shall have the following services and
facilities as a minimum:
      (1)   Adequate pickup and impounding of all stray and ownerless dogs and
cats and animals otherwise in violation of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Group holding facilities for stray, ownerless and unvaccinated
animals impounded for violation of the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Individual isolation facilities for sick, biting, rabid and
suspected rabid animals; and
      (4)   Facilities for the humane destruction of animals.
§ 2-106 BREAKING POUND.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to open, unlock,
break open or attempt to break open the pound, or to take or let out any animal
placed therein, or take or attempt to take from an authorized officer of this
city any animal taken up by him or her under the provisions of this chapter, or
in any manner interfere with or hinder any authorized officer or employee of
this city in catching, taking up or impounding any animal.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, other than those duly
authorized, to care for, feed, attempt to feed or interfere in any way with the
care of impounded animals.
§ 2-107 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully or maliciously kill, maim, disfigure, torture; beat with
a stick, chain, club or other object; mutilate, poison, burn or scald with any
substance; or otherwise cruelly set upon any animals, except that reasonable
force may be employed to drive off vicious animals;
      (2)   Drive or work any animal cruelly or cruelly work any maimed,
mutilated, infirm, sick or disabled animal, or cause, allow or permit the same
to be done;
      (3)   Have, keep or harbor any animal which is infected with any
dangerous or incurable and/or painfully crippling condition except as provided
in §
2-108;
      (4)   Sell or offer for sale, barter, give away or use as an advertising
device or promotional display living baby chicks, rabbits, ducklings or other
fowl under two months of age in any quantity less than 12; or to sell, offer
for sale, barter, give away or display animals or fowls as specified in this
section which have been dyed, colored or otherwise treated so as to impart to
them an artificial or unnatural color. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the sale of animals or fowls, as specified in this subsection (a)(4),
in proper facilities, by hatcheries or persons engaged in raising and selling
such animals and fowls for recognized animal husbandry purposes;
      (5)   Promote, stage, hold, manage or in any way conduct any game,
exhibition, contest or fight in which one or more animals are engaged for the
purpose of injuring, killing, maiming or destroying themselves or any other
animal;
      (6)   Neglect or refuse to supply such animal with necessary and adequate
care, food, drink, air, light, space, shelter or protection from the elements
as necessary for the health and well-being of such kind of animal;
      (7)   Abandon or leave any animal in any place without making provisions
for its proper care; and
      (8)   These provisions shall not apply to the exceptions sanctioned under
§
2-108.
   (b)   In addition to the penalties provided in §
1-116, the Municipal Court Judge may order a person convicted of violation
under this section to turn the animal involved over to a designated humane
society. All such animals taken by the designated agency may be placed with
another or more suitable person or destroyed humanely as soon thereafter as is
conveniently possible.
(Prior Code, § 2-107)
§ 2-108 SAME; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
2-107 shall not apply to:
   (a)   Normal or accepted veterinary or veterinary hospital practices or
treatment of animals under active veterinary care;
   (b)   Bona fide experiments carried on by commonly recognized research
facilities;
   (c)   Killing, attempting to kill, trapping, catching or taking of any
animal in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 32 or Chapter 47 of the
Kansas Statutes Annotated;
   (d)   Rodeo practices accepted by the rodeo cowboys’ association;
   (e)   The humane killing of an animal which is diseased or disabled beyond
recovery for any useful purpose, or the humane killing of animals for
population control, by the owner thereof or by an authorized agent such as a
licensed veterinarian, at the request of the owner;
   (f)   The humane killing of an animal by the animal control officer, a
public health officer or a law enforcement officer in the performance of his or
her official duty; and
   (g)   The humane killing of an unclaimed animal after three full business
days following the receipt of such animal at a municipal pound or an
incorporated humane society shelter by the owner, operator or authorized agents
of such establishments.
(Prior Code, § 2-108)
§ 2-109 KEEPING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or possess any animal within the
city except for the following:
   (a)   Dogs and cats, under the provisions of Article 2 of this chapter;
   (b)   Non-poisonous and non-vicious animals and some fowl which are commonly
recognized as household pets, such as hamsters, rabbits, parakeets and other
comparable animals, when kept as a household pet and in a safe and sanitary
manner in accordance with §
2-113;
   (c)   The maintaining of a stockyard or sales barn for the loading,
unloading, temporary detention and sale of such livestock, if the location of
such stockyard or sales barn does not otherwise violate the zoning ordinances
of the city; and
   (d)   The transporting of animals through the city by ordinary and customary
means.
(Ord. 1415, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 2-110 ANIMAL TRAPS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, place, set out or deploy any
animal trap aboveground, which makes use of a spring gun, spring jaws, clamping
devices, cutting or stabbing mechanism, or any other devices that will damage
or severely injure any animal when caught or trapped by the device or trap;
except that nothing herein contained shall prohibit the use of animal traps
that are so designed to trap and hold animals without injuring the animals.
§ 2-111 NUISANCE; ANIMAL ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or harborer of any animal to keep
or maintain an animal in the city so as to constitute a nuisance. For the
purpose of this section, CONSTITUTING A NUISANCE shall be defined as:
      (1)   Any animal which:
         (A)   Molests or interferes with any person in the public right-of-
way, or within any public place, or upon property of another absent that
person’s consent;
         (B)   Attacks or injures a person or other domestic animal;
         (C)   Damages by its activities or with its excrement property other
than that owned by its owner or harborer;
         (D)   Scatters refuse that is bagged or otherwise contained;
         (E)   Causes any condition which threatens or endangers the health or
well-being of any person or other animal; or
         (F)   Disturbs the peace of any neighborhood by frequent and habitual
loud barking, howling, yelping, mewing, roaring, screeching or other sound.
      (2)   Any person who:
         (A)   Appears with an animal upon any public rights-of-way, within any
public place or upon any property of another absent that such property owner’s
consent, without some means for the removal of such animal’s excrement;
         (B)   Fails to immediately remove any excrement deposited by such
person’s animal upon any public or private property other than the property of
the owner or harborer of the animal; or
         (C)   Fails to remove or dispose of animal excrement in such manner as
to prevent the breeding or infestation of flies or other insects.
   (b)   Subsections (a)(2)(A) and (a)(2)(B) above shall not apply to any blind
person or his or her service dog.
   (c)   Upon the failure of any owner to abate such a condition upon order of
the Municipal Court, the Court may, in addition to imposing any fine, abate the
condition by ordering that the offending animal be taken up, impounded and/or
disposed of at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 1456, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 2-112 ANIMAL CONFINES; SHELTERS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any animal in
any yard, structure or area that is not clean, dry and sanitary, free from
debris and offensive odors that annoy any neighbor, and devoid of rodents and
vermin.
   (b)   Excrement shall be removed at least once each week from any animal
shelter, pen or yard area where animals are kept, or more often if necessary to
prevent or control odors, fly breeding or rodent infestation. If excrement is
stored on the premises by any animal owner, it shall be stored in adequate
containers with fly-tight lids, and all such stored or accumulated wastes shall
be disposed of at least once each week.
   (c)   All animal shelters, pens and yards shall be so located that adequate
drainage is obtained, normal drying occurs, and standing water is not present.
   (d)   All animal shelters and board fences confining animals shall be
maintained in good repair, and all animal shelters and board fences confining
animals subject to residential and commercial classification shall be protected
from deterioration by painting or comparable treatment.
   (e)   Barbed wire fences and electrically charged fences shall not be
permitted for animal confines except on properties in which an agricultural
classification permit is held or where the barbed wire fence or electrically
charged fence is protected by an exterior fence.
   (f)   All premises in which animals are kept shall be subject to inspection
by the Animal Control Officer, duly authorized law enforcement officer or
Public Health Official. If the Officer or Official determines from such
inspection that the premises are not being maintained in a clean and sanitary
manner, he or she shall notify the owner of the animals in writing to correct
the sanitation deficiencies within 24 hours after notice is served on the
owner. Any animal kept under any condition that could endanger the public or
animal health or create a health nuisance may be impounded. Animals shall be
released after fees are paid and cause for impoundment has been corrected.
§ 2-112A SAME; STOCKYARDS; COMMERCIAL HOLDING PENS.
   Animal shelters owned or operated as a stockyard or commercial holding pen
shall be adequately maintained and cleaned as often as is necessary, as
determined by the Health Officer, to control fly breeding or to control other
conditions adversely affecting the public health including the following:
   (a)   Collected fecal material and other solid organic waste shall be
disposed of at a sanitary landfill, fertilizer processing plant or by proper
dispersal on land used for agricultural purposes;
   (b)   Grain or protein feed shall be stored in tightly covered rodent-proof
metal containers or rodent-proof bins;
   (c)   Premises subject to the terms of this section shall be maintained free
of rodent harborage and in accordance with Chapter VIII, Article 6 of this
code;
   (d)   Wherever reasonable, use shall be made of anti-coagulant rodenticides
for the control of rodents and organo-phosphorus insecticides for the control
of flies or any other effective chemical means for the control of rodents and
flies;
   (e)   Wherever reasonable, use shall be made of soil sterilants and
herbicides or other effective means for the control of weeds and grass around
structures and buildings;
   (f)   Enclosures including fences where animals such as horses, cows, sheep
and goats are maintained shall be constructed in a manner, using dimension
lumber materials, or other effective means to prevent such animals from
breaking out or causing hazard to persons or property;
   (g)   The solid wastes accumulated from the cleaning of animal shelters and
holding pens maintained by persons subject to a residential classification
permit as herein provided shall be stored in metal containers, with tight-
fitting metal lids, and all such stored or accumulated wastes shall be disposed
of at least once each week;
   (h)   Holding lots, pens and floors of sheds and buildings where animals are
held and which are maintained by persons subject to a commercial, industrial or
agricultural classification permit according to the terms of this chapter shall
be surfaced with concrete or asphaltic materials and that the drainage system
of such surfaced areas shall include proper retaining walls and traps to
control the waste from draining into watercourses and such drainage system
shall be subject to the approval of the Health Officer. The Health Officer
shall waive this standard for domestic animal holding operations where such
animal holding is longer than 24 hours for any domestic animal involved or
where dirt lots are more appropriate to the proper care of cattle, horses or
sheep; and
   (i)   Solid wastes accumulated from the cleaning of animal shelters and
holding pens maintained by persons subject to a commercial, industrial or
agricultural permit according to the terms of this chapter shall be stored on
concrete slabs or other facilities, such as dirt lots on which is stockpiled
manure with an exposed perimeter as approved by the Health Officer; provided,
that all solid waste shall be properly disposed of at least once each week or
as may be approved by the Health Officer.
§ 2-113 DEATH OF ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be disposed of by the owner or keepers within 24
hours of the animal’s death, by burial, incineration in a facility approved by
the Animal Control Officer, by rendering or by other lawful means approved by
the Animal Control Officer. No dead animal shall be dumped on any public or
private property.
§ 2-114 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (a)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, possess or
harbor a vicious animal within the city. Impoundment of animals whose owners
have been cited for violation of this section shall be at the discretion of the
Animal Control Officer. If the animal presents a clear and present danger to
the public health or safety, it shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer
or his or her agent to impound such animal.
   (b)   Defined. For purposes of this article, a VICIOUS ANIMAL shall include:
      (1)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human
beings or domestic animals;
      (2)   Any animal that attacks a human being or domestic animal without
provocation;
      (3)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of fighting or any animal trained for fighting; or
      (4)   Any animal that is urged by its owner or harborer to attack, or
whose owner or harborer threatens to provoke such animal to attack, any law
enforcement officer while such officer is engaged in the performance of
official duty.
   (c)   Complaint.
      (1)   Whenever a sworn complaint is filed in the Municipal Court against
the owner of an animal alleging that such animal is vicious and in violation of
this section, the Municipal Judge shall hold a hearing to determine whether or
not the animal is vicious within the meaning of this section and thereby in
violation of this section. The owner of the animal shall be notified in writing
of the time and place of the hearing at least one week before the hearing.
      (2)   In making a determination, the Municipal Judge shall consider the
following:
         (A)   The seriousness of the attack or bite;
         (B)   Past history of attacks or bites;
         (C)   Likelihood of attacks or bites in the future;
         (D)   The condition and circumstances in which the animal is kept or
confined; and
         (E)   Other factors that may reasonably relate to the determination of
whether or not the animal is vicious.
      (3)   The Municipal Judge shall order the impoundment, the muzzling in
accordance with subsection (d) below, and/or the confinement of the animal
accused of being in violation of this section in a manner and location that
will ensure that it is no threat to persons or other animals pending the
outcome of the hearing. If such impoundment, muzzling or otherwise safe
confinement is not possible or if prior court orders to restrain such animal
have gone unheeded, the Municipal Judge may order the animal immediately
destroyed.
   (d)   Vicious dogs to be muzzled. It shall be the duty of every owner,
keeper or harborer of any dog in the city, which dog is vicious or has been
known to bite, chase or run after any person or animal in the streets, alleys
or any public place in the city, to keep the same muzzled with a good and
sufficient wire or leather muzzle, securely fastened so as to wholly prevent
such dog from biting any animal or person until such time as a determination
has been made by the court as to whether the dog is vicious or not. Any person
owning, keeping or harboring any dog within the city limits contrary to this
section shall be guilty of a violation of this code.
   (e)   Immediate destruction. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
prevent the Animal Control Officer or any law enforcement officer from taking
whatever action is reasonably necessary to protect himself or herself or
members of the public from injury or danger, including immediate destruction of
any vicious animal without notice to the owner.
   (f)   Release of. If a complaint has been filed in the Municipal Court
against the owner of an impounded animal for a charge under this section, the
animal shall not be released except on the order of the Municipal Judge, who
may also direct the owner to pay all impounding fees in addition to any
penalties for violation of this chapter. The Municipal Judge may, upon making a
finding that an animal is vicious or that it represents a clear and present
danger to the citizens or to other animals in the community, order the animal
to be destroyed in a humane manner by the animal shelter. Surrender of an
animal by the owner thereof to the Animal Control Officer does not relieve or
render the owner immune from the decision of the Court, nor to the fees and
fines which may result from a violation of this section.
§ 2-115 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully allow any animal or fowl
under his or her control to be or to run at large within the city. Any animal
or fowl found at large shall be impounded as provided in §§
2-117 or
2-207 (dogs).
§ 2-116 IMPOUNDMENT; FEE; NOTICE; RECORD.
   (a)   The Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer shall impound
any animal or fowl found at large in the city or constituting a nuisance or
otherwise in violation of this chapter in a suitable pound or enclosure
provided or contracted for by the city. The impounding officer shall make
diligent inquiry as to the owner of the animal and shall notify the owner
thereof of such impoundment as soon as reasonably possible.
   (b)   The owner of any animal impounded under this chapter shall pay the
city an impoundment fee of $25 plus a boarding fee for feed and maintenance of
$10 for each day the animal is impounded.
   (c)   In case the identity of the owner of the impounded animal or fowl
cannot be ascertained, the Animal Control Officer or police officer shall, upon
taking any such animal into custody and impounding the same, make a record
thereof, with a description of the animal and the date and place taken into
custody and the place of impounding, and shall thereupon immediately post a
public notice stating that the animal, describing the same with the date and
place of taking, has been taken up, and that unless the charges of impounding
the same, together with any license fees due and unpaid, are paid within three
business days from the date of the notice, that the animal will be disposed of
as provided in this code.
   (d)   The Animal Control Officer shall each month submit a report to the
person designated by the city showing the number of animals impounded and
disposed of, and the fees collected pursuant to this article and shall pay
those fees to the City Clerk for credit to the General Operating Fund.
§ 2-117 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   At any time before the sale or destruction of any animal impounded under the
provisions of this article, except for animals impounded under §§
2-115 (vicious) and
2-119 (rabid), the owner thereof may redeem the animal by paying the Animal
Control Officer or any person in charge, the impounding fee and all costs
incurred as a result of such impoundment.
§ 2-118 IMPOUNDMENT OF RABIES SUSPECTS.
   (a)   Any law enforcement officer or local Health Officer may take up, upon
private or public property, any animal that has bitten or scratched a person or
other animal and impound the animal in the city pound, securely penned and
separated from other animals, or in a veterinary hospital or animal care
facility for a period of not more than 30 days during which time the local
Health Officer shall determine whether or not such animal is suffering from a
disease and, if not, the local Health Officer shall authorize the release of
the animal upon payment by the owner of the boarding fee therefor. The Health
Officer may authorize the keeping of any such animal on the owner’s premises if
the owner produces a rabies vaccination certificate showing that the animal has
valid rabies vaccination protection. Impoundment costs shall be borne by the
owner. If in the opinion of the local Health Officer symptoms develop
justifying a microscopic examination, then the animal shall be killed and
examination made by the State Board of Health.
   (b)   In lieu of the provisions of subsection (a) above, the owner of any
such animal may, at his or her own expense, take such animal to any duly
qualified and licensed veterinarian in the city for observation. Such
veterinarian shall report his or her findings in writing to the local Health
Officer. If in the opinion of such veterinarian a microscopic examination is
justified, then the animal shall be turned over to the Animal Control Officer
or any law enforcement officer to be killed and examination made by the State
Board of Health.
   (c)   Any animal desired for observation by the local Health Officer under
this section shall be delivered to the Animal Control Officer or any law
enforcement officer upon demand and shall not be withheld, hidden or harbored.
Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a violation of this code.
Upon refusal of any person to so deliver such animal, the Municipal Judge shall
cause a warrant to be issued for the arrest of such person, which warrant shall
also provide for the surrender of the animal and shall be lawful authority for
the apprehending and forcible taking of such animal.
§ 2-119 ANIMALS BITTEN BY RABID ANIMALS.
   (a)   Whenever a dog, cat or other animal is bitten by a rabid animal or an
animal later proved to have been rabid, it shall be the duty of the owner of
the animal that is bitten, to report that fact to the local Health Officer and/
or the Police Department.
   (b)   It shall also be the duty of the owner of the bitten animal to either
destroy or have his or her bitten animal destroyed unless:
      (1)   The animal that was bitten had been vaccinated against rabies at
least three weeks before being bitten and has a current vaccination;
      (2)   If the bitten animal has a current vaccination, it shall be
confined for 90 days;
      (3)   The bitten animal shall be released from confinement only upon
written order from the local Health Officer, who declares the animal to be free
of rabies; and
      (4)   If the animal is found to have contracted rabies during
confinement, it shall be properly disposed of.
§ 2-120 VEHICULAR ACCIDENTS INVOLVING ANIMALS.
   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes any animal shall
stop at once and shall immediately report such injury or death to the owner of
such animal, or in the event that the owner cannot be ascertained, and located,
the operator shall at once report the accident to the Animal Control Officer or
any law enforcement officer.
§ 2-121 EMERGENCY; PROCLAMATION.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized, whenever in his or her opinion, the danger
to the public safety from rabid animals is made imminent to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning any animal in the city to confine the
animal in a good and sufficient enclosure from which the animal cannot escape,
or fasten such animal by means of a chain on the premises where the owner may
reside, for such time as may be specified in such proclamation. Any animal not
confined during such time may be disposed of wherever found by any police
officer or the Animal Control Officer of the city. The owner of such animal
shall be prosecuted for such violation thereof.
§ 2-122 KENNEL LICENSES.
   (a)   No person or household shall own or harbor more than four dogs or cats
in any combination thereof, and more than one litter of pups or kittens at any
one time, or engage in the commercial business of breeding, buying, selling,
trading, training or boarding cats or dogs or any combination thereof without
having obtained a kennel license from the City Clerk.
   (b)   Kennel licenses must be renewed annually. No kennel license shall be
issued until an inspection certificate has been issued by the Animal Control
Officer certifying approval of the kennel and compliance with the applicable
laws of the city and the State of Kansas, and a certificate by the Zoning Code
Enforcement Officer has been issued, certifying that the applicant for the
kennel license is not violating zoning laws of the city. If the City Clerk has
not received any protest against the kennel, the City Clerk may issue a renewal
of an existing kennel license at the same location without any report from the
Animal Control Officer and Zoning Code Enforcement Officer. If the Animal
Control Officer or the Zoning Code Enforcement Officer finds that the holder of
any kennel license is violating any zoning law, or any other law of the State
of Kansas, or of the city, or is maintaining the facility in a manner
detrimental to the health, safety or peace of mind of any person residing in
the immediate vicinity, he or she shall report such fact to the City Clerk, and
the license shall not be renewed except after a public hearing before the
Governing Body.
   (c)   The Animal Control Officer, the Zoning Enforcement Officer or any law
enforcement officer shall have the right to inspect any premises licensed under
this section at any reasonable time and nothing shall prevent the entry onto
private property for the purpose of inspection. The application for a kennel
shall constitute consent to such entry and inspection.
   (d)   The Governing Body may suspend or revoke a kennel license if, pursuant
to a public hearing, it finds any of the following:
      (1)   The kennel is maintained in violation of any applicable law of the
State of Kansas, or of the city;
      (2)   The kennel is maintained so as to be a public nuisance; or
      (3)   The kennel is maintained so as to be detrimental to the health,
safety or peace of mind of persons residing in the immediate vicinity.
   (e)   The annual kennel license fee shall be $500. Payment of such license
fee shall be in addition to any dog or cat license fees otherwise required
under this article.
   (f)   This section shall not apply to and will not be construed to require a
kennel license for a licensed veterinarian to operate an animal hospital.
(Prior Code, § 2-123) (Ord. 1279, passed 4-10-1995; Ord. 1407, passed 7-9-2007)
ARTICLE 2: DOGS AND CATS
Section
   
2-201   Registration and vaccination required; fee
   
2-202   Tags
   
2-203   Same; counterfeit tag
   
2-204   Evidence of vaccination
   
2-205   Visiting dogs or cats
   
2-206   Running at large; fine
   
2-207   Impoundment; record; notice; redemption; minimum fee
   
2-208   Disposition of unclaimed dogs or cats
   
2-209   Confinement of dogs or cats in heat
   
2-210   Muzzling
   
2-211   Pit bull and rottweiler dogs
§ 2-201 REGISTRATION AND VACCINATION REQUIRED; FEE.
   (a)   Every owner of any dog or cat over six months of age shall annually
register with the City Clerk his or her name and address with the name, sex and
description of each dog or cat owned and kept within the city. It shall be
unlawful for the owner of any newly acquired dog or cat or any dog or cat
brought into the city to fail to register such animal within 30 days from
acquisition or bringing the dog or cat into the city. It shall be unlawful for
the owner of any previously registered dog or cat to fail to maintain current
registration of such dog or cat.
   (b)   Upon registration, the owner shall present a current, completed
certificate of immunization against rabies. No registration shall follow
without evidence of this document, and it shall be unlawful for the owner of
any dog or cat over six months of age to fail to maintain effective rabies
immunization of such dog or cat.
   (c)   The owner or harborer of any dog or cat shall, at the time of
registering such dog or cat, present to the City Clerk a certificate from an
accredited veterinarian showing that a male dog or cat has been neutered or a
female dog or cat has been spayed, if the dog or cat has been neutered or
spayed.
   (d)   The City Clerk shall collect an annual registration fee of $5 for each
spayed or neutered dog or cat and $10 for each unspayed or unneutered dog or
cat. A $5 penalty shall be assessed for any late registration of any dog or
cat.
   (e)   The registration year shall be from January 1 through December 31 of
each year. The fee shall be payable before March 1 of each year without
penalty.
   (f)   Registration fees as enumerated above may be prorated for newly
acquired dogs or cats owned by a person or persons moving to and establishing a
home in the city during a calendar year. Every owner or harborer of dogs or
cats who shall fail to register the same prior to March 1 of each year shall
pay in addition to the registration fee herein provided a penalty fee for late
registration of $2.
(Prior Code, § 2-201) (Ord. 1062, passed 11-13-1978; Ord. 1407, passed 7-9-
2007)
§ 2-202 TAGS.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk or designated agent, upon a
showing of current rabies immunization and receipt of the registration fee
hereinbefore required, to keep a record of the registration of dogs or cats,
the time of the registration, the name of the owner or keeper, the number of
the registration, and the amount paid therefor, and shall deliver to the owner
or keeper of the dog or cat a certificate in writing, stating that the person
has registered the dog or cat and the number by which the dog or cat is
registered, and shall also deliver to the owner or keeper of the dog or cat a
tag with the registration number and the registration year thereon, which shall
be, by the owner or keeper, attached to the collar to be used on the dog or
cats so registered.
   (b)   When any tag has become lost during a registration period, the owner
of the dog or cat may request a duplicate tag for the remainder of the
registration period.
   (c)   When so requested, the City Clerk shall, upon presentation of the
registration certificate, issue a duplicate of such tag upon the payment of a
fee of $0.50.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person to take off or remove the city
registration tag from any dog or cat belonging to another, or remove the strap
or collar on which the same is fastened.
(Prior Code, § 2-202)
§ 2-203 SAME; COUNTERFEIT TAG.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place on any dog or cat a tag issued
for any other dog or cat or to make or use any false, forged or counterfeited
tag or imitation thereof.
§ 2-204 EVIDENCE OF VACCINATION.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or cat kept within the city to
fail to display a current certificate of immunization against rabies issued by
an accredited veterinarian evidencing the vaccination of such dog or cat within
two years, when requested by the Animal Control Officer or any law enforcement
officer.
§ 2-205 VISITING DOGS OR CATS.
   The provisions of this article with respect to registration shall not apply
to any dog or cat owned by any person visiting or temporarily remaining within
the city for less than 30 days, however, such dogs or cats shall be kept under
restraint by the owner thereof at all times.
§ 2-206 RUNNING AT LARGE; FINE.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or harborer of any dog or cat to
permit such dog or cat to run at large within the city at any time.
   (b)   Any dog or cat running at large within the city shall be impounded as
set out in §
2-207.
   (c)   The owner of any dog or cat impounded for running at large without the
tag required by §
2-202 shall, for the first offense, pay a fine of $25, plus the applicable
impoundment and boarding fees. For subsequent offenses occurring within one
year, the fine shall be as set by the Municipal Judge, plus the applicable
impoundment and boarding fees.
(Prior Code, § 2-206) (Ord. 1324, passed 6-14-1999; Ord. 1407, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 2-207 IMPOUNDMENT; RECORD; NOTICE; REDEMPTION; MINIMUM FEE.
   (a)   Any dog or cat found in violation of the provisions of this article
shall be subject to impoundment by the city.
   (b)   A record of all dogs or cats impounded shall be kept by the city
containing the following information: color; sex; weight; height; identifying
marks; registration number (if any); and the date of impoundment.
   (c)   No dog or cat impounded under this section shall be disposed of until
after expiration of a minimum of three full business days of custody during
which the public has clear access to inspect and recover the dog or cat through
time periods ordinarily accepted as usual business hours. During such time of
custody, the city shall attempt to notify the owner or custodian of any dog or
cat impounded by such facility if the owner or custodian is known or reasonably
ascertainable. Such dog or cat may, at any time, be released to the legal
owner, moved to a veterinary hospital for treatment or observation, released in
any manner, if such dog or cat was a gift to the animal shelter, or euthanized
by a licensed veterinarian if it appears to the veterinarian that the dog or
cat is diseased or disabled beyond recovery. If within three full business days
the owner does not appear to claim the dog or cat, then the dog or cat may be
sold, euthanized or otherwise disposed of.
   (d)   If at any time before the sale or destruction of any dog or cat
impounded under the provisions of this article, the owner of an impounded dog
or cat does appear and redeem the dog or cat, it shall be turned over to the
person claiming it upon payment of any impoundment fees or penalties, plus the
actual costs of impoundment, and shall not apply to any dog or cat alleged as
being vicious under §
2-115 or suspected of rabies under §
2-119.
   (e)   The impoundment and boarding fees shall be as provided in §
2-117.
   (f)   Any dog or cat impounded may not be released without a current rabies
vaccination.
    (g)   Impoundment hereunder shall not preclude any court from imposing and
executing any fine that might otherwise be levied under this article for
violation of any of the provisions thereof; nor shall impoundment be a defense
in any prosecution commenced hereunder.
   (h)   The redemption of any dog or cat impounded for a violation of any
provision of this article shall be prima facie evidence of the violation of
such provision by the person redeeming the dog or cat.
(Ord. 1407, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 2-208 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED DOGS OR CATS.
   (a)   If any dog or cat is not redeemed by its owner or harborer within the
time allowed for redemption as specified in §
2-207 hereof, the animal control officer, any authorized law enforcement
officer, any authorized veterinarian or any duly authorized pound personnel may
destroy such dog or cat or may adopt out the same as set forth below.
   (b)   Any dog or cat not reclaimed by its owner within the time indicated
becomes the property of the city and may be placed for adoption in a suitable
home.
   (c)   No dog or cat may be transferred to the permanent custody of a
prospective adoptive owner unless:
      (1)   Such dog or cat has been surgically spayed or neutered before the
physical transfer of the animal occurs; or
      (2)   The prospective adoptive owner signs an animal sterilization and
adoption agreement to have the dog or cat spayed or neutered and pays to the
city a sterilization deposit of $50. The deposit shall be refunded to such
person upon presentation of a written statement signed by a licensed
veterinarian that the dog or cat has been spayed or neutered. If such person
does not reclaim the deposit within six months after receiving custody of the
animal, the city shall keep the deposit and may reclaim the unspayed or
unneutered animal; and
      (3)   The prospective adoptive owner pays a boarding fee of $25 and all
applicable license fees.
   (d)   The prospective adoptive owner shall, subject to the provisions of the
animal sterilization and adoption agreement, be deemed a purchaser and shall
receive a certificate of purchase from the City Clerk vesting ownership and
terminating all interest and rights of the former owner.
   (e)   Nothing shall be construed to require sterilization of a dog or cat
which is being held by the city and which may be claimed by its rightful owner
within the established holding period.
(Prior Code, § 2-208) (Ord. 1293, passed 5-13-1996; Ord. 1407, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 2-209 CONFINEMENT OF DOGS OR CATS IN HEAT.
   Any unspayed female dog or cats in the stage of estrus (heat) shall be
confined during such period of time in a house, building or secure enclosure,
and the area of enclosure shall be so constructed that no other dog or cats may
gain voluntary access to the confined animal except for purposes of planned
breeding. Any animal that is in the state of estrus (heat) and that is not
properly confined, or any such animal that is creating a neighborhood nuisance,
shall be removed to a boarding kennel, to a veterinary hospital or to the
animal shelter. All expenses incurred as a result of the confinement shall be
paid by the owner. The owner of animals removed to the animal shelter shall be
charged at the rate established from time to time by the animal shelter for
routine confinement.
§ 2-210 MUZZLING.
   Whenever the Mayor shall deem it necessary for the protection and welfare of
the inhabitants of the city, he or she shall issue an order requiring all dogs
or cats kept within the city to be effectively muzzled for such length of time
as may be specified in the order, to prevent them from biting or injuring
persons or animals. Such order shall be published in the official newspaper of
the city for such period of time as the Mayor may deem necessary.
§ 2-211 PIT BULL AND ROTTWEILER DOGS.
   (a)   The Governing Body of the city finds as follows.
      (1)   Instances of attacks by pit bull and rottweiler dogs have occurred
upon members of other communities.
      (2)   As breeds of dogs, pit bulls and rottweilers are inherently
dangerous dogs.
      (3)   The possession of a pit bull or rottweiler dog within the city
poses a significant threat to the public’s health, safety and welfare.
      (4)   Protective measures by pit bull and rottweiler dog owners are
inadequate to protect the public from attacks by these animals.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to own, keep, harbor or in any way possess within
the city any pit bull dog or rottweiler dog.
      (1)   PIT BULL dog shall mean:
         (A)   The bull terrier breed of dog;
         (B)   The Staffordshire bull terrier breed of dog;
         (C)   The American pit bull terrier breed of dog;
         (D)   The American Staffordshire terrier breed of dog;
         (E)   Dogs of mixed breeds or of breeds other than listed above which
are known as pit bulls, pit bull dogs or pit bull terriers; and
         (F)   Any dog which has the appearance and characteristics of being
predominantly of the breeds of bull terrier, Staffordshire bull terrier,
American pit bull terrier, American Staffordshire terrier or any other breed
commonly known as pit bulls, pit bull dogs or pit bull terriers, or a
combination of any of these breeds.
      (2)   ROTTWEILER DOG means any dog which has the appearance and
characteristics of being predominantly of the Rottweiler breed of dog.
   (c)   Keeping of registered pit bulls and rottweiler dogs: the provisions of
subsection (b) above shall not apply to any owner of a pit bull or rottweiler
dog that is properly registered with the city as of December 31, 2007. The
keeping of any such dog, however, shall be subject to the following standards
and requirements.
      (1)   Confinement. Any such registered pit bull or rottweiler dog:
         (A)   Shall be securely confined indoors. No pit bull or rottweiler
dog shall be kept on a porch, patio or in any part of a house or structure that
would allow the dog to exit such building on its own volition, in addition, no
such animal shall be kept in a house or structure when the windows are open or
when screen windows or screen doors are the only obstacle preventing the dog
from exiting the structure; or
         (B)   Shall be secured in an enclosed and locked pen or yard enclosure
which strictly complies with the following specifications:
            (1)   Have a secure top which is attached to the side walls on all
sides;
            (2)   The sides must be secure and either attached to a secure
bottom or floor, or securely embedded not less than two feet in the ground;
            (3)   Locked with a key or combination lock at all times when the
animal is within the structure;
            (4)   Adequately lighted and ventilated and kept in a clean and
sanitary condition; and
            (5)   Comply with all zoning and building regulations of the city.
      (2)   Leash and muzzle requirement. Any such registered pit bull or
rottweiler dog shall not be allowed outside of its pen or yard enclosure:
         (A)   Unless adequately secured with a leash no longer than four feet
in length which shall be in the physical control of a person capable of
controlling such animal;
         (B)   Shall not at anytime be tethered by a chain, rope or other type
of leash which is attached or secured to an inanimate object such as a tree,
post, building and the like; and
         (C)   Shall be muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such
dog from biting persons or other animals.
      (3)   Signs. The owner of any such registered pit bull or rottweiler dog
shall display in a prominent place on their premises and on any pen or yard
enclosure a sign easily readable by the public using the words “Beware of Dog.”
      (4)   Insurance. The owner of any such registered pit bull or rottweiler
dog shall provide to the City Clerk each year at the time of registering such
animal proof of public liability insurance in a single incident amount of
$50,000 for bodily injury to or death of any person, or for damage to property
owned by any person, which results from the ownership or keeping of such
animal. Such insurance policy shall provide that no cancellation of the policy
can occur unless ten days prior written notice of such cancellation is given to
the City Clerk.
      (5)   Identification photograph. The owner of any such registered pit
bull or rottweiler dog shall provide to the City Clerk at the time of
registering such animal two color photographs of the animal which clearly shows
the color and approximate size of the animal.
      (6)   Reporting requirements. The owner of any registered pit bull or
rottweiler dog shall, within ten days of any of the following incidents, report
the following information in writing to the City Clerk:
         (a)   The removal from the city or death of a registered pit bull or
rottweiler dog;
         (b)   The birth of offspring of a registered pit bull or rottweiler
dog; and
         (c)   The new address of the owner of a registered pit bull or
rottweiler dog should the owner move within city.
      (7)   Sale or transfer of ownership prohibited. No person shall sell,
barter or in any other way dispose of any such registered pit bull or
rottweiler dog to any other person within the city unless the recipient person
resides permanently in the same household and premises as the registered owner
of such dog.
      (8)   Animals born of registered dogs. All offspring born to a registered
pit bull or rottweiler dog must be removed from the city within six weeks of
the birth of such animal.
      (9)   Presumption. There shall be an irrebuttable presumption that any
dog registered with the city as a pit bull or rottweiler dog or any breed
prohibited by subsection (b) above, is subject to the requirements of this
section.
      (10)   Violations and penalties.
         (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with the
requirements and conditions set forth in this section.
         (B)   Each day that a violation of this section continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
         (C)   Whenever a law enforcement officer, or anyone having authority
as an Animal Control Officer for the city, has reasonable grounds to believe
that any pit bull or rottweiler dog is in violation of this section, such
animal shall be subject to immediate seizure and impoundment.
         (D)   Any person violating or permitting the violation of any
provision of this section shall, upon conviction in Municipal Court, be fined a
sum not less than $200 and not more than $1,000, and shall be ordered to pay
all impoundment fees and expenses for shelter, food, handling, veterinary care,
witness fees, and court costs necessitated by the enforcement of this section.
In addition, the court may:
            (1)   Sentence the defendant to imprisonment in the county jail for
a period not to exceed 30 days; or
            (2)   Order the registration of the subject pit bull or rottweiler
dog revoked and the dog removed from the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-211) (Ord. 1415, passed 1-7-2008)
ARTICLE 3: OTHER ANIMALS
Section
   
2-301   Exotic animals
§ 2-301 EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep,
maintain or have in his or her possession or under his or her control within
the city any poisonous reptile or any other dangerous wild animal or reptile,
any vicious or dangerous animal, or any other animal or reptile of wild,
vicious or dangerous propensities.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or have in his
or her possession or under his or her control within the city any of the
following animals:
      (1)   All poisonous animals including rear-fang snakes;
      (2)   Apes: chimpanzees; gibbons; gorillas; orangutans; and siamangs;
      (3)   Baboons;
      (4)   Badgers;
      (5)   Bears;
      (6)   Bison;
      (7)   Bobcats;
      (8)   Cheetahs;
      (9)   Crocodilians, 30 inches in length or more;
      (10)   Constrictor snakes, six feet in length or more;
      (11)   Coyotes;
      (12)   Deer; includes all members of the deer family, for example, white-
tailed deer, elk, antelope and moose;
      (13)   Elephants;
      (14)   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
      (15)   Hippopotami;
      (16)   Hyenas;
      (17)   Jaguars;
      (18)   Leopards;
      (19)   Lions;
      (20)   Lynxes;
      (21)   Monkeys;
      (22)   Ostriches;
      (23)   Pumas; also known as cougars, mountain lions and panthers;
      (24)   Raccoons;
      (25)   Rhinoceroses;
      (26)   Skunks;
      (27)   Tigers; and
      (28)   Wolves.
   (c)   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to bona fide pet
shops, zoos, circuses, carnivals, educational institutions or medical
institutions, if:
      (1)   Their location conforms to the provisions of the zoning ordinance
of the city;
      (2)   All animals and animal quarters are kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and so maintained as to eliminate objectionable odors; and
      (3)   Animals are maintained in quarters so constructed as to prevent
their escape.
   (d)   The Municipal Judge shall have the authority to order any animal
deemed vicious confined, destroyed or removed from the city.
CHAPTER III: BEVERAGES
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   ENHANCED CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES
      
3.   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
      
4.   PRIVATE CLUBS
      
5.   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
3-101   Definitions
   
3-102   Restriction on location
   
3-103   Minors on premises
   
3-104   Consumption on public property
   
3-105   Public sale; consumption
   
3-106   Consumption while driving
   
3-107   Identification card
   
3-108   Purchase, possession or consumption of cereal malt beverage or
alcoholic liquor by anyone under the legal age for such prohibited
   
3-109   Consumption or possession of open containers of cereal malt beverage
and alcoholic liquor by adults in public places prohibited
   
3-110   Open containers
§ 3-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol, but does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Alcohol, spirits, wine, beer and every liquid or solid,
patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being
consumed as a beverage by a human being, but shall not include any cereal malt
beverage.
   CATERER. An individual, partnership or corporation which sells alcoholic
liquor by the individual drink, and provides services related to the serving
thereof, on unlicensed premises which may be open to the public, but does not
include a holder of a temporary permit selling alcoholic liquor in accordance
with the terms of such permit.
   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE. Any fermented but undistilled liquor brewed or made
from malt or from a mixture of malt or malt substitute, but does not include
any such liquor which is more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   CLASS A CLUB. A premises which is owned or leased by a corporation,
partnership, business trust or association and which is operated thereby as a
bona fide nonprofit social, fraternal or war veterans’ club, as determined by
the State of Kansas, for the exclusive use of the corporate stockholders,
partners, trust beneficiaries or associates (hereinafter referred to as
members), and their families and guests accompanying them.
   CLASS B CLUB. A premises operated for profit by a corporation, partnership
or individual, to which members of such club may resort for the consumption of
food or alcoholic beverages and for entertainment.
   CLUB. A Class A or Class B club.
   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT. Premises which may be open to the general public,
where alcoholic liquor by the individual drink is sold.
   GENERAL RETAILER. A person who has a license to sell cereal malt beverages
at retail.
   LIMITED RETAILER. A person who has a license to sell cereal malt beverages
at retail only in original and unopened containers and not for consumption on
the premises.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any place at which cereal malt beverages, or alcoholic
beverages, or both are sold.
   TEMPORARY PERMIT. A permit, issued in accordance with the laws of the State
of Kansas, which allows the permit holder to offer for sale, sell and serve
alcoholic liquor for consumption on unlicensed premises, open to the public.
   WHOLESALER or DISTRIBUTOR. Any individuals, firms, co-partnerships,
corporations and associations which sell or offer for sale any beverage
referred to in this article, to persons, co-partnerships, corporations and
associations authorized by this article to sell cereal malt beverages at
retail.
§ 3-102 RESTRICTION ON LOCATION.
   (a)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold or served by a person holding a
license or permit from the city whose place of business or other premises are
located within 200 feet of any (church, school, nursing home, library,
hospital, said distance to be measured from the nearest property line of such
church, school, nursing home, library, hospital), to the nearest portion of the
building occupied by the premises.
   (b)   The distance location of subsection (a) above shall not apply to a
club, drinking establishment, caterer or temporary permit holder when the
license or permit applicant petitions for and receives a waiver of the distance
limitation from the governing body. The Governing Body shall grant such a
waiver only following public notice and hearing and a finding by the Governing
Body that the proximity of the establishment is not adverse to the public
welfare or safety.
   (c)   No license or permit shall be issued for the sale of alcoholic liquor
if the building or use does not meet the zoning ordinance requirements of the
city or conflicts with other city laws, including building and health codes.
§ 3-103 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
remain on any premises where the sale of alcoholic liquor is licensed for on-
premises consumption, or where a caterer or temporary permit holder is serving
alcoholic liquor.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for the operator, person in charge, or licensee
of any premises licensed for on-premises consumption of alcoholic liquor or a
caterer or temporary permit holder who is serving alcoholic liquor to permit
any person under the age of 21 years to remain on the premises.
   (c)   This section shall not apply if the person under the age of 21 years
is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or if the licensed or
permitted premises derive not more than 30% of its gross receipts in each
calendar year from the sale of alcoholic liquor for on-premises consumption.
§ 3-104 CONSUMPTION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall drink or consume any alcoholic liquor on city-owned public
property; however, this prohibition shall not apply to city owned property for
which the city has entered into a lease agreement which includes provisions for
alcohol consumption.
(K.S.A. 41-719)
§ 3-105 PUBLIC SALE; CONSUMPTION.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, serve or dispense any
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic beverage in any public place not licensed to
sell, serve or dispense such beverage at such public place within or under the
jurisdiction of the city.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or consume any cereal
malt beverage or alcoholic beverage in any public place not licensed to sell
and serve such beverage for public consumption at such public place within or
under the jurisdiction of the city.
   (c)   For purposes of this section, the term PUBLIC PLACE shall include upon
any street, public thoroughfare, public parking lot or any privately owned
parking area made available to the public generally, within any parked or
driven motor vehicle situated in any of the aforesaid places or upon any
property owned by the State of Kansas or any governmental subdivision thereof
unless such property is leased to others under K.S.A. 12-1740 et seq. if the
property is being used for hotel or motel purposes or purposes incidental
thereto or is owned or operated by an airport authority created pursuant to
K.S.A. Chapter 27.
(K.S.A. 41-719) (Prior Code, § 3-102) (Ord. 1088, passed 7-14-1980)
§ 3-106 CONSUMPTION WHILE DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any cereal malt beverage or
alcoholic beverage while operating any vehicle upon any street or highway.
(K.S.A. 8-1599, 41-719)
§ 3-107 IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Display, cause or permit to be displayed, or have in possession,
any fictitious, fraudulently altered or fraudulently obtained identification
card for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor;
      (2)   Display or represent any identification card not issued to such
person as being his or her card for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or
consumption of either cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor;
      (3)   Permit any unlawful use of an identification card issued to a
person for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor; and
      (4)   Photograph, photostat, duplicate or in any way reproduce any
identification card or facsimile thereof in such a manner that it could be
mistaken for a valid identification card or display or have in possession any
such photograph, photostat, duplicate, reproduction or facsimile for purposes
relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either cereal malt beverage or
alcoholic liquor.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Lend any identification card to or knowingly permit the use of any
identification card by any person under 21 years of age for use in the sale,
purchase or consumption of any alcoholic liquor; or
      (2)   Lend any identification card to or knowingly permit the use of any
identification card by any person under 21 years of age for use in the sale,
purchase or consumption of any cereal malt beverage.
§ 3-108 PURCHASE, POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE OR
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR BY ANYONE UNDER THE LEGAL AGE FOR SUCH PROHIBITED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the legal age for
consumption of cereal malt beverage to obtain or purchase, or attempt to obtain
or purchase, any cereal malt beverage from any person except as authorized by
law.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the legal age for
consumption of cereal malt beverage to possess or consume cereal malt beverage
except as authorized by law.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to obtain or
purchase, or attempt to obtain or purchase, alcoholic liquor from any person
except as authorized by law.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to possess
or consume alcoholic liquor except as authorized by law.
   (e)   This section shall not apply to the possession and consumption of
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor by a person under the legal age for
consumption thereof when such possession and consumption is permitted and
supervised and such cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor is furnished by
the person’s parent or legal guardian.
(Prior Code, § 3-106) (Ord. 1208, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 3-109 CONSUMPTION OR POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINERS OF CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE
AND ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR BY ADULTS IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any adult person while upon a public highway,
street, alley, sidewalk, park, cemetery or parking area open to the public to:
   (a)   Have in his or her possession, except in the original unopened
container, any cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor;
   (b)   Drink or consume any cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor upon
such public places; or
   (c)   Drink or consume any cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor with or
upon any vehicle, moving or parked, upon any such public places.
(Prior Code, § 3-107)
§ 3-110 OPEN CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport in any vehicle upon a
highway or street any cereal malt beverage or alcoholic beverage unless such
beverage is:
      (1)   In the original, unopened package or container, the seal of which
has not been broken and from which the original cap or cork or other means of
closure has not been removed;
      (2)   In the locked, rear trunk or rear compartment or any locked outside
compartment which is not accessible to any person in the vehicle while it is in
motion; or
      (3)   In the exclusive possession of a passenger in a vehicle which is a
recreational vehicle as defined by K.S.A. 75-1212 or a bus as defined by K.S.A.
8-1406, who is not in the driving compartment of such vehicle or who is in a
portion of such vehicle from which the driver is not directly accessible.
   (B)   As used in this section, HIGHWAY and STREET have meanings provided by
K.S.A. 8-1424 and K.S.A. 8-1473 and amendments thereto.
(K.S.A. 41-804, 41-2719) (Prior Code, § 3-103)
ARTICLE 2: ENHANCED CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES
Section
   
3-201   Definition
   
3-202   License issued by the city
   
3-203   License required of retailer
   
3-204   Application
   
3-205   License application procedures
   
3-206   License granted; denied
   
3-207   License to be posted
   
3-208   License, disqualification
   
3-209   Restriction upon location
   
3-210   License fee
   
3-211   Suspension of license
   
3-212   License suspension/revocation by Governing Body
   
3-213   Same; appeal
   
3-214   Change of location
   
3-215   Wholesalers and/or distributors
   
3-216   Business regulations
   
3-217   Prohibited conduct on premises
   
3-218   Sanitary conditions required
§ 3-201 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENHANCED CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE. Cereal malt beverage, as that term is defined
in K.S.A. § 41-2701, and amendments thereto, and such term shall include beer
containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume when such beer is sold by a
retailer licensed under the Kansas Cereal Malt Beverage Act, being K.S.A. 41-
101 et seq.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-202 LICENSE ISSUED BY CITY.
   The “Cereal Malt Beverage License” issued by the City of Humboldt pursuant
to this article, authorizes the sale of Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverage as
defined in § 3-201, by those retailers in compliance with this article and
other laws and regulations that may apply.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-203 LICENSE REQUIRED OF RETAILER
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any Enhanced Cereal Malt
Beverage at retail without a license for each place of business where Enhanced
Cereal Malt Beverages are to be sold at retail.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, having a license to sell Enhanced
Cereal Malt Beverages at retail only in the original and unopened containers
and not for consumption on the premises, to sell any Enhanced Cereal Malt
Beverage in any other manner.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-204 APPLICATION.
   (a)   Any person desiring a license shall make an application to the
Governing Body of the City and accompany the application by the required
license fee for each place of business for which the person desires the
license.
   (b)   The application shall be verified, and upon a form prepared by the
Attorney General of the State of Kansas, and shall contain:
      (1)   The name and residence of the applicant and how long he or she has
resided within the State of Kansas;
      (2)   The particular place for which a license is desired;
      (3)   The name of the owner of the premises upon which the place of
business is located;
      (4)   The names and addresses of all persons who hold any financial
interest in the particular place of business for which a license is desired;
      (5)   A statement that the applicant is a citizen of the United States
and not less than 21 years of age and that he or she has not within two years
immediately preceding the date of making application been convicted of a felony
or any crime involving moral turpitude, or been adjudged guilty of drunkenness,
or driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
the violation of any other intoxicating liquor law of any state or of the
United States;
      (6)   Each application for a general retailer’s license shall be
accompanied by a certificate from the City Health Officer certifying that he or
she has inspected the premises to be licensed; and
      (7)   Each application for a general retailer’s license must be
accompanied by a certificate from the City Fire Chief certifying that he or she
has inspected the premises to be licensed.
   (c)   The application shall be accompanied by a statement, signed by the
applicant, authorizing any governmental agency to provide the city with any
information pertinent to the application. One copy of such application shall
immediately be transmitted to the Chief of Police of the city for investigation
of the applicant. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to investigate
such applicant to determine whether he or she is qualified as a licensee under
the provisions of this article. The Chief shall report to the City Clerk not
later than five working days subsequent to the receipt of such application. The
application shall be scheduled for consideration by the Governing Body at the
earliest meeting consistent with current notification requirements.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-205 LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (a)   All applications for a new and renewed Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverage
license shall be submitted to the City Clerk ten days in advance of the
Governing Body meeting at which they will be considered.
   (b)   The City Clerk’s office shall notify the applicant of an existing
license 30 days in advance of its expiration.
   (c)   The City Clerk’s office shall provide copies of all applications to
the Police Department, to the Fire Department, and to the City-County Health
Department, when they are received. The Police Department will run a record
check on all applicants and the Fire Department and Health Department will
inspect the premises. The Departments will then recommend approval, or
disapproval, of applications within five working days of the Department’s
receipt of the application.
   (d)   The Governing Body will not consider any application for a new or
renewed license that has not been submitted ten days in advance and been
reviewed by the above city departments.
   (e)   An applicant who has not had an Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverage license
in the city shall attend the Governing Body meeting when the application for a
new license will be considered.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-206 LICENSE GRANTED; DENIED.
   (a)   The journal of the Governing Body shall show the action taken on the
application.
   (b)   If the license is granted, the City Clerk shall issue the license
which shall show the name of the licensee and the year for which issued.
   (c)   No license shall be transferred to another licensee.
   (d)   If the license shall be denied, the license fee shall be immediately
returned to the person who has made application.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-207 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   Each license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the place of business
for which the license is issued.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-208 LICENSE, DISQUALIFICATION.
   No license shall be issued to:
   (a)   A person who has not been a resident in good faith of the State of
Kansas for at least one year immediately preceding application and a resident
of the Allen County for at least six months prior to filing of such
application;
   (b)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (c)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (d)   A person who, within two years immediately preceding the date of
making application, has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral
turpitude, or has been adjudged guilty of drunkenness or driving a motor
vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or the violation of
any other intoxicating liquor law of any state or of the United States;
   (e)   A partnership, unless all the members of the partnership shall
otherwise be qualified to obtain a license;
   (f)   A corporation if any manager, officer or director thereof or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of such
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason
other than non-residence within the city or county;
   (g)   A corporation, if any manager, officer or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of such
corporation, has been an officer, manager or director, or a stockholder owning
in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock, of a corporation which:
      (1)   Has had a retailer’s license revoked under K.S.A. 41-2708 and
amendments thereto; or
      (2)   Has been convicted of a violation of the drinking establishment act
or the cereal malt beverage laws of the State of Kansas.
   (h)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee; or
   (i)   A person whose spouse would be ineligible to receive a retailer’s
license for any reason other than citizenship, retailer residency requirements
or age, except that this subsection (i) shall not apply in determining
eligibility for a renewal license.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-209 RESTRICTION UPON LOCATION.
   (a)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any Enhanced
Cereal Malt Beverage on premises which are located in areas not zoned for such
purpose.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to sell or dispense at retail any Enhanced Cereal
Malt Beverage at any place within the city limits that is within a 200-foot
radius of any church, school or library.
   (c)   Provisions shall not apply to any establishment holding a private club
license issued by the State of Kansas.
   (d)   The distance limitation of subsection (b) above shall not apply to any
establishment holding an Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverage license issued by the
city when the licensee has petitioned for and received a waiver of the distance
limitation. The Governing Body shall grant such a waiver only following public
notice and hearing.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-210 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   The rules and regulations regarding license fees shall be as follows.
      (1)   General Retailer: for each place of business selling Enhanced
Cereal Malt Beverages at retail, $100 per calendar year.
      (2)   Limited Retailer: for each place of business selling only at retail
Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverages in original and unopened containers and not for
consumption on the premises, $25 per calendar year.
   (b)   Full amount of the license fee shall be required regardless of the
time of the year in which the application is made, and the licensee shall only
be authorized to operate under the license for the remainder of the calendar
year in which the license is issued.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-211 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   The Chief of Police, upon five days’ written notice, shall have the
authority to suspend such license for a period not to exceed 30 days, for any
violation of the provisions of this article or other laws pertaining to
Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverages, which violation does not in his or her judgment
justify a recommendation of revocation. The licensee may appeal such order of
suspension to the Governing Body within seven days from the date of such order.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-212 LICENSE SUSPENSION/REVOCATION BY GOVERNING BODY.
   The Governing Body of the city, upon five days’ written notice, to a person
holding a license to sell Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverages shall permanently
revoke or cause to be suspended for a period of not more than 30 days such
license for any of the following reasons:
   (a)   If a licensee has fraudulently obtained the license by giving false
information in the application therefor;
   (b)   If the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this section or
has become ineligible to obtain a license under this section;
   (c)   Drunkenness of a person holding such license, drunkenness of a
licensee’s manager or employee while on duty and while on the premises for
which the license is issued, or for a licensee, his or her manager or employee
permitting any intoxicated person to remain in such place selling Enhanced
Cereal Malt Beverages;
   (d)   The sale of Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverages to any person under 21
years of age;
   (e)   For permitting any gambling in or upon any premises licensed;
   (f)   For permitting any person to mix drinks with materials purchased in
any premises licensed or brought into the premises for this purpose;
   (g)   For the employment of any person under the age established by the
State of Kansas for employment involving dispensing Enhanced Cereal Malt
Beverages;
   (h)   For the employment of persons adjudged guilty of a felony or of a
violation of any law relating to intoxicating liquor;
   (i)   For the sale or possession of, or for permitting the use or
consumption of alcoholic liquor within or upon any premises licensed;
   (j)   The nonpayment of any license fees;
   (k)   If the licensee has become ineligible to obtain a license; or
   (l)   The provisions of subsections (f) and (i) above shall not apply if
such place of business is also currently licensed as a private club.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-213 SAME; APPEAL.
   The licensee, within 20 days after the order of the Governing Body revoking
any license, may appeal to the District Court of Allen County, Kansas and the
District Court shall proceed to hear such appeal as though such court had
original jurisdiction in the matter. Any appeal taken shall not suspend the
order of revocation of the license of any licensee, nor shall any new license
be issued to such person or any person acting for or on his or her behalf, for
a period of six months thereafter.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-214 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   If a licensee desires to change the location of his or her place of
business, he or she shall make an application to the Governing Body showing the
same information relating to the proposed location as in the case of an
original application. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee of $10. If
the application is in proper form and the location is not in a prohibited zone
and all other requirements relating to such place of business are met, a new
license shall be issued for the new location for the balance of the year for
which a current license is held by the licensee.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-215 WHOLESALERS AND/OR DISTRIBUTORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any wholesaler and/or distributor, his, her, or its
agents or employees, to sell and/or deliver Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverages
within the city, to persons authorized to sell the same within this city unless
such wholesaler and/or distributor has first secured a license from the
Director of Revenue, State Commission of Revenue and Taxation authorizing such
sales.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-216 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of every licensee to observe the following regulations.
   (a)   The place of business licensed and operating shall at all times have a
front and rear exit unlocked when open for business.
   (b)   The premises and all equipment used in connection with such business
shall be kept clean and in a sanitary condition and shall at all times be open
to the inspection of the police and health officers of the city, county and the
State of Kansas.
   (c)   Except as provided by subsection (d) below, no Enhanced Cereal Malt
Beverages may be sold or dispensed;
      (1)   Between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m.;
      (2)   In the original package before 12:00 noon or after 8:00 p.m. on
Sunday;
      (3)   On Easter Sunday; or
      (4)   For consumption on the licensed premises on Sunday, except in a
place of business which is licensed to sell Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverage for
consumption on the premises, which derives not less than 30% of its gross
receipts from the sale of food for consumption on the licensed premises.
   (d)   Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverages may be sold at any time alcoholic
liquor is allowed by law to be served on premises which are licensed pursuant
to K.S.A. 41-2601 et seq. and amendments thereto, and licensed as a club by the
State Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control.
   (e)   The place of business shall be open to the public and to the police at
all times during business hours, except that premises licensed as a club under
a license issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control shall be
open to the police and not to the public.
   (f)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or agent or employee of the
licensee to become intoxicated in the place of business for which such license
has been issued.
   (g)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
intoxicated person to remain in the place of business for which such license
has been issued.
   (h)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall sell or permit
the sale of Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverage to any person under 21 years of age.
   (i)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
gambling in the place of business for which such license has been issued.
   (j)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
person to mix alcoholic drinks with materials purchased in said place of
business or brought in for such purpose.
   (k)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall employ any
person under 18 years of age in dispensing Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverages. No
licensee shall employ any person who has been judged guilty of a felony.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-217 PROHIBITED CONDUCT ON PREMISES.
   The following conduct by an Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverage licensee, manager
or employee of any licensed Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverage establishment is
deemed contrary to public welfare and is prohibited:
   (a)   Remaining or permitting any person to remain in or upon the premises
who exposes to view any portion of the female breasts below the top of the
areola or any portion of a male’s/female’s pubic hair, anus, buttocks or
genitals;
   (b)   Permitting any employee on the licensed premises to touch, caress or
fondle the breasts, buttocks, anus, vulva or genitals of any other employee or
any patron;
   (c)   Encouraging or permitting any patron on the licensed premises to
touch, caress or fondle the breasts, buttocks, anus, vulva or genitals of any
employee;
   (d)   Performing or permitting any person to perform on the licensed
premises acts of or acts which simulate:
      (1)   Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy or any other sexual act
which is prohibited by law; or
      (2)   Touching, caressing or fondling such persons’ breasts, buttocks,
anus or genitals.
   (e)   Using or permitting any person to use on the licensed premises, any
artificial devices or inanimate objects to depict any of the acts prohibited by
subsection (d) above.
   (f)   Showing or permitting any person to show on the licensed premises any
motion picture, film, photograph, electronic reproduction or other visual
reproduction depicting:
      (1)   Acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy
or any sexual act which is prohibited by law;
      (2)   The touching, caressing or fondling of the buttocks, anus, genitals
or the female breasts; or
      (3)   Scenes in which a person displays the buttocks, anus, genitals or
the female breasts.
   (g)   The term PREMISES means the premises licensed by the city as an
Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverage establishment and such other areas, under the
control of the licensee or his or her employee or employees, that are in such
close proximity to the licensed premises that activities and conduct of persons
within such other areas may be viewed by persons on or within the licensed
premises.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-218 SANITARY CONDITIONS REQUIRED.
   All parts of the licensed premises, including furnishings and equipment,
shall be kept clean and in a sanitary condition, free from flies, rodents and
vermin at all times. The licensed premises shall have at least one restroom for
each sex easily accessible at all times to its patrons and employees. The
restroom shall be equipped with at least one lavatory with hot and cold running
water, be well lighted, and be furnished at all times with paper towels or
other mechanical means of drying hands and face. Each restroom shall be
provided with adequate toilet facilities which shall be of sanitary design and
readily cleanable. The doors of all toilet rooms shall be self-closing and
toilet paper at all times shall be provided. Easily cleanable receptacles shall
be provided for waste material and such receptacles in toilet rooms for women
shall be covered. The restrooms shall at all times be kept in a sanitary
condition and free of offensive odors and shall be at all times subject to
inspection by the City Health Officer or designee.
(Ord. 1516, passed 3-11-2019)
ARTICLE 3: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
Section
   
3-301   State license required
   
3-302   Occupational tax
   
3-303   Posting of receipt
   
3-304   Hours of sale
   
3-305   Business regulations
   
3-306   Restrictions on location
§ 3-301 STATE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep for sale, offer for sale
or expose for sale or sell any alcoholic liquor as defined by the State Liquor
Control Act without first having obtained a state license to do so.
   (b)   The holder of a license for the retail sale in the city of alcoholic
liquors by the package issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage
Control shall present such license to the City Clerk when applying to pay the
occupation tax levied in § 3-302 and the tax shall be received and a receipt
shall be issued for the period covered by the state license.
§ 3-302 OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   There is hereby levied an annual occupation tax of $200 on any person
holding a license issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control
for the retail sale within the city of alcoholic liquors for consumption off
the premises. Such tax shall be paid by the retailer to the City Clerk before
business is begun under an original state license and shall be paid every two
years within five days after any renewal of a state license.
(Ord. 1469, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-303 POSTING OF RECEIPT.
   Every licensee under this article shall cause the city alcoholic liquor
retailer’s occupation tax receipt to be placed in plain view, next to or below
the state license in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
§ 3-304 HOURS OF SALE.
   No person shall sell at retail any alcoholic liquor:
   (a)   On any Sunday;
   (b)   On Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day or
Christmas Day; or
   (c)   Before 9:00 a.m. or after 11:00 p.m. on any day when the sale thereof
is permitted.
(Ord. 1321, passed 3-8-1999)
§ 3-305 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for a retailer of alcoholic liquor to:
   (a)   Permit any person to mix drinks in or on the licensed premises unless
the person is preparing or mixing samples for the purposes of conducting wine,
beer or distilled spirit tastings, or any combination thereof, as authorized by
K.S.A. 41-308d, and amendments thereto;
   (b)   Employ any person under the age of 21 years in connection with the
operation of the retail establishment;
   (c)   Employ any person in connection with the operation of the retail
establishment who has been adjudged guilty of a felony;
   (d)   Furnish any entertainment in his or her premises or permit any pinball
machine or game of skill or chance to be located in or on the premises;
   (e)   Have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, cask or
other containers containing alcoholic liquor, except in the original package;
or
   (f)   Sell, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver, or permit the sale,
gift or procuring of any alcoholic liquor to or for any person under 21 years
of age.
(K.S.A. 41-713)
§ 3-306 RESTRICTIONS ON LOCATION.
   No person shall knowingly or unknowingly sell, give away, furnish, dispose
of, procure, exchange or deliver, or permit the selling, giving away,
furnishing, disposing of, procuring, exchanging or delivering of any alcoholic
beverage in any building, structure or premises, for consumption in such
building or upon such premises if such consumption is within 200 feet from the
nearest property line of any existing hospital, school, church or library.
(K.S.A. 41-710)
ARTICLE 4: PRIVATE CLUBS
Section
   
3-401   License required
   
3-402   License fee
   
3-403   Business regulations
§ 3-401 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person granted a private club license by the
State of Kansas to sell or serve any alcoholic liquor authorized by such
license within the city without first obtaining a local license from the City
Clerk.
§ 3-402 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied a biennial license fee on each private club
located in the city which has a private club license issued by the State
Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control, which fee shall be paid before business
is begun under an original state license and within five days before the
license expires. The city license fee for a Class A club shall be $120 and the
city license fee for a Class B club shall be $120.
   (b)   All applications for new or renewal city licenses shall be submitted
to the City Clerk. Upon presentation of a state license, payment of the city
license fee and the license application, the City Clerk shall issue a city
license for the period covered by the state license, if there are no conflicts
with any zoning or alcoholic beverage ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The license period shall extend for the period covered by the state
license. No license fee shall be refunded for any reason.
   (d)   Every licensee shall cause the city club license to be placed in plain
view next to or below the state license in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-402)
§ 3-403 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No club licensed hereunder shall allow the serving, mixing or
consumption of alcoholic liquor on its premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 6:00 a.m. on any day. (Note: 6:00 a.m. is the earliest a private club can
serve alcoholic liquor; however, a city can set a later start time. Prior to
2018, the start time could not be before 9:00 a.m.)
   (b)   Cereal malt beverages may be sold on premises licensed for the retail
sale of cereal malt beverages for on-premises consumption at any time when
alcoholic liquor is allowed by law to be served on the premises.
   (c)   No club membership shall be sold to any person under 21 years of age,
nor shall alcoholic beverages or cereal malt beverages be given, sold or traded
to any person under 21 years of age.
(K.S.A. 41-2614)
ARTICLE 5: DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
3-501   License required
   
3-502   License fee
   
3-503   Business regulations
§ 3-501 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person granted a drinking establishment license
by the State of Kansas to sell or serve any alcoholic liquor authorized by such
license within the city without first obtaining a city license from the City
Clerk.
(Ord. 1362, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 3-502 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied an annual license fee in the amount of $200 on
each drinking establishment located in the city which has a drinking
establishment license issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage
Control, which fee shall be paid before business is begun under an original
state license and within five days after any renewal of a state license.
   (b)   All applications for new or renewal city licenses shall be submitted
to the City Clerk. Upon presentation of a state license, payment of the city
license fee and the license application, the City Clerk shall issue a city
license for the period covered by the state license, if there are no conflicts
with any zoning or alcoholic beverage ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The license period shall extend for the period covered by the state
license. No license fee shall be refunded for any reason.
   (d)   Every licensee shall cause the city drinking establishment license to
be placed in plain view next to or below the state license in a conspicuous
place on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 1362, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 3-503 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No drinking establishment licensed hereunder shall allow the serving,
mixing or consumption of alcoholic liquor on its premises between the hours of
2:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. on any day.
   (b)   Cereal malt beverages may be sold on premises licensed for the retail
sale of cereal malt beverage for on-premises consumption at any time when
alcoholic liquor is allowed by law to be served on the premises.
   (c)   No alcoholic beverages or cereal malt beverages shall be given, sold
or traded to any person under 21 years of age.
(K.S.A. 41-2614) (Ord. 1362, passed 2-10-2003)
CHAPTER IV: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
   Article
      
1.   FIRE LIMITS
      
2.   BUILDING CODE
      
3.   ELECTRICAL CODE
      
4.   PLUMBING AND GAS-FITTING CODE
      
5.   MOVING BUILDINGS
      
6.   DANGEROUS AND UNFIT STRUCTURES
      
7.   HOUSE NUMBERING
ARTICLE 1: FIRE LIMITS
Section
   
4-101   Fire limits established
§ 4-101 FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   The following shall be and are hereby declared to be the fire limits of the
city: Blocks 21, 22, 23, Lots 7 to 12, inclusive, of Block 24, the west half of
Block 33, all of Block 35, the north half of Block 36, the north half of Block
51.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
ARTICLE 2: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
4-201   Definitions
   
4-202   Building Code incorporated
   
4-203   Additional provisions
   
4-204   Building Official; powers; duties
   
4-205   Building Inspector; appointment
   
4-206   Same; duties
   
4-207   Same; powers
   
4-208   Same; right of entry
   
4-209   Clarification; modification
   
4-210   Building permit required; application; approval
   
4-211   Same; application information required
   
4-212   Same; plans and specifications
   
4-213   Same; fees
   
4-214   Same; posting
   
4-215   Certificate of approval
   
4-216   Inspections of building; layout of building; foundations and footings;
notice to Inspector
   
4-217   Request for inspection
   
4-218   Inspection fee
   
4-219   Work by property owners
   4-220   Liability
   4-221   Severability
§ 4-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Inspector, or his or her authorized
designee.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The City Attorney of the City of Humboldt.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Humboldt, Kansas.
(Prior Code, § 4-201)
§ 4-202 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE INCORPORATED.
   (a)   There are hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings
and structures the following sections of the “International Codes, 2003
Edition” as recommended by the International Code Council: 2003, International
Residential Code; 2003, International Plumbing Code; 2003, International
Mechanical Code; 2003, International Fuel Gas Code; 2003, International Fire
Code; 2003, International Private Sewage Disposal Code; 2003, International
Electrical Code; 2003, International Property Maintenance Code; such code
sections being made a part of the ordinances and code of the city, as if the
same had been set out in full herein, all as authorized in the manner
prescribed by K.S.A. 12-3009 et seq. No fewer than three copies of the above
sections of the “International Codes, 2003 Edition” shall be marked and stamped
“Official Copy as incorporated by the Code of the City of Humboldt, Kansas” and
shall be filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to
the public at all reasonable hours of business.
   (b)   Any person violating any provision of such code sections shall be
punishable as provided in §
1-116 of the Humboldt City code.
(Ord. 1389, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 4-203 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following sections of this article are in addition to the provisions of
the standard code incorporated by reference in § 4-202.
§ 4-204 BUILDING OFFICIAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (a)   This and other articles of the city relating generally to building and
structures shall be administered and enforced by the Building Inspector. The
Building Inspector shall act as Chief Building Official and may assume the
responsibilities of or with the consent and approval of the Governing Body
appoint a Building Inspector and such other assistants as may be advisable for
the issuance of building permits and the inspection of building work.
   (b)   The Building Inspector shall prepare such application, permit,
inspection and record forms as may be required for the purposes of this
article. The Building Inspector may make and promulgate the necessary rules and
regulations to obtain conformity with this article pertaining to the making of
applications for building permits, issuing of building permits, and inspecting
of buildings and building works.
(Prior Code, § 4-204)
§ 4-205 BUILDING INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor may assume the responsibilities of or appoint some qualified
officer or employee of the city to be and perform the duties of Building
Inspector as may be required, subject to the consent and approval of the
Governing Body.
(Prior Code, § 4-205)
§ 4-206 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Building Inspector shall have the following duties:
   (a)   To enforce all regulations relating to construction, alteration,
repair, removal and demolition of building and structures;
   (b)   May permit, with the approval of the Governing Body, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of construction, not provided for in this article, and may, for the
purpose of carrying out the intent of this article adopt an accepted standard
of material or workmanlike practices of federal or state bureaus, national,
technical organizations or fire underwriters;
   (c)   To examine all buildings in the process of erection, construction,
alteration or relocation in the city for the purpose of determining whether the
work is in compliance with the permit given and in compliance with the
regulations of the city pertaining to such work, including zoning regulations;
and
   (d)   To keep comprehensive records of applications, of permits or
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices
or orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection during
stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building
Official without his or her written consent.
§ 4-207 SAME; POWERS.
   The Building Inspector shall have the following powers:
   (a)   To enter any building or structure or premises at any reasonable hour,
whether complete or in the process of erection, to perform the duties contained
in this article;
   (b)   To adopt and enforce all such prudent emergency measures as he or she
may deem necessary and expedient for the public safety under the laws of the
city; and
   (c)   May cause any work done in violation of this article to be
discontinued until he or she shall have satisfactory evidence that the work
will be done in accordance with the building regulations of the city, subject
to the right of any builder or owner to appeal to the Governing Body.
§ 4-208 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Building Inspector, or his or her agent, upon proper identification,
shall have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any
reasonable hour to perform his or her duties as set out in this article.
§ 4-209 CLARIFICATION; MODIFICATION.
   (a)   The Governing Body shall be the final determiner of the scope and
meaning of all provisions of the Building Code which may be unclear, ambiguous
or requiring interpretation.
   (b)   The Building Inspector shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Building Code upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee or his or her authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code. In approving
modifications, the Building Inspector shall see that the spirit of the code is
observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars
of a modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the Inspector
thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Building Inspector and a
signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
§ 4-210 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; APPROVAL.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do, or cause to be done, within
the city any of the following actions without first obtaining a building permit
for such from the city’s Code Enforcement Officer:
      (1)   Erect a building or structure of any kind;
      (2)   Enlarge or add to the outside dimension of any existing building or
structure;
      (3)   Remodel any building or structure;
      (4)   Repair or replace a roof or siding;
      (5)   Move or relocate a building or structure; or
      (6)   Demolish or raze a building or structure.
   (b)   A building permit shall be obtained before any work or activity
relating to the above actions is commenced.
(Ord. 1489, passed 2-9-2015)
§ 4-211 SAME; APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   A building permit shall be issued upon an application in writing
to the office of City Clerk on a form or forms provided for the purpose.
      (2)   This application shall, among other things, disclose the following:
         (A)   The name of the owner of the lot or tract of ground;
         (B)   The location of the building or structure;
         (C)   The building work proposed;
         (D)   The outside dimensions of the building by floors and dimensions
of the basement (if any);
         (E)   The class of occupancy;
         (F)   The class of construction;
         (G)   The kind of materials to be used for walls, floors, ceilings,
roofs and foundations;
         (H)   The estimated cost of the work;
         (I)   The date work will commence;
         (J)   Expected date of completion;
         (K)   Name and address of contractor or contractors doing the work;
and
         (L)   Such other information as may be pertinent to the issuance of
the required permit.
   (b)   (1)   An application for a building permit shall be signed by the
owner or his or her duly authorized agent, or a building contractor licensed by
the city. If the application is made by the owner or his or her agent, it shall
contain the name or names of the licensed contractor or contractors doing the
work described, or a building permit may be issued to the owner upon his or her
application disclosing satisfactory evidence that the proposed work will be
performed by the owner, himself or herself and not by a licensed contractor,
and likewise subject to the final approval of the Building Inspector for work
performed.
      (2)   If an application for a building permit indicates that it is for
commercial or residential roofing services, including construction,
installation, renovation, repair, maintenance, alteration or water-proofing,
the application shall include the contractor’s name, the contractor’s place of
business within the city (and home office if not a resident), the contractor’s
state registration number as issued under the State Roofing Registration Act
(K.S.A. 50-6,121 et seq.), and shall also be signed by the roofing contractor
or contractor’s authorized agent; provided, however, that this subsection (b)
(2) shall not apply to:
         (A)   An actual owner of commercial or residential property who
physically performs, or has employees who perform, roofing services on such
owner’s own dwelling or other structures located on the residential property
without the assistance of a registered roofing contractor;
         (B)   To those persons identified in K.S.A. 50-6,129(a)(1) through (a)
(8), and amendments there to; or
         (C)   To an “exempt general contractor,” as defined in K.S.A. 50-
6,122, and amendments thereto.
      (3)   If the application for a building permit indicates that it involves
renovation, repairing or painting of a home or child-occupied facility,
including day care centers and schools, built before 1978 and will disturb six
square feet of painted interior surfaces or 20 square feet of painted exterior
surfaces, the contractor performing the services must furnish proof of state
certification as a licensed renovation firm or renovator; provided, however,
that this subsection (b)(3) does not apply to a home owner performing work on
an owner-occupied residence. In addition, this subsection (b)(3) does not apply
to any other exception or exemption set forth in the State Department of Health
and Environment Renovation, Repair and Painting Rule, as described in K.S.A.
65-1,202 and in 40 C.F.R. pt. 745, and amendments thereto.
   (c)   Upon approval of the completed application, including, if required,
the verification of state roofer registration or other state certification, and
a determination that a permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or
his or her assistant shall issue a permit to the owner or contractor
authorizing the building work covered by the application. If applicable, the
permit shall include the roofer registration number or any other certification
or license number issued by the State of Kansas.
   (d)   Any permit issued under this section shall be valid and subsisting for
a period of not more than six months from the date of issuance unless the
permittee shall have commenced, within the period so limited, the building work
authorized by such permit. BUILDING WORK COMMENCED for the purpose of this
section shall mean the beginning of building work other than the preparation of
plans or the staking out of the building location or the letting of a building
contract.
§ 4-212 SAME; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever an application for a building permit is made, the Chief Building
Official may, if he or she finds it necessary to determine whether building
work described in the application will comply with the laws pertaining to such
work, require that the applicant file a written description or drawing of the
proposed building as may be prepared for the purpose. If such drawing or
description is insufficient for the purposes of determining whether a permit
should be issued, the Building Official may require the applicant to file
complete architectural and engineering plans and specifications for such
building, or any part thereof, as may be necessary for the Inspector to
determine compliance with this article. The filing of such plans and
specifications and the approval thereof in connection with an application for a
permit shall not in any way affect the authority of the city to deny or issue a
permit, or to inspect any building work for conformity with this article.
§ 4-213 SAME; FEES.
   (a)   The fee for a building permit shall be based upon the reasonable
estimated total costs of materials, labor and all services required for the
project and assessed as follows:
      (1)   Zero dollars to $2,000: $15;
      (2)   Two thousand one dollars to $10,000: $25;
      (3)   Ten thousand one dollars to $50,000: $50; and
      (4)   Fifty thousand one dollars and greater: $100.
   (b)   The building permit fee shall be paid to the City Clerk upon the
approval of the application for a building permit.
(Ord. 1490, passed 2-9-2015)
§ 4-214 SAME; POSTING.
   A copy of the building permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the performance of the work and until the completion of the
same. The Building Inspector may require a certified copy of the approved plans
to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work to
the completion thereof.
§ 4-215 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   Upon the completion of any work under a building permit, the Chief Building
Official or the Building Inspector or his or her designee is authorized to
issue a certificate of approval for the occupancy and use of the building or
structure. The certificate shall show the number of inspections made and the
orders and corrections required during the course of the work. A copy of such
certificate shall be given the owner.
§ 4-216 INSPECTIONS OF BUILDING; LAYOUT OF BUILDING; FOUNDATIONS AND FOOTINGS;
NOTICE TO INSPECTOR.
   (a)   The contractor or builder having a permit for new construction, or
additions to existing buildings, shall notify the Chief Building Official or
Building Inspector immediately upon the marking or laying out of the site and
foundation for such work. The Official or Inspector shall inspect the layout
for conformity with this article and with respect to lot lines, setbacks and
location of the proposed buildings to determine conformity with the city zoning
regulations. In case of doubt respecting the required location, the Chief
Building Official may require an official survey of the lot lines to determine
conformity, at the expense of the permit holder.
   (b)   Upon completion of the excavation for the building foundation and
footings and the construction of the necessary forms thereof and before the
foundation and footings are poured or laid, the Official or Inspector shall be
notified as in the first case, and it shall be his or her duty to inspect all
such work for conformity with laws respecting location of the building
foundations and footings.
   (c)   The Building Inspector shall, during the course of all building, make
such other inspections as may be directed by the Chief Building Official to be
made during any successive stage of the construction or other work covered by a
permit in order to secure compliance with laws pertaining thereto.
§ 4-217 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of any building construction work covered by this
article, it shall be the duty of the person doing such work to notify the
Building Inspector and request that it be inspected; after which such work
shall be inspected promptly as hereinafter provided.
§ 4-218 INSPECTION FEE.
   Fees for any initial inspection or subsequent inspection required hereunder
for any building or construction work shall be assessed at the actual cost
incurred by the city for such inspection service. The inspection fee shall be
paid in full before any building or construction work will be approved or any
certificate of approval issued.
(Ord. 1363, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 4-219 WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
performing any building or construction work within and upon his or her own
residence and intended for his or her personal use and permanent occupancy;
provided, the owner shall satisfy the Building Inspector as to his or her
ability to perform such work, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in
accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive a
certificate of approval. Personal building or construction performed by an
owner under this section shall be by himself, herself, for himself or herself
on his or her own residence, without compensation and no person shall be
employed to assist him or her in any way on such work except a builder or
building contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-220 LIABILITY.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from any liability or lessen
the liability of any person performing any activity connected herewith, nor
shall the city be held as assuming any liability by reason of any inspection
authorized herein, by reason of any certificate of inspection issued by it or
by reason of any permit or license granted herein.
§ 4-221 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of the International Building Code or of this article shall
be held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the
remaining sections, the section to be completely severable from the remaining
provisions which shall continue in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 3: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
   
4-301   Definitions
   
4-302   Adoption of Electrical Code by reference
   
4-303   Additional provisions
   
4-304   Building Official; authority
   
4-305   Electrical Inspector; appointment
   
4-306   Same; duties
   
4-307   Same; powers
   
4-308   Same; right of entry
   
4-309   Clarification; modification
   
4-310   Electrical permit required; application; approval
   
4-311   Same; application information required
   
4-312   Same; plans and specifications
   
4-313   Same; fees
   
4-314   Same; posting
   
4-315   Request for inspection
   
4-316   Inspection; concealment of prior work
   
4-317   Inspection fee
   
4-318   Certificate of approval
   
4-319   Connection to installations
   
4-320   Reinspection
   
4-321   Condemnation; appeal
   
4-322   Interference by unauthorized person
   
4-323   Electrician or electrical contractors defined
   
4-324   Electrician’s or electrical contractor’s license required; electrical
permits; unlawful acts
   
4-325   Same; application; granting
   
4-326   Same; license fees; conditions; renewal; unlawful acts
   
4-327   Reserved
   
4-328   Insurance
   
4-329   License suspension; revocation; appeal; unlawful acts
   
4-330   Work by property owners
   
4-331   Approved materials
   
4-332   Liability
   
4-333   Severability
§ 4-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Chief Building Official, the Electrical Inspector,
or his or her designee.
   AUTHORIZED PERSON. Any individual, firm or corporation who or which is
licensed under the provisions of this article to do the work as permitted under
the specified provisions of this article.
   CITY. The territory within the corporate limits of this city.
   CONDUCTOR. A wire or cable or other form of metal suitable for carrying the
electric current or potential.
   ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION OR INSTALLATION.
      (1)   Includes all work and materials used in installing, maintaining or
extending a system of electrical wiring and all appurtenances, apparatus or
equipment used in connection therewith, inside or attached to any building,
structure, lot or premises, except industrial plants where full-time
maintenance is provided and other agencies providing inspections of
installations and facilities.
      (2)   ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION shall not be held to mean or include any of
the following:
         (A)   The replacement of lamps, fuses, bulbs or the connection of
portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed receptacles and
replacement of receptacles and switches, lighting fixtures, and apparatus where
no changes or alterations are made to the wiring;
         (B)   Any work involved in the manufacturing, repair or testing of any
electrical equipment or apparatus, but not including any permanent wiring; or
         (C)   Any work in industrial establishments where inspections come
under the scope of other inspection agencies.
   EQUIPMENT. Conductors, materials, fittings, devices, appliances, fixtures,
apparatus, motors and the like, used as a part of or in connection with an
electrical installation.
   INSPECTOR. The Chief Building Official or any individual who has been
appointed by the city as Electrical Inspector.
   PERSON. A natural person, his or her heirs, executors, administrators or
assigns, and also includes a firm, partnership or corporation, its or their
successors, assigns or the agent of any of the aforesaid.
   SPECIAL PERMISSION. The written consent of the Chief Building Official or
the Electrical Inspector.
   SPECIAL RULING. A written ruling filed in the office of the Chief Building
Official or the Electrical Inspector.
§ 4-302 ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (a)   The standard code known as the National Electrical Code of 2014, a
publication of the National Fire Protection Association, the same being a
standard code for the installation of electrical wiring and apparatus and
available in book and pamphlet form is hereby incorporated by reference herein
and made a part of this article as authorized and in the manner prescribed by
K.S.A. 12-3009 through 12-3012. One copy shall be marked or stamped “Official
Copy as Incorporated by the Code of the City of Humboldt,” and shall be filed
with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable hours of business.
   (b)   Any person violating any provision of such code shall be punished as
provided in § 1-116 of this code.
§ 4-303 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following sections of this article are in addition to the provisions of
the standard code incorporated by reference in §
4-302.
§ 4-304 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor or his or her authorized designee shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this article and appointment of an Electrical
Inspector in accordance with §
4-204, which shall apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-305 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor may assume the responsibilities of or appoint some qualified
officer or employee of the city to be and perform the duties of Electrical
Inspector as may be required, subject to the consent and approval of the
Governing Body.
§ 4-306 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Electrical Inspector shall have the following duties:
   (a)   To enforce all regulations relating to electrical construction,
alteration, repair or removal;
   (b)   May permit, with the approval of the Governing Body, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of electrical construction, not provided for in this article, and may,
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of this article adopt an accepted
standard of material or workmanlike practices of federal or state bureaus,
national, technical organizations or fire underwriters;
   (c)   To examine all buildings requiring electrical construction in the
process of erection, construction, alteration or relocation in the city for the
purpose of determining whether the work is in compliance with the permit given
and in compliance with the regulations of the city pertaining to such work,
including zoning regulations; and
   (d)   To keep comprehensive records of applications, of permits or
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices
or orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection during
stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building
Official or Electrical Inspector without his or her written consent.
§ 4-307 SAME; POWERS.
   The Electrical Inspector shall have the following powers:
   (a)   To enter any building or structure or premises at any reasonable hour,
whether complete or in the process of erection, to perform the duties contained
in this article;
   (b)   To adopt and enforce all such prudent emergency measures as he or she
may deem necessary and expedient for the public safety under the laws of the
city; and
   (c)   May cause any work done in violation of this article to be
discontinued until he or she shall have satisfactory evidence that the work
will be done in accordance with the electrical regulations of the city, subject
to the right of any installer or owner to appeal to the Governing Body.
§ 4-308 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Electrical Inspector, or his or her agent, upon proper identification,
shall have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any
reasonable hour to perform his or her duties as set out in this article.
§ 4-309 CLARIFICATION; MODIFICATION.
   (a)   The Governing Body shall be the final determiner of the scope and
meaning of all provisions of the Electrical Code which may be unclear,
ambiguous or requiring interpretation.
   (b)   The Electrical Inspector shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Electrical Code upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee or his or her authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code. In approving
modifications, the Electrical Inspector shall see that the spirit of the code
is observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The
particulars of a modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the
Inspector thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Electrical Inspector
and a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
§ 4-310 ELECTRICAL PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; APPROVAL.
   (a)   Except as provided in subsection (b) below, it shall be unlawful for
any person to engage in any electrical construction as defined in §
4-301 within the city without an electrical permit being first obtained
therefor from the City Clerk, after approval by the Chief Building Official or
his or her duly authorized assistant. The application for such permit shall be
made and the permit obtained before any electrical construction work is
commenced.
   (b)   No electrical permit shall be required for any of the following:
      (1)   The replacement of lamps, fuses, bulbs or the connection of
portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed receptacles and
replacement of receptacles and switches, lighting fixtures and apparatus where
no changes or alterations are made to the wiring;
      (2)   Any work involved in the manufacturing, repair or testing of any
electrical equipment or apparatus, but not including any permanent wiring; or
      (3)   Any work in industrial establishments where the issuance of
electrical permits comes under the scope of other agencies.
§ 4-311 SAME; APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   An electrical permit shall be issued upon an application in
writing to the office of City Clerk on a form or forms provided for the
purpose.
      (2)   This application shall, among other things, disclose the following:
         (A)   The name of the owner of the lot or tract of ground;
         (B)   The location of the building or structure;
         (C)   The electrical construction work proposed;
         (D)   The class of occupancy;
         (E)   The class of electrical construction;
         (F)   The kind of materials to be used;
         (G)   The estimated cost of the work;
         (H)   The date work will commence;
         (I)   Expected date of completion;
         (J)   Name and address of electrical contractor or contractors doing
the work; and
         (K)   Such other information as may be pertinent to the issuance of
the required permit.
   (b)   An application for an electrical permit shall be signed by the owner
or his or her duly authorized agent, or an electrician or electrical contractor
licensed by the city. If the application is made by the owner or his or her
agent, it shall contain the name or names of the licensed electrician or
electrical contractor or contractors doing the work described, or an electrical
permit may be issued to the owner upon his or her application disclosing
satisfactory evidence that the proposed work will be performed by the owner,
himself or herself and not by a licensed electrical contractor, and likewise
subject to the final approval of the Electrical Inspector for work performed.
   (c)   Upon approval of the completed application and a determination that a
permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or his or her assistant
shall issue a permit to the owner, electrician or electrical contractor
authorizing the electrical construction work covered by the application.
   (d)   Any permit issued under this section shall be valid and subsisting for
a period of not more than six months from the date of issuance unless the
permittee shall have commenced, within the period so limited, the electrical
construction work authorized by such permit. ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION WORK
COMMENCED, for the purpose of this section, shall mean the beginning of
electrical construction work other than the preparation of plans or the letting
of an electrical contract.
§ 4-312 SAME; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever an application for a electrical permit is made, the Chief Building
Official or the Electrical Inspector may, if he or she finds it necessary to
determine whether electrical construction work described in the application
will comply with the laws pertaining to such work, require that the applicant
file a written description or drawing of the proposed electrical construction
as may be prepared for the purpose. If such drawing or description is
insufficient for the purposes of determining whether a permit should be issued,
the Building Official may require the applicant to file complete electrical and
engineering plans and specifications for such electrical construction, or any
part thereof, as may be necessary for the Inspector to determine compliance
with this article. The filing of such plans and specifications and the approval
thereof in connection with an application for a permit shall not in any way
affect the authority of the city to deny or issue a permit, or to inspect any
electrical construction work for conformity with this article.
§ 4-313 SAME; FEES.
   The fee for an electrical permit shall be $25, however, no fee shall be
required to obtain a permit where the total estimated cost, the reasonable
value of all services, labor and materials required is under $100. The fee
herein shall be paid to the City Clerk upon obtaining an electrical permit and
the same shall be credited to the General Operating Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-313)
§ 4-314 SAME; POSTING.
   A copy of the electrical permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the performance of the work and until the completion of the
same. The Electrical Inspector may require a certified copy of the approved
plans to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work
to the completion thereof.
§ 4-315 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of any electrical work covered by this article, it shall
be the duty of the person doing such work to notify the Electrical Inspector
and request that it be inspected; after which such work shall be inspected
promptly as hereinafter provided.
§ 4-316 INSPECTION; CONCEALMENT OF PRIOR WORK.
   (a)   When any electric equipment is to be hidden from view by the permanent
placement of parts of the building, the person, firm or corporation installing
the equipment shall notify the Building Inspector and such equipment shall not
be concealed until it has been inspected, approved or authorized by the
Electrical Inspector or until 24 hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays, shall have elapsed from the time of such notification. On large
installations, where the concealment of equipment proceeds continuously, the
person, firm or corporation installing the electrical equipment shall give the
Electrical Inspector due notice and inspections shall be made periodically
during the progress of the work.
   (b)   The Electrical Inspector shall have the authority to require building
contractors to open such work which, in any manner, conceals electrical wiring
that has been closed without his or her knowledge or permission, and in no case
shall the Inspector issue a certificate of approval until satisfied that the
work is in accordance with the provisions of this article. The Inspector shall
also have the right to refuse to issue a certificate of approval on any wiring,
that is concealed in such manner that it cannot be fully determined that it has
been done in accordance with this article.
§ 4-317 INSPECTION FEE.
   An initial inspection fee of $25, and an inspection fee of $10 for
subsequent inspections required, shall be paid before any electrical
installation will be approved or a certificate of approval issued.
(Prior Code, § 4-317)
§ 4-318 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   (a)   When the Electrical Inspector finds an electrical construction or
installation to be in conformity with the provisions of this article, he or she
shall issue to the person, firm or corporation performing the electrical
construction work or making the installation, a certificate of approval, with
duplicate copy for delivery to the owner, authorizing the use of the
installation and connection to the supply of electricity.
   (b)   When a certificate of approval is issued authorizing the connection
and use of a temporary installation, the certificate shall expire at a time to
be stated therein and shall be revocable for cause by the Electrical Inspector.
   (c)   In no case shall certificates of approval be issued on electrical
construction, installations or parts of installations where the work installed
does not conform to the requirements of this article.
   (d)   If, upon inspection, the installation is not found to be fully in
conformity with the provisions of this article, the Electrical Inspector shall
immediately notify the person, firm or corporation performing the electrical
construction work or making the installation of the existing defects.
   (e)   No certificate of approval shall be issued unless the electric
conductor or equipment has been installed in strict conformity with the
provisions of this article and unless the electrical construction or
installation is made in compliance with nationally approved methods of
construction for safety to life and property as herein set forth.
   (f)   The Electrical Inspector shall be deemed the judge of whether the
installation of electric conductors and equipment has been made in accordance
with the requirements of this article.
   (g)   No certificate of approval shall be required for any of the following:
      (1)   The replacement of lamps, fuses, bulbs or the connection of
portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed receptacles and
replacement of receptacles and switches, lighting fixtures and apparatus where
no changes or alterations are made to the wiring;
      (2)   Any work involved in the manufacturing, repair or testing of any
electrical equipment or apparatus, but not including any permanent wiring; or
      (3)   Any work in industrial establishments where inspections come under
the scope of other inspection agencies.
§ 4-319 CONNECTION TO INSTALLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make connection
to a supply of electricity to any building or electrical equipment for which an
inspection is required, or which has been disconnected by the order of the
Electrical Inspector, until a certificate of approval has been issued by the
Electrical Inspector authorizing the connection and use of such electric
supply. The Electrical Inspector may, at his or her discretion, authorize a
temporary connection.
§ 4-320 REINSPECTION.
   The Electrical Inspector shall periodically re-inspect existing
installations of electrical conductors and equipment. When the installation of
any conductors or equipment is found to be in a dangerous or unsafe condition,
the person, firm or corporation owning, using or operating the installation
shall be notified in writing and shall make the necessary repairs or changes
required to place the conductors or equipment in safe condition and have the
work completed within the period specified by the Electrical Inspector.
§ 4-321 CONDEMNATION; APPEAL.
   (a)   If, in the judgment of the Electrical Inspector, after an inspection,
any electrical conductors, appliances or equipment in any building are unsafe
or dangerous to persons or property, the Inspector shall have the power to
cause the wires or appliances to be disconnected from the source of electrical
energy supplying these conductors or equipment, and may, at his or her
discretion, seal the control switches for the same in an open or disconnected
position, whereupon he or she shall give notice to the owner, or his or her
agent, or by posting such notice at the site and shall also notify the
utilities serving the premises. Thereafter, it shall be unlawful for any person
to cause or permit electric current to be supplied to the electrical
conductors, appliances or equipment so sealed until they shall have been made
safe and the Inspector shall have issued a certificate of approval to that
effect.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector to cause all dead
wires, unused poles or electric apparatus on the outside of the buildings or in
streets or alleys to be removed at the expense of the owners thereof by giving
the owners written notice.
   (c)   When the Electrical Inspector condemns all or part of any electrical
installation, the owner may, within ten days after receiving written notice
thereof, file a petition in writing for review of the action of the Building
Inspector by the Governing Body, upon the receipt of which the Governing Body
shall at once proceed to determine the facts, and within ten days from
receiving the petition make a decision in accordance with their findings.
§ 4-322 INTERFERENCE BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSON.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to, in any manner, change
or alter electrical conductors or equipment in or on any building. If, in the
course of the erection of a building or structure, electrical conductors or
equipment are in such position as to interfere with the erection or completion
of the structure, notice shall be immediately given the authorized person or
firm installing the electrical conductors or equipment, and the needed change
shall be made by such authorized person or firm.
§ 4-323 ELECTRICIAN OR ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS DEFINED.
   (a)   An ELECTRICIAN or ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR for purposes of this article
shall be any person, firm, co-partnership, corporation, association or any
combination thereof, whether a resident or not of the city:
      (1)   Who or which undertakes with or for another, for a fixed sum,
price, fee or any other compensation to install, construct, alter, repair, add
to or move any electrical installation or performs any electrical construction
work in the city, for which an electrical construction permit may now or
hereafter be required by the laws of the city;
      (2)   Who or which advertises or represents himself, herself or itself to
the public to have the capacity or ability to undertake, or submit a bid or
offer to install, construct, alter, repair, add to, remove, restore or replace
any electrical installation or perform any electrical construction work; or
      (3)   Who or which installs, constructs, alters, adds to or removes any
electrical installation or performs any electrical construction work either on
his or her own or other property for purposes of sale or speculation.
   (b)   An ELECTRICIAN or ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR as defined shall not mean or
include:
      (1)   Any owner or his or her authorized agents or employees making
ordinary repairs to his, her or its own building or structure not involving
electrical construction and for which a permit is not required or on which an
electrician or electrical contractor, as defined, is not required, employed or
engaged to perform; or
      (2)   Any property owner personally performing any improvements,
alterations or electrical construction within or upon his or her own residence
and intended for his or her own personal use and permanent occupancy; provided,
the owner shall satisfy the Electrical Inspector as to his or her ability to
perform such work, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in accordance
with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive approval. Personal
electrical construction by an owner under this section shall be by himself,
herself, for himself or herself on his or her own residence, without
compensation and no person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on
such work except an electrician or electrical contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-324 ELECTRICIAN’S OR ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED; ELECTRICAL
PERMITS; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   Each electrician or electrical contractor shall, before entering upon
any electrical construction work subject to regulation by city laws, apply to
the City Clerk for an electrician’s or electrical contractor’s license and
receive the same as hereinafter provided and have in his or her possession a
valid license authorizing him, her or it to engage in the trade or occupation
of electrician or electrical contractor in the city.
   (b)   No permit for any electrical construction work shall be issued for any
such work to be performed by an electrician or electrical contractor, as
defined, who has not first obtained a license upon making a proper application
and payment of the license fee as required.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, association or
corporation to enter into a contract or agreement with another so as to bring
himself, herself or itself under the definition of an electrician or electrical
contractor herein, or to perform any work as an electrician or electrical
contractor or any work under a contract for any work involving electrical
construction, without first having obtained an electrician’s or electrical
contractor’s license issued by the city.
§ 4-325 SAME; APPLICATION; GRANTING.
   Application for an electrician’s or electrical contractor’s license shall be
made upon a form to be supplied by the city which shall disclose the name of
the applicant, his or her place of business in the city (and home office if a
nonresident), the kind of contracting work engaged in the length of time
engaged in such work, and places where work has been performed within the past
two years. The application shall be signed by the electrician or electrical
contractor or his or her authorized agent. The applications shall be, by the
Chief Building Official, referred to the Governing Body at its next meeting for
action thereon. Such license shall be issued by the City Clerk, upon payment of
the fees hereinafter provided after approval of the Governing Body.
§ 4-326 SAME; LICENSE FEES; CONDITIONS; RENEWAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   An annual license fee of $50 shall be assessed to any electrician or
electrical contractor who shall qualify to engage in more than one kind of
electrical construction work within the city. Any license issued after July 1
of each year shall be assessed at one-half of the annual license fee.
   (b)   Each such license shall set forth the kind of electrical construction
work in which the licensee may engage. The licensee shall display his or her
license at any place where he or she may be engaged in contract work or produce
the same on demand of any city officer. All licenses shall be renewable
annually as in the case of an original license on or before January 1 of the
year for which issued.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to contract
for any kind of work covered by this article without having a valid license
issued by the city to perform such contracts.
(Ord. 1420, passed 2-11-2008)
§ 4-327 RESERVED.
§ 4-328 INSURANCE.
   In addition to obtaining a corporate surety bond as required by state code,
an electrician or electrical contractor must procure and maintain a liability
insurance policy in the amount of $100,000 for the death or injury of any one
person and $300,000 for the death or injury of any number of persons in any one
accident and $50,000 for property damage in any one accident. Such policies of
insurance shall be issued by some insurance company authorized to do business
in the State of Kansas. An electrician or electrical contractor may qualify as
to the insurance requirements by filing a certificate with the City Clerk
executed by the resident agent of such company stating that the required policy
of insurance has been issued by such company for the purpose required by this
article and that such insurer will not cancel the policy except upon giving 30
days’ notice in writing to the city; and that the certificate shall be filed
for an annual period beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of such year.
§ 4-329 LICENSE SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The license of any electrician or electrical contractor may be
suspended temporarily, for a period of not to exceed 30 days at any one time,
by the Chief Building Official upon his or her own motion or upon a complaint
of the City Electrical Inspector.
      (2)   Notice shall be given in writing to such electrician or electrical
contractor giving reasonable notice of a time of hearing of the complaint or
the matter alleged against such electrician or electrical contractor involving
any one or more of the following:
         (A)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by applicant in obtaining a
license;
         (B)   Use of license to obtain an electrical permit for another;
         (C)   Failure or neglect to observe conditions of permit authorizing
encumbering of streets or sidewalks for safety of public;
         (D)   Performance of any electrical construction work without a permit
where one is required by law; or
         (E)   Willful disregard of any violation of the electrical
construction laws, or failure to comply with any lawful order of the City
Electrical Inspector.
   (b)   Any licensee may, within 15 days, appeal in writing to the Governing
Body from any order of the Chief Building Official suspending his or her
license for its final decision thereon. The Governing Body may upon such
hearing terminate such suspension within not more than 30 days thereafter, or
may revoke such license. If any license shall be revoked, the electrician or
electrical contractor shall not be eligible for a new license during a period
of six months thereafter. No fee shall be refunded in event of the suspension
or revocation of any electricians or electrical contractor’s license.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the occupation or trade of
electrician or electrical contractor during the time any license of such
electrician or electrical contractor has been suspended or revoked.
§ 4-330 WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
performing any electrical construction or installing electrical wiring or
equipment within and upon his or her own residence and intended for his or her
personal use and permanent occupancy; provided, the owner shall satisfy the
Electrical Inspector as to his or her ability to perform such work or install
such electrical wiring, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in
accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive a
certificate of approval. Personal electrical construction or installation
performed by an owner under this section shall be by himself, herself, for
himself or herself on his or her own residence, without compensation and no
person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on such work except an
electrician or electrical contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-331 APPROVED MATERIALS.
   No electric materials for wiring of appliances or equipment shall be
installed in the city unless they are in conformity with the provisions of this
article and with the approved standards of construction for safety to life and
property. Conformity of materials for wiring appliances and equipment to the
standards of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. shall be prima facie evidence
that the materials, devices, appliances and equipment comply with the
requirements of this article.
§ 4-332 LIABILITY.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
installing any electrical equipment for damages to persons or property caused
by any defect therein, nor shall the city be held as assuming any such
liability, by reason of the inspection or re-inspection authorized herein, or
the certificate of approval of any work or equipment authorized herein or by
reason of any permit or license granted herein.
§ 4-333 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of the National Electrical Code or of this article shall be
held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the
remaining provisions of the National Electrical Code or of this article, the
section is to be completely severable from the remaining provisions which shall
continue in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 4: PLUMBING AND GAS-FITTING CODE
Section
   
4-401   Definition
   
4-402   Uniform Plumbing Code incorporated
   
4-403   Additional provisions
   
4-404   Building Official; authority
   
4-405   Plumbing Inspector; appointment
   
4-406   Same; duties
   
4-407   Same; powers
   
4-408   Same; right of entry
   
4-409   Clarification; modification
   
4-410   Plumbing permit required; exception
   
4-411   Same; application information required
   
4-412   Same; plans and specifications
   
4-413   Same; fees
   
4-414   Same; posting
   
4-415   Request for inspection
   
4-416   Inspection; concealment of prior work
   
4-417   Inspection fee
   
4-418   Certificate of approval
   
4-419   Connection to gas or water supply
   
4-420   Condemnation; appeal
   
4-421   Plumber or plumbing contractor; defined
   
4-422   Plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license required; plumbing permits;
unlawful acts
   
4-423   Same; application; granting
   
4-424   Same; license fees; conditions; renewal; unlawful acts
   
4-425   Reserved
   
4-426   Insurance
   
4-427   License suspension; revocation; appeal; unlawful acts
   
4-428   Excavations
   
4-429   Work by property owners
   
4-430   Approved materials
   
4-431   Liability
   
4-432   Severability
§ 4-401 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLUMBING. The installation of gas or water pipes, fixtures, apparatus and
the necessary connections either for supplying gas or water to premises or for
the removing of liquid and water-borne wastes from premises in the city, or
both such purposes, and shall also denote installed fixtures, drainage and vent
systems and gas or water distribution systems as the case may be.
§ 4-402 UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE INCORPORATED.
   (a)   There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference, for the purpose
of establishing rules and regulations for the practice of plumbing and gas-
fitting, including the installation, maintenance, extension and alteration of
all pipes, fixtures, appliances and appurtenances in connection with sanitary
sewers and public and private water and fuel gas systems, the Uniform Plumbing
Code, 2012 Edition, as recommended by the International Association of Plumbing
and Mechanical Officials, such code being made as a part of the ordinances and
code of the city as if the same had been set out in full herein, all as
authorized and in the manner prescribed by K.S.A. 12-3009 through 12-3012
including any amendments thereto. One copy of the uniform code shall be marked
or stamped “Official Copy as Incorporated by the Code of the City of Humboldt,”
and shall be filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available
to the public at all reasonable hours of business.
   (b)   Any person violating any provisions of such code shall be punished as
provided in §
1-116 of this code.
§ 4-403 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following sections of this article are in addition to the provisions of
the standard code incorporated by reference in §
4-402.
§ 4-404 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor or his or her authorized designee shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this article and appointment of a Plumbing
Inspector in accordance with § 4-204, which apply in a like manner to this
article.
§ 4-405 PLUMBING INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor may assume the responsibilities of or appoint some qualified
officer or employee of the city to be and perform the duties of Plumbing
Inspector as may be required, subject to the consent and approval of the
Governing Body.
§ 4-406 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the following duties:
   (a)   To enforce all regulations relating to plumbing construction,
alteration, repair or removal;
   (b)   May permit, with the approval of the Governing Body, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of construction, not provided for in this article, and may, for the
purpose of carrying out the intent of this article adopt an accepted standard
of material or workmanlike practices of federal or state bureaus, national,
technical organizations or fire underwriters;
   (c)   To examine all buildings in the process of erection, construction,
alteration or relocation in the city for the purpose of determining whether the
work is in compliance with the plumbing permit given and in compliance with the
regulations of the city pertaining to such work, including zoning regulations;
and
   (d)   To keep comprehensive records of applications, of permits or
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices
or orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection during
stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building
Official or Plumbing Inspector without his or her written consent.
§ 4-407 SAME; POWERS.
   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the following powers:
   (a)   To enter any building or structure or premises at any reasonable hour,
whether complete or in the process of erection, to perform the duties contained
in this article;
   (b)   To adopt and enforce all such prudent emergency measures as he or she
may deem necessary and expedient for the public safety under the laws of the
city; and
   (c)   May cause any work done in violation of this article to be
discontinued until he or she shall have satisfactory evidence that the work
will be done in accordance with the plumbing regulations of the city, subject
to the right of any plumber, plumbing contractor or owner to appeal to the
Governing Body.
§ 4-408 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Plumbing Inspector, or his or her agent, upon proper identification,
shall have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any
reasonable hour to perform his or her duties as set out in this article.
§ 4-409 CLARIFICATION; MODIFICATION.
   (a)   The Governing Body shall be the final determiner of the scope and
meaning of all provisions of the Plumbing Code which may be unclear, ambiguous
or requiring interpretation.
   (b)   The Plumbing Inspector shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Plumbing Code upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee or his or her authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code. In approving
modifications, the Plumbing Inspector shall see that the spirit of the code is
observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars
of a modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the Inspector
thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Plumbing Inspector and a
signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
§ 4-410 PLUMBING PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to install, alter or reconstruct any plumbing or
plumbing system, as defined by the Plumbing Code and § 4-401, in any building
in the city without first making application to and receiving a permit therefor
from the City Clerk, after approval by the Chief Building Official or his or
her authorized assistant. The application for such permit shall be made and the
permit obtained before any plumbing work is commenced.
   (b)   No permit shall be required for making minor repairs of any plumbing
including repair of leaks in water pipes, traps or cocks, opening up stoppage
in waste or supply pipes, traps or drains, replacing fixtures when waste pipes
are not disturbed, or replacing frozen pipes inside the building, and like
repair work not involving original installation or reconstruction.
§ 4-411 SAME; APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   A plumbing permit shall be issued upon an application in writing
to the office of City Clerk on a form or forms provided for the purpose.
      (2)   This application shall, among other things, disclose the following:
         (A)   The name of the owner of the lot or tract of ground;
         (B)   The location of the building or structure;
         (C)   The plumbing work proposed;
         (D)   The class of occupancy;
         (E)   The class of construction;
         (F)   The kind of materials to be used;
         (G)   The estimated cost of the work;
         (H)   The date work will commence;
         (I)   Expected date of completion;
         (J)   Name and address of plumber, plumbing contractor or contractors
doing the work; and
         (K)   Such other information as may be pertinent to the issuance of
the required permit.
   (b)   An application for a plumbing permit shall be signed by the owner or
his or her duly authorized agent, or a plumber or plumbing contractor licensed
by the city. If the application is made by the owner or his or her agent, it
shall contain the name or names of the licensed plumber, plumbing contractor or
contractors doing the work described, or a plumbing permit may be issued to the
owner upon his or her application disclosing satisfactory evidence that the
proposed work will be performed by the owner, himself or herself and not by a
licensed plumber or plumbing contractor, and likewise subject to the final
approval of the Plumbing Inspector for work performed.
   (c)   Upon approval of the completed application and a determination that a
permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or his or her assistant
shall issue a permit to the owner or contractor authorizing the plumbing work
covered by the application.
   (d)   Any permit issued under this section shall be valid and subsisting for
a period of not more than six months from the date of issuance unless the
permittee shall have commenced, within the period so limited, the plumbing work
authorized by such permit. Plumbing work commenced for the purpose of this
section shall mean the beginning of plumbing work other than the preparation of
plans or the letting of a plumbing contract.
§ 4-412 SAME; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever an application for a plumbing permit is made, the Chief Building
Official or the Plumbing Inspector may, if he or she finds it necessary to
determine whether work described in the application will comply with the laws
pertaining to such work, require that the applicant file a written description
or drawing of the proposed plumbing construction as may be prepared for the
purpose. If such drawing or description is insufficient for the purposes of
determining whether a permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or
the Plumbing Inspector may require the applicant to file complete architectural
and engineering plans and specifications for such building or construction, or
any part thereof, as may be necessary for the Inspector to determine compliance
with this article. The filing of such plans and specifications and the approval
thereof in connection with an application for a permit shall not in any way
affect the authority of the city to deny or issue a permit, or to inspect any
plumbing work for conformity with this article.
§ 4-413 SAME; FEES.
   The fee for a plumbing permit shall be $25; however, no fee shall be
required to obtain a permit where the total estimated cost, the reasonable
value of all services, labor and materials required is under $100. The fee
herein shall be paid to the City Clerk upon obtaining a plumbing permit and the
same shall be credited to the General Operating Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-413)
§ 4-414 SAME; POSTING.
   A copy of the plumbing permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the performance of the work and until the completion of the
same. The Plumbing Inspector may require a certified copy of the approved plans
to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work to
the completion thereof.
§ 4-415 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of any plumbing work covered by this article, it shall
be the duty of the person doing such work to notify the Plumbing Inspector and
request that it be inspected; after which such work shall be inspected promptly
as hereinafter provided.
§ 4-416 INSPECTION; CONCEALMENT OF PRIOR WORK.
   (a)   When any plumbing is to be hidden from view by the permanent placement
of parts of the building, the person, firm or corporation installing the
plumbing shall notify the Plumbing Inspector and such equipment shall not be
concealed until it has been inspected, approved or authorized by the Plumbing
Inspector or until 24 hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays,
shall have elapsed from the time of such notification. On large installations,
where the concealment of plumbing proceeds continuously, the person, firm or
corporation installing the plumbing shall give the Plumbing Inspector due
notice and inspections shall be made periodically during the progress of the
work.
   (b)   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the authority to require owners or
contractors to open such work which, in any manner, conceals plumbing that has
been closed without his or her knowledge or permission, and in no case shall
the Inspector issue a certificate of approval until satisfied that the work is
in accordance with the provisions of this article. The Inspector shall also
have the right to refuse to issue a certificate of approval on any plumbing,
that is concealed in such manner that it cannot be fully determined that it has
been done in accordance with this article.
§ 4-417 INSPECTION FEE.
   An initial inspection fee of $25, and an inspection fee of $10 for
subsequent inspections required, shall be paid before any plumbing will be
approved or a certificate of approval issued.
(Prior Code, § 4-417)
§ 4-418 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   (a)   When the Plumbing Inspector finds plumbing construction to be in
conformity with the provisions of this article, he or she shall issue to the
person, firm or corporation performing the plumbing construction, a certificate
of approval, with duplicate copy for delivery to the owner, authorizing the use
of the plumbing system and connection to the supply of gas or water, as the
case may be.
   (b)   When a certificate of approval is issued authorizing the connection
and use of a temporary gas or water supply, the certificate shall expire at a
time to be stated therein and shall be revocable for cause by the Plumbing
Inspector.
   (c)   In no case shall certificates of approval be issued on plumbing or
plumbing systems or parts of systems where the work installed does not conform
to the requirements of this article.
   (d)   If, upon inspection, the plumbing or plumbing system is not found to
be fully in conformity with the provisions of this article, the Plumbing
Inspector shall immediately notify the person, firm or corporation making the
installation of the existing defects.
   (e)   No certificate of approval shall be issued unless the plumbing or
plumbing system has been installed in strict conformity with the provisions of
this article and unless the plumbing or plumbing system is made in compliance
with nationally approved methods of construction for safety to life and
property as herein set forth.
   (f)   The Plumbing Inspector shall be deemed the judge of whether the
plumbing or plumbing system has been made in accordance with the requirements
of this article.
   (g)   No certificate of approval shall be required for making minor repairs
of any plumbing including repair of leaks in water pipes, traps or cocks,
opening up stoppage in waste or supply pipes, traps or drains, replacing
fixtures when waste pipes are not disturbed, or replacing frozen pipes inside
the building, and like repair work not involving original installation or
reconstruction.
§ 4-419 CONNECTION TO GAS OR WATER SUPPLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make connection
to a supply of gas or water for which an inspection is required, or which has
been disconnected by the order of the Plumbing Inspector, until a certificate
of approval has been issued by the Plumbing Inspector authorizing the
connection and use of such plumbing or plumbing system. The Plumbing Inspector
may, at his or her discretion, authorize a temporary connection.
§ 4-420 CONDEMNATION; APPEAL.
   (a)   If in the judgment of the Plumbing Inspector, after inspection, the
plumbing or plumbing system in any building are unsafe or dangerous to persons
or property, the Inspector shall have the power to cause the plumbing or
plumbing system to be disconnected from the supply of gas or water and may, at
his or her discretion, seal the control valves for the same in a closed or
disconnected position, whereupon he or she shall give notice to the owner, or
his or her agent, or by posting such notice at the site and shall also notify
the utilities serving the premises. Thereafter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to cause or permit gas or water to be supplied to the plumbing or
plumbing system so sealed until they shall have been made safe and the
Inspector shall have issued a certificate of approval to that effect.
   (b)   When the Plumbing Inspector condemns all or part of any plumbing
system, the owner may, within ten days after receiving written notice thereof,
file a petition in writing for review of the action of the Plumbing Inspector
by the Governing Body, upon the receipt of which the Governing Body shall at
once proceed to determine the facts, and within ten days from receiving the
petition make a decision in accordance with their findings.
§ 4-421 PLUMBER OR PLUMBING CONTRACTOR; DEFINED.
   (a)   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PLUMBER or PLUMBING CONTRACTOR.
         (A)   Any person engaged in the business of installing, altering,
maintaining or repairing plumbing, which shall include all materials and
plumbing fixtures, water pipes, portable water treatment equipment, traps,
drainage and vent piping, and building drains, including their respective
points, connections, devices, receptacles and appurtenances located within the
property lines of any premises or in any building; and
         (B)   Any gasfitter or person engaged in the business of installing,
altering or repairing fuel gas piping, gas systems or fixtures.
   (b)   A plumber or plumbing contractor as defined in subsection (a) above
shall not mean or include the owner of a residence who personally installs
plumbing piping or equipment within and upon his or her own residence and
intended for his or her own personal use and permanent occupancy; provided, the
owner shall satisfy the Plumbing Inspector as to his or her ability to install
such piping or equipment, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in
accordance with this article and apply for an inspection and receive approval.
Personal installation by an owner under this section shall be himself, herself,
for himself or herself on his or her own residence, without compensation and no
person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on such work except a
plumber or plumbing contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-422 PLUMBER’S OR PLUMBING CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED; PLUMBING PERMITS;
UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   Each plumber or plumbing contractor shall, before entering upon any
plumbing work subject to regulation by city laws, apply to the City Clerk for a
plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license and receive the same as hereinafter
provided and have in his or her possession a valid license authorizing him, her
or it to engage in the trade or occupation of a plumber or plumbing contractor
in the city.
   (b)   No permit for any plumbing work shall be issued for any such work to
be performed by a plumber or plumbing contractor, as defined, who has not first
obtained a license upon making a proper application and payment of the license
fee as required.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, association or
corporation to enter into a contract or agreement with another so as to bring
himself, herself or itself under the definition of a plumber or plumbing
contractor herein, or to perform any work as a plumber or plumbing contractor
or any work under a contract for any work involving plumbing construction,
without first having obtained a plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license
issued by the city.
§ 4-423 SAME; APPLICATION; GRANTING.
   Application for a plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license shall be made
upon a form to be supplied by the city which shall disclose the name of the
applicant, his or her place of business in the city (and home office if a
nonresident), the kind of contracting work engaged in, the length of time
engaged in such work and places where work has been performed within the past
two years. The application shall be signed by the plumber or plumbing
contractor or his or her authorized agent. The applications shall be, by the
Chief Building Official referred to the Governing Body at its next meeting for
action thereon. Such license shall be issued by the City Clerk, upon payment of
the fees hereinafter provided after approval of the Governing Body.
§ 4-424 SAME; LICENSE FEES; CONDITIONS; RENEWAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   An annual license fee of $50 shall be assessed to any plumber or
plumbing contractor who shall qualify to engage in more than one kind of
plumbing work within the city. Any license issued after July 1 of each year
shall be assessed at one-half of the annual license fee.
   (b)   Each such license shall set forth the kind of plumbing work in which
the licensee may engage. The licensee shall display his or her license at any
place where he or she may be engaged in plumbing work or produce the same on
demand of any city officer. All licenses shall be renewable annually as in the
case of an original license on or before January 1 of the year for which
issued.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to contract
for any kind of work covered by this article without having a valid license
issued by the city to perform such contracts.
(Ord. 1420, passed 2-11-2008)
§ 4-425 RESERVED.
§ 4-426 INSURANCE.
   In addition to obtaining a corporate surety bond as required by state code,
a plumber or plumbing contractor must procure and maintain a liability
insurance policy in the amount of $100,000 for the death or injury of any one
person and $300,000 for the death or injury of any number of persons in any one
accident and $50,000 for property damage in any one accident. Such policies of
insurance shall be issued by some insurance company authorized to do business
in the State of Kansas. A plumber or plumbing contractor may qualify as to the
insurance requirements by filing a certificate with the City Clerk executed by
the resident agent of such company stating that the required policy of
insurance has been issued by such company for the purpose required by this
article and that such insurer will not cancel the policy except upon giving 30
days’ notice in writing to the city; and that the certificate shall be filed
for an annual period beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of such year.
§ 4-427 LICENSE SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The license of any plumber or plumbing contractor may be
suspended temporarily, for a period of not to exceed 30 days at any one time,
by the Chief Building Official upon his or her own motion or upon a complaint
of the City Plumbing Inspector.
      (2)   Notice shall be given in writing to such plumber or plumbing
contractor giving reasonable notice of a time of hearing of the complaint or
the matter alleged against such plumber or plumbing contractor involving any
one or more of the following:
         (A)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by applicant in obtaining a
license;
         (B)   Use of license to obtain a plumbing permit for another;
         (C)   Failure or neglect to observe conditions of a permit authorizing
encumbering of streets or sidewalks for safety of public;
         (D)   Performance of any plumbing work without a permit where one is
required by law; or
         (E)   Willful disregard of any violation of the plumbing laws, or
failure to comply with any lawful order of the City Plumbing Inspector.
   (b)   Any licensee may, within 15 days, appeal in writing to the Governing
Body from any order of the Chief Building Official suspending his or her
license for its final decision thereon. The Governing Body may, upon such
hearing, terminate such suspension within not more than 30 days thereafter, or
may revoke such license. If any license shall be revoked, the plumber or
plumbing contractor shall not be eligible for a new license during a period of
six months thereafter. No fee shall be refunded in event of the suspension or
revocation of any plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the occupation or trade of plumber
or plumbing contractor during the time any license of such plumber or plumbing
contractor has been suspended or revoked.
§ 4-428 EXCAVATIONS.
   When it appears that the laying or repairing of any water or sewer pipes or
the making of any connection therewith shall require excavation in any street,
alley or public way of the city or the cutting or removal of any pavement, curb
or gutter or any sidewalk, during the course of such work, the application for
a permit shall so state and describe the location and extent of the excavation,
cutting or removal. Before the City Clerk shall issue any permit for such work,
the applicant shall pay any fee required by this code. All excavations shall be
barricaded and guarded as provided by the appropriate sections of this code.
Before any such excavation shall be backfilled, new plumbing work therein shall
be inspected and the bottom of the excavation holding any sewer, drain or water
pipe shall be so filled, leveled and tamped as to properly support the pipe and
permit proper drainage when carrying sewage, and the excavation shall be
backfilled and all paving, curbing, guttering or sidewalks shall be restored as
near as possible to their last condition, subject always to the approval of the
Plumbing Inspector or the Superintendent of Streets.
§ 4-429 WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
installing plumbing piping or equipment within and upon his or her own
residence and intended for his or her personal use and permanent occupancy;
provided, the owner shall satisfy the Plumbing Inspector as to his or her
ability to install such piping or equipment, secure a permit, pay required
fees, do work in accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and
receive approval. Personal installation by an owner under this section shall be
by himself, herself, for himself or herself on his or her own residence,
without compensation and no person shall be employed to assist him or her in
any way on such work except a plumber or plumbing contractor licensed by the
city.
§ 4-430 APPROVED MATERIALS.
   No plumbing materials, appliances or equipment shall be installed in the
city unless they are in conformity with the provisions of this article and with
the approved standards of construction for safety to life and property.
Conformity of materials for plumbing materials, appliances and equipment to the
standards of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. shall be prima facie evidence
that the materials, devices, appliances and equipment comply with the
requirements of this article.
§ 4-431 LIABILITY.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
performing any plumbing construction for damages to persons or property caused
by any defect therein, nor shall the city be held as assuming any such
liability, by reason of the inspection or re-inspection authorized herein, or
the certificate of approval of any work or equipment authorized herein or by
reason of any permit or license granted herein.
§ 4-432 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of the Uniform Plumbing Code or of this article shall be held
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the remaining
provisions of the Uniform Plumbing Code or of this article, the section is to
be completely severable from the remaining provisions which shall continue in
full force and effect.
ARTICLE 5: MOVING BUILDINGS
Section
   
4-501   Building Official; authority
   
4-502   Permit required
   
4-503   Same; application for permit
   
4-504   Same; bond, insurance required
   
4-505   Same; fee
   
4-506   Reserved
   
4-507   Route; duties of Building Official
   
4-508   Notice to owners
   
4-509   Duty of owners
   
4-510   Interfering with poles; wires
   
4-511   Display of lanterns
§ 4-501 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The Building Official or his or her authorized designee shall be responsible
for the administration and enforcement of this article and appointment of an
inspector in accordance with §§
4-204 through
4-209, which apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-502 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall move, haul or transport any house,
building, derrick or other structure of the height when loaded for movement of
16 feet or more from the surface of the highway, road, street or alley, or a
width of eight feet or more or which cannot be moved at a speed of four mph or
faster, upon, across or over any street, alley or sidewalk in this city without
first obtaining a permit therefor.
(K.S.A. 17-1914)
§ 4-503 SAME; APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   All applications for permits required under the provisions of this article
shall be made in writing to the City Clerk specifying the day and hour said
moving is to commence and the route through the city’s streets over which the
house, building, derrick or other structure shall be moved and stating whether
it will be necessary to cut and move, raise or in any way interfere with any
wires, cables or other aerial equipment of any public or municipally-owned
utility, and if so, the application shall also state the name of the public or
municipally-owned utility, and the time and location that the applicant’s
moving operations shall necessitate the cutting, moving, raising or otherwise
interfering with such aerial facilities.
(K.S.A. 17-1915)
§ 4-504 SAME; BOND, INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of any person at the time of making application
for a permit as provided in this article to give a good and sufficient surety
bond to the city, to be approved by the Governing Body, indemnifying the city
against any loss or damage resulting from the failure of any such person to
comply with the provisions of this article or for any damage or injury caused
in moving any such house or structure. The bond herein shall be in the sum of
$5,000, or cash may be deposited in lieu of such surety bond.
   (b)   A public liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the State of Kansas, in the amount of $100,000 per
person, $300,000 per accident as to personal injury, and $50,000 property
damage may be permitted in lieu of a bond.
§ 4-505 SAME; FEE.
   Before any permit to move any house or structure is given under the
provisions of this article, the applicant shall pay a fee of not less than $5
to the City Clerk, plus the additional cost for the time for any city crews
involved in such moving.
§ 4-506 RESERVED.
§ 4-507 ROUTE; DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The City Clerk shall, upon filing of the above application, refer the same
to the Chief Building Official or his or her authorized designee to check the
proposed route and determine if it is practical to move such house or other
structure over the route proposed. If it shall appear that such route is not
practical, and another route may be used equally well with less danger to
street and travel, then he or she may designate such other route as the one to
be used and shall notify the applicant of the same. The Building Official may
also require the planking of any street, bridge or culvert or any part thereof
to prevent damage thereto. It shall also be the duty of the Chief Building
Official or his or her authorized designee to inspect the progress of moving
any house or other structure to see that the same is being moved in accordance
with the provisions of this article.
§ 4-508 NOTICE TO OWNERS.
   (a)   Upon issuance of a moving permit, the applicant shall give not less
than 15 days’ written notice to any person owning or operating any wires,
cables or other aerial equipment along the proposed route of the intent to move
the structure, giving the time and location that the applicants moving
operation shall necessitate the cutting, moving, raising or interfering of any
wires, cables or other aerial equipment.
   (b)   The notice provision of subsection (a) above shall not apply where the
person owning or operating any wires, cables or other aerial equipment has
waived their right to advance notice.
   (c)   Should the moving operation be delayed, the applicant shall give the
owner or his or her agent not less than 24 hours’ advance notice of the actual
operation.
(K.S.A. 17-1916)
§ 4-509 DUTY OF OWNERS.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the person or the city owning or operating
such poles or wires, after service of notice as provided herein, to furnish
competent lineman or workers to remove such poles, or raise or cut such wires
as will be necessary to facilitate the moving of such house or structure. The
necessary expense which is incurred thereby shall be paid by the holder of the
moving permit.
   (b)   The owner of any wires, cables or other aerial equipment, after
service of notice as provided in §
4-508, shall be liable to the permit holder for damages in an amount not to
exceed $100 per day for each day the owner shall fail or refuse to accommodate
the permit holder’s moving operations.
(K.S.A. 17-1917)
§ 4-510 INTERFERING WITH POLES; WIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in moving any house or other
structure to raise, cut or in any way interfere with any wires or poles bearing
wires or any other aerial equipment.
(K.S.A. 17-1918)
§ 4-511 DISPLAY OF LANTERNS.
   It shall be the duty of any person moving any of the structures mentioned in
this article upon or across any street, alley or sidewalk or other public
place, in this city, to display red lanterns thereon in such a manner as to
show the extreme height and width thereof from sunset to sunrise.
ARTICLE 6: DANGEROUS AND UNFIT STRUCTURES
Section
   
4-601   Legislative findings of fact
   
4-602   Definitions
   
4-603   Public officer; right of entry; petition; investigation
   
4-604   Resolution; service of notice
   
4-605   Same; hearing, order
   
4-606   Duty of owner
   
4-607   Same; failure to comply
   
4-608   Same; make site safe
   
4-609   Costs assessed
   
4-610   Immediate hazard
   
4-611   Scope of article
§ 4-601 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The Governing Body finds that structures which are unfit for human use or
habitation because of dilapidation, defects, structural defects or other
conditions which render such structures unsafe, unsanitary, and which increase
the hazards of fire or accidents are inimical to the general welfare of the
city and constitute a general blight upon the neighborhood and surrounding
properties. It is hereby deemed necessary by the Governing Body to require or
cause the repair, closing or demolition or removal of any such structures as
provided in this article.
(K.S.A. 12-1751) (Ord. 1422, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 4-602 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. The legal owner of record, his or her designated agent, lessee,
tenant, occupant or other person having charge or control of the premises,
unless otherwise specifically described or defined herein.
   PERSON. Any individual, individuals, corporation, partnership,
unincorporated association, other business organization, committee, board,
trustee, receiver, agent or other representative who has charge, care, control
or responsibility for maintenance of any premises, regardless of status as
owner, renter, tenant or lessee, and whether or not in possession.
   PREMISES. Any lot, plot or parcel of land including any structures located
thereon.
   STRUCTURE. Any building, wall, superstructure or other structure constructed
or erected on any premises and which is attached to the ground or attached to
something which is attached to the ground.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 4-603 PUBLIC OFFICER; RIGHT OF ENTRY; PETITION; INVESTIGATION.
   (a)   The Governing Body shall designate a public officer to be charged with
the administration and enforcement of this article.
   (b)   The public officer shall have the right of access and entry upon
private property at any reasonable time for the purpose of making inquiry and
inspection to determine if a whether a violation of this article exists.
   (c)   The public officer shall make inquiry and inspection of any premises
upon receiving a complaint in writing signed by five or more persons stating
that a structure is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human habitation in
violation of this article and describing the nature and location of the
violation, or upon being otherwise reasonably informed of or upon observing
conditions that appear to constitute a violation. If after inquiry and
inspection, the public officer believes a violation of this article exists, the
public officer shall make a written report of such findings to the Governing
Body.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 4-604 RESOLUTION; SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (a)   Upon receipt of the public officer’s written report of a violation,
the Governing Body shall by resolution fix a time and place at which the owner
and any lien holder of record and any occupant of the structure may appear and
show cause why the structure should not be condemned and ordered repaired or
demolished.
(K.S.A. 12-1752)
   (b)   The resolution shall be published once each week for two consecutive
weeks on the same day of each week. At least 30 days shall elapse between the
last publication and the date set for the hearing.
   (c)   A copy of the resolution shall be mailed by certified mail within
three days after its first publication to each owner, lien holder and occupant
at the last known place of residence for each and shall be marked “deliver to
addressee only.”
(K.S.A. 12-1752)
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 4-605 SAME; HEARING, ORDER.
   (a)   (1)   At the hearing, the owner may be represented by counsel, and the
owner and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed
necessary and proper by the Governing Body.
      (2)   The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules of
evidence.
   (b)   Upon conclusion of the hearing, if the Governing Body determines that
the alleged violating structure is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human use or
habitation, its findings shall be prepared in resolution form and adopted by
the Governing Body. The resolution shall state:
      (1)   A description of the violating conditions of the structure;
      (2)   A reasonable time within which the repair or removal of such
structure shall be commenced;
      (3)   A statement that if the owner of such structure fails to commence
the repair or removal of such structure within the time stated, or fails to
diligently prosecute the same until the work is completed, the Governing Body
will cause the structure to be razed and removed; and
      (4)   The cost of abating the violating conditions, including a
reasonable administrative fee, will be assessed against the owner, and if not
paid within 30 days, such costs and fees will be added to the property tax of
the property as a special assessment.
   (c)   The resolution shall be published once in the official city newspaper
and a copy of the resolution shall be mailed by certified mail within three
days after its publication to each owner, lien holder and occupant of the
premises at the fast known place of residence for each and shall be marked
“deliver to addressee only.”
   (d)   Any person affected by any determination of the Governing Body under
this section may appeal such determination in the manner provided by K.S.A. 60-
2101.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 4-606 DUTY OF OWNER.
   Whenever any structure within the city shall be found to be dangerous,
unsafe or unfit for human use or habitation, it shall be the duty and
obligation of the owner of the premises to render the premises secure and safe
or to remove the violating structure.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 4-607 SAME; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If, within the time specified in the resolution, the owner fails to comply
with the order to repair, vacate, remove or demolish the structure, the public
officer may cause the structure to be repaired, vacated, removed or demolished
or take such other action as necessary to abate the violating conditions.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 4-608 SAME; MAKE SITE SAFE.
   Upon removal of any structure, the owner shall fill any basement or other
excavation located upon the premises and take any other action necessary to
leave the premises in a safe condition. If the owner fails to take such action,
the public officer may proceed to make the site safe.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 4-609 COSTS ASSESSED.
   (a)   Upon repairing, removing, demolishing or otherwise abating the
violating conditions or structure, the city shall give written notice to the
owner of the total costs incurred by the city for such actions. The total costs
may include:
      (1)   A reasonable cost for labor and equipment necessary to repair,
remove, vacate, demolish or otherwise abate the violating conditions or
structure, including the costs of making the site safe;
      (2)   The cost of providing notice, including postage and publication
costs; and
      (3)   A reasonable administrative fee.
   (b)   The notice shall be served on the owner by certified, restricted
delivery mail, and shall state:
      (1)   The sum of the total cost of removing or abating the condition or
structure;
      (2)   That payment of such sum is due within 30 days of receipt of the
notice;
      (3)   That if such sum is not paid within the 30-day period, such sum
shall be assessed as a special assessment and charged against the subject
property; and
      (4)   That in addition, such sum may be collected in the manner provided
by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto.
   (c)   If, after notice, the owner fails to pay the total cost of the removal
or abatement, the City Clerk may:
      (1)   Sell any salvage from the structure and apply the proceeds or any
necessary portion thereof to pay the cost of removing the structure and making
the site safe. Any proceeds in excess of that required to recover the costs
shall be paid to the owner of the premises upon which the structure was
located;
      (2)   If the proceeds of the sale of salvage or the proceeds of any
insurance policy in which the city has created a lien pursuant to K.S.A. 40-
3901 et seq., are insufficient to recover the above stated costs, or if there
is no salvage, the balance shall be collected in the manner provided by K.S.A.
12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or shall be assessed as special assessments
against the lot or parcel of land on which the structure was located. The City
Clerk, at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify the unpaid
portion of the costs to the County Clerk to extend the same on the tax rolls of
the county against such property to be collected by the County Treasurer and
paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may also
pursue collection as provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115 and amendments thereto, but
only until the full cost and applicable interest has been paid in full; or
(K.S.A. 12-1,115)
      (3)   If there is no salvage material, or if the moneys received from the
sale of salvage or from the proceeds of any insurance policy in which the city
has created a lien pursuant to K.S.A. 40-3901, et seq., and amendments thereto,
are insufficient to pay the costs of the work and the costs of providing
notice, such costs or any portion thereof in excess of that received from the
sale of salvage or any insurance proceeds may be financed, until the costs are
paid, out of the General Fund or by the issuance of no-fund warrants.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 4-610 IMMEDIATE HAZARD.
   When in the opinion of the Governing Body any structure is in such condition
as to constitute an immediate hazard requiring immediate action to protect the
public, the Governing Body may direct the public officer to erect barricades or
cause the property to be vacated, taken down, repaired, shored or otherwise
made safe without delay. Such action may be taken without prior notice to or
hearing of the owner, lien holders and occupants. The cost of any action under
this section shall be assessed against the property as provided in §
4-609.
(K.S.A. 12-1756) (Ord. 1422, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 4-611 SCOPE OF ARTICLE.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers
of the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its
charter or its ordinances or regulations, nor to prevent or punish violations
thereof. The powers conferred by this article shall be in addition to and
supplemental to the powers conferred by the constitution, any other law or
ordinance. Nothing in this article shall be construed to impair or limit in any
way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and to cause their
removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise or to exercise those
powers granted specifically by K.S.A. 12-1750 to 12-1756.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-14-2008)
ARTICLE 7: HOUSE NUMBERING
Section
   
4-701   Houses to be numbered
   
4-702   System of numbering
   
4-703   Numbers required
   
4-704   New buildings
   
4-705   City Clerk to keep plat
   
4-706   Numbers of uniform size
   
4-707   Penalty
§ 4-701 HOUSES TO BE NUMBERED.
   All of the houses and buildings fronting on any of the public streets in the
city shall be numbered.
(Prior Code, § 4-701)
§ 4-702 SYSTEM OF NUMBERING.
   The numbering shall be done under and in accordance with the following
system.
   (a)   The Neosho River shall be the starting point for all streets running
east and west through the city, and all buildings fronting on the streets shall
be numbered in alternate numbers. The even numbers shall be placed on the north
side of the streets and the odd numbers shall be placed on the south side of
the streets.
   (b)   The first two rows of blocks running north and southeast of the Neosho
River shall be numbered within 100 and each succeeding row of blocks running
north and southeast of First Street shall be numbered 100 more than the
preceding one. Each 25 feet shall constitute one number.
   (c)   The buildings fronting on the streets running north and south from
Bridge Street shall be numbered in alternate numbers, commencing on Bridge
Street. The even numbers shall be placed on the west side of the streets and
the odd numbers shall be placed on the east side of the streets.
   (d)   The first row of blocks running east and west on the north side of
Bridge Street shall be numbered within 100 and each succeeding row of blocks
shall be numbered 100 more than the preceding one, and so on to the north
limits of the city.
   (e)   The first row of blocks running east and west of the south side of
Bridge Street shall be numbered within 100 and each succeeding row of blocks
shall be numbered 100 more than the preceding one, and so on to the south
limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-702)
§ 4-703 NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of the owners or agents of any building within the
limits of the city to put up and keep upon in front of their buildings a number
corresponding with the number shown upon the plat to be kept on file in the
office of the City Clerk, sufficiently large and plain to be easily read from
the opposite side of the street upon which the house is situated.
(Prior Code, § 4-703)
§ 4-704 NEW BUILDINGS.
   When any person builds upon any vacant lot on any of the streets within the
limits of the city, he or she shall within ten days after the occupancy of the
building comply with §
4-703.
(Prior Code, § 4-704)
§ 4-705 CITY CLERK TO KEEP PLAT.
   The City Clerk shall prepare or procure and keep in his or her office a plat
showing the number that each 25 feet of ground is entitled to and upon
application of the owner or agent of any building inform him or her of the
number such building is entitled to. The City Clerk is authorized to establish
such exceptions to the system described in this article as may be made
necessary by the irregular routing of any streets, avenues or other highways,
such exceptions to be shown on the plat herein required.
(Prior Code, § 4-705)
§ 4-706 NUMBERS OF UNIFORM SIZE.
   All numbers shall be of uniform size and may be obtained from the City
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 4-706)
§ 4-707 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall upon
conviction thereof be fined in any sum not exceeding $25.
(Prior Code, § 4-707)
CHAPTER V: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   RESERVED.
      
2.   SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS
      
3.   SALES TAX
ARTICLE 1: RESERVED.
ARTICLE 2: SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS
Section
   
5-201   Definitions
   
5-202   License required
   
5-203   Same; application required
   
5-204   Issuance; county residents
   
5-205   Same; investigation and issuance; non-county resident
   
5-206   Same; investigation fee
   
5-207   License fee; time limits; exemptions
   
5-208   Renewal
   
5-209   Denial, revocation or suspension of license; notice
   
5-210   Appeal to Governing Body
   
5-211   Regulations
   
5-212   Use of streets and sidewalks
   
5-213   Disturbing the peace
§ 5-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER or SOLICITOR. Any individual, whether a resident of the city or
not, whose business is mainly or principally carried on by traveling either by
foot, automobile, motor truck or any other type of conveyance, from place to
place, from house to house, or from street to street, taking or attempting to
take orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise, personal property of any
nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be furnished or
performed in the future, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes
for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he or she is
collecting advance payments on such sales or not. Such definition shall include
any person, who, for himself, herself or for another person, hires, leases,
uses or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel
room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the city for the
sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by
foot, automotive vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from place to place,
from house to house or from street to street, carrying, conveying or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden
truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale, or
making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling
from place to place, shall sell or offer the same for sale from a wagon,
automotive vehicle, railroad boxcar or other vehicle or conveyance, and further
provided, that one who solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes
deliveries to purchasers as a part of a scheme or design to evade the
provisions of this article shall be deemed a peddler.
   RESIDENCE. Includes every separate living unit occupied for residential
purposes by one or more persons contained within any type of building or
structure.
   SOLICITING. Includes any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services, of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character; or
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication.
   STREET SALESPERSON. Any person engaged in any manner in selling merchandise
of any kind from a vehicle or stand temporarily located on the public streets
or sidewalks of this city.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person,
whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the city
or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods,
wares and merchandise within such city, and who, in furtherance of such
purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor
vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar or boat, public room in hotels, lodging houses,
apartments, shops or any street, alley or other place within the city, for the
exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or
at public auction. Such definition shall not be construed to include any person
who, while occupying such temporary location, does not sell from stock, but
exhibits samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery
only. The person so engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the
provisions of this article merely by reason of associating temporarily with any
local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting such transient
business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer.
§ 5-202 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any of the activities
defined in the preceding sections of this article, within the corporate limits
of the city without then having an unrevoked and unexpired license therefor in
his or her possession and issued by the City Clerk.
   (b)   The Governing Body may waive the license requirements of this section
for any person, firm or corporation exempt from the payment of a license fee
under state code.
§ 5-203 SAME; APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Before the City Clerk may issue any license required by this article, he or
she shall require a sworn application in writing prepared in duplicate on a
form to be supplied by the City Clerk that shall give the following
information:
   (a)   Name and description of applicant;
   (b)   Permanent home address and full local address of applicant;
   (c)   Identification of applicant including driver’s license number, date of
birth, expiration date of license, and description of applicant;
   (d)   Identification of vehicle used by applicant including license therefor
used by applicant in conducting his or her business;
   (e)   A brief description of the nature of the business to be carried on or
the goods to be sold and the length of time such applicant has been engaged in
the business;
   (f)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing such relationship, including the authority by the
employer authorizing the applicant to represent the employer in conducting
business;
   (g)   The length of time that business is proposed to be carried on;
   (h)   The place where services are to be performed or where the goods or
property proposed to be sold or orders taken for the sale thereof are
manufactured or produced, where such goods or products are located at the time
the application is filed, and the proposed method of delivery;
   (i)   A photograph of the applicant, taken within 90 days prior to the date
of making application which picture shall be at least two inches by two inches
showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinguishing
manner; or in lieu thereof, the fingerprints of the applicant may be taken by
the Chief of Police and filed with the application;
   (j)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has within two years
prior to the date of the application been convicted of any crime, misdemeanor
(other than minor traffic violations), or violation of any municipal law
regulating peddlers, solicitors or canvassers and giving the nature of the
offenses, the punishment assessed therefor, if any, and the city and the State
of Kansas where conviction occurred; and
   (k)   The applicant’s Kansas Sales Tax number.
§ 5-204 ISSUANCE; COUNTY RESIDENTS.
   (a)   Except as provided in §
5-209, if the applicant is a current resident of the county, upon receipt of an
application for a license and payment of the license fee, the City Clerk shall
issue the license. Such license shall contain the signature and seal of the
issuing officer and shall show the name and address of the licensee, the date
of issuance and length of time the license shall be operative, and the nature
of the business involved. The City Clerk shall keep a permanent record of all
such licenses issued and submit a copy of such license to the Chief of Police.
The licensee shall carry the license certificate at all times.
   (b)   If the applicant is not a current resident of Allen County, Kansas, a
license will not be issued until after investigation and payment of the
investigation fee as provided in §§
5-205 and
5-206.
§ 5-205 SAME; INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE; NON-COUNTY RESIDENT.
   (a)   Upon receipt of the above application from an applicant who is not a
current resident of Allen County, Kansas, the City Clerk shall refer the same
to the Chief of Police who shall cause an investigation of the facts stated
therein to be made within not to exceed five days.
   (b)   If, as a result of the investigation, the applicant’s character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory or the facts stated
therein to be untrue, the Chief of Police shall endorse on such application his
or her findings and endorse his or her disapproval of the application and the
reasons for the same and shall return the application to the City Clerk who
then shall notify the applicant that his or her application is disapproved and
that no license will be issued.
   (c)   If however, the investigation of such application discloses that the
character and business responsibility and the facts stated in the application
are satisfactory and true, the Chief of Police shall endorse his or her
findings and approval on the application and return the same to the City Clerk
who shall, upon payment of the license and investigation fees prescribed, issue
a license to the applicant to engage in the business described in the
application. Such license shall contain the signature and seal of the issuing
officer and shall show the name and address of the licensee, the date of
issuance and length of time the license shall be operative, and the nature of
the business involved. The City Clerk shall keep a permanent record of all such
licenses issued and submit a copy of such license to the Chief of Police. The
licensee shall carry the license certificate at all times.
§ 5-206 SAME; INVESTIGATION FEE.
   At the time of filing the application, a fee of $5 shall be paid to the City
Clerk to cover the cost of investigation of the facts stated in the foregoing
application.
(Prior Code, § 5-106)
§ 5-207 LICENSE FEE; TIME LIMITS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   Fees for the required license under §
5-202 shall be as follows:
      (1)   Twenty dollars per day for each day, or portion thereof, that the
licensee shall solicit within the city limits. Such license shall be limited to
and effective only for the days set out in the license and only between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.; and
      (2)   One hundred dollars per calendar year for any person or firm not
having a permanently established place of business within the city, but which
has a permanently established house-to-house or wholesale business. Such
licensee shall be limited to solicitations or sales only between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., or upon invitation at any hour.
   (b)   No license fee shall be required of:
      (1)   Any person selling products of the farm or orchard actually
produced by the seller;
      (2)   Any businesses, trades or occupations which are a part of any fair
or celebration which is sponsored by, or for which the expense of such fair or
celebration is paid or supplemented by the city or the State of Kansas or any
governmental subdivision thereof; or
      (3)   Any charitable organization.
(Ord. 1421, passed 2-11-2008)
§ 5-208 RENEWAL.
   All licenses issued shall be subject to renewal upon a showing of compliance
with §§
5-202 and
5-203 within a six-month period prior to the renewal date. The City Clerk need
not require an additional application under §
5-203 or an additional investigation and investigation fee under §§
5-205 and
5-206 unless complaints have been received of violations of the conditions in
which any license has heretofore been issued. The City Clerk shall not renew or
extend any license if there is satisfactory evidence of any grounds for the
suspension or revocation of any prior license, and the applicant shall be
required to apply for a license as in the case of an original license.
§ 5-209 DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; NOTICE.
   The City Clerk or Chief of Police may deny any application or may revoke or
suspend for a period of not to exceed 30 days any license issued under this
article, for any of the following causes:
   (a)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
   (b)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business;
   (c)   Any violation of this article;
   (d)   Conducting a business as defined in §
5-201 in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of
the peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of
the city. Notice of the denial, revocation or suspension of a license shall be
given in writing to the applicant or mailed to his or her last known address
and the City Clerk shall set forth the grounds of such denial, revocation or
suspension; and
   (e)   Conviction of the crime of theft, larceny, fraud, embezzlement or any
felony within two years before the application date.
§ 5-210 APPEAL TO GOVERNING BODY.
   (a)   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or City
Clerk in the denial of an application or revocation or suspension of a license
as provided in this article, shall have the right of appeal to the Governing
Body.
   (b)   Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the City Clerk within 14
days after notice of revocation, suspension or denial of the license has been
given to or mailed to such applicant’s last known address and setting forth the
grounds for appeal.
   (c)   The Governing Body shall set a time and place for a hearing on such
appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant in the same
manner as provided herein for notice of denial, revocation or suspension.
   (d)   The decision and order of the Governing Body on such appeal shall be
final and conclusive.
§ 5-211 REGULATIONS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to make false or fraudulent
statements concerning the quality of nature of his or her goods, wares and
merchandise for the purpose of inducing another to purchase the same.
   (b)   Licensees are required to exhibit their license at the request of any
person to whom they attempt to sell their goods, wares and merchandise or take
orders for future delivery of the same.
§ 5-212 USE OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Except when authorized in writing by the City Clerk, no peddler, solicitor
or canvasser or any other person shall have exclusive right to any location in
the public streets for the purpose of selling or soliciting sales, nor shall
any person be permitted a stationary location in the public streets, nor shall
any person be permitted to operate in the sidewalks and streets within the fire
limits of the city or any congested area where his or her operations might
impede or inconvenience the public.
§ 5-213 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   Except when authorized in writing by the City Clerk, no licensee nor any
person in his or her behalf, shall use any sound device, including any loud-
speaking radio or sound-amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys,
parks or other public places of the city or upon any private premises in the
city where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be
capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or
other public places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods,
wares or merchandise that such licensee proposes to sell.
ARTICLE 3: SALES TAX
Section
   
5-301   Retailers’ sales tax
§ 5-301 RETAILERS’ SALES TAX.
   (a)   A majority of the electors voting thereon having approved, at a
special question election held on June 3, 2008, the levying of a retailers’
sales tax in the city, for the purpose of funding improvements and maintenance
of the city swimming pool, as authorized by K.S.A. 12-187 et seq., as amended,
there is hereby levied a city retailers’ sales tax in the amount of 0.25% (in
addition to the present city sales tax of 1% for a total of 1.25%) to take
effect on October 1, 2008.
   (b)   Except as may otherwise be provided by law, such tax shall be
identical in its application and exemptions therefrom to the State Retailers’
Sales Tax Act and all laws and administrative rules and regulations of the
State Department of Revenue relating to the state retailers’ sales tax shall
apply to such city retailers’ sales tax insofar as such laws and regulations
may be made applicable. The services of the Department of Revenue shall be
utilized to administer, enforce and collect such tax.
(Ord. 1365, passed 4-14-2003; Ord. 1427, passed 6-8-2008)
CHAPTER VI: ELECTIONS
   Article
      
1.   CITY ELECTIONS
      
2.   WARDS
      
3.   FILING FOR ELECTION
      
4.   ELECTION CAMPAIGN SIGNS
ARTICLE 1: CITY ELECTIONS
Section
   
6-101   Elections; terms
§ 6-101 ELECTIONS; TERMS.
   (a)   The city, by the power vested in it by Article 12, Section 5 of the
Kansas Constitution hereby elects to and does exempt itself and make
inapplicable to it the provisions of K.S.A. 14-103, K.S.A. 14-201 and K.S.A.
14-204, that apply to this city, but are parts of enactments which do not apply
uniformly to all cities, to the extent that such are in conflict herewith.
   (b)   The Governing Body shall consist of a Mayor and eight Council members
to be elected to terms as set forth herein. The Mayor and Council members shall
be residents and qualified electors of the city.
   (c)   Those Governing Body positions with terms expiring in April 2017,
shall expire on the second Monday in January of 2018, when the city officials
elected in the November 2017 general election take office. Those Governing Body
positions with terms expiring in April 2019, shall expire on the second Monday
in January of 2020, when the city officials elected in the November 2019
general election take office.
   (d)   A general election of city officers shall take place on the Tuesday
succeeding the first Monday in November 2017. Succeeding general elections will
be held every two years for all such Governing Body positions whose terms have
expired. Two Council members from each ward shall be elected at one election,
and the other two Council members from each ward shall be elected at the
succeeding election. The Council members shall have four-year terms. The Mayor
shall have a two-year term.
(Charter Ord. 23, passed 9-12-2016)
ARTICLE 2: WARDS
Section
   
6-201   Division
   
6-202   First Ward
   
6-203   Second Ward
§ 6-201 DIVISION.
   The city is divided into two wards.
(Prior Code, § 6-201)
§ 6-202 FIRST WARD.
   The first ward consists of that portion of the city lying south of Bridge
Street.
(Prior Code, § 6-202)
§ 6-203 SECOND WARD.
   The second ward consists of that portion of the city lying north of Bridge
Street.
(Prior Code, § 6-203)
ARTICLE 3: FILING FOR ELECTION
Section
   
6-301   Candidates for City Council
   
6-302   Candidates for Mayor
§ 6-301 CANDIDATES FOR CITY COUNCIL.
   Any person who otherwise meets the requirements for candidacy for City
Council member may file as a candidate for City Council member by:
   (a)   Paying the filing fee required by K.S.A. 25-21a01; or
   (b)   Having had filed on his or her behalf a nomination petition or a
declaration of candidacy in accordance with K.S.A. 25-205, and amendments
thereto, accompanied by any fee required by law, signed by 30 qualified
electors of the ward from which the candidate seeks to be elected.
(Ord. 1506, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 6-302 CANDIDATES FOR MAYOR.
   Any person who otherwise meets the requirements for candidacy for Mayor may
file as a candidate for Mayor by:
   (a)   Paying the filing fee required by K.S.A. 25-21a01; or
   (b)   Having had filed on his or her behalf a nomination petition or a
declaration of candidacy in accordance with K.S.A. 25-205, and amendments
thereto, accompanied by any fee required by law, signed by 30 qualified
electors of the city.
(Ord. 1506, passed 3-13-2017)
ARTICLE 4: ELECTION CAMPAIGN SIGNS
Section
   
6-401   Campaign signs
§ 6-401 CAMPAIGN SIGNS.
   (a)   Campaign signs for any upcoming election may be placed on private
property or on the unpaved right-of-way for city streets on private property
during the 45-day period prior to any election and the two-day period following
any such election.
   (b)   Campaign signs must be removed within 15 days following any election.
Campaign signs not removed within 15 days of any election shall be subject to
removal and disposal by the city and/or the property owner cited for violation
of this section.
   (c)   All campaign signs must comply with existing zoning regulations
regarding the size and placement of signs so as not to impede sight lines or
sight distance for safety reasons.
(Ord. 1544, passed 5-13-2024)
CHAPTER VII: FIRE
   Article
      
1.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
2.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
3.   FIREWORKS
ARTICLE 1: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
7-101   City Fire Department established
   
7-102   Membership; fire drill
   
7-103   Supervision of Department
   
7-104   Fire Chief; powers
   
7-105   Same; records
   
7-106   Assistant Chief
   
7-107   Private use of fire equipment
   
7-108   Fire equipment; emergency right-of-way and use
   
7-109   Same; fire hose
   
7-110   Obstruction of fire hydrant
   
7-111   False alarm
§ 7-101 CITY FIRE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   The Fire Department of the city is hereby established and the Department
shall be organized to consist of a Fire Chief, an Assistant Fire Chief and not
less than ten nor more than 22 firefighters. Members of the Fire Department
shall be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-101) (Ord. 1045, passed 8-8-1977)
§ 7-102 MEMBERSHIP; FIRE DRILL.
   Members of the Fire Department shall all be volunteers. They shall meet at
least once each month for practice and drill. The Chief of the Fire Department
shall keep a record of attendance of such meetings. Any member who shall fail
to attend six consecutive meetings shall automatically become expelled from
membership.
§ 7-103 SUPERVISION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be under the supervision of the Mayor
and shall have immediate superintendency and control over and be responsible
for the care and condition of the fire apparatus and equipment. It shall be the
Chief’s duty to see that all such apparatus and equipment is ready at all times
for immediate use. It shall also be the Chief’s duty to submit a written report
as to the condition of all fire apparatus and equipment to the Governing Body
at their first meeting in October of each year.
§ 7-104 FIRE CHIEF; POWERS.
   (a)   The Fire Chief shall be responsible for the discipline of the members
and is hereby given authority to suspend or expel any member for refusal to
obey orders or for misconduct or failure to do his or her duty at a fire.
   (b)   The Chief shall also have the right to summon any and all persons
present to aid in extinguishing a fire or to aid in removing personal property
from any building on fire or in danger thereof and in guarding the same.
   (c)   At fires, the Chief shall have full power, control and command of all
persons present and shall direct the use of the fire apparatus and equipment,
and command the firefighters in the discharge of their duties. He or she shall
take such measures as he or she shall deem proper and necessary in the
preservation and protection of property and extinguishing of fires.
§ 7-105 SAME; RECORDS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall keep in convenient form a complete
record of all fires. Such information shall include the time and location,
construction of building, owner, occupancy, how extinguished, value of building
and contents, loss on building and contents, insurance on building and
contents, members responding to the alarm, and any other information deemed
advisable.
§ 7-106 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Fire Chief shall perform all the
duties and have all the authority and responsibility of the Chief as conferred
by this article.
§ 7-107 PRIVATE USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to take away or use any fire
apparatus or equipment for any private purpose or for any person willfully and
without proper authority to remove, take away, keep or conceal any tool,
appliance, equipment or other article used in any way by the Fire Department.
§ 7-108 FIRE EQUIPMENT; EMERGENCY RIGHT-OF-WAY AND USE.
   (a)   All fire apparatus and equipment is hereby given and granted the
exclusive right-of-way over and through all streets, avenues, alleys and public
thoroughfares in the city while en route to fires or in response to any alarm,
and it shall be unlawful for any person or persons to in any manner obstruct or
hinder the apparatus or equipment.
   (b)   All emergency vehicles of the Fire Department, while proceeding on
official business, shall be operated in strict accordance with the requirements
of the state statutes regarding the operation of emergency vehicles, and each
departmental member assigned to the operation of emergency vehicles shall
familiarize himself or herself with the requirements of the law and govern
himself or herself accordingly. Any operator violating the provisions of the
state law shall be liable for disciplinary action.
§ 7-109 SAME; FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to drive any vehicle over any
fire hose laid on any street, alley or lot. This section shall not apply to any
apparatus or vehicle being driven by members of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-109)
§ 7-110 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed upon or
about any fire hydrant any rubbish, building material, fence or other
obstruction of any character, or in any manner obstruct, hinder or delay the
Fire Department in the performance of its duties in case of fire. Nor shall any
person fasten to any fire hydrant any guy rope or brace, nor stand any vehicle
within 15 feet of any such hydrant.
§ 7-111 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make or sound or cause to
be made or sounded, or by any other means, any false alarm.
ARTICLE 2: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
7-201   Fire Prevention Code incorporated
   
7-202   Same; enforcement
   
7-203   Same; amendments
   
7-204   Same; limits for storage of explosives
   
7-205   Same; modifications
   
7-206   Open burning
   
7-207   Accumulation of rubbish and trash
   
7-208   Stacking of hay or straw
   
7-209   Keeping of packing materials
   
7-210   Storage of ashes
   
7-211   Filling gasoline tanks of motor vehicles
   
7-212   Fire hazards generally
   
7-213   Same; inspections to discover
   
7-214   Abatement of fire hazards; issuing order
   
7-215   Same; service of order; records
§ 7-201 FIRE PREVENTION CODE INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby adopted by the Governing Body of the city, for the purpose
of prescribing regulations, governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosion, that certain code and standards known as the
International Fire Code, 2003 Edition, including all the Appendix chapters,
published by the International Code Council, one copy shall be filed in the
office of the Clerk of the city, and the same are hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on
which this article shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the city.
(Ord. 1389, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 7-202 SAME; ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire
Department.
§ 7-203 SAME; AMENDMENTS.
   (a)   Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the code hereby adopted, it
shall be held to mean the City of Humboldt.
   (b)   All sections of the Uniform Fire Code relating to fireworks are hereby
deleted in their entirety.
§ 7-204 SAME; LIMITS FOR STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   The limits referred to in § 53b of the code hereby adopted in §
7-201 in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, the
limits referred to in § 74a of the code adopted by §
7-201 in which storage of class one liquids is prohibited and the limits
referred to in § 114 of the code adopted in §
7-201 in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas are hereby established
to be all that part of the city which lies west to the right-of-way of the
Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railroad.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)
§ 7-205 SAME; MODIFICATIONS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have the power to modify any of the
provisions of the code adopted by §
7-201 upon application, in writing, by the owner or lessee or his or her duly
authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying
out the strict letter of the code; provided that the spirit of the code shall
be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The
particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of
the Chief of the Fire Department shall be entered upon the records of the
Department and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 7-205)
§ 7-206 OPEN BURNING.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person or persons to burn or permit or cause to
be burned any garbage deposited in a garbage container or any refuse burner in
the city. It is further unlawful to burn any garbage in any trash or refuse
container in connection with any combustible trash or materials or tin cans.
   (b)   All combustible trash and discarded materials must be accumulated on
private premises in accordance with provisions relating to the prevention of
fires and the prevention of nuisances. It is unlawful to deposit combustible
materials in any garbage container for the purpose of destroying the same by
burning or to burn any such combustibles in connection with any garbage or
putrescible wastes.
   (c)   Burning shall be allowed on a case by case basis by first obtaining a
burning permit on a form provided by and if approved by the Fire Chief or his
or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 7-207)
§ 7-207 ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH AND TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow to accumulate or to keep in any
part of any building or outside of and adjacent to any building or in any
alley, sidewalk, street or premises within 30 feet of any building any rubbish,
trash, waste paper, excelsior, empty boxes, barrels or other combustibles that
shall constitute a fire hazard.
§ 7-208 STACKING OF HAY OR STRAW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, stack or store any hay or
straw within 500 feet of any building located inside the fire limits of the
city.
§ 7-209 KEEPING OF PACKING MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep excelsior or other packing material in any
other than metal or wood metal lined boxes or bins having self-closing or
automatic covers. All refuse and trash from rooms where packing or unpacking is
done shall be removed daily.
§ 7-210 STORAGE OF ASHES.
   It shall be unlawful to store ashes inside of any non-fire-proof building
unless they are stored in a noncombustible container or receptacle, and a
clearance of at least five feet shall be maintained between such container or
receptacle and any combustible materials not placed therein. Ashes shall not be
stored outside of any building in wooden, plastic or paper product receptacles
or dumped in contact with or in close proximity to any combustible materials.
§ 7-211 FILLING GASOLINE TANKS OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The engines of motor vehicles shall be stopped when the gasoline tanks of
such vehicles are being filled with gasoline at service stations or other
places where gasoline is supplied to motor vehicles. The driver or person in
control of such vehicle when the gasoline tank of same is being filled who
refuses, neglects or fails to stop the engine of such vehicle shall likewise be
guilty of a violation of this code.
§ 7-212 FIRE HAZARDS GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful for any person to cause or create anywhere within the city,
or to permit on any premises under his or her control, any situation or
condition that is conducive to or likely to cause or permit the outbreak of
fire or the spreading of fire. Any situation or condition conducive to the
outbreak of or spreading of fire is declared to be a fire hazard. The violation
of or failure to comply with any law pertaining to the storage, handling or use
of inflammable oils, explosives, liquefied petroleum gases or fertilizers and
all wires and other conductors charged with electricity, is declared to be a
fire hazard. The placing of stools, chairs or any other obstruction in the
aisles, hallways, doorway or exit of any theater, public hall, auditorium,
church or other place of indoor public assemblage, or the failure to provide
any such place of public assemblage with sufficient, accessible and
unobstructed fire exits and escapes is also declared to be a fire hazard. The
obstruction of any street, avenue, alley, fire hydrant or any other condition
that might delay the Fire Department in fighting fire is declared to be
unlawful.
§ 7-213 SAME; INSPECTIONS TO DISCOVER.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to inspect or cause to be inspected
by Fire Department officers or members, as often as may be necessary, all
buildings, particularly all mercantile buildings, manufacturing plants,
warehouses, garages, hotels, boarding houses, rooming houses, theaters,
auditoriums and all places of public assemblage, for the purpose of discovering
the violation of any fire preventive law or any fire hazard and ascertaining
and causing to be corrected any conditions liable to cause fires and to see
that all places of public assemblage, hotels and rooming houses have sufficient
and unobstructed facilities for escape therefrom in case of fire.
§ 7-214 ABATEMENT OF FIRE HAZARDS; ISSUING ORDER.
   Whenever any officer or member of the Fire Department shall find or discover
any fire hazard or shall find in any building or upon any premises combustible
or explosive material or dangerous accumulation of rubbish or unnecessary
accumulation of paper, boxes, shavings or any other inflammable material, so
situated as to endanger property by the probability of fire, or shall find or
discover any violation of this article or any other law hazardous to public
safety from fires, the Fire Chief shall order the fire hazard or danger from
the fire forthwith abated and remedied and such order shall be complied with
immediately by the owner or occupant of such buildings or premises. If the
hazard or condition ordered abated and remedied is a violation of, or a failure
to comply with any law, the Fire Chief shall report the matter to the City
Attorney and he or she shall, if he or she deems it advisable, prosecute the
offender.
§ 7-215 SAME; SERVICE OF ORDER; RECORDS.
   Any order made under § 7-212 shall be in writing and may be served
personally upon the owner or occupant of the premises or by leaving it with any
person in charge of the premises or if the premises are unoccupied and the
owner is a nonresident of the city, then by mailing a copy to the owner’s last
known post office address. One notice to either the occupant or owner shall be
sufficient. The Fire Chief shall keep a record of and copies of all such orders
and notices and shall follow up such notices at the expiration of the time for
compliance therewith and when complied with make proper entry, and if not
complied with, file complaint with the Municipal Court against the property
owner and/or occupant.
ARTICLE 3: FIREWORKS
Section
   
7-301   Fireworks defined
   
7-302   Fireworks prohibited
   
7-303   Same; exceptions; discharges
   
7-304   Same; exception; sale of fireworks
   
7-305   Reserved
   
7-306   Reserved
   
7-307   Approved fireworks; bottle rockets prohibited
   
7-308   Discharge on streets and public property prohibited
   
7-309   Throwing prohibited
   
7-310   Sale of fireworks; where prohibited
   
7-311   Retail display of fireworks
   
7-312   Fire extinguishers required
   
7-313   Restrictions as to gasoline installations
   
7-314   Authority of Fire Chief
   
7-315   Banning fireworks
§ 7-301 FIREWORKS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Those items as defined by the rules and regulations of the Kansas
State Fire Marshal, and shall include but not be limited to: firecrackers,
torpedoes, sparklers, Roman candles, sky rockets, pin wheels, cap or toy
pistols (except such pistols or any like device designed to discharge paper
caps containing not more than 0.25 grains of explosive mixture), canes, bombs,
cannons or other like devices and all classes of fireworks that may be shot
into the air or propelled over the ground by explosive discharges or any device
using blank cartridges.
§ 7-302 FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Except as provided in §§
7-303 and
7-304, it shall be unlawful for any person to keep, store, display for sale,
fire, discharge or explode any fireworks.
   (b)   Nothing in this article shall be construed as applying to:
      (1)   Toy paper caps containing not more than 0.25 of a grain of
explosive composition per cap;
      (2)   The manufacture, storage, sale or authorized use of signals
necessary for the safe operation of railroads or other classes of public or
private transportation;
      (3)   The military or naval forces of the United States or of the State
of Kansas while in the performance of official duty;
      (4)   Law enforcement officers while in the performance of official duty;
or
      (5)   The sale or use of blank cartridges for ceremonial, theatrical or
athletic events.
§ 7-303 SAME; EXCEPTIONS; DISCHARGES.
   (a)   Section
7-302 of this article shall not apply to the firing or discharge of fireworks
within the city between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. midnight on June
27 through July 4.
   (b)   The Governing Body may, in its discretion, grant permission at any
time for the public display of fireworks by responsible individuals or
organizations provided such display shall be of such a character and conducted
in a location and manner so as to not create a fire hazard or endanger persons
or property.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to conduct any public
display of fireworks without having first obtained a permit therefore from the
city.
(Ord. 1328, passed 10-11-1999; Ord. 1543, passed 12-11-2023)
§ 7-304 SAME; EXCEPTION; SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   Any person who has first obtained a valid permit to sell fireworks within
the city limits may do so between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. from
June 27 through July 5 of each year.
(Ord. 1328, passed 10-11-1999; Ord. 1543, passed 12-11-2023)
§ 7-305 RESERVED.
§ 7-306 RESERVED.
§ 7-307 APPROVED FIREWORKS; BOTTLE ROCKETS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   All fireworks offered for sale and discharged within the city shall be
of a type that has been tested and approved for sale and use within the State
of Kansas by the Kansas State Fire Marshal.
   (b)   Bottle rockets and other similar self-propelled firework or fireworks
devices consisting of a tube and attached guiding stock or rod shall not be
sold or discharged in the city.
§ 7-308 DISCHARGE ON STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge, ignite or fire any
fireworks upon any public street, alley or avenue or in any park or public
place within the city.
§ 7-309 THROWING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, cast or propel fireworks of
any kind in the direction of or into the path of any animal, person or group of
persons, or from, in the direction of, or into any vehicle of any kind.
§ 7-310 SALE OF FIREWORKS; WHERE PROHIBITED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for fireworks to be stored, sold or displayed for
sale in a place of business where paint, oils, varnishes, turpentine or
gasoline or other flammable substances are kept, unless such fireworks are in a
separate and distinct section or department of the premises.
   (b)   Where the Fire Chief deems there is a fire hazard, he or she is hereby
authorized to have such hazard abated.
§ 7-311 RETAIL DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS.
   (a)   All retailers are forbidden to expose fireworks where the sun shines
through glass on the merchandise displayed, except where such fireworks are in
the original package.
   (b)   All fireworks displayed for sale must remain in original packages,
except where an attendant is on constant duty at all times where such fireworks
are on display; provided, that fireworks in open stock may be kept in show
cases or counters out of the reach of the public without an attendant being on
duty.
   (c)   Signs reading “Fireworks for Sale - No Smoking Allowed” shall be
displayed in the section of a store or premises set aside for the sale of
fireworks.
§ 7-312 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS REQUIRED.
   (a)   Two functioning and approved fire extinguishers must be provided and
kept in close proximity to the stock of fireworks in all permanent buildings
where fireworks are stored, sold or displayed for sale.
   (b)   Small stands, temporarily erected to be used as a place for storing
and selling fireworks only, shall have one such fire extinguisher, or in lieu
of the fire extinguisher, a pressurized water hose with nozzle end within five
feet of the fireworks stand.
§ 7-313 RESTRICTIONS AS TO GASOLINE INSTALLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to store, keep, sell, display for sale or discharge any
fireworks within 50 feet of any gasoline pump, gasoline filling station,
gasoline bulk station or any building in which gasoline or volatile liquids are
sold in quantities in excess of one gallon, except in stores where cleaners,
paints and oils are handled in sealed containers only.
§ 7-314 AUTHORITY OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Chief of the Fire Department is authorized to seize and confiscate all
fireworks that may be kept, stored or used in violation of any section of this
article, and all of the rules of the Kansas State Fire Marshal. He or she shall
dispose of all such fireworks as may be directed by the Governing Body.
§ 7-315 BANNING FIREWORKS.
   The Fire Chief, shall have the authority and discretion to ban the discharge
of all fireworks within the corporate limits of the city if the weather
conditions make discharge of fireworks in the city hazardous to persons or
property.
CHAPTER VIII: HEALTH AND WELFARE
   Article
      
1.   HEALTH NUISANCES
      
2.   ENVIRONMENTAL CODE
      
3.   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
      
4.   WEEDS
      
5.   MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
      
6.   RODENT CONTROL
      
7.   AFFIRMATIVE ACTION POLICY
      
8.   ENVIRONMENTAL EMERGENCY RESPONSE COSTS
      
9.   FAIR HOUSING POLICY
      
10.   INSURANCE PROCEEDS FUND
ARTICLE 1: HEALTH NUISANCES
Section
   
8-101   Nuisances unlawful; defined
   
8-102   Public officer
   
8-103   Complaints; inquiry and inspection
   
8-104   Right of entry
   
8-105   Order of violation
   
8-106   Same; contents
   
8-107   Failure to comply; penalty
   
8-108   Abatement
   
8-109   Hearing
   
8-110   Costs assessed
§ 8-101 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL; DEFINED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit any nuisance
within the city as defined, without limitation, as follows:
   (a)   Filth, excrement, lumber, rocks, dirt, cans, paper, trash, metal or
any other offensive or disagreeable thing or substance thrown or left or
deposited upon any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, park, public or private
enclosure or lot whether vacant or occupied;
   (b)    All dead animals not removed within 24 hours after death;
   (c)   Any place or structure or substance which emits or causes any
offensive, disagreeable or nauseous odors;
   (d)   All stagnant ponds or pools of water;
   (e)   All grass or weeds or other unsightly vegetation not usually
cultivated or grown for domestic use or to be marketed or for ornamental
purposes;
   (f)   Abandoned iceboxes or refrigerators kept on the premises under the
control of any person, or deposited on the sanitary landfill, or any icebox or
refrigerator not in actual use unless the door, opening or lid thereof is
unhinged, or unfastened and removed therefrom;
   (g)   All articles or things whatsoever caused, kept, maintained or
permitted by any person to the injury, annoyance or inconvenience of the public
or of any neighborhood; or
   (h)   Any fence, structure, thing or substance placed upon or being upon any
street, sidewalk, alley or public ground so as to obstruct the same, except as
permitted by the laws of the city.
(K.S.A. 21-6204 et seq.) (Prior Code, § 8-101) (Ord. 1173, passed 10-13-1986)
§ 8-102 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall designate a public officer to be charged with the
administration and enforcement of this article.
§ 8-103 COMPLAINTS; INQUIRY AND INSPECTION.
   The public officer shall make inquiry and inspection of premises upon
receiving a complaint or complaints in writing signed by two or more persons
stating that a nuisance exists and describing the same and where located, or is
informed that a nuisance may exist by the Board of Health, Chief of Police or
the Fire Chief. The public officer may make such inquiry and inspection when he
or she observes conditions that appear to constitute a nuisance. Upon making
any inquiry and inspection, the public officer shall make a written report of
findings.
§ 8-104 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer has the right of access and entry upon private property
at any reasonable time to the extent allowed by law for the purpose of making
inquiry and inspection to determine if a nuisance exists.
§ 8-105 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The Governing Body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property, or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of §
8-101, an order stating the violation. The order shall be served on the owner
or agent of such property by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. If the property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident,
then by mailing the order by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
last known address of the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
Governing Body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first class mail.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-106 SAME; CONTENTS.
   (a)   The order shall state the condition(s) that is (are) in violation of §
8-101. The order shall also inform the person, corporation, partnership or
association that:
      (1)   He, she or they shall have ten days from the receipt of the order
to abate the condition(s) in violation of §
8-101; provided, however, that the Governing Body (or its designee named in §
8-205) shall grant one or more extensions of the ten-day period if the owner or
agent of the property demonstrates that due diligence is being exercised in the
abatement of the conditions in violation of §
8-201; or
      (2)   He, she or they have ten days from the receipt of the order, plus
any additional time granted under subsection (a)(1) above, to request a hearing
before the Governing Body or its designated representative of the matter as
provided by §
8-109.
   (b)   Failure to abate the condition(s) or to request a hearing within the
time allowed may result in prosecution as provided by §
8-107 and/or abatement of the condition(s) by the city as provided by §
8-208.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-107 FAILURE TO COMPLY; PENALTY.
   Should the person, corporation, partnership or association fail to comply
with the order to abate the nuisance or request a hearing, the public officer
may file a complaint in the Municipal Court of the city against such person,
corporation, partnership or association and upon conviction of any violation of
provisions of §
8-101, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, or be imprisoned not to exceed
30 days or be both fined and imprisoned. Each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues after notice has been served shall constitute an
additional or separate offense.
§ 8-108 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-107, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in the
following manner. If a person to whom an order has been served pursuant to §
8-105 has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor
requested a hearing before the Governing Body within the time periods specified
in §
8-106, the public officer may present a resolution to the Governing Body for
adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of the city to abate
the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage of
the resolution. The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by
the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the
nuisance was located as provided in §
8-110.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in violation
in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
      (2)   Certified mail, return receipt requested; or
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
   (c)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
Governing Body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first class mail.
§ 8-109 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-106, such request shall be made in writing to the Governing Body. Failure to
make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the person’s
right to contest the findings of the public officer. The hearing shall be held
by the Governing Body or its designated representative as soon as possible
after the filing of the request therefore, and the person shall be advised by
the city of the time and place of the hearing at least five days in advance
thereof. At any such hearing, the person may be represented by counsel, and the
person and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed
necessary and proper by the Governing Body or its designated representative.
The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules of evidence.
Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the Governing Body or its
designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted by the
Governing Body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in the
manner provided in §
8-108.
§ 8-110 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to §
8-108, the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by certified
mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or removal
incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is due
within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover the
cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section. The
notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or abatement is not
paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or removal shall be
collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or
shall be assessed as special assessments and charged against the lot or parcel
of land on which the nuisance was located; and the City Clerk, at the time of
certifying other city taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs; and
the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against
such lot or parcel of land; and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer
and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may
pursue collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner
provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full
cost and applicable interest has been paid in full.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
ARTICLE 2: ENVIRONMENTAL CODE
Section
   
8-201   Title
   
8-202   Legislative funding of fact
   
8-203   Purpose
   
8-204   Rules of construction
   
8-205   Definitions
   
8-206   Public officer; right of entry; enforcement standards
   
8-207   Unlawful acts
   
8-208   Order of violation
   
8-209   Failure to comply; penalty
   
8-210   Abatement
   
8-211   Hearing
   
8-212   Appeals
   
8-213   Costs assessed
   
8-214   Construction
§ 8-201 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Environmental Code of Humboldt, Kansas.”
(Ord. 1423, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 8-202 LEGISLATIVE FINDING OF FACT.
   (a)   The Governing Body finds that unsightly and hazardous conditions due
to the following create a blighting influence on adjoining properties,
neighborhoods and the city generally, and create conditions which are injurious
to the health and safety of the residents of the city, and are inimical to the
general welfare of the community:
      (1)   Dilapidation, deterioration or disrepair of walls, siding, fences
or structure exteriors;
      (2)   Accumulations increasing the hazards of accidents or other
calamities;
      (3)   Structural defects;
      (4)   Uncleanliness; and
      (5)   Unsightly stored or parked material, equipment, supplies,
machinery, vehicles or parts thereof.
   (b)   The Governing Body desires to promote the public’s health, safety and
welfare by insuring the repair, removal, abatement and regulation of such
conditions in the manner hereafter provided.
(Ord. 1423, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 8-203 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to protect, preserve, upgrade and regulate
the environmental quality of industrial, commercial and residential
neighborhoods in the city by outlawing conditions which are injurious to the
health, safety, welfare or aesthetic characteristics of the neighborhoods and
to provide for the administration and enforcement thereof.
(Ord. 1423, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 8-204 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following rules of construction shall
apply.
   (a)   Any part thereof: whenever the words premises, structure, building or
yard are used they shall be construed as though they were followed by the words
“or any part thereof.”
   (b)   Gender: words of gender shall be construed to mean neuter, feminine or
masculine, as may be applicable.
   (c)   Number: words of number shall be construed to mean singular or plural,
as may be applicable.
   (d)   Tense: words of tense shall be construed to mean present or future, as
may be applicable.
   (e)   Shall: the word shall is mandatory and not permissive.
(Ord. 1423, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 8-205 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which:
      (1)   Is not currently registered or tagged pursuant to K.S.A. 8-126 to
8-149 inclusive, as amended;
      (2)   Is parked in violation of any ordinance;
      (3)   Is incapable of moving under its own power; or
      (4)   Is in a junked or wrecked condition.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  A secondary structure which is detached from the
principal structure on the same premises, including, but not limited to,
garages, sheds, barns or outbuildings.
   COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL. Used or intended to be used primarily for other
than residential purposes.
   DILAPIDATION, DETERIORATION OR DISREPAIR. Any condition characterized by,
but not limited to: holes, breaks, rot, decay, crumbling, cracking, peeling or
flaking paint, rusting or other evidence of physical damage, neglect, lack of
maintenance, excessive use or weathering.
   EXTERIOR. The parts of a structure which are exposed to the weather or
subject to contact with the elements, including, but not limited to: sidings,
facings, veneers, masonry, roofs, foundations, porches, screens, shutters,
windows, doors or signs.
   GARBAGE. Any accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable waste matter that
results from the handling, preparation, cooking, serving, delivering, storage
or use of foodstuffs.
   OWNER. The legal owner of record, his or her designated agent, lessee,
tenant, occupant or other person having charge or control of the premises,
unless otherwise specifically described or defined herein.
   PERSON. Any individual, individuals, corporation, partnership,
unincorporated association, other business organization, committee, board,
trustee, receiver, agent or other representative who has charge, care, control
or responsibility for maintenance of any premises, regardless of status as
owner, renter, tenant or lessee, and whether or not in possession.
   PREMISES. Any lot, plot or parcel of land including any structures located
thereon.
   REFUSE. Garbage and trash.
   RESIDENTIAL. Used or intended to be used primarily for human habitation.
   STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected on any premises and which is
attached to the ground or attached to something which is attached to the
ground.
   TRASH. Any combustible waste consisting of, but not limited to: papers,
cartons, boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, furniture, bedding, rags, leaves,
yard trimmings or tree branches, and non-combustible waste consisting of, but
not limited to: metal, tin, cans, glass, crockery, plastics, mineral matter,
ashes, clinkers or street rubbish and sweepings.
   WEATHERED.  Deterioration caused by exposure to the elements.
   YARD. The area of the premises not occupied by any structure.
(Ord. 1423, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 8-206 PUBLIC OFFICER; RIGHT OF ENTRY; ENFORCEMENT STANDARDS.
   (a)   The Governing Body shall designate a public officer to be charged with
the administration and enforcement of this article.
   (b)   The public officer shall have the right of access and entry upon
private property at any reasonable time for the purpose of making inquiry and
inspection to determine if a whether a violation of this article exists.
   (c)   The public officer shall make inquiry and inspection of any premises,
upon receiving a complaint in writing signed by two or more persons, stating
that a violation of this article exists, and describing the nature and location
of the violation, or upon being otherwise reasonably informed of or upon
observing conditions that appear to constitute a violation. No person shall be
found in violation of this article unless the inquiry and inspection of the
premises discloses a quality and appearance not commensurate with the character
of the neighborhood, or evidence of a level of maintenance or appearance
significantly below that of the rest of the neighborhood and which includes
conditions declared unlawful under §
2-207; provided, however, that any such conditions under §
8-207 which are not readily visible or detectable from any public place or from
any surrounding private properly shall not constitute a violation of this
article. If after inquiry and inspection, the public officer believes a
violation of this article exists, the public officer shall make a written
report of such findings to the Governing Body.
(Ord. 1423, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 8-207 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow to exist on any
residential, commercial or industrial premises, conditions which are injurious
to the health, safety or general welfare of the residents of the community or
conditions which are detrimental to adjoining property, the neighborhood or the
city.
   (b)   For the purpose of fair and efficient enforcement and administration,
such unlawful conditions shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   Exterior conditions (yard) shall include, but not be limited to,
the scattering over or the parking, leaving, depositing or accumulation on the
yard of any of the following:
         (A)   Lumber, wire, metal, tires, concrete, masonry products, plastic
products, supplies, equipment, machinery, auto parts, junk or refuse;
         (B)   Abandoned motor vehicles;
         (C)   Furniture, stoves, refrigerators, televisions, sinks, bicycles,
lawn mowers or other such items of personal property; or
         (D)   Nauseous substances, carcasses of dead animals or places where
animals are kept in an offensive manner.
      (2)   Exterior conditions (structure) shall include, but not be limited
to, deteriorated, dilapidated or unsightly:
         (A)   Exteriors of any structure;
         (B)   Exteriors of any accessory structure; or
         (C)   Fences, walls or retaining walls.
(Ord. 1423, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 8-208 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   Upon receipt of the public officer’s written report of a violation,
the Governing Body shall serve upon the owner of the premises a written order,
which shall state:
      (1)   The condition which has caused the violation; and
      (2)   The owner shall have:
         (A)   Ten days from the receipt of the order to alleviate the exterior
(yard) conditions violation; and/or
         (B)   Forty-five days from the receipt of the order to alleviate the
exterior (structure) conditions violation.
   (b)   The owner may make a written request a hearing before the Governing
Body within ten days of the receipt of the order.
   (c)   Failure to abate the conditions or to request a hearing within the
time allowed may result in prosecution as provided by §
8-209 and/or abatement of the conditions by the city as provided by §
8-210.
   (d)   The cost of abating the violating conditions, including a reasonable
administrative fee, will be assessed against the owner, and if not paid within
30 days, such costs and fees will be added to the property tax of the property
as a special assessment.
   (e)   The owner may contact the public officer if there are questions
regarding the order.
   (f)   The order shall be served upon the owner by any of the following
means:
      (1)   Personal service upon the owner;
      (2)   Certified mail, return receipt requested;
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of the owner are unknown and cannot be
ascertained with due diligence, an affidavit to that effect shall be made by
the public officer and filed with the City Clerk, and notice shall be made by
publication once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city
newspaper and by posting a copy of the notice or order on the premises where
such condition exists;
      (4)   If the owner has failed to accept delivery or otherwise failed to
effectuate receipt of a notice or order sent pursuant to this section during
the preceding 24-month period, the Governing Body of the city may provide
notice of the issuance of any further orders to abate or remove a violating
condition from such property or provide notice of the order by such methods
including, but not limited to, door hangers, conspicuously posting notice of
such order on the property, personal notification, telephone communication or
first class mail; or
      (5)   If the property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident,
notice provided this section shall be given by telephone communication or first
class mail.
   (g)   The Governing Body shall grant one or more extensions to the time
periods stated in subsections (a)(2)(A) and/or (a)(2)(B) above, if the owner
demonstrates that due diligence is being exercised in the abatement of the
violating conditions.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e) (Ord. 1423, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 8-209 FAILURE TO COMPLY; PENALTY.
   Should the owner fail to comply with the order to abate the violating
conditions or to request a hearing, the public officer may file a complaint
against the owner in the Municipal Court, and upon conviction of any violation
of the provisions of §
8-207, the owner shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $100. Each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues after service of the order
shall constitute an additional or separate offense.
(Ord. 1423, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 8-210 ABATEMENT.
   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-209, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in the
following manner.
   (a)   If the owner has not abated the violating conditions or requested a
hearing before the Governing Body within the time periods specified, the public
officer may present a resolution to the Governing Body for adoption authorizing
the public officer or other agents of the city to abate the violating
conditions at the end of ten days after passage of the resolution. The
resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by the city shall be
charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the violating conditions
are located as provided in §
8-210.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the owner as provided in
§
8-208(b).
(Ord. 1423, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 8-211 HEARING.
   (a)   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-208(a)(2), such request shall be made in writing to the Governing Body.
Failure to make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the
owner’s right to contest the findings of the public officer and/or the
Governing Body.
   (b)   The hearing shall be held by the Governing Body, or its designated
representative, as soon as possible after the filing of the request therefor,
and the owner shall be advised by the city of the time and place of the hearing
at least five days in advance thereof.
   (c)   At any such hearing, the owner may be represented by counsel, and the
owner and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed
necessary and proper by the Governing Body or its designated representative.
The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules of evidence.
   (d)   Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the Governing Body, or
its designated representative, shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted by
the Governing Body, and the resolution shall be served upon the owner in the
manner provided in §
8-208(f).
§ 8-212 APPEALS.
   Any person affected by any determination of the Governing Body under §§
8-210 and
8-211 may appeal such determination in the manner provided by K.S.A. 60-2101.
§ 8-213 COSTS ASSESSED.
   (a)   Upon removing or abating the nuisance conditions, the city shall give
written notice to the owner of the total costs incurred by the city for such
removal or abatement. The total costs may include:
      (1)   A reasonable cost for labor and equipment necessary to remove or
abate the condition;
      (2)   The cost of providing notice, including postage and publication
costs; and
      (3)   A reasonable administrative fee.
   (b)   The notice shall be served as provided in §
8-208(f) above and shall state:
      (1)   The sum of the total cost of removing or abating the condition;
      (2)   Payment of such sum is due within 30 days of receipt of the notice;
      (3)   If such sum is not paid within the 30-day period, such sum shall be
assessed as a special assessment and charged against the subject property; and
      (4)   In addition, such sum may be collected in the manner provided by
K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto.
   (c)   If, after notice, the owner fails to pay the total cost of the removal
or abatement, the City Clerk, at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall
certify the unpaid portion of the costs to the County Clerk to extend the same
on the tax rolls of the county against such property to be collected by the
County Treasurer and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and
paid. The city may also pursue collection as provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115 and
amendments thereto, but only until the full cost and applicable interest has
been paid in full.
(K.S.A. 12-1,115) (Ord. 1423, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 8-214 CONSTRUCTION.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers
of the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its
laws nor to prevent or punish violations thereof. The powers conferred by this
article shall be in addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by the
Kansas Constitution, by any other law or by ordinance.
(Ord. 1423, passed 4-14-2008)
ARTICLE 3: JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
   
8-301   Findings of Governing Body
   
8-302   Definitions
   
8-303   Nuisances unlawful; defined; exceptions
   
8-304   Temporarily disabled vehicle
   
8-305   Public officer
   
8-306   Complaints; inquiry and inspection
   
8-307   Right of entry
   
8-308   Order of violation
   
8-309   Notice
   
8-310   Same; contents
   
8-311   Failure to comply; penalty
   
8-312   Abatement
   
8-313   Disposition of vehicle
   
8-314   Hearing
   
8-315   Costs assessed
§ 8-301 FINDINGS OF GOVERNING BODY.
   The Governing Body finds that junked, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative or
abandoned vehicles affect the health, safety and general welfare of citizens of
the city because they:
   (a)   Service as a breeding ground for flies, mosquitoes, rats and other
insects and rodents;
   (b)   Are a danger to persons, particularly children, because of broken
glass, sharp metal protrusions, insecure mounting on blocks, jacks or other
supports;
   (c)   Are a ready source of fire and explosion;
   (d)   Encourage pilfering and theft;
   (e)   Constitute a blighting influence upon the area in which they are
located; and
   (f)   Constitute a fire hazard because they frequently block access for fire
equipment to adjacent buildings and structures.
(Prior Code, § 8-301) (Ord. 1234, passed 4-8-1991)
§ 8-302 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE. A condition of being junked, wrecked, wholly or partially
dismantled, discarded, abandoned or unable to perform the function or purpose
for which it was originally constructed;
   VEHICLE. Without limitation, any automobile, truck, tractor or motorcycle
which as originally built contained an engine, regardless of whether it
contains an engine at any other time.
(Prior Code, § 8-302) (Ord. 1234, passed 4-8-1991)
§ 8-303 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL; DEFINED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit any motor vehicle
nuisance within the city.
   (a)   A motor vehicle nuisance is any motor vehicle which is not currently
registered or tagged pursuant to K.S.A. 8-126 to 8-149 inclusive, as amended;
or parked in violation of city ordinance; or incapable of moving under its own
power; or in a junked, wrecked or inoperable condition. Any one of the
following conditions shall raise the presumption that a vehicle is junked,
wrecked or inoperable;
      (1)   Absence of a current registration plate upon the vehicle;
      (2)   Placement of the vehicle or parts thereof upon jacks, blocks or
other supports; and
      (3)   Absence of one or more parts of the vehicle necessary for the
lawful operation of the vehicle upon street or highway.
   (b)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any motor vehicle which is enclosed in a garage or other building;
      (2)   To the parking or storage of a vehicle inoperable for a period of
30 consecutive days or less; or
      (3)   To any person conducting a business enterprise in compliance with
existing zoning regulations or who places such vehicles behind screening of
sufficient size, strength and density to screen such vehicles from the view of
the public and to prohibit ready access to stored vehicles by children.
However, nothing in this subsection shall be construed to authorize the
maintenance of a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8-303) (Ord. 1234, passed 4-8-1991)
§ 8-304 TEMPORARILY DISABLED VEHICLE.
   The provision of §
8-303 shall not apply to the parking or storage of an inoperable vehicle if:
   (a)   The vehicle is inoperable for a period of 30 days or less;
   (b)   The vehicle is a race car and it complies with each of the following:
      (1)   The vehicle is operable and capable of moving under its own power;
      (2)   The vehicle has been used for racing purposes in a competitive
event within the past six- month period;
      (3)   The vehicle is parked or stored on a gravel, concrete or other hard
surface; and
      (4)   The vehicle is entirely covered by an aesthetically presentable
tarp or other suitable covering and is stored or parked in a neat and
presentable fashion so as not to present an unsightly or hazardous condition.
   (c)   The owner obtains a six-month permit to allow for the restoration or
rehabilitation of the vehicle.
      (1)   Such permit shall be issued upon the owner complying with the
following:
         (A)   Submit an application for permit; and
         (B)   Pay a permit fee of $100.
      (2)   The vehicle is parked or stored on a gravel, concrete or other hard
surface.
      (3)   The vehicle is entirely covered by an aesthetically presentable
tarp or other suitable covering and is stored or parked in a neat and
presentable fashion so as not to present an unsightly or hazardous condition.
      (4)   The permit may be extended for two additional six-month periods
upon reapplication as provided above and the showing of satisfactory proof of
restorative or rehabilitative progress on such vehicle. No person may be
granted more than three permits for any vehicle in a 24-month period.
   (d)   If the owner is dissatisfied with any decision of the public officer
under this section the owner may request a hearing before the Ordinance
Committee of the City Council by submitting such request in writing to the City
Clerk. The Ordinance Committee shall conduct a full hearing of the issue within
15 days of receipt of the request and shall issue its written decision within
seven days of such hearing. The owner may appeal an adverse decision to the
full City Council by submitting a written notice of appeal to the City Clerk
within seven days of the date of the Ordinance Committee decision. The decision
of the City Council shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 8-304) (Ord. 1234, passed 4-8-1991; Ord. 1404, passed 6-11-2007)
§ 8-305 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall be public officer charged
with the administration and enforcement of this article.
(Prior Code, § 8-305) (Ord. 1234, passed 4-8-1991)
§ 8-306 COMPLAINTS; INQUIRY AND INSPECTION.
   The public officer shall make inquiry and inspection of premises upon
receiving a complaint or complaints in writing signed by two or more persons
stating that a nuisance exists and describing the same and where located or is
informed that a nuisance may exist by the Board of Health, Chief of Police or
the Fire Chief. The public officer may make such inquiry and inspection when he
or she observes conditions which appear to constitute a nuisance. Upon making
any inquiry and inspection, the public officer shall make a written report of
findings.
(Prior Code, § 8-306) (Ord. 1234, passed 4-8-1991)
§ 8-307 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer has the right of access and entry upon private property
at any reasonable time for the purpose of making inquiry and inspection to
determine if a nuisance exists.
§ 8-308 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The Governing Body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property, or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of §
8-303 an order stating the violation. The order shall be served on the owner or
agent of such property by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. If the property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident,
then by mailing the order by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
last known address of the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
Governing Body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first class mail.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-309 NOTICE.
   Any person found by the public officer to be in violation of this article
shall be served a notice of such violation. The notice shall be served by
restricted mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested; provided, however,
that if the owner or his or her agent in charge of the property is a resident
of the city, the notice shall be personally served by the public officer or a
law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 8-308) (Ord. 1404, passed 6-11-2007)
§ 8-310 SAME; CONTENTS.
   (a)   The notice shall state the condition(s) which is (are) in violation of
§
8-303.
   (b)   The notice shall also inform the person that:
      (1)   He, she or they shall have ten days from the date of serving the
entice to abate the condition(s) in violation of §
8-303;
      (2)   He, she or they have ten days from the date of serving the notice
to request a hearing before the Governing Body of the matter as provided by §
8-314; or
      (3)   Failure to abate the condition(s) or to request a hearing within
the time allowed may result in prosecution as provided by §
8-311 and/or abatement of the condition(s) by the city as provided by §
8-312.
(Prior Code, § 8-309) (Ord. 1234, passed 4-8-1991)
§ 8-311 FAILURE TO COMPLY; PENALTY.
   Should the person fail to comply with the notice to abate the nuisance or
request a hearing, the public officer may file a complaint in the Municipal
Court of the city against such person and upon conviction of any violation of
provisions of §
8-303, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100 or be imprisoned not to exceed
30 days or be both fined and imprisoned. Each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues after notice has been served shall constitute an
additional or separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-310) (Ord. 1234, passed 4-8-1991)
§ 8-312 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-311, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in the
following manner. If a person to whom a notice has been sent pursuant to §
8-309 has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation or
requested a hearing before the Governing Body within the time period specified
in §
8-309, the public officer may present a resolution to the Governing Body for
adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of the city to abate
the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage of
the resolution.
   (b)   The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by the
city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the nuisance
was located as provided in §
8-315. A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in violation in
one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
      (2)   Service by certified mail, return receipt requested; or
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the sam
cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an affidavit to
that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the City Clerk,
and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the same once
each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper and by
posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition exists.
(Prior Code, § 8-311) (Ord. 1234, passed 4-8-1991)
§ 8-313 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE.
   Disposition of any motor vehicle removed and abated from private property
pursuant to this article shall be as provided by K.S.A. Supp. 8-1102, as
amended.
(Prior Code, § 8-312) (Ord. 1234, passed 4-8-1991)
§ 8-314 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-310, such request shall be made in writing to the Governing Body. Failure to
make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the person’s
right to contest the findings of the public officer before the Governing Body.
The hearing shall be held by the Governing Body as soon as possible after the
filing of the request therefor, and the person shall be advised by the city of
the time and place of the hearing at least five days in advance thereof. At any
such hearing, the person may be represented by counsel, and the person and the
city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed necessary and
proper by the Governing Body. The hearing need not be conducted according to
the formal rules of evidence. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the Governing
Body shall record its determination of the matter by means of adopting a
resolution and serving the resolution upon the person in the matter provided in
§
8-312.
(Prior Code, § 8-313) (Ord. 1234, passed 4-8-1991)
§ 8-315 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates the nuisance pursuant to §
8-312, the cost of abatement shall be charged against the lot or parcel of
ground on which the nuisance was located. The City Clerk shall, at the time of
certifying other taxes to the County Clerk, certify the costs as provided in
this section. The County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax roll and it
shall be collected by the County Treasurer and paid to the city as other city
taxes are collected and paid.
(Prior Code, § 8-314) (Ord. 1234, passed 4-8-1991)
ARTICLE 4: WEEDS
Section
   
8-401   Weeds to be removed
   
8-402   Definitions
   
8-403   Public officer; notice to remove
   
8-404   Abatement; assessment of costs
   
8-405   Right of entry; unlawful interference
   
8-406   Noxious weeds
§ 8-401 WEEDS TO BE REMOVED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any premises to permit weeds to remain
upon such premises or any area between the property lines of such premises and
the centerline of any adjacent street or alley, including, but not limited to,
sidewalks, streets, alleys, easements, rights-of-way and all other areas,
public or private. All weeds as defined herein are hereby declared a nuisance
and are subject to abatement as provided herein.
(Ord. 1437, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 8-402 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. The legal owner of record, his or her designated agent, lessee,
tenant, occupant or other person having charge or control of the premises,
unless otherwise specifically described or defined herein.
   WEEDS. Any indigenous grasses, brush, woody vines or other vegetation on or
about any premises which:
      (1)   Have a blighting influence on the neighborhood. Any such vegetation
which exceeds ten inches in height shall be presumed to constitute a blight;
      (2)   Have attained such a large growth as to become, when dry, a fire
danger; or
      (3)   Harbor rats, insects, animals, reptiles or any other creature which
may constitute a danger to the public’s health, safety or welfare.
(Ord. 1437, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 8-403 PUBLIC OFFICER; NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (a)   The Governing Body shall designate a public officer to be charged with
the administration and enforcement of this article.
   (b)   The public officer shall give written notice to the owner of any
property on which weeds exists that are deemed to be in violation hereof by
personal service or by certified mail, return receipt requested. If the
property is unoccupied, then notice by certified mail, return receipt
requested, shall be given to the last known address of the owner. If the owner
is unknown or there is no last known address for the owner, such notice shall
be given by publication one time in the official city newspaper. Such notice
for any one property shall only be required once per calendar year; provided,
however, that if subsequent to the giving of notice pursuant to this subsection
(b) there is a change in the record owner of title to the property, the city
may not recover any costs or levy an assessment for the costs incurred by the
cutting or destruction of weeds on such property unless the new record owner of
title to such property is provided notice as required herein.
   (c)   The notice shall state that:
      (1)   The owner is in violation of the city weed control law and describe
the conditions causing the violation;
      (2)   The owner is ordered to cut or destroy the weeds within seven days
of the receipt of the notice;
      (3)   The owner may request a hearing before the Governing Body within
five days of the receipt of the notice or, if notice is by publication, within
seven days’ publication of such notice;
      (4)   The cost of cutting or destroying the weeds, including a reasonable
administrative fee, will be assessed against the owner, and if not paid within
30 days, such costs and fees will be added to the property’s ad valorem taxes
as a special assessment;
      (5)   That during the current calendar year, no further notice will be
given prior to any additional removal of weeds from the property; and
      (6)   The owner may contact the public officer if there are questions
regarding the order.
(Ord. 1437, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 8-404 ABATEMENT; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (a)   If the owner fails to alleviate the conditions causing the alleged
violation, or fail to timely request a hearing as provided, the public officer
shall cause the violating conditions to be removed or abated.
   (b)   Upon removing or abating the violating conditions, the city shall give
notice to the owner of the total costs incurred by the city for such removal or
abatement. The total costs may include:
      (1)   A reasonable cost for labor and equipment necessary to remove or
abate the condition;
      (2)   The cost of providing notice, including postage and publication
costs; and
      (3)   A reasonable administrative fee. The notice shall be served as
provided in §
8-403(b).
   (c)   The notice shall state:
      (1)   The sum of the total cost of removing or abating the condition;
      (2)   Payment of such sum is due within 30 days of receipt of the notice;
      (3)   If such sum is not paid within the 30-day period, such sum shall be
assessed as a special assessment and charged against the subject property; and
      (4)   In addition, such sum may be collected in the manner provided by
K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto.
   (d)   If, after notice, the owner fails to pay the total cost of the removal
or abatement, the City Clerk shall, at the time of certifying other city taxes,
certify the unpaid portion of the costs to the County Clerk to be assessed and
collected as part of the county tax rolls against such property. The city may
also pursue collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner
provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115.
(K.S.A. 12-1617f) (Ord. 1437, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 8-405 RIGHT OF ENTRY; UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE.
   (a)   The public officer, and his or her authorized assistants, employees,
contracting agents or other representatives are hereby expressly authorized to
enter upon private property at all reasonable hours for the purpose of cutting,
destroying and/or removing such weeds in a manner not inconsistent with this
chapter.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or to attempt to
prevent the public officer or his or her authorized representatives from
entering upon any such private property or from proceeding with removing or
abating the nuisance condition. Any violation hereof shall constitute an
ordinance violation.
(Ord. 1437, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 8-406 NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall affect or impair the rights of the city under
the provisions of K.S.A. Chapter 2, Article 13, relating to the control and
eradication of certain noxious weeds.
(Ord. 1437, passed 1-12-2009)
ARTICLE 5: MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
Section
   
8-501   Title
   
8-502   General
   
8-503   Declaration of policy
   
8-504   Definitions
   
8-505   Duty of occupant or owner of occupied or unoccupied building and its
premises or vacant premises
   
8-506   Regulations for the use and occupancy of dwellings
   
8-507   Maintenance and repair; dwellings
   
8-508   Designation of unfit dwellings
   
8-509   Designation of blighted premises (residential and nonresidential)
   
8-510   Designation of blighted buildings and premises (nonresidential)
   
8-511   Inspection of buildings, structures and premises
   
8-512   Notice of violations; procedures
   
8-513   Public officer; authority
   
8-514   Governing Body; authority
   
8-515   Order to correct and/or repair, remove or demolish
   
8-516   Demolition by public officer; procedure and costs
   
8-517   Conflict of laws; effect or partial invalidity
   
8-518   Governing Body; appeals
   
8-519   Right of petition
§ 8-501 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Minimum Standard for Housing and
Premises Code,” and will be referred to herein as “this code.”
§ 8-502 GENERAL.
   Buildings used in whole or in part as a home or residence of a single family
or person and every building used in whole or in part as a home or residence of
two or more persons or families living in separate apartments and all premises,
either residential or nonresidential, shall conform to the requirements of this
code.
§ 8-503 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The Governing Body declares the purpose of this code is to protect, preserve
and promote the physical and mental health of the people; investigate and
control communicable diseases; regulate privately- and publicly-owned
structures or dwellings and all premises for the purpose of sanitation, public
health and general appearance; protect the safety of the people; and promote
the general welfare by legislation that shall be applicable to all dwellings,
structures and premises now in existence or hereafter constructed or developed
and which legislation:
   (a)   Establishes minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities for
light, ventilation and heating, for safety from fire, for the use and location
and amount of space for human occupancy, and for safe and sanitary maintenance;
   (b)   Establishes standards concerning unsightly and blighted buildings and
premises, both residential and nonresidential structures;
   (c)   Determines the responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants;
and
   (d)   Provides for the administration and enforcement thereof.
§ 8-504 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
following definitions shall apply to the enforcement of this code.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partially underground, but having
less than half its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partially or wholly underground, and
having half or more than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
   DWELLING. Any building that is wholly or partially used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided, that temporary
housing hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used, or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   HABITABLE DWELLING. Any structure or part thereof that shall be used as a
home or place of abode by one or more persons.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room designed to be used for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking purposes, excluding bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls and storage
places, or other similar places, not used by persons for extended periods.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of insects, rodents
or other pests.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, owns or has control of a premises
or of a building or structure or part thereof, in which dwelling units or
rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation, who jointly or severally along with
others, shall be in actual possession of, or have charge, care and control of
any structure or dwelling unit or premises within the city as owner, employee
or agent of the owner, or as trustee or guardian of the estate or person of the
title holder, and such person shall be deemed and taken to be the owner or
owner of such property within the true intent and meaning of this code and
shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this article to the same extent
as the record owner and notice to any such person shall be deemed and taken to
be a good and sufficient notice as if such person or persons were actually the
record owner or owner of such property.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, corporation, association or
partnership.
   PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas or fuel pipes; gas or fuel burning equipment; water pipes; garbage disposal
units; waste pipes; water closets; sinks; installed dishwashers; lavatories;
bathtubs; shower baths; installed clothes-washing machines; catch basins;
drains; vents; and any other similar supplied fixtures, together with all
connections to water, sewer, gas or fuel lines.
   PREMISES. Any lot or land area, either residential or nonresidential, not
covered by a structure and which is subject to a city tax in part or in whole.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. The person appointed by the Governing Body.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of a dwelling containing one or
more rooming units in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   REFUSE. For the purpose of this article, REFUSE shall include garbage and
trash.
      (1)   GARBAGE. Any accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable waste
matter that attends the preparation of, use of, cooking of, delivering of or
storage of meats, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable.
      (2)   TRASH (COMBUSTIBLE). For the purpose of this article, COMBUSTIBLE
TRASH shall mean waste consisting of papers, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood and
excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture, bedding and leaves,
or any other combustible materials.
      (3)   TRASH (NON-COMBUSTIBLE). For the purpose of this article, NON-
COMBUSTIBLE TRASH shall mean waste consisting of metals, tin cans, glass,
crockery, other mineral refuse and ashes and street rubbish and sweepings,
dirt, sand, concrete scrap or any other non-combustible material.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to
something having a location on the ground.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter that is designed to be transportable and that is not attached to the
ground, house or building or another structure, or to any utilities system on
the same premises for more than 30 consecutive days, except when located in a
mobile home court duly licensed under laws of the city.
   WORDS, MEANINGS. Whenever the words “dwelling,” “dwelling unit,” “rooming
house,” “rooming unit” or “premises” are used in this article, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
§ 8-505 DUTY OF OCCUPANT OR OWNER OF OCCUPIED OR UNOCCUPIED BUILDING AND ITS
PREMISES OR VACANT PREMISES.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the owner of every occupied or unoccupied
dwelling, building and premises, or vacant premises, including all yards, lawns
and courts to keep such property clean and free from any accumulation of filth,
rubbish, garbage or any similar matter as covered by §§
8-508 and
8-509.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of each occupant of a dwelling unit to keep in
clean condition the portion of the property that he or she occupies and of
which he or she has exclusive control, to comply with the rules and
regulations, and to place all garbage and refuse in proper containers. Where
care of the premises is not the responsibility of the occupant, then the owner
is responsible for violations of this code applicable to the premises.
   (c)   If receptacles are not provided by the owner, then the occupant shall
provide receptacles as may be necessary to contain all garbage and trash.
   (d)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single-dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the unit primarily infested.
   (e)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, whenever
infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a
vermin-proof or reasonable insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner and operator.
   (f)   Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in
any dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two
or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of
the owner.
§ 8-506 REGULATIONS FOR THE USE AND OCCUPANCY OF DWELLINGS.
   (a)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for
occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of living, sleeping,
cooking or eating therein, that does not comply with the following
requirements.
   (b)   The following requirements are hereby declared essential to the health
and safety of the occupants of such dwelling or dwelling unit.
      (1)   Attached garages or non-dwelling areas. All non-dwelling
occupancies shall be separated from the dwelling unit by a fire-resistant wall
and if the dwelling and garage are covered by a common or connecting roof, then
the ceiling also must have a fire resistance rating of not less than one hour
as defined in the Building Code.
      (2)   Basement or cellar. The basement or cellar of any dwelling shall be
reasonably dry and ventilated and shall be kept free from rubbish accumulation.
      (3)   Basement dwelling units. The use of basements or cellars for
dwelling units is prohibited unless they comply with subsection (b)(18) below
governing ventilation, provided however, if occupied at the time of the passage
of this code and if it complies with all other provisions of this code, the
public officer may approve less than the required windows, if in his or her
opinion, the window area is not detrimental to the occupants.
      (4)   Bathing facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain within a room
which affords privacy to a person in the room, a bathtub or shower in good
working condition and properly connected to an approved water and sewer system.
      (5)   Boarding and rooming houses. No room shall be used for sleeping
purposes unless the ceiling height is at least seven feet and there are at
least 400 cubic feet of air space for each occupant over six years of age. For
sleeping rooms with sloping ceilings, the ceiling height shall be at least
seven feet over at least 50% of the floor area.
         (A)   Bathing facilities shall be provided in the form of a tub or
shower for each eight occupants. Separate facilities shall be provided for each
sex and plainly marked.
         (B)   A flush water closet shall be provided for each six occupants
and shall be separated with the separate access from bathing facilities if more
than four occupants are served by each. Separate facilities shall be provided
for each sex and shall be plainly marked.
      (6)   Drainage. All courts, yards or other areas on the premises of any
dwelling shall be so graded and drained that there is no pooling of the water
thereon. Properly constructed wading and swimming pools and fish ponds are
excepted from this section.
      (7)   Entrances.
         (A)   There shall be for each dwelling unit a normally used separate
access either to a hallway, stairway or street that is safe and in good repair.
         (B)   A secondary exit to the ground shall be available in case of
fire through windows, porch roofs, ladders or any combination that is free of
hazard or egress.
      (8)   Floor area. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square
feet of floor space for the first occupant thereof and at least 100 additional
square feet of floor space for every additional occupant thereof. The floor
space shall be calculated on the basis of total habitable room area, inside
measurements. No floor space shall be included in determining habitable room
area over which the ceiling is less than seven feet above the floor for the
purpose of this subsection (b)(8).
      (9)   Garbage and trash receptacles. Every dwelling and every dwelling
unit shall be provided with such receptacles, not exceeding 32-gallon capacity,
as may be necessary to contain all garbage and trash and such receptacles shall
at all times be maintained in good repair.
      (10)   Heating. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit shall be so
constructed, insulated and maintained and be provided by owner or occupant with
heating units so that it is capable of reaching an air temperature of 70°F
under ordinary winter conditions. The chimney of the dwelling or dwelling unit
shall be maintained in good order and the owner of the approved heating
equipment shall maintain it in good order and repair.
      (11)   Kitchen sink. In every dwelling unit containing two or more rooms,
there shall be at least one kitchen sink with public water under pressure and
connected to the public sewer, or if that sewer system is not available, to a
sewage disposal system approved by the City Health Department.
      (12)   Lavatory facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain within its
walls a lavatory basin in good working condition and properly connected to an
approved water and sewer system and located in the same room as the required
flush water closet or as near to the room as practicable.
      (13)   Lighting. Every habitable room shall have a ceiling electric
outlet and a duplex outlet in wall or floor, or at least two wall or floor
outlets.
      (14)   Lighting of toilets and bathrooms. Every toilet and every bathroom
in every dwelling shall have at least one electric light in either the ceiling
or on the wall.
      (15)   Plumbing. All plumbing, water closets and other plumbing fixtures
in every dwelling or dwelling unit shall be maintained in good working order.
      (16)   Privies. All pit privies, privy vaults, “dry hopper” sewer-
connected privies and frost-proof closets are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
      (17)   Toilet facilities. There shall be at least one flush water closet
in good working condition for each dwelling unit, which flush water closet
shall be located within the dwelling and in a room that affords privacy.
      (18)   Ventilation. Every habitable room in a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall contain a window or windows openable directly to the outside air and the
total area of such window or windows shall be not less than 5% of the floor
area of such room. An approved system of mechanical ventilation or air
conditioning may be used in lieu of openable windows. Such system shall be
capable of providing not less than four air changes per hour, except that in
toilet compartments such system shall provide a complete air change every five
minutes and be automatically put in operation when the toilet compartment light
is in the “on” position.
      (19)   Water heating facilities. Every dwelling shall have supplied water
heating facilities that are installed in an approved manner and are maintained
and operated in a safe and good working condition and are properly connected
with the hot water lines to the kitchen sink, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
      (20)   Windows and doors. Every window and exterior door shall be
reasonably weather-tight, lockable and rodent-proof and shall be kept in good
working condition and good repair.
§ 8-507 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR; DWELLINGS.
   Every dwelling and every part thereof shall be maintained in good repair by
the owner or agent and be fit for human habitation. The roof shall be
maintained so as not to leak and all rainwater shall be drained therefrom so as
not to cause dampness in the walls or ceilings. All floors, stairways, doors,
porches, windows, skylights, chimneys, toilets, sinks, walls and ceilings shall
be kept in good repair and usable condition.
§ 8-508 DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS.
   The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and placarding of such unfit dwellings or dwelling units shall be carried out
in compliance with the following requirements.
   (a)   Existence of conditions. The public officer may determine, or five
citizens may petition in writing, that any dwelling unit is unfit for human use
or habitation if he, she or they find that conditions exist in such structure
that are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of the
occupants of such buildings or other residents of the neighborhood, or which
shall have a blighting influence on properties in the area.
   (b)   Conditions generally. Such conditions may include the following
without limitation:
      (1)   Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accident or other
calamities.
      (2)   Lack of:
         (A)   Adequate ventilation;
         (B)   Light;
         (C)   Cleanliness; and
         (D)   Sanitary facilities.
      (3)   Dilapidation;
      (4)   Disrepair;
      (5)   Structural defects;
      (6)   Overcrowding;
      (7)   Inadequate ingress and egress;
      (8)   Unsightly appearance that constitute a blight to the adjoining
property, the neighborhood or the city; and
      (9)   Air pollution.
   (c)   Placarding; order to vacate. Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned
as unfit for human habitation, and so designated and placarded by the public
officer, shall be vacated within a reasonable time as so ordered.
   (d)   Notice of violation. Procedures as outlined in §
8-512 are applicable hereto.
   (e)   Compliance required before re-occupancy. No dwelling or dwelling unit
that has been condemned and placarded as unfit for human habitation shall again
be used for human habitation until written approval is secured from, and such
placard is removed by the public officer.
      (1)   The public officer shall remove such placard whenever the defect or
defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been
eliminated.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to let, lease, occupy or permit the
occupancy, whether for a consideration or not, of any dwelling so posted and
any violation of this provision shall constitute a public offense within the
meaning of this code.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface or remove the placard
from any dwelling or dwelling unit that has been condemned as unfit for human
habitation and placarded as such, except the public officer as herein provided,
and any violation of this provision shall constitute a public offense within
the meaning of this code.
§ 8-509 DESIGNATION OF BLIGHTED PREMISES (RESIDENTIAL AND NONRESIDENTIAL).
   The designation of unsightly and blighted premises and elimination thereof
shall be carried out in compliance with the following requirements.
   (a)   Public officer determinations. The public officer may determine, or
five citizens may petition in writing, that if the appearance of a premises is
not commensurate with the character of the properties in the neighborhood or
otherwise constitutes a blight to the adjoining property or the neighborhood or
the city for such reasons as, but not limited to:
      (1)   Dead trees or other unsightly natural growth;
      (2)   Unsightly stored or parked material, equipment, supplies,
machinery, trucks or automobiles or parts thereof; vermin infestation,
inadequate drainage; and
      (3)   Violation of any other law or regulations relating to the use of
land and the use and occupancy of the buildings and improvements.
   (b)   Notice of violation. Procedures as outlined in §
8-512 are applicable hereto.
§ 8-510 DESIGNATION OF BLIGHTED BUILDINGS AND PREMISES (NONRESIDENTIAL).
   (a)   Certain blighted conditions. Certain blighted conditions covered in §§
8-508 and
8-509 concerning buildings and premises that are on the tax roll of the city
are applicable to all nonresidential buildings and premises.
   (b)   Notice of violation. Procedures of notification shall follow those
prescribed in §
8-512.
§ 8-511 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND PREMISES.
   (a)   For the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this
code, the public officer or his or her authorized representative is hereby
authorized to make inspections to determine the condition, use and occupancy of
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and the premises upon which the same
are located. This requirement is applicable to existing dwellings or buildings.
   (b)   The public officer is not limited by the conditions in subsection (a)
above where new construction or vacant premises are involved and may make such
inspections at any appropriate time.
   (c)   The owner, operator and occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit and
rooming unit shall give the public officer, or his or her authorized
representative, during reasonable hours, free access to such dwelling, dwelling
unit and rooming unit, and its premises, for the purpose of such inspection,
examination and survey after identification by proper credentials.
   (d)   Every occupant of a dwelling shall give the owner thereof, or his or
her authorized agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling, or its
premises, at all reasonable times, for the purpose of making such repairs or
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of this
code or with any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated, or any order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this code.
§ 8-512 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Informal discussion. Whenever the public officer or his or her
authorized representative determines that there has been a violation of any
provision of this code, the public officer will arrange with the alleged
violator for an informal discussion of violations, and whether repair and
correction is justified.
   (b)   Formal hearing. If a satisfactory solution to the violations either by
correction, demolition or removal is not forthcoming, then a legal notice of a
formal hearing will be issued according to the following procedures:
      (1)   Shall be in writing;
      (2)   Shall list the violations alleged to exist or to have been
committed;
      (3)   Shall provide a reasonable time, but not less than 30 days in any
event for the correction of the violations particularized;
      (4)   Shall be addressed to and served upon the owner of the property,
the operator of the dwelling and the occupant of the dwelling unit or the
rooming unit concerned, if the occupant is or may be responsible for violation;
      (5)   If one or more persons whom the notice is addressed cannot be found
or served after diligent effort to do so, service may be made upon such person
or persons by posting a notice in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling
affected by the notice, in which event the public officer or his or her
authorized representative shall include in the record a statement as to why
such posting was necessary; and
      (6)   Delivery shall be by certified mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service. If service is made by certified mail, the public officer
or his or her authorized representative shall include in the record a verified
statement giving details regarding the mailing.
§ 8-513 PUBLIC OFFICER; AUTHORITY.
   For the purpose of protecting the city against unsightly or blighted
premises, also the health, welfare and safety of the inhabitants of dwellings
or dwelling units, the public officer referred heretofore is hereby authorized,
with the consent and prior knowledge of the Governing Body, to enforce
provisions of this code and of other laws that regulate or set standards
affecting buildings and premises.
§ 8-514 GOVERNING BODY; AUTHORITY.
   The Governing Body is hereby authorized:
   (a)   To informally review all alleged violations as provided in §
8-512(a) prior to notification prescribed in §
8-512(b);
   (b)   To take action as prescribed in §
8-512(b);
   (c)   To hear appeals if there is opposition to any order, requirement,
decision or determination by the public officer in enforcement of this code as
outlined in §
8-518; and
   (d)   Discretionary authority may be exercised in specific cases where
variance from the terms of the code as:
      (1)   Will not adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare of
inhabitants of the city;
      (2)   Is in harmony with the spirit of this code; and
      (3)   Where literal enforcement of the code will result in unnecessary
hardship.
§ 8-515 ORDER TO CORRECT AND/OR REPAIR, REMOVE OR DEMOLISH.
   At the time of the placarding and order to vacate specified by §
8-508(c) hereof, the public officer shall also issue and cause to be served
upon the owner a notice advising of the option of removal or demolition in lieu
of correction and/or repair following the procedures as outlined in §
8-512.
§ 8-516 DEMOLITION BY PUBLIC OFFICER; PROCEDURE AND COSTS.
   (a)   Failure to comply with the order under §
8-515 for the alteration or improvement of such structure, the public officer,
with the consent and prior knowledge of the Governing Body, may cause such
condemned structure to be removed or demolished and the premises improved to
eliminate the conditions outlined in §
8-509.
   (b)   The cost of demolition by a public officer shall be a lien upon the
property upon which the cost was incurred and such lien, including as a part
thereof an allowance of his or her costs and necessary attorney’s fees, may be
foreclosed in judicial proceedings in the manner provided or authorized by law
for loans secured by liens on real property or shall be assessed as a special
assessment upon the lot or parcel of land on which the structure was located
and the City Clerk at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify
the unpaid portion of the aforesaid costs and the County Clerk shall extend the
same on the tax rolls against the lot or parcel of land.
   (c)   If the structure is removed or demolished by the public officer, he or
she shall offer for bids and sell the structure or the materials of such
structure. The proceeds of such sale shall be credited against the cost of the
removal or demolition and, if there is any balance remaining, it shall be paid
to the parties entitled thereto after deduction of costs or judicial
proceedings, if any, including the necessary attorney’s fees incurred therein,
as determined by the court, if involved.
§ 8-517 CONFLICT OF LAWS; EFFECT OR PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   (a)   Conflicts between the provisions of this code and with a provision of
any zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinance or code of the city,
existing on the effective date of this article, the provision shall prevail
that establishes the higher standard.
   (b)   Conflicts between this article with a provision of any other ordinance
or code of the city existing on the effective date of this article that
establishes a lower standard, the provisions of this article shall be deemed to
prevail and such other laws or codes are hereby declared to be repealed to the
extent that they may be found in conflict with this code.
§ 8-518 GOVERNING BODY; APPEALS.
   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation considering themselves aggrieved by
the decision of the public officer and who desires to present a formal protest
to the Governing Body shall in writing, request a hearing before the Governing
Body within ten days after receiving notice of the decision from the public
officer, as provided in §
8-512(b). Such protest and request for a hearing shall be filed with the office
of the City Clerk.
   (b)   Upon receipt of a protest and request for a hearing, the City Clerk
shall notify in writing the Governing Body of such appeal.
   (c)   The Governing Body shall, within 30 days of receipt of protest and
request for a hearing, determine a date for the hearing.
   (d)   Notice of the date for the hearing shall be sent to the appellant at
least ten days before the hearing.
   (e)   Except where an immediate hazard exists as described in § 4-612 of
this code, the filing of a protest and request for a hearing before the
Governing Body as specified in subsection (a) above shall operate as a stay of
the enforcement of the public officer’s order until such time as the Governing
Body has reached a decision on the matter.
§ 8-519 RIGHT OF PETITION.
   After exhausting the remedy provided in §
8-518, any person aggrieved by an order issued by the public officer and
approved by the Governing Body after a hearing on the matter may, within 30
days from the date that the order became final, petition the District Court of
the county in which the property is located to restrain the public officer from
carrying out the provisions of the order.
ARTICLE 6: RODENT CONTROL
Section
   
8-601   Definitions
   
8-602   Building maintenance
   
8-603   Notice to rat-stop; when city to do work
   
8-604   Failure to comply
   
8-605   Replace rat-stoppage
   
8-606   Notice to eradicate rats
   
8-607   Conditions conducive to harborage of rats
   
8-608   Inspections
§ 8-601 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure, whether public or private, that is adapted for
occupancy as a residence; the transaction of business; the rendering of
professional services; amusement; the display, sale or storage of goods, wares
or merchandise; or the performance of work or labor, including office
buildings, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants, workshops
and all other houses, sheds and other structures on the premises used for
business purposes.
   OCCUPANT. The person that has the use of, controls or occupies any business
building or any portion thereof, whether owner or tenant. In the case of vacant
business buildings or any vacant portion of a business building, the owner,
agent or other person having custody of the building shall have the
responsibilities of an OCCUPANT of a building.
   OWNER. The owner of any building or structure, whether individual, firm,
partnership or corporation.
   RAT HARBORAGE. Any condition that provides shelter or protection for rats,
thus favoring their multiplication and continued existence in, under or outside
a structure of any kind.
   RAT-STOPPAGE. A form of rat-proofing to prevent the ingress of rats into
buildings from the exterior or from one building to another, consisting
essentially of the closing of all openings in the exterior walls, ground or
first floors, basements, roofs and foundations, that may be reached by rats
from the ground by climbing or by burrowing, with material or equipment
impervious to rat-gnawing.
§ 8-602 BUILDING MAINTENANCE.
   All buildings and structures located within the present or future boundaries
of the city shall be rat-stopped, freed of rats and maintained in a rat-stopped
and rat-free condition.
§ 8-603 NOTICE TO RAT-STOP; WHEN CITY TO DO WORK.
   Upon receipt of written notice from the Governing Body, the owner of any
building or structure specified therein shall take immediate measures for the
rat-stoppage of such building or structure. The work shall be completed in the
time specified in the written notice, which shall be within 15 days, or within
the time of any written extension thereof that may have been granted by the
Governing Body.
§ 8-604 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the owner fails to comply with such written notice or extension, then the
Governing Body is authorized to take such action as may be necessary to
completely rat-stop the building or structure at the expense of the owner, and
the City Clerk shall submit bills for the expense thereof to the owner of the
building or structure. If the bills are not paid within 60 days, the City Clerk
shall certify the amount due to the City Treasurer and the charge shall be a
lien against the property where the work has been done, and the owner shall be
promptly billed therefor. The expense thereof shall include the cost of labor,
materials, equipment and any other actual expense necessary for rat-stoppage.
§ 8-605 REPLACE RAT-STOPPAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any occupant, owner, contractor, public utility
company, plumber or any other person to remove the rat-stoppage from any
building or structure for any purpose and fail to restore the same in a
satisfactory condition or to make any new openings that are not closed or
sealed against the entrance of rats.
§ 8-606 NOTICE TO ERADICATE RATS.
   Whenever the Governing Body notifies in writing the owner of any building or
structure theretofore rat-stopped as hereinabove defined, that there is
evidence of rat infestation of the building or structure, the owner shall
immediately institute appropriate measures for freeing the premises so occupied
of all rats. Unless suitable measures for freeing the building or structure of
rats are instituted within five days after the receipt of notice, and unless
continually maintained in a satisfactory manner, the city is hereby authorized
to free the building or structure of rats at the expense of the owner thereof
and the City Clerk shall submit bills for the expense thereof to the owner of
the building or structure and if the same are not paid, the City Clerk shall
certify the amount due from the owner to the City Treasurer, and the owner
shall be promptly billed therefor. The expense thereof shall include the cost
of labor, materials, equipment and any other actual expense necessary for the
eradication measures.
§ 8-607 CONDITIONS CONDUCIVE TO HARBORAGE OF RATS.
   (a)   All food and feed kept within the city for feeding animals shall be
kept and stored in rat-free and rat-proof containers, compartments or rooms
unless kept in a rat-stopped building.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, leave, dump or permit to
accumulate any garbage or trash in any building or premises so that the same
shall afford food and harborage for rats.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate or to permit the
accumulation on any premises or on any open lot any lumber, boxes, barrels,
bricks, stone or similar materials that may be permitted to remain thereon and
that are rat harborages, unless the same shall be placed on open racks that are
elevated not less than 12 inches above the ground, evenly piled or stacked.
   (d)   Whenever conditions inside or under any building or structure provide
such extensive harborage for rats that the Health Department deems it necessary
to eliminate such harborage, he or she may require the owner to install
suitable cement floors in basements or to replace wooden first or ground floors
or require the owner to correct such other interior rat harborage as may be
necessary to facilitate the eradication of rats in a reasonable time and
thereby to reduce the cost of such eradication.
§ 8-608 INSPECTIONS.
   The individual appointed by the Governing Body is empowered to make such
inspections and re-inspections of the interior and exterior of any building or
structure as in his or her opinion may be necessary to determine full
compliance with this article.
ARTICLE 7: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION POLICY
Section
   
8-701   Declaration of policy
   
8-702   Definitions
   
8-703   Created
   
8-704   Powers and duties
   
8-705   Complaint; filing and service; investigations by Committee; probable
cause; conferences and conciliations; hearings; subpoenas; remedial orders;
filing complaints; time limits
   
8-706   Unlawful employment practices
   
8-707   Unlawful public accommodations practices
   
8-708   Unlawful housing practices
   
8-709   Affirmative action program for city personnel
   
8-710   Affirmative action program for public contracts
§ 8-701 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (a)   The city hereby finds and declares that the practice or policy of
discrimination against individuals by reason of race, sex, religion, physical
handicap, color, national origin or ancestry is a matter of concern to the
city, since such discrimination threatens not only the rights and privileges of
the inhabitants of the city, but menaces the institutions and foundations of a
free democratic state. Therefore, it is declared to be the policy of the city,
in exercise of its police power for the protection of the public safety, public
health and general welfare, for the maintenance of business and good government
and for the promotion of the city’s trade and commerce, to eliminate and
prevent discrimination, segregation or separation because of race, sex,
religion, physical handicap, color, national origin or ancestry. It is further
declared to be the policy of the city to assure equal opportunities and
encouragement of every person regardless of race, sex, religion, physical
handicap, color, national origin or ancestry in securing and holding without
discrimination employment in any field of work or labor for which the person is
properly qualified, to assure equal opportunities to all persons within this
city to full and equal public accommodations, and to assure equal opportunities
in housing without distinction on account of race, sex, religion, physical
handicap, color, national origin or ancestry.
   (b)   To protect these rights, it is hereby declared to be the purpose of
this act to establish and to provide an Ad Hoc Equal Opportunity Committee
having power to eliminate and prevent segregation and discrimination or
separation in employment in all places of public accommodations covered by the
Act and in housing because of race, religion, color, sex, physical handicap,
national origin or ancestry either by employers, labor organizations,
employment agencies, realtors, financial institutions or other persons as
hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 8-701) (Ord. 1099, passed 4-1-1981)
§ 8-702 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM. A positive program designed to insure that a
good faith, diligent effort will be made to employ applicants and to treat
employees during employment equally without regard to their race, color, creed,
religion, physical handicap, national origin or sex. Such program shall
include, where applicable, but not be limited to the following: recruitment and
recruitment advertising, employment, upgrading promotion, demotion or transfer,
layoff or termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation, other terms
or conditions of employment and selection for training including
apprenticeship; and shall include goals, methodology and time table for
implementation of the program. The AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM shall require a
showing of demonstrable evidence of progress toward the goal of the program.
The words “applicants” and “employees” as used in this article includes
subcontractors as well as individuals.
      AGGREGATE ANNUAL BUSINESS. The amount of business done by the supplier or
other contractor with the city during the current calendar year and, if this
amount does not exceed $10,000, then by the amount of business done by such
supplier or contractor during the next preceding calendar year.
      CLASS I CONTRACT. Any contract which the city enters into or renews with
a supplier or contractor after the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this article in an amount equal to or more than $10,000 or to any contract with
a supplier or contractor who does an aggregate annual business with the city
equal to or in excess of $10,000.
      CLASS II CONTRACT. Any contract which the city enters into or renews with
a supplier or contractor after the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this article in an amount less than $10,000, or to any contract with a supplier
or contractor who does an aggregate annual business with the city of less than
$10,000.
      COMMITTEE. The Ad Hoc Equal Opportunity Committee, as established by this
article.
      DISCRIMINATION. Any direct or indirect exclusion, distinction,
segregation, limitation, refusal, denial or any other differentiation or
preference in the treatment of a person or persons on account of race,
religion, color, sex, national origin, ancestry or physical handicap and/or any
denial of any right, privilege or immunity secured or protected by the
Constitution or laws of the State of Kansas or the United States.
DISCRIMINATION shall include, but not be limited to any practice which produces
the demonstrable racial or ethnic effect without a valid business motive.
      EMPLOYEE. Does not include any individual employed by his or her parent,
spouse or child.
      EMPLOYER. Includes any person doing business in this city employing four
or more persons in a full-time capacity who are not members of the same
immediate family. EMPLOYER also includes any person acting directly or
indirectly for any employer, as defined in this subsection, labor
organizations, non-sectarian organizations and all political subdivisions of
the city, state and federal governments, but does not include a non-profit,
fraternal or social organization or corporation.
      FAMILY. Includes a single individual and in-laws.
      HOTEL, MOTEL and RESTAURANT. Have the meanings subscribed to them
respectively by K.S.A. 36-501.
      PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS. Includes any person as defined in this section who
caters or offers goods, services, facilities and accommodations to the public
including all city agencies which serve the public but does not include a
nonprofit fraternal or social organization or corporation.
      LABOR ORGANIZATION. Includes any organization which exists for the
purpose, in whole or in part, of collective bargaining or of dealing with
employers concerning grievances, terms or conditions of employment or of other
mutual aid or protection in relation to employment.
      PERSONS. Includes one or more individuals, partnerships, associations,
organizations, corporations, municipal corporations, quasi-municipal
corporations, governmental agencies, public bodies, legal representatives,
trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, fiduciaries, mutual companies or
unincorporated organizations.
      PERSON AGGRIEVED. Any person injured by an unlawful act or who believes
he or she will be injured in any such unlawful act or practice that is about to
occur.
      PHYSICAL HANDICAP. The physical condition of a person whether congenital
or acquired by accident, injury or disease which constitutes a substantial
disability, but is unrelated to such person’s ability to engage in a particular
job or occupation.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes:
         (A)   All vacant or unimproved land; and
         (B)   Any building or structure which is occupied or designed or
intended for occupancy, or any building or structure having a portion thereof
which is occupied or designed or intended for occupancy.
      TO RENT. To leave, sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
      UNLAWFUL ACT OR PRACTICE. An unlawful employment practice, any unlawful
accommodations practice, or any unlawful housing practice as defined in this
section.
      UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES. Includes only those unlawful practices and
acts specified in §
8-706 of this article.
      UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICE. Any act that is unlawful under §
8-708 of this article.
      UNLAWFUL PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS PRACTICE. Any discrimination against
persons in a hotel, motel, cabin, camp, restaurant or trailer court and the
segregation of persons in a place of public accommodations covered by this
article by reason of their race, sex, religion, physical handicap, color,
national origin or ancestry. UNLAWFUL PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS PRACTICE also means
any discrimination against any person in a bar, tavern, barber shop, beauty
shop, amusement park, recreation area, bowling alley, billiard parlor, theater,
skating rink, swimming pool, lake, gymnasium, mortuary, cemetery or educational
institution which is open to the public and any public transportation facility.
   (b)   There shall be excepted from the operation and requirements of §
8-701 of this article the following matters:
      (1)   Contracts for services of a specialized professional or technical
character; and
      (2)   Emergency requisition for goods, supplies or services.
(Prior Code, § 8-702) (Ord. 1099, passed 4-1-1981)
§ 8-703 CREATED.
   (a)   There is created a committee to be known as the Ad Hoc Equal
Opportunity Committee. The Committee shall consist of five members to be drawn
from diverse segments of the community, who shall be citizens of the city and
who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the Governing Body. The
terms of office of each member of the Committee shall be for three years or
until a successor is appointed. No member shall serve more than two successive
full terms.
   (b)   The Committee shall elect one of its members as Chairperson who shall
preside at all meetings of the Committee and shall perform all duties and
functions of the Chairperson. The Committee shall elect, in the same manner,
one of its members as Vice Chairperson who shall act as Chairperson during the
absence or incapacity of the Chairperson and, when so acting, the Vice
Chairperson shall have and perform all the duties and functions of the
Chairperson. In the event neither the Chairperson nor Vice Chairperson can
attend a regular or special meeting, the Chairperson shall designate a member
of the Committee as Acting Chairperson for that meeting only. The term of
office of the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson shall be for one year and no
person shall serve for more than two consecutive terms in the same office,
unless such election to the immediately subsequent term is made by the members
of the Committee by a unanimous vote. The Chairperson or Vice Chairperson may
resign from his or her office at any time during his or her term and may do so
without resigning from the Committee. In such event, the Committee shall elect
another member to replace that person and such person shall serve the unexpired
term of the person he or she replaces. A majority of the presently serving
members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
conducting business. The members of the Committee shall serve without
compensation.
   (c)   Prior to the holding of any hearing as required by this article, the
Governing Body shall appoint a hearing examiner who shall be an attorney duly
admitted to practice in the courts of the State of Kansas. Compensation of the
hearing examiner shall be fixed by the Governing Body.
   (d)   The Governing Body may authorize the employment of such other
personnel as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the provisions of this
article.
(Prior Code, § 8-703) (Ord. 1099, passed 4-1-1981)
§ 8-704 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Committee shall have the following functions, powers, duties and
responsibilities:
   (a)   To endeavor to eliminate prejudice among the various basic groups in
the city and to further good will among all people of the city, and
specifically, to encourage equality of treatment for and prevent discrimination
against any racial, religious minority or ethnic group or its members;
   (b)   To receive, initiate, investigate, pass upon and attempt to conciliate
complaints alleging discrimination, segregation or separation in employment,
public accommodations and housing because of race, sex, religion, physical
handicap, color, national origin or ancestry; to apply to the District Court
after a complaint has been filed to enjoin violations of this article; to apply
to the District Court for enforcement of any conciliation agreement by seeking
specific performance of the agreement; to receive and investigate complaints
and to initiate its own investigations of discrimination against any person,
group of persons, organizations, corporations whether practiced by private
persons, associations or corporations, and when it is found that such
discrimination is within the jurisdiction of the State Commission on Civil
Rights, it may be referred to that Commission;
   (c)   To hold hearings with respect to any complaint or other subject matter
which it is authorized to investigate or review under this section. In
furtherance of this responsibility, the Committee may:
      (1)   Make a request to the party or parties under investigation for
factual data required to properly investigate complaints, practices or
discrimination patterns;
      (2)   To administer oaths and take the testimony of any person under
oath;
      (3)   To subpoena witnesses, compel their appearance, require the
production for examination of records and documents and other evidence or
possible sources of evidence and to examine, record and copy such materials and
take and record the testimony or statement of such persons. The Committee may
issue subpoenas to compel access to or the production of such materials or the
appearance of such persons and may issue interrogatories to a respondent to the
same extent and subject to the same limitations as would apply if the subpoena
or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a civil action in District
Court. The Committee shall have access, at all reasonable times, to the
premises and may compel such access by application to a court of competent
jurisdiction; provided, however, that the Committee first complies with the
provisions of Article 15 of the Kansas Bill of Rights and the Fourth Amendment
to the United States Constitution relating to unreasonable searches and
seizures. The Committee may take depositions to the same extent and subject to
the same limitations as would apply if the deposition was taken in aid of a
civil action in a District Court. Whenever the Ad Hoc Equal Opportunity
Committee desires to issue a subpoena, it shall confer with the City Attorney’s
office, which office shall then issue the desired subpoena on behalf of the
Committee to the appropriate parties. Failure to comply with the subpoena,
interrogatory or search warrant issued in and pursuant to this section, or to
testify to any material regarding which such person may be lawfully questioned
shall constitute a violation of this code. No person shall be prosecuted or
subjected to any penalty or forfeiture for or on account of any transaction,
matter or thing concerning which such person testifies or produces evidence
except that such persons so testifying shall not be exempt from prosecution and
punishment for perjury committed in so testifying. The immunity herein provided
shall extend only to natural persons.
   (d)   Objections to any subpoenas issued pursuant to this section shall be
filed with the Ad Hoc Equal Opportunity Committee. The Committee may then
request the Governing Body to appoint a hearing examiner to listen to and rule
upon the objections. The failure to comply with any subpoena shall also be
subject to prosecution in the Municipal Court. The hearing examiner shall
restrict the scope of its inquiry concerning objections to subpoenas to making
a determination of whether testimony from the persons subpoenaed is necessary
for the furtherance of a Committee investigation and whether certain documents
which are subpoenaed are necessary for the furtherance of a Committee
investigation. If the hearing examiner finds that the subpoenaed persons or
subpoenaed materials are necessary for the furtherance of a Committee
investigation, then the hearing examiner shall order that the subpoena be
complied with.
(Prior Code, § 8-704) (Ord. 1099, passed 4-1-1981)
§ 8-705 COMPLAINT; FILING AND SERVICE; INVESTIGATIONS BY COMMITTEE; PROBABLE
CAUSE; CONFERENCES AND CONCILIATIONS; HEARINGS; SUBPOENAS; REMEDIAL ORDERS;
FILING COMPLAINTS; TIME LIMITS.
   (a)   Any person claiming to be aggrieved by an alleged unlawful act or
practice may by himself or herself or by his or her attorney at law, make, sign
and file with the Committee a complaint in writing which shall state the name
and address of the person alleged to have committed the unlawful act or
practice and which shall set forth the particulars and contain such other
information which may be required by the Committee. The Committee, upon its own
initiative, may make, sign and file the complaint. An employer whose employees
or some of whose employees refuse or threaten to refuse to cooperate with the
provisions of this article may file with the Committee a complaint asking for
assistance by conciliation or other remedial action. The information gathered
in the course of an investigation may be used in processing the complaint.
   (b)   Whenever the Committee has, in its own judgment, or as a result of a
complaint filed with it, reason to believe that any person, as defined in §
8-702, has engaged in an unlawful act in violation of this article or has
engaged in a pattern or practice of discrimination, the Committee shall
investigate such alleged, illegal act. If the Committee determines, after such
investigation, that no probable cause exists for crediting the allegations of
the complaint, it shall within five days from such determination cause to be
issued and served upon the complainant written notice of such determination,
and a copy of such notice shall be sent to the person against whom the
complaint was made. If the Committee, after such investigation, determines that
probable cause exists for crediting the allegations of the complaint, the
Committee shall immediately endeavor by conference and conciliation to
eliminate the alleged, unlawful act. The complainant, respondent and the Ad Hoc
Equal Opportunity Committee shall have 45 days from the date the respondent is
notified in writing of the finding of probable cause to enter into a
conciliation agreement signed by all parties in interest. The parties may amend
the conciliation agreement at any date prior to the time of entering into such
agreement. Upon agreement by the parties, the time for entering into such
agreement may be extended. The members of the Committee shall not disclose what
has transpired in the course of such endeavor.
   (c)   In case of failure to eliminate such act or practices through
conciliation, the Committee shall cause to be issued and served on the Mayor,
in the name of the Committee, written notice together with a copy of such
complaint as the same may have been amended and other Committee records as may
be deemed pertinent, and the mayor shall then inform the Governing Body of such
action. The Governing Body will then decide within 15 days whether or not to
instruct the Ad Hoc Equal Opportunity Committee to cause to be served, in the
name of the Committee, a written notice together with a copy of such complaint
as the same may have been amended requiring the person, employer, labor
organization, realtor or financial institution named in the complaint
hereinafter referred to as “respondent,” to answer the charges of the complaint
before a hearing examiner to be appointed by the Governing Body at a time not
less than ten business days after the service of the notice, unless the
respondent requests in writing and is granted a continuance by the Committee.
      (1)   The complainant or respondent may apply to the Ad Hoc Equal
Opportunity Committee for the issuance of a subpoena for the attendance of any
person or the production or examination of any books, records or documents
pertinent to the proceedings at the hearing. Upon application, the Committee
shall cause a subpoena to be issued under the provisions of §
8-704.
      (2)   A City Attorney or an attorney selected by the Committee shall
present the cases brought before the hearing examiner.
      (3)   Any complaint filed pursuant to this article must be so filed
within 12 months of the alleged act of discrimination unless the act complained
of constitutes a continuing pattern or practice of discrimination, in which
event it will be from the last act of discrimination.
      (4)   The respondent may file a written, verified answer to the complaint
and appear at the hearing in person or otherwise, with or without counsel, and
submit testimony. The complainant shall appear at the hearing in person, with
or without counsel, and submit testimony. The hearing examiner or a complainant
shall have the power, reasonably and fairly, to amend any complaint and the
respondent shall have like power to amend his or her answer. The hearing
examiner shall be bound by the rules of evidence of the prevailing courts of
law or equity and only relevant evidence of reasonable probative value shall be
received. Reasonable examination and cross-examination shall be permitted. All
parties shall be afforded opportunity to submit briefs prior to adjudication.
The testimony taken at the hearing shall be under oath and be recorded and
transcribed at the request of either the respondent or complainant.
   (d)   The hearing examiner shall listen to all pertinent evidence presented
by both the Committee and the respondent and shall, upon the conclusion of the
hearing, make findings of fact and conclusions of law and issue orders based
thereon. The rulings made by the hearing examiner shall be binding upon all
parties.
   (f)   If upon all the evidence in the hearing, the hearing examiner shall
find the respondent has engaged in or is engaged in any unlawful employment
practice or other unlawful discriminatory practice as defined in this article,
then the hearing examiner shall state the findings of fact and shall issue and
cause to be served upon the respondent an order requiring the respondent to
cease and desist from the unlawful employment practice or other unlawful
discriminatory practice, and to take affirmative action including, but not
limited to, the hiring, reinstatement or upgrading of employees, with or
without back pay, and the admission or restoration of membership in any
respondent labor organizations; the admission to and full and equal enjoyment
of the goods, services, facilities and accommodations denied in violation of
this article as in the judgment of the hearing examiner will effectuate the
purposes of this article and including a requirement for a report of the manner
of compliance.
   (g)   The copy of the order shall be delivered by certified mail, return
receipt requested, in all cases, by the Committee to the complainant, to the
respondent, to the City Attorney’s office, and other public officers as the
Committee may deem proper.
   (h)   Any party being dissatisfied with any order or decision of the hearing
examiner may within ten days from the date of the service of the order or
decision apply for a rehearing in respect to any matter determined therein; the
application shall be granted or denied by the hearing examiner within ten days
from the date same shall be filed, and if the rehearing is not granted within
ten days, it shall be taken as denied. If a rehearing is granted, the matter
shall be determined by the hearing examiner within 30 days after the same shall
be submitted. No cause of action arising out of any order or decision of the
hearing examiner shall accrue in any court to any party unless the party shall
make application for a rehearing as herein provided. The application shall set
forth specifically the ground or grounds on which the applicant considers the
order or decision to be unlawful or unreasonable. No party shall in any court
urge or reply upon any ground not set forth in the application. No order made
after a rehearing abrogating, changing or modifying the original order or
decision shall have the same force and effect as an original order or decision.
   (i)   The Committee, the City Attorney, the complainant or the respondent
may secure enforcement of any final order of the hearing examiner by the
District Court of the county where the unlawful employment practice or unlawful
discriminatory practice shall have occurred or where any person required in the
order to cease and desist from an unlawful employment practice or unlawful
discriminatory practice or to take any affirmative action resides or transacts
business, through mandamus or injunction in appropriate cases, or by action to
compel the specific performance of the order. The proceedings shall be
initiated by the filing of a petition in court, together with a transcript of
the record, upon the hearing before the hearing examiner and issuance of
service of a copy of the petition as in civil actions. The Court shall have the
power to grant temporary relief or restraining order as it deems just and
proper and to make and enter upon the pleadings, testimony and proceedings an
order or decree enforcing, modifying and enforcing as so modified or setting
aside in whole or in part, the order of the hearing examiner.
   (j)   The Committee, City Attorney or any person aggrieved by an order made
by the hearing examiner may obtain judicial review in the court by filing with
the Clerk of the Court, within 30 days from the date of service of the order, a
written appeal praying that the order be modified or set aside. The appeal
shall certify that notice in writing of the appeal, with a copy of the appeal,
has been given to all parties who appeared before the hearing examiner, at
their last known address and to the Committee and the hearing examiner who
presided at the hearing. The evidence presented to the hearing examiner,
together with his or her findings and the order issued thereon, shall be
certified by the hearing examiner to the District Court as its return. No order
of the hearing examiner shall be superseded or stayed during the proceeding on
the appeal unless the District Court shall so direct.
   (k)   The court shall hear the appeal by trial de novo with or without a
jury, in accordance with the provisions of K.S.A. 60-238, and the court may, in
its discretion, permit any party to submit additional evidence on any issue.
The appeal shall be heard and determined by the court as expeditiously as
possible. After hearing, the court may affirm the adjudication. If the
adjudication is not affirmed, the court may set aside or modify it in whole or
in part, or may remand the proceedings to the hearing examiner for further
disposition in accordance with the order of the court.
   (l)   The copy of the testimony given at the hearing shall be available at
all reasonable times to all parties for examination without cost and for the
purpose of judicial review of the order. The review shall be heard on the
record without requirement of printing.
   (m)   The jurisdiction of the District Court of the proper county shall be
exclusive and its final order or decree shall be subject to review by the
Supreme Court, as in other cases, upon appeal within 30 days of the filing of
the decision.
   (n)   The Ad Hoc Equal Opportunity Committee shall, except as otherwise
herein provided, establish rules of practice to govern, expedite, and
effectuate the foregoing procedure and its own actions thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 8-705) (Ord. 1099, passed 4-1-1981)
§ 8-706 UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES.
   It is an unlawful employment practice for:
   (a)   An employer, because of the race, sex, religion, physical handicap,
color, national origin or ancestry of any individual, to refuse to hire or
employ or to bar or discharge from employment such individual or to otherwise
discriminate against such individual in compensation or in terms, conditions or
privileges of employment, or to limit, segregate, separate, classify or to make
any distinction in regard to employees or to follow any employment procedure or
practice which, in fact, results in discrimination, segregation or separation;
   (b)   A labor organization, because of the race, sex, religion, physical
handicap, color, national origin or ancestry of any individual, to exclude or
to expel from its membership such individual or to discriminate in any way
against any of its members or against any employer or any individual employed
by the employer;
   (c)   Any employer, employment agency or labor organization to print or
circulate or cause to be printed or circulated any statement, advertisement or
publication, or to use any form of application for employment or membership or
to make any inquiry in connection with prospective employment or membership
which expresses, directly or indirectly, any limitation, specification or
discrimination as to race, sex, religion, physical handicap, color, national
origin or ancestry or any intent to make any such limitation, specification or
discrimination, unless based on a bona fide occupational qualification;
   (d)   Any employer, employment agency or labor organization to discharge,
expel or otherwise discriminate against any person because he or she has
promoted the provisions and practices of this article which have the underlying
purpose to eliminate discrimination or because he or she has filed a complaint,
testified or assisted in any proceeding under this article;
   (e)   An employer, labor organization, employment agency or school which
provides, coordinates, or controls an apprenticeship, on the job, or other
training or retraining program to maintain a practice of discrimination,
segregation, or separation because of race, sex, religion, physical handicap,
color, national origin or ancestry in admission, hiring, assignment, upgrading,
transfer, promotion, layoff, dismissal, apprenticeship or other training or
retraining program, or in any other terms, conditions or privileges of
employment, membership, apprenticeship or training or to follow any policy or
procedure which, without a demonstrably valid occupational qualification,
results in such unlawful practices; or
   (f)   Any person, whether an employer or an employee, or other, to aid,
abet, incite, compel or coerce the doing of any acts forbidden under this
article or to attempt to do so.
(Prior Code, § 8-706) (Ord. 1099, passed 4-1-1981)
§ 8-707 UNLAWFUL PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS PRACTICES.
   (a)   It is an unlawful public accommodations practice for any person as
defined in §
8-702, being the owner, operator, lessee, manager, administrator, employee,
public servant, agent or employee of any place of public accommodation:
      (1)   To refuse, deny or make a distinction directly or indirectly in
offering its goods, services, facilities and accommodations to any person as
covered by this article because of race, sex, religion, physical handicap,
color, national origin or ancestry; or
      (2)   Whether or not specifically prohibited from discriminating under
any provisions of this article, to aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce the
doing of any of the acts forbidden under this article or to attempt to do so.
   (b)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting its offerings of goods, services,
facilities and accommodations to persons of the same religion, or from giving
preference to persons; provided that the above-mentioned offerings are not, in
fact, offered for commercial purposes, nor shall anything in this article
prohibit a nonprofit private club, in fact not open to the public, which,
incidentally to its primary purpose, provides certain public accommodations, as
defined in §
8-702, for other than commercial purposes, from limiting the accommodations to
its members, or giving preference to its members and the guests of its members.
(Prior Code, § 8-707) (Ord. 1099, passed 4-1-1981)
§ 8-708 UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICES.
   (a)   It is unlawful housing practice to:
      (1)   Refuse to sell or rent any housing, after a bona fide offer has
been made, or fail to transmit a bona fide offer or refuse to negotiate in good
faith for the sale or rental of housing or otherwise make unavailable or deny
any housing or services of facilities in connection therewith, because of race,
sex, religion, physical handicap, color, national origin or ancestry;
      (2)   Make, print, publish, disseminate or use, or cause to be made,
printed, published, disseminated or used, any notice, statement, advertisement
or application with respect to the sale or rental of housing which indicates
any preference, limitation, specification or discrimination based on race, sex,
religion, physical handicap, color, national origin or ancestry, or any
intention to make any such preference, limitation, specification or
discrimination;
      (3)   Represent to any person, because of race, sex, religion, physical
handicap, color, national origin or ancestry, that any real property is not
available for inspection, sale or rental, when such real property is in fact
available;
      (4)   Induce or attempt to induce for profit any person to sell or rent
housing by representation regarding the entry or prospective entry into the
neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, sex, religion,
physical handicap, color, national origin or ancestry;
      (5)   Deny any person access to, membership in or participation in any
multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’ organization or other service,
organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting housing
or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or conditions of such
access, membership or participation because of race, sex, religion, physical
handicap, color, national origin or ancestry;
      (6)   To discriminate against any person in his or her use or occupancy
of housing because of the race, sex, religion, physical handicap, color,
national origin or ancestry of the people with whom the person associates;
      (7)   Deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying
therefor, for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining real property, because of the race, sex, religion, physical
handicap, color, national origin or ancestry of:
         (A)   The person; or
         (B)   Any person associated with the person in connection with a loan
or other financial assistance or associated with him or her in connection with
the purposes of the owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the real property
in relation to which the loan or other financial assistance is to be made or
given;
      (8)   Discriminate against any person in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of a loan or other
financial assistance because of the race, sex, religion, physical handicap,
color, national origin or ancestry of:
         (A)   The person;
         (B)   Any person associated with the person in connection with the
loan or other financial assistance or associated with him or her in connection
with purpose of the loan or other financial assistance; or
         (C)   The present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants
of the real property in relation to which the loan or other financial
assistance is to be made or given.
      (9)   Use a form of application for financial assistance, or to make any
inquiry or make or keep any record in connection with the application which
indicates directly or indirectly an intention to make any preference,
limitation, specification or discrimination because of race, sex, religion,
physical handicap, color, national origin or ancestry.
   (b)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental, occupancy of any real
property which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to persons, nor shall
anything in this section prohibit a nonprofit private club, in fact not open to
the public, which incidentally to its primary purpose or purposes, provides
lodging which it owns and operates for other than a commercial purpose from
limiting the rental or occupancy of lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members and the guests of its members. Nor shall anything in
this article apply to:
      (1)   A rental or leasing of a housing accommodation for not more than
two families living independently of each other, if the owner resides in one
housing unit; or
      (2)   The rental or leasing to fewer than five persons within a single
housing accommodation by the occupant or owner of the housing accommodation if
he or she resides therein.
(Prior Code, § 8-708) (Ord. 1099, passed 4-1-1981; Ord. 1108, passed 3-8-1982)
§ 8-709 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM FOR CITY PERSONNEL.
   The affirmative action program for personnel in the city shall be as
follows.
   (a)   It is the policy of the city to take affirmative action to achieve
equal employment for all minorities and women in all personnel actions and
procedures including, but not limited to, recruitment, hiring, training,
transfer, promotion, compensation and other benefits.
   (b)   General objectives shall be as follows:
      (1)   To establish procedures to recruit minority and women applicants
for every level of responsibility;
      (2)   The city will maintain liaison and cooperate with programs (such as
CETA) providing training for minorities and women and seek out opportunities to
participate in and/or operate training programs; and
      (3)   To establish and maintain liaison between the city and minority
communities.
   (c)   The Mayor, or his or her designated representative, shall be the Equal
Opportunity Officer to coordinate the city’s efforts in the implementation of
its affirmative action program and to advise and assist staff in the
implementation.
   (d)   The duties of the Equal Opportunity Officer shall be to:
      (1)   Conduct reviews as necessary or indicated by reports, to determine
compliance with the city’s affirmative action program;
      (2)   Report to the Ad Hoc Equal Opportunity Committee results obtained
with the affirmative action program, problems encountered, and resistance or
failure to implement the policy of the city, and recommend remedies;
      (3)   Serve as a consultant and resource person in the development of
recruitment programs, selection procedures, training programs or other
personnel functions to implement the city’s affirmative action program; and
      (4)   Establish and maintain liaison between the city and minority
communities.
   (e)   Dissemination of policy:
      (1)   The city policy of affirmative action shall be communicated to all
personnel in city government.
      (2)   The affirmative action policy shall be posted on all bulletin
boards in areas where employed personnel will be aware of the policy.
      (3)   The policy shall be sent to all appropriate recruitment sources.
The intent of the policy shall be communicated with all letters or invitations
for persons to submit resumes for consideration for employment.
      (4)   During orientation of new personnel, the city’s affirmative action
program shall be emphasized. A printed brochure explaining all aspects of the
policy will be provided to all new employees.
      (5)   The policy of the city shall be forwarded to minority and women
group leaders and organizations and churches; and particularly those composed
of minority populations, schools, contractors, subcontractors, suppliers and
other agencies.
   (f)   Recruitment and selection. The city shall:
      (1)   Recruit personnel in a manner that clearly demonstrates the city’s
interest in the employment of minorities and women;
      (2)   Establish communications with educational institutions,
organizations, leaders or spokesmen which encourage referral of qualified
minorities and women applicants for positions which may become available in the
city government;
      (3)   Identify minority referral sources within the scope of the
recruitment area; and
      (4)   Consider applicants on the basis of those able to be qualified to
perform the job. If minority and women applicants have qualifications to
perform the job, they shall be given equal consideration for employment with
any other applicant.
(Prior Code, § 8-709) (Ord. 1099, passed 4-1-1981)
§ 8-710 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM FOR PUBLIC CONTRACTS.
   An affirmative action program for public contracts shall be submitted as
follows.
   (a)   Class I contracts.
      (1)   Submission of program. Prior to entering any contract, as defined
in §
8-702, with the city, all persons seeking a contract shall submit in writing to
the Equal Opportunity Officer an affirmative action program, as defined in §
8-702. The affirmative action program shall be submitted concurrently with or
prior to any contract bid or proposal. The affirmative action program shall be
submitted in the form of answers to a specific written questionnaire. If any
person fails or refuses to abide by this section, the person shall be
ineligible to enter into any Class I contract or to receive any contract from
the city until he or she has so complied.
      (2)   Review by Equal Opportunity Officer.
         (A)   Affirmative action programs. The Equal Opportunity Officer shall
receive and review affirmative action programs submitted to him or her and
shall specify in writing any modification of the program needed to make it
conform to the requirements of this section. Prior to rejection of any program,
the officer shall advise and consult with the person submitting a program for
the purpose of assisting him or her to develop an acceptable affirmative action
program. In any event, the Equal Opportunity Officer will make his or her
determination within five working days of receipt of the program.
         (B)   Option annual submission. Any person who so desires may file
annually an affirmative action program which shall apply to all bids or
proposals which the person makes during the calendar year next succeeding the
day of such filing. This annual submission shall be subject to review by the
Equal Opportunity Officer and shall be amended at such time and in a manner as
may be required.
      (3)   Acceptance of program. The final determination of acceptance or
rejection of the affirmative action program shall be made by the Governing
Body.
      (4)   Class I contract conditions.
         (A)   Any person who has been awarded a Class I contract shall not
discriminate against any person in the performance of work under the contract
because of race, sex, religion, physical handicap, color, national origin or
ancestry, except by reason of demonstrably valid occupational disqualification.
         (B)   In all solicitations or advertisements for employees, the
contractor shall include the phrase, “Equal Opportunity Employer,” or a similar
phrase to be approved by the Equal Opportunity Officer.
         (C)   If the contractor fails to comply with the provisions of this
section, the contractor shall be deemed to have breached the contract and it
may be rescinded, terminated or suspended in whole, or in part, by the
Governing Body.
         (D)   The contractor shall include the provisions of this section in
every subcontract so that the provisions will be binding upon a subcontractor.
      (5)   Duties and authority of the Equal Opportunity Officer. The Equal
Opportunity Officer is charged with administration and enforcement of this
section and is authorized and empowered:
         (A)   Affirmative action program, review, eligibility certification.
To receive, review and recommend approval or rejection of affirmative action
programs submitted by persons seeking any city contract and to certify eligible
persons to the city;
         (B)   Compliance investigation. To initiate investigations into, to
survey and review any and all affirmative action programs and contracts subject
to this section, to take action with respect thereto as shall ensure compliance
with the terms of this section, subject to approval of the City Manager;
         (C)   Initiate complaints. To initiate and file with the Ad Hoc Equal
Opportunity Committee complaints alleging violation of this section; and
         (D)   Complaint investigation. To receive, investigate and rule upon,
or a pass on to the Ad Hoc Equal Opportunity committee complaints of violations
of this section.
   (b)   Class II contracts. Prior to entering into any contract, as defined in
§ 8-702 with the city, all persons seeking a contract shall execute and agree
to comply with the terms and conditions in every purchase order, which shall
require compliance with Executive Order 11375, § 202, pertaining to equal
employment opportunity requirements. If any person fails or refuses to execute
the purchase order containing the terms and conditions as required by this
section, the person shall be ineligible to enter any Class II contract or to
receive any contract from the city until he or she has so complied.
(Prior Code, § 8-710) (Ord. 1099, passed 4-1-1981)
ARTICLE 8: ENVIRONMENTAL EMERGENCY RESPONSE COSTS
Section
   
8-801   Definitions
   
8-802   Strict liability
   
8-803   Recovery of expenses
   
8-804   Conflict with state or federal law
   
8-805   Notification and penalty
§ 8-801 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY ACTION. All exigent activities conducted in order to prevent or
mitigate harm to the public health and safety or the environment from a release
or threatened release of any material into or upon land, water or air.
   GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY. Includes the City of Humboldt, the Allen County
Hazardous Material Response Unit and any entity responding under a mutual aid
agreement with the city.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, corporation, association, partnership,
firm, trustee, legal representative or any combination thereof.
   RECOVERABLE EXPENSES. Include the full costs of the responding governmental
entity that are reasonable, necessary and allocable to an emergency action.
RECOVERABLE EXPENSES shall not include expenditures that are incurred in the
course of providing routine firefighting protection. Expenses allowable for
recovery may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Disposable materials and supplies consumed and expended
specifically for the purpose of the emergency action;
      (2)   Compensation of employees for the time and effort devoted
specifically to the emergency action;
      (3)   Rental or leasing of equipment used specifically for the emergency
action (e.g., protective equipment or clothing, scientific and technical
equipment);
      (4)   Replacement costs of equipment owned by the governmental entity
that is contaminated beyond reuse or repair, if the equipment was a total loss
and the loss occurred during the emergency action (e.g., self-contained
breathing apparatus irretrievable contaminated during the response);
      (5)   Decontamination of equipment contaminated during the response;
      (6)   Special technical services specifically required for the response
(e.g., costs associated with the time and efforts of technical experts or
specialists not otherwise provide for by the governmental entities);
      (7)   Other special services specifically required for the emergency
action;
      (8)   Laboratory costs of analyzing samples taken during the emergency
action;
      (9)   Any costs of cleanup, storage or disposal of the released material;
      (10)   Costs associated with the services, supplies and equipment
procured for a specific evacuation of persons or property;
      (11)   Medical expenses incurred as a result of response activities; and
      (12)   Legal expenses and administrative costs that may be incurred as a
result of the emergency action, including efforts to recover expenses pursuant
to this article.
   RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping or disposing into or upon
land, water or air, of any material which the city determines may be harmful to
the public health and welfare or the environment.
   THREATENED RELEASE. Any imminent or impending event potentially causing but
not resulting in a release, but causing the governmental entities to undertake
an emergency action.
(Prior Code, § 8-801) (Ord. 1246, passed 2-10-1992)
§ 8-802 STRICT LIABILITY.
   (a)   Any person causing or responsible for a release or threatened release
resulting in an emergency action shall be strictly liable to the governmental
entity for the recoverable expenses resulting from the emergency action.
   (b)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that any person owning or
controlling property causing a release or threatened released is responsible
for such release or threatened release.
(Prior Code, § 8-802) (Ord. 1246, passed 2-10-1992)
§ 8-803 RECOVERY OF EXPENSES.
   (a) Itemization of recoverable expenses. The staff of the governmental
entity involved in the emergency action shall keep an itemized record of its
recoverable expenses resulting from the emergency action. Promptly after
completion of the emergency action, staff shall certify those expenses to the
City Clerk.
   (b)   Submission of claim. The City Clerk shall submit a written, itemized
claim for the total certified expenses incurred by the governmental entity for
the emergency action to the responsible party and a written notice that, unless
the amounts are paid in full to the government entity within 30 days after the
date of the mailing of the claim and notice, legal counsel will file a civil
action for the stated amount.
   (c)   Lien on property. The governmental entity involved in an emergency
action may cause a lien in the amount of the recoverable expenses to be placed
on any real property located within the boundaries of the governmental entity
owned by the person causing or responsible for the emergency action.
   (d)   Civil suit. The governmental entity involved in an emergency action
may bring a civil action for recovery of the recoverable expenses against any
and all persons causing or responsible for the emergency action.
   (e)   Distribution of moneys recovered. Moneys recovered under this article
shall be credited to the appropriate funds of the governmental entity from
which moneys were expended in performing the emergency action.
(Prior Code, § 8-803) (Ord. 1246, passed 2-10-1992)
§ 8-804 CONFLICT WITH STATE OR FEDERAL LAW.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to conflict with state or federal
laws requiring person causing or responsible for releases or threatened
releases from engaging in remediation activities and/or paying the costs
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-804) (Ord. 1246, passed 2-10-1992)
§ 8-805 NOTIFICATION AND PENALTY.
   In the event a release occurs, the person causing or responsible for such
release shall immediately notify the governmental entity and request emergency
action. Failure of any person to report any release shall be a code violation
and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000
or by imprisonment of not more than one year or both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 8-805) (Ord. 1246, passed 2-10-1992)
ARTICLE 9: FAIR HOUSING POLICY
Section
   
8-901   Policy
   
8-902   Definitions
   
8-903   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
8-904   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
8-905   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
8-906   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
8-907   Exemptions
   
8-908   Administration
   
8-909   Enforcement
§ 8-901 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations
and the laws of the State of Kansas, fair housing opportunity throughout the
city.
(Prior Code, § 8-901) (Ord. 1238, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 8-902 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof, which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for any occupancy as, a residence by one or more
families, and shall by implication include any vacant land offered for sale or
lease for the construction or location thereof of any such building, structure
or portion thereof.
   FAIR HOUSING OPPORTUNITY. The absence of discriminatory housing activity and
unlawful practice as delineated in §§
8-903 through
8-906.
   RENT. Includes any lease, sublease, the letting of property and any other
such activity which grants for a consideration the right to occupy premises
owned by another.
(Prior Code, § 8-902) (Ord. 1238, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 8-903 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   Except as except elsewhere in this article, it shall be unlawful:
   (a)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race or color, religion, national
origin, sex, familial status (including children under the age of 18 living
with parents or legal custodians, pregnant women and people securing custody of
children under 18) and handicap;
   (b)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race or color, religion,
national origin, sex, familial status (including children under the age of 18
living with parents or legal custodians, pregnant women and people securing
custody of children under 18) and handicap;
   (c)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice statement, or advertisement, which indicates any preference,
limitation or discrimination based on race or color, religion, national origin,
sex, familial status (including children under the age of 18 living with
parents or legal custodians, pregnant women and people securing custody of
children under 18) and handicap in the sale or rental of a dwelling;
   (d)   To represent to any person that any dwelling is not available for
inspection, sale or rental, when, in fact, the dwelling is available, because
of race or color, religion, national origin, sex, familial status (including
children under the age of 18 living with parent or legal custodians, pregnant
women and people securing custody of children under 18) and handicap of the
person involved; and/or
   (e)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling through use of representations regarding the entry or prospective
entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race or
color, religion, national origin, sex, familial status (including children
under the age of 18 living with parents or legal custodians, pregnant women and
people securing custody of children under 18) and handicap.
(Prior Code, § 8-903) (Ord. 1238, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 8-904 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any lending association, insurance company or other
corporation, or association, who business consists in whole or in part in the
making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan or other financial
assistance to any person for the purpose of purchasing, constructing,
improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to discriminate against the
person in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration or other terms or
conditions of such loan or other financial assistance because of the race or
color, religion, national origin, sex, familial status (including children
under the age of 18 living with parents or legal custodians, pregnant women and
people securing custody of children under 18) and handicap of the person, or
persons associated with him or her.
(Prior Code, § 8-904) (Ord. 1238, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 8-905 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to, or membership or
participation in, any multiple listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or other service organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against any person
in terms of conditions of such access, membership, or participation on account
of race or color, religion, national origin, sex, familial status (including
children under the age of 18 living with parents or legal custodians, pregnant
women and people securing custody of children under 18) and handicap.
(Prior Code, § 8-905) (Ord. 1238, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 8-906 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with an
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by other sections of this article.
(Prior Code, § 8-906) (Ord. 1238, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 8-907 EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   Nothing in this article shall prohibit a generally recognized
religious organization, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a generally recognized
religious organization, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on the basis of race or color,
national origin, sex, familial status (including children under the age of 18
living with parents or legal custodians, pregnant women and people securing
custody of children under 18) and handicap. Nor shall anything in this article
prohibit a private club, not in fact open to the public, which is incidental to
its primary purpose, from providing lodgings which it owns or operated for
other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such
lodgings to its members, or from giving preference to its members, provided
membership in such club is not restricted on account of race or color,
religion, national origin, sex, familial status (including children under the
age of 18 living with parents or legal custodians, pregnant women and people
securing custody of children under 18) and handicap.
   (b)   Single-family houses sold or rented by an owner shall be exempt from
the conditions of this article, provided that the owner does not own more than
three such single-family houses at any one time, and provided that the owner
does not own any interest in the sale or rental of any additional houses.
Provided further, that in the case of the sale of any such house by an owner
not residing in the house, or who was not the most recent resident of the
house, the exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month
period; provided further, that the sale or rental is made without the use in
any manner of the facilities of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson or
any person in the business of selling or renting dwellings.
   (c)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of the living
quarters as his or her residence.
(Prior Code, § 8-907) (Ord. 1238, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 8-908 ADMINISTRATION.
   The authority and responsibility for administering this article shall be the
City Council or their officially appointed delegate who may be an employee of
the city or a board of such employees. The Council shall by rule prescribe such
rights of appeal from decisions of the delegated employees to other employees
or to the elected officials of the city, as shall be appropriate and in
accordance with the law. The City Council shall provide such educational and
conciliatory activities as will further the purposes of this article, including
conferences of persons in the housing industry, with the intent of working out
programs of voluntary compliance and of enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 8-908) (Ord. 1238, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 8-909 ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   An person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice, or who believes that he or she will be irrevocable injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereinafter “person
aggrieved”), may file a complaint with the City Clerk. Complaints shall be in
writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as the City
Council requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the City Clerk shall
furnish a copy of the same to the person or persons who allegedly committed or
are about to commit the alleged discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days
after receiving a complaint, or within 30 days after the expiration of any
period of reference under subsection (c) below, the City Council shall
investigate the complaint and give notice in writing to the person aggrieved
whether they intend to resolve it. If the City Council intends to resolve the
complaint(s), they shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged
discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of conference, conciliation
and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of such informal endeavor
may be made public without the written consent of the persons concerned. Any
employee of the City Council who shall make public any information in violation
of this provision shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one
year. Complaints may also be field with State Commission on Civil Rights, 900
S.W. Jackson Street, Suite 851S, Topeka, Kansas 66612-1258.
   (b)   A complaint under subsection (a) shall be filed within 180 days after
the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. The complaint shall be in
writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him or her and with the leave of the Council, which shall be granted
whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his or her answer
at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (c)   If, within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the City Clerk, the
State Commission on Civil Rights, the City Council has been unable to obtain
voluntary compliance with this article, the person aggrieved may, within 30
days thereafter, file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, Kansas City Regional Office, Region VII, Gateway Tower II, 400
State Avenue, Kansas City, Kansas 66101. The City Council will assist in this
filing.
   (d)   If the City Council has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance
within 30 days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days
thereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this article, insofar as such rights related to the subject to the
complaint. If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has
occurred, or is about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from
engaging such practice or order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (e)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden or
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (f)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
City Council shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary
compliance.
   (g)   Any person who has intimidated any other person from the exercise or
enjoyment of his or her rights under §
8-906, shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not
more than one year, or both.
(Prior Code, § 8-909) (Ord. 1238, passed 8-12-1991)
ARTICLE 10: INSURANCE PROCEEDS FUND
Section
   
8-1001   Scope and application
   
8-1002   Lien created
   
8-1003   Same; encumbrances
   
8-1004   Same; pro rata basis
   
8-1005   Procedure
   
8-1006   Fund created; deposit of moneys
   
8-1007   Building Inspector; investigation, removal of structure
   
8-1008   Removal of structure; excess moneys
   
8-1009   Same; disposition of funds
   
8-1010   Effect upon insurance policies
   
8-1011   Insurers; liability
§ 8-1001 SCOPE AND APPLICATION.
   The city is hereby authorized to utilize the procedures established by
K.S.A. 40-3901 et seq., whereby no insurance company shall pay a claim of a
named insured for loss or damage to any building or other structure located
within the city, arising out of any fire, explosion or windstorm, where the
amount recoverable for the loss of damage to the building or other structure
under all policies is in excess of 75% of the face value of the policy covering
such building or other insured structure, unless there is compliance with the
procedures set out in this article.
(Ord. 1307, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 8-1002 LIEN CREATED.
   The Governing Body of the city hereby creates a lien in favor of the city on
the proceeds of any insurance policy based upon a covered claim payment made
for damage or loss to a building or other structure located within the city,
caused by or arising out of any fire, explosion or windstorm, where the amount
recoverable for all the loss or damage to the building or other structure under
all policy(s) covering such building or other insured structure. The lien
arises upon any unpaid tax, special ad valorem levy, or any other charge
imposed upon real property by or on behalf of the city which is an encumbrance
on real property, whether or not evidenced by written instrument, or such tax,
levy assessment, expense or other charge that has remained undischarged for at
least one year prior to the filing of a proof of loss.
(Ord. 1307, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 8-1003 SAME; ENCUMBRANCES.
   Prior to final settlement on any claim covered by §
8-1002, the insurer or insurers shall contact the County Treasurer, to
determine whether any such encumbrances are presently in existence. If the same
are found to exist, the insurer or insurers shall execute and transmit in an
amount equal to that owing under the encumbrances a draft payable to the County
Treasurer.
(Ord. 1307, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 8-1004 SAME; PRO RATA BASIS.
   Such transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by all insurance
companies insuring the building or other structure.
(Ord. 1307, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 8-1005 PROCEDURE.
   (a)   When final settlement on a covered claim has been agreed to or arrived
at between the named insured or insureds and the company or companies, and the
final settlement exceeds 75% of the face value of the policy covering any
building or other insured structure, and when all amounts due the holder of a
first real estate mortgage against the building or other structure, pursuant to
the terms of the policy and endorsements thereto, shall have been paid, the
insurance company or companies shall execute a draft payable to the City
Treasurer in an amount equal to the sum of 15% of the covered claim payment
unless the Chief Building Inspector of the city has issued a certificate to the
insurance company or companies that the insured has removed the damaged
building or otherwise made the premises safe and secure.
   (b)   Such transfer of funds shall be on a pro rata basis by all companies
insuring the building or other structure. Policy proceeds remaining after the
transfer to the city shall be disbursed in accordance with the policy terms.
   (c)   Upon the transfer of the funds as required by subsection (a) above,
the insurance company shall provide the city with the name and address of the
named insured or insureds, the total insurance coverage applicable to said
building or other structure, and the amount of the final settlement agreed to
or arrived at between the insurance company or companies and the insured or
insureds, whereupon the Chief Building Inspector shall contact the named
insured or insureds by registered mail, notifying them that said insurance
proceeds have been received by the city and apprise them of the procedures to
be followed under this article.
(Ord. 1307, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 8-1006 FUND CREATED; DEPOSIT OF MONEYS.
   The City Treasurer is hereby authorized and shall create a fund to be known
as the “Insurance Proceeds Fund.” All moneys received by the City Treasurer as
provided for by this article shall be placed in said fund and deposited in an
interest-bearing account.
(Ord. 1307, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 8-1007 BUILDING INSPECTOR; INVESTIGATION, REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE.
   (a)   Upon receipt of moneys as provided for by this article, the City
Treasurer shall immediately notify the Chief Building Inspector of said
receipt, and transmit all documentation received from the insurance company or
companies to the Chief Building Inspector.
   (b)   Within 20 days of the receipt of said moneys, the Chief Building
Inspector shall determine, after prior investigation, whether the city shall
instigate proceedings under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as
amended.
   (c)   Prior to the expiration of the 20 days established by subsection (b)
above, the Chief Building Inspector shall notify the City Treasurer whether he
or she intends to initiate proceedings under K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as
amended.
   (d)   If the Chief Building Inspector has determined that proceeding under
K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as amended shall be initiated, he or she will do so
immediately, but no later than 30 days after receipt of the moneys by the City
Treasurer.
   (e)   Upon notification to the City Treasurer by the Chief Building
Inspector that no proceedings shall be initiated under K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq.,
as amended, the City Treasurer shall return all such moneys received, plus
accrued interest, to the insured or insureds as identified in the communication
from the insurance company or companies. Such return shall be accomplished
within 30 days of the. receipt of the moneys from the insurance company or
companies.
(Ord. 1307, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 8-1008 REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE; EXCESS MONEYS.
   If the Chief Building Inspector has proceeded under the provisions of K.S.A.
12-1750 et seq., as amended, all moneys in excess of that which is ultimately
necessary to comply with the provisions for the removal of the building or
structure, less salvage value, if any, shall be paid to the insured.
(Ord. 1307, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 8-1009 SAME; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   If the Chief Building Inspector, with regard to a building or other
structure damaged by fire, explosion or windstorm determines that it is
necessary to act under K.S.A. 12-1756, any proceeds received by the City
Treasurer under the authority of §
8-1005(a) relating to that building or other structure shall be used to
reimburse the city for any expenses incurred by the city in proceeding under
K.S.A. 12-1756. Upon reimbursement from the insurance proceeds, the Chief
Building Inspector shall immediately effect the release of the lien resulting
therefrom. Should the expenses incurred by the city exceed the insurance
proceed paid over to the City Treasurer, under §
8-1005(a) the Chief Building Inspector shall publish a new lien as authorized
by K.S.A. 12-1756, in an amount equal to such excess expenses incurred.
(Ord. 1307, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 8-1010 EFFECT UPON INSURANCE POLICIES.
   This article shall not make the city a party to any insurance contract, nor
is the insurer liable to any party for any amount in excess of the proceeds
otherwise payable under its insurance policy.
(Ord. 1307, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 8-1011 INSURERS; LIABILITY.
   Insurers complying with this article or attempting in good faith to comply
with this article shall be immune from civil and criminal liability and such
action shall not be deemed in violation of K.S.A. 40-2404 and any amendments
thereto, including withholding payment of any insurance proceeds pursuant to
this article, or releasing or disclosing any information pursuant to this
article.
(Ord. 1307, passed 8-11-1997)
CHAPTER IX: MUNICIPAL COURT
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
9-101   Municipal Court established
   
9-102   Same; practice and procedure
   
9-103   Time and place of sessions
   
9-104   Municipal Judge; appointment
   
9-105   Same; absence; vacancy; pro tem
   
9-106   Same; powers and duties
   
9-107   Same; salary
   
9-108   Court Clerk
   
9-109   Payment of fine
   
9-110   Same; failure to pay separate violation
   
9-111   Failure to appear
   
9-112   Court costs
   
9-113   Attorney appointment; payment for services of the attorney
§ 9-101 MUNICIPAL COURT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Municipal Court for the city. The Municipal
Court shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine cases involving violations
of the ordinances of the city.
§ 9-102 SAME; PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE.
   The State Code of Procedure for Municipal Courts, as set forth in K.S.A. 12-
4101 et seq., and all acts amendatory or supplemental thereto, shall govern the
practice and procedure in all Municipal Court cases.
§ 9-103 TIME AND PLACE OF SESSIONS.
   The Municipal Court shall be held in the Municipal Courtroom in the City
Hall building on such days and at such hours as the Municipal Judge designates.
§ 9-104 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; APPOINTMENT.
   The Municipal Court shall be presided over by a Municipal Judge. The Mayor,
subject to the approval of the City Council, shall appoint the Judge of the
Municipal Court.
§ 9-105 SAME; ABSENCE; VACANCY; PRO TEM.
   (a)   In the event the Municipal Judge is temporarily unable to preside due
to absence, illness or disqualification, the Municipal Judge shall designate an
attorney or other qualified person to act as Judge Pro Tempore. In the event
the Municipal Judge fails to appoint a Judge Pro Tempore, the Judge Pro Tempore
shall be appointed in the same manner as the Municipal Judge is selected. The
Judge Pro Tempore shall receive compensation as shall be provided by ordinance,
payable in the same manner as the compensation of the regular Municipal Judge.
   (b)   In the event a vacancy shall occur in the office of Municipal Judge, a
successor shall be appointed to fill the unexpired term in the same manner as
the Municipal Judge was appointed.
(K.S.A. 12-4107)
§ 9-106 SAME; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Municipal Judge shall have such powers and duties as set forth in the
State Code of Procedure for Municipal Courts (K.S.A. 12-4101 et seq.) and all
acts amendatory or supplemental thereto.
§ 9-107 SAME; SALARY.
   The Municipal Judge shall receive a salary as shall be fixed by ordinance.
§ 9-108 COURT CLERK.
   (a)   There is hereby established the Office of the Clerk of the Municipal
Court of the city, which office shall be filled by appointment by the Municipal
Judge of the Municipal Court.
   (b)   The duties of the office shall be those prescribed by the Code for
Municipal Courts set forth in K.S.A. Ch. 12, Art. 41, and shall include the
following duties.
      (1)   The Clerk shall issue all processes of the Court; administer oaths;
file and preserve all papers, and docket cases; and set same for trial and
shall perform such further acts as may be necessary to carry out the duties and
responsibilities of the Court. The Clerk shall receive, account for and pay to
the City Treasurer monthly all fines and forfeited bonds paid into the Court.
The Clerk shall make reports to the Judicial Administrator and furnish the
information when requested by him, her or a departmental justice on such forms
furnished by the Judicial Administrator, and approved by the Supreme Court.
      (2)   The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall within ten days after
selection and before entering upon the duties of office, execute to the city
such bond as the Governing Body may require, which shall be approved by the
Governing Body, and file in the office of the City Clerk, conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties required of him or her by law, and for the
faithful application and payment of all monies that may come into his or her
hands in the execution of the duties of the office. The city shall pay the cost
of such bond.
      (3)   The monthly salary of the Clerk shall be fixed by ordinance.
      (4)   A majority of all members of the Council may remove the Clerk
appointed under the authority of this article, or for good cause the Mayor may
temporarily suspend any such appointed Clerk.
(K.S.A. 12-4108)
§ 9-109 PAYMENT OF FINE.
   Where a Municipal Court judgment against any person results in a fine and/or
court costs only, the same shall be satisfied by paying the amount of such fine
and/or court costs to the Municipal Court immediately on the rendition of
judgment, or at such time as the Municipal Judge shall determine.
§ 9-110 SAME; FAILURE TO PAY SEPARATE VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail to pay any lawfully
imposed fine for a violation of any law of the city within the time authorized
by the Court and without lawful excuse having been presented to the Court on or
before the date the fine is due. Such conduct constitutes a violation of this
article, regardless of the full payment of the fine after such time.
§ 9-111 FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person charged with violation of any law
of the city to fail to appear before the Municipal Court when so scheduled to
appear, unless lawful excuse for absence is presented to the Court on or before
the time and date scheduled for appearance.
   (b)   For the purpose of subsection (a) above, failure to appear shall
include willfully incurring a forfeiture of an appearance bond and failure to
surrender oneself within 30 days following the date of such forfeiture by one
who is charged with a violation of the laws of the city and has been released
on bond for appearance before the Municipal Court for trial or other proceeding
prior to conviction, or willfully incurring a forfeiture of an appearance bond
and failing to surrender oneself within 30 days after his or her conviction of
a violation of the laws of the city has become final by one who has been
released on an appearance bond by any court of the State of Kansas.
   (c)   Any person who is released upon his or her own recognizance, without
surety, or who fails to appear in response to a summons, notice to appear or
traffic citation duly served upon him or her personally shall be deemed a
person released on bond for appearance within the meaning of subsection (b)
above.
   (d)   Failure to appear, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by
incarceration for up to 30 days and/or a fine of up to $250.
§ 9-112 COURT COSTS.
   (a)   Court costs to be assessed. In all Municipal Court cases where the
accused pleads guilty, nolo contendere, or is adjudged guilty or enters into a
diversion agreement or other dispositional agreement, such person shall be
assessed costs for the administration of justice in the Municipal Court, in the
amount set forth in subsection (b) below, or as may be amended by city
ordinance.
   (b)   Amount of court costs. In addition to any other assessments mandated
by K.S.A. 12-4112, court costs shall be assessed in the sum of $47.
   (c)   Other costs and assessments. In addition to the above court costs, the
following costs may be assessed by the Municipal Court Judge:
      (1)   Attorney’s fees. As part of the court costs, the Municipal Court
may also assess to the defendant, if convicted, the amount of attorney’s fees
and costs expended by the city if the defendant was represented by court-
appointed counsel. In determining the amount and method of payment of such sum,
the court may take into account the financial resources of the defendant and
the nature of the burden that payment of such sum will impose.
      (2)   Incarceration fees. As part of the court costs, a fee in the amount
of $20 per day may be assessed against the defendant in each case in which the
defendant is incarcerated pursuant to an order of the Municipal Court Judge.
      (3)   Expungement fee. As part of the court cost, the Municipal Court may
assess the sum of up to $250 for each expungement ordered by the Court.
      (4)   Warrant fees. The Municipal Court may assess as court costs the sum
of $25 against each person named or described in an arrest warrant issued by
the Municipal Court Judge directed to any law enforcement officer commanding
the officer to arrest the person named or described.
(Ord. 1502, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 9-113 ATTORNEY APPOINTMENT; PAYMENT FOR SERVICES OF THE ATTORNEY.
   (a)   The Municipal Judge for the Municipal Court, shall, upon notice to an
attorney in this county of his or her appointment to represent an indigent
defendant, also notify the attorney of the compensation schedule and procedures
authorized by this section.
   (b)   The payment for attorneys appointed by the municipal judge shall be at
the rate of $50 per hour, including trial, appearance at sentencing or other
disposition.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (b) below, the maximum
fee to be paid an appointed attorney for any one indigent representation shall
be $250, except for exceptional circumstances which must be certified by the
Court.
   (d)   Upon completion of representation of an indigent defendant in City
Municipal Court, the appointed attorney shall present his or her claim for
payment to the City Clerk. No claim shall be made until the completion of the
ten-day appeal time.
(Ord. 1310, passed 8-11-1997)
CHAPTER X: POLICE
   Article
      
1.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
2.   PROPERTY IN POLICE CUSTODY
ARTICLE 1: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
10-101   Police Department
   
10-102   Law enforcement personnel; general duties
   
10-103   Rules and regulations
§ 10-101 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Law Enforcement Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and such
number of regular law enforcement officers as shall be appointed as provided by
K.S.A. 15-204.
(Prior Code, § 10-101) (Ord. 1139, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 10-102 LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL; GENERAL DUTIES.
   (a)   It shall be the general duty of the Chief of Police and all sworn law
enforcement personnel to the best of their ability to preserve good order,
peace and quiet throughout the city as provided by law or ordinance.
   (b)   The Chief of Police and all sworn law enforcement personnel shall at
all times have power to make arrest under proper process or without process on
view of any offense against the laws of the State of Kansas or laws of the city
and to keep all persons so arrested, unless admitted to bail, in the city jail,
county jail or other proper place to prevent their escape until their trial can
be had before the proper officer.
   (c)   All persons arrested for violation of any law of the State of Kansas
and who shall not be charged with an offense under any law of the city shall be
released to the custody of the Sheriff of the county and such arrest shall be
reported to the County Attorney.
§ 10-103 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police shall have power to make such rules and regulations as
may be necessary for the proper and efficient conduct of the Department. Such
rules and regulations shall be approved by the Governing Body.
(Prior Code, § 10-103) (Ord. 1139, passed 12-10-1984)
ARTICLE 2: PROPERTY IN POLICE CUSTODY
Section
   
10-201   Regulations
   
10-202   Disposition
   
10-203   Same; exempt property
   
10-204   Claiming property
   
10-205   Proof of ownership
   
10-206   Auction
§ 10-201 REGULATIONS.
   The Police Department is required to establish regulations detailing the
collection, storage and inventory of property that may come under its control
by any manner.
§ 10-202 DISPOSITION.
   Any property which has been acquired or turned over to the Police Department
and has been classified in accordance with procedures existing in the Police
Department as unclaimed or for which the proper owner cannot be ascertained
shall be kept for a minimum of 90 days. After a period of 90 days, such
property, except as provided in §
10-203, shall be sold at public auction to the highest bidder and the proceeds
after expenses shall be paid to the City General Fund.
§ 10-203 SAME; EXEMPT PROPERTY.
   The following classes of property shall be considered exceptions to §
10-202 and shall be dealt with in the following manner.
   (a)   Cash money shall be turned over to the City General Fund unless it
shall be determined to have collector’s value, in which case it shall be
auctioned according to the provisions in §
10-202.
   (b)   Except as provided in subsections (c) and (d) below, any weapon or
ammunition, in the discretion of the court having jurisdiction of the property,
shall be:
      (1)   Forfeited to the law enforcement agency seizing the weapon for use
within such agency, for sale to a properly licensed federal firearms dealer,
for trading to a properly licensed federal firearms dealer, for trading to a
properly licensed federal firearms dealer for other new or used firearms or
accessories for use within such agency, or for trading to another law
enforcement agency for that agency’s use;
      (2)   Forfeited to the State Bureau of Investigation for law enforcement,
testing or comparison by the State Bureau of Investigation forensic laboratory;
      (3)   Forfeited to a county regional forensic science center, or other
county forensic laboratory for testing, comparison or other forensic science
purposes; or
      (4)   Forfeited to the State Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism
for use pursuant to the conditions set forth in K.S.A. 32-1047, and amendments
thereto.
   (c)   Except as provided in subsection (d) below, any weapon which cannot be
forfeited pursuant to subsection (b) above due to the condition of the weapon,
shall be destroyed.
   (d)   If a weapon is seized from an individual and the individual is not
convicted of the violation for which the weapon was seized, then within 30 days
after the declination or conclusion of prosecution the case against the
individual, including any period of appeal, the law enforcement agency that
seized the weapon shall verify that the weapon is not stolen, and upon such
verification shall notify the person from whom it was seized that the weapon
may be retrieved. Such notification shall include the location where such
weapon may be retrieved.
   (e)   If weapons are sold as authorized by subsection (b) above, the
proceeds of the sale shall be credited to the Asset Seizure and Forfeiture Fund
of the seizing agency.
   (f)   For purposes of subsections (b), (c) and (d) above, the term WEAPON
means any:
      (1)   Bludgeon, sand club, metal knuckle or throwing star;
      (2)   Dagger, dirk, billy, blackjack, slingshot, dangerous knife,
straight-edged razor, stiletto or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or
instrument of like character;
      (3)   Spring gun; or
      (4)   Firearm.
   (g)   Homemade weapons or weapons of a contraband nature shall be destroyed.
   (h)   Any items determined to be contraband such as explosives, narcotics
and the like shall be destroyed.
   (i)   Items of a pharmaceutical nature, which, while not contraband when
properly dispensed, or which are of an over-the-counter-variety, shall be
destroyed.
   (j)   Foodstuffs, if sealed and undamaged may be turned over to any
appropriate social service agency or destroyed, but shall not be auctioned.
   (k)   Alcohol products such as beer, wine, whiskey and the like shall be
destroyed.
   (l)   Items with a value in excess of $500 may be sold after advertising
said item in a general circulation newspaper on at least two occasions. Such
sales shall be by closed bid.
(K.S.A. 22-2512)
§ 10-204 CLAIMING PROPERTY.
   The Police Department shall be required to make reasonable attempts to
locate the owner of any property in storage, however, the responsibility for
claiming and identifying any such property shall rest solely with the owner.
§ 10-205 PROOF OF OWNERSHIP.
   Claimants to any property in police storage shall be required to present
reasonable proof of ownership and no property shall be released unless such
reasonable proof is presented.
§ 10-206 AUCTION.
   At such time as it has been determined that an auction is necessary to
dispose of unclaimed property, an inventory listing all property to be disposed
of shall be prepared and kept on file in the Police Department. Notice of an
auction shall be published at least twice in a general circulation newspaper
before the date of the auction. The notice shall specify the date, time and
place of the auction and shall also notify prospective buyers or potential
claimants that a list of items to be auctioned is available at the Police
Department and any claims on property must be made before the start of the
auction.
CHAPTER XI: PUBLIC OFFENSES
   Article
      
1.   UNIFORM PUBLIC OFFENSE CODE
      
2.   LOCAL REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 1: UNIFORM PUBLIC OFFENSE CODE
Section
   
11-101   Incorporating Uniform Public Offense Code
§ 11-101 INCORPORATING UNIFORM PUBLIC OFFENSE CODE.
   The "Uniform Public Offense Code for Kansas Cities, 2024 Edition," prepared
and published in book form by the League of Kansas Municipalities, Topeka,
Kansas is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of regulating public
offenses within the corporate limits of the City of Humboldt, Kansas. One copy
of the Uniform Public Offense Code shall be marked or stamped "Official Copy as
Adopted by Ordinance No. 1545" to which a copy of Ord. 1545 shall be attached,
and shall be filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available
to the public at all reasonable hours.
(Ord. 1529, passed 9-13-2021; Ord. 1535, passed 7-11-2022; Ord. 1539, passed 7-
10-2023; Ord. 1545, passed 6-10-2024)
ARTICLE 2: LOCAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-201   Curfew
   
11-202   Remaining on a closed lot
   
11-203   Same; violation
   
11-204   Littering; distributing advertisements
   
11-205   Making loud and unnecessary noise
   
11-206   Public defecation
   
11-207   Prohibition of the use or possession of substances containing
tetrahydrocannabinoids
§ 11-201 CURFEW.
   (a) It is unlawful for any minor under 18 years of age to loiter, ramble,
play or frequent the streets or other places in the city after the hour of 11:
00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and 12:00 midnight on Friday and Saturday,
unless the minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other person having
the legal custody of the minor or is in the performance of an errand or duty
directed by a parent, guardian or legal custodian and having a written
statement dated that day and signed by the parent, guardian or legal custodian
declaring the child to be on an emergency errand.
   (b)   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or any other person having the
legal custody of a minor to allow or permit the minor to loiter or frequent the
streets or other public places of the city within the time prohibited in
subsection (a) above.
   (c)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this
section shall be punished as provided in §
1-116.
(Prior Code, § 11-201)
§ 11-202 REMAINING ON A CLOSED LOT.
   It is unlawful, and a violation of this code, for any person to enter and
remain upon any privately owned parking lot or area adjacent to a commercial
building when the commercial entity is not open for the conduct of business,
unless:
   (a)   The person is employed by the business providing the parking lot or
area and is in the actual performance of his or her employment; or
   (b)   The person had the express permission of the owner of the property to
enter and remain thereon.
(Prior Code, § 11-202) (Ord. 1085, passed 6-9-1980)
§ 11-203 SAME; VIOLATION.
   It is unlawful and a violation of this code to willfully fail to depart from
a closed lot, as defined in §
11-202 after being directed to leave by a law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 11-203) (Ord. 1085, passed 6-9-1980)
§ 11-204 LITTERING; DISTRIBUTING ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to distribute any circulars,
advertisements, dodgers or notices of any kind in the city by throwing them in
the streets, alleys or other public places or by leaving or throwing them in or
upon the yards, lawns, porches or other private places of the city. They may be
distributed by delivering them to any person or within any entranceway of any
house, store or other private place.
(Prior Code, § 11-204)
§ 11-205 MAKING LOUD AND UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or person to make loud and unnecessary
noise or to cause or to continue any unnecessary or unusual noise which annoys,
injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health and safety of others,
including through the use of loudspeaker or sound amplifier, unless the making
or continuing of such noises is necessary for the protection and preservation
of property or the health and safety of some individual. Nothing in this
section shall prevent the playing of bells or chimes by electronic means by an
religious organization.
(Prior Code, § 11-205) (Ord. 1336, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 11-206 PUBLIC DEFECATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in public defecation. PUBLIC
DEFECATION is the act of discharging waste matter, both fecal or urine, from
the human body, and performed within view of the public and in a place other
than an area, structure or facility specifically provided for such purpose.
(Ord. 1379, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 11-207 PROHIBITION OF THE USE OR POSSESSION OF SUBSTANCES CONTAINING
TETRAHYDROCANNABINOIDS.
   (a)   No person shall use or possess marijuana or any substance containing
tetrahydrocannabinols.
   (b)   Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000. There
shall be no authority to impose a jail sentence under this section.
(Ord. 1510, passed 5-14-2018)
CHAPTER XII: PUBLIC PROPERTY
   Article
      
1.   CITY PARKS
      
2.   SWIMMING POOL
      
3.   LIBRARY
      
4.   CEMETERY
ARTICLE 1: CITY PARKS
Section
   
12-101   City laws extended to park
   
12-102   Police jurisdiction over parks
   
12-103   Damaging park property
   
12-104   Vehicle regulations
   
12-105   Hunting
   
12-106   Fires
   
12-107   Camping prohibited
   
12-108   Sanitation
   
12-109   Prohibition against alcoholic beverages and cereal malt beverages
   
12-110   Preservation of natural state
   
12-111   General regulations
   
12-112   Parks; open to public
   
12-113   Historical collection; established
   
12-114   Same; curator appointment
   
12-115   Funds; tax levy
§ 12-101 CITY LAWS EXTENDED TO PARK.
   The laws of the city shall extend to and cover all city parks.
§ 12-102 POLICE JURISDICTION OVER PARKS.
   The city shall have police regulations governing any public parks belonging
to the city, and the Chief of Police and law enforcement officers of the city
shall have full power to enforce city laws governing city parks and shall
maintain order therein.
§ 12-103 DAMAGING PARK PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except duly authorized city employees,
to willfully or wantonly remove, injure, tarnish, deface or destroy any
building, walk, bench, tree or improvement or property of any kind belonging to
any park owned by the city.
§ 12-104 VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Motor vehicles, including any vehicle licensed to operate on public
streets, roads and highways and motorbikes, go-carts, snowmobiles and other
motorized off-the-road vehicles shall be operated in a safe and prudent manner
at all times in park areas.
   (b)   Except as provided in subsection (d) below, it shall be unlawful for
any person to park any motor vehicle in any area not designated for such
purpose.
   (c)   Except as provided in subsection (d) below, it shall be unlawful for
any person to operate any motor vehicle within any city park except upon roads,
drives and parking areas established by the city.
   (d)   Subsections (b) and (c) above shall not apply to authorized city
employees while engaged in the maintenance and care of the park.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful to operate any such vehicle in any park area at a
speed in excess of 20 mph.
§ 12-105 HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pursue, catch, trap, maim, kill,
shoot or take any wildlife, either bird or animal, in any manner at any time
while in any city park.
§ 12-106 FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or kindle any fire in any city
park except in the ovens, stoves or grills provided for that purpose by the
city, and such fire must be extinguished by the person, persons or parties
starting such fire, immediately after use thereof.
§ 12-107 CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   Overnight camping is hereby prohibited in city parks except where posted.
§ 12-108 SANITATION.
   All waste material, paper, trash, rubbish, tin cans, bottles, containers,
garbage and refuse of any kind whatsoever shall be deposited in disposal
containers provided for such purposes. No such waste or contaminating material
shall be discarded otherwise. No sticks, stones, trash or other objects shall
be thrown or discarded in or on any park lands, fountains, pools, drinking
fountains, sanitary facilities or other improvements.
§ 12-109 PROHIBITION AGAINST ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to use, consume or have on
the premises of any park or other city property within the city any alcoholic
liquor or cereal malt beverage.
§ 12-110 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL STATE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except duly authorized city employees,
to take, injure or disturb any live or dead tree, plant, shrub or flower, or
otherwise interfere with the natural state of city parks.
§ 12-111 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   The city may post such rules and regulations, as are approved by the
Governing Body, pertaining to the use of the city parks in a conspicuous place
in each city park. Violations of these posted rules shall constitute a
violation of this code.
§ 12-112 PARKS; OPEN TO PUBLIC.
   The public parks of the city shall be open to the free use of all persons
for rest and recreation from sunrise each day until 12:00 midnight. Any person
who shall enter or remain in a park, park roadway or park parking lot between
12:00 midnight and sunrise shall be guilty of illegal entry into a park, and
upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in §
1-116.
(Prior Code, § 12-113) (Ord. 1084, passed 6-9-1980)
§ 12-113 HISTORICAL COLLECTION; ESTABLISHED.
   There is created and established a collection of records, documents and any
other papers or articles of any nature of historical value or interest. The
collection shall be housed within the stone building located upon Lot 1, Block
3 of Curdy’s Addition to the city and therein maintained and displayed.
(Prior Code, § 12-114)
§ 12-114 SAME; CURATOR APPOINTMENT.
   The Governing Body shall appoint and fix the compensation of one supervisor
or curator for the historical collection and provide funds or reimbursements
for supervising, housing, displaying, caring for and maintaining the
collection.
(Prior Code, § 12-115)
§ 12-115 FUNDS; TAX LEVY.
   In order to provide funds to carry out the provisions of §§
12-113 through
12-114, the Governing Body of the city shall levy an annual tax of not to
exceed one mill on all the taxable tangible property in the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-116)
ARTICLE 2: SWIMMING POOL
Section
   
12-201   Location; when open to the public
   
12-202   Charges
   
12-203   Bathing suits
   
12-204   Unauthorized entry
   
12-205   Diseased persons
   
12-206   Pollution of pool waters
   
12-207   Animals in pool; prohibited
§ 12-201 LOCATION; WHEN OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   The municipal swimming pool, located in the city park, shall be open to the
public at all proper and seasonable times, subject to such rules and
regulations as the Governing Body may from time to time adopt or authorize and
as provided by the rules and regulations of the State Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 12-201)
§ 12-202 CHARGES.
   The charges for public use of the swimming pool shall be fixed by the City
Council and a copy of the charges shall be posted in a conspicuous place near
the entrance.
§ 12-203 BATHING SUITS.
   It is unlawful and a violation of this code for any person to enter the
waters of the city swimming pool at any time in any clothing or apparel other
than a bathing suit, or to enter the waters without a bathing suit.
(Prior Code, § 12-203) (Ord. 1067, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 12-204 UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
   It is unlawful and a violation of this code for any person to enter the
waters of the city swimming pool at any time when the pool is not being
operated by authorized personnel.
(Prior Code, § 12-204) (Ord. 1067, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 12-205 DISEASED PERSONS.
   It is unlawful for any person at any time to enter the waters of the
swimming pool who is afflicted with any venereal, infectious or contagious
disease. The manager is authorized and may require a certificate of a licensed
doctor of medicine that any person applying for admission to the pool is free
from any infectious or contagious disease.
(Prior Code, § 12-205)
§ 12-206 POLLUTION OF POOL WATERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or place in the waters of the pool
any stones, debris, refuse or discarded substances or articles of any kind or
for any person in any manner to willfully pollute the waters of the pool.
(Prior Code, § 12-206)
§ 12-207 ANIMALS IN POOL; PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful at all times for any person to place in the waters of the
swimming pool or to cause or to suffer any dogs or any animals of any kind to
enter or be therein.
(Prior Code, § 12-207)
ARTICLE 3: LIBRARY
Section
   
12-301   Board membership; appointment
   
12-302   Board; officers and meetings
   
12-303   Board; powers and duties
   
12-304   Damage to library property
   
12-305   Removal of property
§ 12-301 BOARD MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT.
   (a)   The Mayor shall appoint with the approval of the City Council, a
Library Board for the library of the city.
   (b)   The Library Board shall consist of seven members, to be appointed in
the manner and for terms provided by law, and the Mayor shall be ex officio a
member of the Board with the same powers as appointed members.
(Prior Code, § 12-301)
§ 12-302 BOARD; OFFICERS AND MEETINGS.
   (a)   The Library Board shall annually meet and organize by the election of
a Chairperson, a Secretary and a Treasurer and other officers as they may deem
necessary. The Board shall fix the date and place of its regular meetings.
   (b)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or upon written
request of a majority of the members in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 12-302)
§ 12-303 BOARD; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Library Board shall be responsible for the general operation and
maintenance of the city library and shall make and adopt rules and regulations
for the administration thereof.
(Prior Code, § 12-303)
§ 12-304 DAMAGE TO LIBRARY PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully injure or damage any building
occupied by the city library or to willfully injure or destroy any book, map,
chart, magazine, picture, statuary or other personal property belonging to or
under the control of the city library.
(Prior Code, § 12-304)
§ 12-305 REMOVAL OF PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to take from the city library or any premises
thereof any book, map, plat, chart, picture or other personal property
belonging to or under the control of the city library except with the
permission of the librarian or person in charge and in compliance with the
rules of the city library or, after having lawfully obtained possession of the
same, to retain the property in his or her possession or keep the same out of
the city library for a longer period of time than that designated on each book
or date card after having been notified by the librarian to return the same.
(Prior Code, § 12-305)
ARTICLE 4: CEMETERY
Section
   
12-401   City to join with township
   
12-402   Joint ownership; Cemetery Fund; tax levy
   
12-403   Rules promulgation
§ 12-401 CITY TO JOIN WITH TOWNSHIP.
   The city shall join with Humboldt Township, Allen County, Kansas, in the
acquiring, taking over and maintaining of Mount Hope Cemetery and all of the
property of the Mount Hope Cemetery Association in Kansas (Allen County) as
provided for by K.S.A. 80-906 through 80-909.
(Prior Code, § 12-401)
§ 12-402 JOINT OWNERSHIP; CEMETERY FUND; TAX LEVY.
   The township and city shall become joint owners of the cemetery and the
township trustee of the township and the Mayor of the city shall constitute a
Board of Trustees, having full power and control of the cemetery, and they
shall annually determine the tax that shall be levied by the township and the
city to provide a fund for the purpose of meeting the annual expense of the
cemetery grounds and the township and the city shall at the time of making
their other levies, levy and collect a tax as provided for by law to provide
for a fund for the purpose of meeting the annual expenses of keeping and
maintaining the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 12-402)
§ 12-403 RULES PROMULGATION.
   The Township Trustee and the Mayor of the city shall, from time to time,
adopt and promulgate rules and regulations as they may deem necessary for the
operation of the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 12-403)
CHAPTER XIII: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   Article
      
1.   SIDEWALKS
      
2.   STREETS
      
3.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
4.   SNOW AND ICE
      
5.   OVERHANGING SIGNS AND SCAFFOLDING
ARTICLE 1: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
13-101   Permit required
   
13-102   Sidewalk grade
   
13-103   Same; specifications
   
13-104   Same; petition
   
13-105   Same; condemnation, reconstruction
   
13-106   Notice; publication
   
13-107   Right of abutting owner
   
13-108   Repairs by owner or city
   
13-109   Performance, statutory bond
   
13-110   Obstructing sidewalks
   
13-111   Same; exception
§ 13-101 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, reconstruct or repair any sidewalk within
the city until the plans first have been approved by the governing body and a
permit issued for such work by the City Clerk.
§ 13-102 SIDEWALK GRADE.
   Hereafter, all sidewalks constructed or reconstructed in the city shall be
constructed on the established grade. When the governing body shall order a
sidewalk constructed as hereafter provided, the city shall pay the cost of
bringing the street to grade for the sidewalk. Where no grade has been
established, the owner of abutting property may construct a sidewalk on the
natural grade. If the grade has been established, the City Clerk shall furnish
the property owner with the official grade by reference to a stated distance
above or below the street grade.
(K.S.A. 12-1801, 12-1807)
§ 13-103 SAME; SPECIFICATIONS.
   Hereafter, all sidewalks shall be of single-course construction and shall be
constructed and laid in accordance with standard plans and specifications
hereby adopted by reference and filed in the office of the City Clerk as
provided by K.S.A. 12-1802. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to construct, reconstruct or repair any sidewalk except as provided
by this article.
§ 13-104 SAME; PETITION.
   When a petition signed by no fewer than ten citizens owning real estate in
the city requesting construction of a sidewalk is filed with the City Clerk,
the governing body may in its discretion, by a resolution, order such sidewalk
constructed as herein provided.
(K.S.A. 12-1803)
§ 13-105 SAME; CONDEMNATION, RECONSTRUCTION.
   When any sidewalk, in the opinion of the governing body, becomes inadequate
or unsafe for travel thereon, the governing body may adopt a resolution
condemning such sidewalk and providing for the construction of a new sidewalk
in the place of the sidewalk condemned.
(K.S.A. 12-1804)
§ 13-106 NOTICE; PUBLICATION.
   The resolution providing for the construction or reconstruction of a
sidewalk, as the case may be, shall give the owner of the abutting property not
less than 30 days nor more than 60 days after its publication one time in the
official city paper in which to construct or cause to be constructed or
reconstructed the sidewalk at his or her own expense. If the sidewalk is not
constructed by the property owner within the time specified, the governing body
shall cause the work to be done by contract.
(K.S.A. 12-1805)
§ 13-107 RIGHT OF ABUTTING OWNER.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prohibit the owner of property
abutting on a street, who desires to construct or reconstruct a sidewalk at his
or her own expense and in accordance with official plans and specifications for
the purpose and which meet such other requirements as would have to be met if
the sidewalk were constructed or reconstructed by the city, to construct or
reconstruct a sidewalk without any petition or a condemning resolution by the
governing body. If such property owner desires the sidewalk to be constructed
and reconstructed by the city and an assessment levied as provided by law in
other cases, he or she shall file a request with the governing body. The
governing body, in its discretion, may provide for the construction or
reconstruction of the sidewalk requested in the same manner as in other cases
where citizens or taxpayers petition the governing body.
(K.S.A. 12-1806)
§ 13-108 REPAIRS BY OWNER OR CITY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of the abutting property to keep the
sidewalk in repair, but the city may, after giving five days’ notice to the
owner or his or her agent, if known, of the necessity for making repairs or
without notice if the lot or piece of land is unoccupied, make all necessary
repairs at any time. The same shall be done and the cost thereof assessed
against the lot or piece of land abutting on the sidewalk so repaired as may be
provided by law.
(K.S.A. 12-1808)
§ 13-109 PERFORMANCE, STATUTORY BOND.
   In any case where the reconstruction or construction of a sidewalk is
required to be done by contract as provided in §
13-106 hereof, the governing body may require the contractor to give a bond for
the faithful performance of the contract and for the construction of the
sidewalk in accordance with the plans and specifications, ordinances of the
city or laws of the State of Kansas, and for all contracts exceeding $1,000
entered into by the city for any such purpose, a statutory lien bond required
by K.S.A. 60-1111 shall be furnished.
§ 13-110 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or construct any step or other
obstruction, whether temporary or permanent, or to store, leave or allow to be
left any implements, tools, merchandise, goods, containers, benches, display or
show cases, on any sidewalks or other public ways in the city or to obstruct
the same longer than is necessary for loading or unloading any such article or
object.
§ 13-111 SAME; EXCEPTION.
   The governing body may authorize the granting of temporary permits in
connection with a building or moving permit for limited times only to the owner
of property abutting on any sidewalk to use or encumber such sidewalk or public
way of the city during the construction of any building or improvement thereon.
No permit shall be issued for such purpose until plans for warning and
safeguarding the public during such use of sidewalks shall have been submitted
by the owner or his or her contractor and approved by the governing body.
ARTICLE 2: STREETS
Section
   
13-201   Excavation permit
   
13-202   Same; bond
   
13-203   Same; filed
   
13-204   Same; barricades
   
13-205   Same; unlawful acts
   
13-206   Cutting curbs; pavement
   
13-207   Altering drainage
   
13-208   Unfinished pavement
   
13-209   Using streets
   
13-210   Dangerous objects in
   
13-211   Petroleum products in streets
   
13-212   Discharging water on streets
   
13-213   Burning in streets
   
13-214   Throwing in streets
   
13-215   Hauling loose material
   
13-216   Building in streets
   
13-217   Washing cars in streets
§ 13-201 EXCAVATION PERMIT.
   No person, other than authorized city employees, shall dig or excavate any
hole, ditch, trench or tunnel in or under any street, alley, sidewalk, park or
other public property or public easement through private property without first
having secured a permit for such excavation. Application shall be made to the
City Clerk.
§ 13-202 SAME; BOND.
   (a)   No permit authorized in this article shall be issued until the
applicant has given to the city a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $500
conditioned that the applicant will faithfully comply with all the terms and
conditions of this article, and will indemnify and hold the city harmless
against all costs, expenses, damages and injuries by persons or by the city
sustained by reason of the carelessness or negligence of the permit holder. No
bond for this purpose shall run for longer than two years without being
renewed. The bond shall remain in full force and effect as to each excavation
for two years after the same has been made or completed.
   (b)   Any utility operating under a franchise or a contractor under contract
with the city for municipal improvement shall not be required to give bond as
provided in subsection (a) above.
   (c)   Each bond given under this section shall be approved by the City
Attorney and filed with the City Clerk.
§ 13-203 SAME; FILED.
   If the application is approved by the city, the City Clerk shall issue a
permit upon payment of a fee of $5. Each permit issued under the provisions of
this section shall cover only one specified excavation.
§ 13-204 SAME; BARRICADES.
   Any person to whom an excavation permit is issued shall enclose all
excavations that he or she make with sufficient barricades and danger signs at
all times, and shall maintain sufficient warning lights or flares at nighttime.
The holder of an excavation permit shall take all necessary precautions to
guard the public against all accidents from the beginning of the work to the
completion of the same.
§ 13-205 SAME; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except those having authority from the
city or any officer thereof to throw down, interfere with or remove any
barriers, barricades or lights placed in any street to guard and warn the
traveling public of any construction work thereon or adjacent thereto.
§ 13-206 CUTTING CURBS; PAVEMENT.
   (a)   No person shall cut any curb, gutter, pavement, blacktop or sidewalk,
or excavate any street, alley or other public grounds of the city for any
purpose without first obtaining a permit authorizing the same from the City
Clerk.
   (b)   Once the work for which the excavation was made has been completed,
the city shall restore the pavement, blacktop, sidewalk or other surfacing at
the expense of the person from whom the excavation was made.
   (c)   In lieu of the city replacing pavement, it may elect to authorize
utility companies or contractors to resurface streets or sidewalks with like
materials, subject to approval of the Street Superintendent.
§ 13-207 ALTERING DRAINAGE.
   No person shall change or alter any gutter, storm sewer, drain or drainage
structure that has been constructed or is being lawfully maintained or
controlled by the city, unless such change or alteration has been authorized or
directed by the governing body.
§ 13-208 UNFINISHED PAVEMENT.
   No person shall walk upon, drive or ride over or across any pavement,
sidewalk or incomplete grading that has not been opened for traffic.
§ 13-209 USING STREETS.
   (a)   No person shall occupy any portion of any street, alley or sidewalk
for the purpose of temporarily storing building materials without first
obtaining a permit for such temporary use from the governing body.
   (b)   No person may use any portion of any sidewalk or street right-of-way
for the purpose of displaying or offering for sale wares, goods, merchandise or
other items. Nothing in this article, however, shall be construed as
prohibiting the city governing body from temporarily waiving the prohibition of
this subsection (b) in connection with community promotions or community-wide
celebrations when such waiver is considered to be in the best interest of the
city.
§ 13-210 DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw, or cause to be placed
or thrown in or on any street, alley, sidewalk or other public grounds of the
city, any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, wire or other dangerous objects that
might wound any person or animal, or cut or puncture any pneumatic tire while
passing over the same.
§ 13-211 PETROLEUM PRODUCTS IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit or throw
any waste oil, fuel oil, kerosene, gasoline or other products of petroleum or
any acids into or upon any street or public grounds of the city, or willfully
to permit the same to be spilled, dripped or otherwise to come into contact
with the surface of any street, alley or sidewalk within the city.
§ 13-212 DISCHARGING WATER ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to throw or
discharge water into any ditch, street, avenue or alley in the city or to cause
any water to stand or form pools or to flow in a stream thereon. This section
shall not apply to persons cleaning or flushing such streets, avenues or alleys
under the authority of the governing body, nor to members of the Fire
Department.
§ 13-213 BURNING IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, or cause to be made, any fire
upon any of the paved streets, alleys or street intersections within the city.
§ 13-214 THROWING IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to throw or bat any ball, stone or other hard substance
into, on or across any street or alley or at or against any building or
vehicle.
§ 13-215 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful to haul over the streets or alleys of this city any
loose material of any kind except in a vehicle so constructed or maintained as
to prevent the splashing or spilling of any of the substances therein contained
upon the streets or alleys.
§ 13-216 BUILDING IN STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to erect or cause to be erected upon any
street, alley or public grounds in the city any building or buildings or any
other structure or obstruction whatever. This shall not be construed to prevent
the erection of the necessary scaffolding and fixtures used in the construction
of buildings or improvements. Each day’s violation shall be considered a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 13-216)
§ 13-217 WASHING CARS IN STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to wash automobiles, trucks or other vehicles
of any kind upon any street or avenue or upon any sidewalks or driveway
entrance within the city.
(Prior Code, § 13-217)
ARTICLE 3: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
13-301   Public tree care
   
13-302   Diseased trees; determination
   
13-303   Same; notice served
   
13-304   Same; failure of owner; duty of city
   
13-305   Same; prevent spread of disease
   
13-306   Dangerous, dead or diseased trees on private property
   
13-307   Trees on public right-of-way; cost borne by city
   
13-308   Costs on tax rolls
   
13-309   Injuring trees and shrubs
   
13-310   Fire hydrants, plantings adjacent to
   
13-311   Tree planting; certain types prohibited
   
13-312   Hedge fences
§ 13-301 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure safety when servicing
city utilities or to preserve the symmetry and beauty of public grounds. The
city may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof that
is in an unsafe condition or, by reason of its nature, is injurious to sewers,
electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public improvements, or
is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
§ 13-302 DISEASED TREES; DETERMINATION.
   Whenever any competent city authority or competent state or federal
authority shall file with the governing body a statement in writing based upon
a laboratory test or other supporting evidence that trees or tree materials or
shrubs located upon private property within the city are infected or infested
with or harbor any tree or plant disease or insect or larvae, the uncontrolled
presence of which may constitute a hazard to or result in the damage or
extinction of other trees or shrubs in the community, describing the same and
where located, the governing body shall direct the City Clerk to forthwith
issue notice requiring the owner or agent of the owner of the premises to treat
or to remove any such designated tree, tree material or shrub within a time
specified in the notice.
§ 13-303 SAME; NOTICE SERVED.
   Notice shall be served by a police officer by delivering a copy thereof to
the owner and the person in possession of such property, or if the same be
unoccupied or the owner a nonresident of the city, then the City Clerk shall
notify the owner by mailing a notice by certified mail to his or her last known
address.
§ 13-304 SAME; FAILURE OF OWNER; DUTY OF CITY.
   If the owner or agent shall fail to comply with the requirements of the
notice within the time specified in the notice, then the Chief of Police shall
proceed to have the designated tree, tree material or shrub, treated or removed
and report the cost thereof to the City Clerk. In lieu of city employees
performing any such work, the governing body may contract with any competent
person, company or corporation for the performance of such work.
§ 13-305 SAME; PREVENT SPREAD OF DISEASE.
   No tree, tree materials or shrubs as mentioned herein that have been cut
down, either by the property owner or by the city, shall be permitted to remain
on the premises, but shall be immediately treated, removed and burned or
immediately burned upon the premises, if safe to do so, so as to prevent the
spread of the tree disease.
§ 13-306 DANGEROUS, DEAD OR DISEASED TREES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (a)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of 14 feet above the surface of the street
or right-of-way. The owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees,
or broken or decayed limbs that constitute a menace to the safety of the
public. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic-control device
or sign.
   (b)   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dangerous,
dead or diseased trees on private property within the city, when such trees
constitute a hazard to life and property. The city will notify in writing the
owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their own expense
within 60 days after the date of service of notice. The owners, within 30 days
of the notice, may request a hearing covering the ordered removal. In the event
of failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have the
authority to remove the trees and charge the cost of removal on the owner’s
property tax notice.
§ 13-307 TREES ON PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY; COST BORNE BY CITY.
   The city shall have the authority to treat or to remove any tree as defined
in §
13-301, or to remove any dead tree as mentioned herein, which is located within
the limits of any public right-of-way within the city. The adjacent property
owners shall not be responsible for the cost of treatment or removal of any
such trees within the public right-of-way and this expense shall be borne by
the city at large.
§ 13-308 COSTS ON TAX ROLLS.
   The City Clerk shall, at the time of certifying other city taxes to the
County Clerk, certify the unpaid costs for treatment or removal performed under
the authority of §§
13-304 to
13-306 and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax roll of the county
against the lot or parcel of ground. The cost of such work shall be paid from
the General Fund or other proper fund of the city, and such fund shall be
reimbursed when payments therefor are received or when such assessments are
collected and received by the city.
§ 13-309 INJURING TREES AND SHRUBS.
   No person shall willfully break, cut, take away, destroy, injure, mutilate
or attempt to willfully break, cut, take away, destroy, injure or mutilate any
tree, shrub, vine, flower or landscaping standing, growing, or being upon the
premises in the possession of another, or growing on any public ground, street,
sidewalk, promenade or park in the city.
§ 13-310 FIRE HYDRANTS, PLANTINGS ADJACENT TO.
   No person shall plant, or cause to be planted, nor allow to grow upon
property owned by him or her any shrubs, trees or planting of any kind within
ten feet of any fire hydrant in the city, in order that every fire hydrant
shall be in full view day or night to fire apparatus approaching from any
direction.
§ 13-311 TREE PLANTING; CERTAIN TYPES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to set out any cottonwood or other trees
producing seeds that are readily blown about by the winds or male Ailanthus or
other tree emitting a disagreeable odor within the limits of the city or to
plant any mulberry tree in the street parking. It is lawful for any property
owner to remove from the street parking in front of his or her property any
cottonwood or mulberry trees now growing which bear or shed cotton or
mulberries.
(Prior Code, § 13-310)
§ 13-312 HEDGE FENCES.
   It is unlawful for any person owning or controlling any hedge fence
bordering on any street, alley or sidewalk in the city to permit it to grow to
a height of more than four feet or so as to overhang and obstruct any sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 13-311)
ARTICLE 4: SNOW AND ICE
Section
   
13-401   Snow and ice to be removed
   
13-402   Same; exception; alternate remedy
   
13-403   Same; penalty
   
13-404   Removal may be made by city
   
13-405   Costs on tax rolls
§ 13-401 SNOW AND ICE TO BE REMOVED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or the occupant of any lots
abutting upon any sidewalks to fail to cause to be removed from such sidewalks
all snow and ice within 12 hours from the time that the snow fall or ice storm
ceases. If the snow falls or ice accumulates upon the sidewalks in the
nighttime, removal of same must be made within 12 hours after sunrise on the
following day.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place snow removed from private
property upon any public street, alley or sidewalk.
§ 13-402 SAME; EXCEPTION; ALTERNATE REMEDY.
   Where there shall be ice or compacted snow on any such sidewalk of such a
character as to make it practically impossible to remove the same, the
sprinkling of ashes, sand or other noncorrosive chemicals on the accumulation
of ice or snow in such a manner as to make such sidewalk reasonably safe for
pedestrian travel shall be deemed a sufficient compliance with the provisions
of this article until the ice or snow can be removed.
§ 13-403 SAME; PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §
13-401 shall, upon conviction, be fined $25.
§ 13-404 REMOVAL MAY BE MADE BY CITY.
   If any owner or occupant of any lot or lots shall refuse or neglect to clean
or remove from the sidewalk abutting the lot or lots all snow and ice within
the time specified, the city may cause such snow and ice to be removed from
sidewalks and the cost thereof shall be assessed against such abutting lot or
lots, and the City Clerk shall certify the same to the County Clerk for
collection as provided by law.
§ 13-405 COSTS ON TAX ROLLS.
   The City Clerk shall, at the time of certifying other city taxes to the
County Clerk, certify the unpaid costs for removal of snow or ice performed
under the authority of §
13-404 and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax roll of the county
against the lot or parcel of ground. The cost of such work shall be paid from
the General Fund or other proper fund of the city, and such fund shall be
reimbursed when payments therefor are received or when such assessments are
collected and received by the city.
ARTICLE 5: OVERHANGING SIGNS AND SCAFFOLDING
Section
   
13-501   Scaffolding and building materials
   
13-502   Signs over streets and sidewalks
§ 13-501 SCAFFOLDING AND BUILDING MATERIALS.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person engaged in painting, repairing or doing
any work on business buildings or other buildings on or so near the sidewalk
that the work is done over the sidewalk, to fail to floor or otherwise protect
the scaffolding in such a manner so as to protect the travel on the sidewalk
from paint or other things falling from the scaffolding and endangering the
traveling public.
   (b)   No person shall erect upon any street in the city any scaffolding or
other structure or place any building material in any street except in front of
the lot or lots where buildings are being erected, nor shall such material for
scaffolding occupy more than one-half the width of the street or half of the
sidewalk. Should all work cease on the building for a period of two weeks, then
the obstruction shall be considered unlawful and each day’s violation shall be
considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 13-501)
§ 13-502 SIGNS OVER STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to erect any sign or other structure for
advertising or other purposes across or upon any street or sidewalk unless it
is eight feet or more above the sidewalk or street or does not extend more than
nine feet out from the building or property line. Signs upon parkings are
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 13-502)
CHAPTER XIV: TRAFFIC
   Article
      
1.   STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
      
2.   LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
3.   IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
      
4.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
ARTICLE 1: STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
Section
   
14-101   Incorporating standard traffic ordinance
   
14-102   Traffic infractions and traffic offenses
   
14-103   Penalty for scheduled fines
§ 14-101 INCORPORATING STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE.
   The "Standard Traffic Ordinance for Kansas Cities, 2024 Edition," prepared
and published in book form by the League of Kansas Municipalities, Topeka,
Kansas is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of regulating
traffic within the corporate limits of the City of Humboldt, Kansas. One copy
of the Standard Traffic Ordinance shall be marked or stamped "Official Copy as
Adopted by Ordinance No. 1546," to which a copy of Ord. 1546 shall be attached,
shall be filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to
the public at all reasonable hours. The city shall provide at its cost a
sufficient number of copies of the Standard Traffic Ordinance to the Police
Department, Municipal Judge, and all administrative departments of the city
charged with enforcement of the ordinance.
(Ord. 1528, passed 9-13-2021; Ord. 1534, passed 7-11-2022; Ord. 1540, passed 7-
10-2023; Ord. 1546, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 14-102 TRAFFIC INFRACTIONS AND TRAFFIC OFFENSES.
   (a)   An ordinance traffic infraction is a violation of any section of this
article that prescribes or requires the same behavior as that prescribed or
required by a statutory provision that is classified as a traffic infraction in
K.S.A. 8-2118.
   (b)   All traffic violations which are included within this article, but
which are not ordinance traffic infractions as defined in subsection (a) of
this section, shall be classified as traffic offenses.
(Ord. 1528, passed 9-13-2021; Ord. 1534, passed 7-11-2022; Ord. 1540, passed 7-
10-2023; Ord. 1546, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 14-103 PENALTY FOR SCHEDULED FINES.
   The fine for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction, or for any other
traffic offense for which the Municipal Judge establishes a fine schedule,
shall not be less than $10 nor more than $500, and no person who has been
convicted of any such traffic infraction or traffic offense shall pay a fine
exceeding $500.
(Ord. 1528, passed 9-13-2021; Ord. 1534, passed 7-11-2022; Ord. 1540, passed 7-
10-2023; Ord. 1546, passed 6-10-2024)
ARTICLE 2: LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
14-201   Traffic-control devices and markings
   
14-202   Operation of certain special purpose vehicles; registration;
inspections; penalty
   
14-203   Angle parking; where permitted
   
14-204   Angle parking; south side of Bridge Street
   
14-205   Truck parking on Ninth Street
   
14-206   Bus stop area; parking prohibited
   
14-207   Stop intersections established
   
14-208   One-way alley established
   
14-209   Driving in park roadway
   
14-210   Crossing curbs
   
14-211   Riding on sidewalks
   
14-212   Same; leaving on sidewalk
   
14-213   Loading and unloading of children
   
14-214   Truck traffic; where prohibited
   
14-215   Careless driving
   
14-216   Parking of trucks and recreational vehicles; where prohibited
   
14-217   Loud sound amplification systems prohibited
   
14-218   Operation of special purpose vehicles
§ 14-201 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND MARKINGS.
   (a)   The standard traffic ordinance, as adopted, is hereby modified by
adding thereto the following.
   (b)   The Governing Body may, by resolution, establish and fix the location
of such traffic-control devices as may be deemed necessary to guide and warn
traffic under the provisions of this article, other traffic ordinances and the
state laws. The city shall place and maintain such traffic-control signs,
signals and devices when and as may be required by the authority of the
Governing Body to make effective the provisions of this article and other
ordinances for the regulation of traffic. Any official traffic-control device
placed pursuant to this section shall be marked and labeled on a map of the
city for the purpose of displaying all such traffic-control devices and shall
be filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the
public at all reasonable hours of business.
§ 14-202 OPERATION OF CERTAIN SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES; REGISTRATION;
INSPECTIONS; PENALTY.
   (a)   Operation of special use vehicles. Micro utility trucks, work-site
utility vehicles and golf carts may be operated upon the public highways,
streets, roads and alleys within the corporate limits of the city consistent
with the intended use and purpose of such special use vehicles, subject to the
conditions set forth herein. Such special purpose vehicles shall be operated
only between sunrise and sunset unless such vehicle is equipped with front and
rear lights as required by law for motorcycles. Every person operating a
special use vehicle on the public highways, streets, roads and alleys of the
city shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to a driver of a vehicle
imposed by law.
   (b)   Valid driver’s license required; penalty. No person shall operate a
special use vehicle on any public highway, street, road or alley within the
corporate limits of the city unless such person is at least sixteen years of
age and has a valid driver’s license. Violation of this section is punishable
by a fine of not more than $1,000, or by imprisonment for not more than six
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (c)   Display of slow-moving vehicle emblem. It shall be illegal to operate
a special use vehicle on any public highway, street, road or alley within the
corporate limits of the city unless such vehicle displays a slow moving vehicle
emblem as defined in K.S.A. 8-1717 displayed on the rear of the vehicle, or has
an attached flag pole of a minimum of seven feet in height on which is affixed
a fluorescent orange flag of at least 30 square inches in size.
   (d)   Insurance required; penalty. Every owner of a special purpose vehicle
shall provide liability coverage in accordance with § 200 of the Standard
Traffic Ordinance, and amendments thereto, and the State Automobile Injury
Reparations Act, K.S.A. 40-3101 et seq., and amendments thereto. All provisions
of § 200 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, and amendments thereto, including
penalty provisions, shall be applicable to all owners and operators of a
special purpose vehicle.
   (e)   Registration and license; application; inspection; fee.
      (1)   Before operating any special purpose vehicle on any public highway,
street, road or alley within the corporate limits of the city, the special
purpose vehicle shall be registered with the city and shall display a valid
registration decal affixed and displayed in such a manner as to be clearly
visible from the rear of the special purpose vehicle. The license number of the
special purpose vehicle shall be recorded and filed in the City Police
Department.
      (2)   The application shall be made upon forms provided by the city and
each application shall contain the name of the owner, the owner’s residence
address or bona fide place of business, a brief description of the vehicle to
be registered (including make, model and serial number, if applicable). Proof
of insurance, as required in subsection (d) above shall be furnished at the
time of application for registration.
      (3)   Prior to the issuance of the registration decal, each applicant for
a special purpose vehicle license shall first present such vehicle to the City
Police Department for an official inspection to ensure that such vehicle meets
all safety equipment requirements and is in safe mechanical condition.
      (4)   The annual registration fee for a special purpose vehicle shall be
$35. The full amount of the registration fee shall be required regardless of
the time of year that the application is made. Registrations issued hereunder
shall be nontransferable and shall expire on December 31 of each year.
   (f)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GOLF CART. A motor vehicle that has not less than three wheels in contact
with the ground, an unladen weight of not more than 1,800 pounds, is designed
to be operated at not more than 25 mph and is designed to carry not more than
four persons, including the driver.
      MICRO UTILITY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle which is not less than 48 inches
in width, has an overall length, including the bumper, of not more than 160
inches, has an unladen weight, including fuel and fluids, of more than 1,500
pounds, can exceed 40 mph as originally manufactured and is manufactured with a
metal cab. MICRO UTILITY TRUCK does not include a work-site utility vehicle.
      SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLE. Any micro utility truck, work site utility
vehicle or golf cart. Special purpose vehicle shall expressly not include all
terrain vehicles.
      WORK-SITE UTILITY VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is not less than 48
inches in width, has an overall length, including the bumper, of not more than
135 inches, has an unladen weight, including fuel and fluids, of more than 800
pounds and is equipped with four or more low pressure tires, a steering wheel
and bench or bucket type seating allowing at least two people to sit side-by-
side, and may be equipped with a bed or cargo box for hauling materials. WORK-
SITE UTILITY VEHICLE does not include a micro utility truck.
   (g)   Penalty. Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, a violation of
this section shall be deemed an ordinance traffic infraction within the meaning
of § 201, of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, and amendments thereto, or such
other similar provision as the city may then have in effect.
(Ord. 1466, passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 1499, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 14-203 ANGLE PARKING; WHERE PERMITTED.
   Angle parking at the angle indicated on the curb, sidewalk or pavement or by
signs is permitted on the following streets:
   (a)   Bridge Street from Sixth Street to Ninth Street, both sides;
   (b)   New York Street from Ninth Street to Eighth Street on the south side,
parallel parking on the north side;
   (c)   Eighth Street from New York Street to Osage Street, both sides;
   (d)   Seventh Street from the alley between New York Street and Bridge
Street to the alley between Osage Street and Bridge Street, both sides;
   (e)   Ninth Street from Bridge Street to New York Street, west side; and
   (f)   Bridge Street from Tenth Street to Eleventh Street on the south side
(high school area).
(Prior Code, § 14-202)
§ 14-204 ANGLE PARKING; SOUTH SIDE OF BRIDGE STREET.
    Angle parking at the angle indicated on the curb, sidewalk or pavement is
permitted on the south side of Bridge Street from Ninth Street to the alley in
Block 33.
(Prior Code, § 14-203)
§ 14-205 TRUCK PARKING ON NINTH STREET.
   (a)   No truck with one or more tons factory rating shall be parked
unattended on any time on that part of Ninth Street between Osage Street and
Cherokee Street.
   (b)   No truck parking on the east side of Ninth Street from Osage Street to
Central Street.
(Prior Code, § 14-204)
§ 14-206 BUS STOP AREA; PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No parking shall be permitted at any time on the north side of New York
Street from the west line of Eleventh Street for a distance of 136 feet west of
the intersection. No parking during school session between Bridge Street and
Neosho Street on the west side of Twelfth Street and it shall be deemed a bus
parking area.
(Prior Code, § 14-205)
§ 14-207 STOP INTERSECTIONS ESTABLISHED.
   Drivers of vehicles shall stop as the sign directs at the following
locations:
   (a)   At every intersection before entering any of the following streets or
parts of streets which are designated through streets:
      (1)   Ninth Street from north city limits to south city limits;
      (2)   Bridge Street from west city limits to, and including, Thirteenth
Street;
      (3)   Central Street from Ninth Street to east city limits; and
      (4)   Eighth Street from north city limits to Bridge Street.
   (b)   At the described entrances to the following designated stop
intersections:
      (1)   At the south and west entrances to the intersection of New York
Street and Eighth Street;
      (2)   At the north and south entrances to the intersection of Pine Street
and Eighth Street;
      (3)   At all entrances to the intersection of Signor Street and
Fourteenth Street;
      (4)   At the north and south entrance to the intersection of New York
Street and Tenth Street; and
      (5)   At the east entrance to the intersection of Thirteenth Street and
Ohio Streets.
(Prior Code, § 14-206)
§ 14-208 ONE-WAY ALLEY ESTABLISHED.
   When properly signposted, traffic shall move only south in the alley running
north and south in Block 35 from the Bridge Street entrance to the north line
of the alley running east and west in Block 35 and only east from the alley
first above-described over and upon the driveway south of the Humboldt National
Bank Building in the block and traffic shall not enter the driveway from the
east and shall exit to the south.
(Prior Code, § 14-207)
§ 14-209 DRIVING IN PARK ROADWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle or ride a horse in any park except on the
roadways or areas set aside for driving or parking. This shall not apply to
employees in the line of duty in the maintenance and care of parks.
(Prior Code, § 14-208)
§ 14-210 CROSSING CURBS.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle over or across any curb
or curb and gutter where there is no established or improved driveway entrance
or drive across any sidewalk when it is not constructed as a part of the
driveway entrance.
(Prior Code, § 14-209)
§ 14-211 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to ride a bicycle on any sidewalk
within the business section of the city.
(Prior Code, § 14-210)
§ 14-212 SAME; LEAVING ON SIDEWALK.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to place or leave a bicycle upon
any sidewalk in the city unless the bicycle is in an upright or standing
position and the bicycle shall not be left in any position on the sidewalk in
any one place for more than 15 minutes at one time.
(Prior Code, § 14-211)
§ 14-213 LOADING AND UNLOADING OF CHILDREN.
   During school hours on school days, the loading or unloading of children
into or out of automobiles or other motor vehicles on the south side of Central
Street between Tenth Street and Twelfth Streets is prohibited and any person
violating this provision is guilty of a violation of this article.
(Prior Code, § 14-212)
§ 14-214 TRUCK TRAFFIC; WHERE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this title for any person to drive
or operate a truck, which shall be defined as any vehicle having a gross weight
of over 40,000 pounds, on the following streets of the city:
   (a)   All of Twelfth Street;
   (b)   All of Fifteenth Street; and
   (c)   All of Signor Street.
(Prior Code, § 14-213)
§ 14-215 CARELESS DRIVING.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in a careless
manner. CARELESS DRIVING is defined to include, but is not limited to, those
acts which cause or create unnecessary rapid acceleration; unnecessary tire
squeal; skid; smoke or slide upon acceleration or stopping, including the
casting of tread, gravel, dirt or other road surface materials from the tires;
acts that simulate a temporary race; acts that cause the vehicle to
unnecessarily turn abruptly, sway or lose traction with the road surface.
(Prior Code, § 14-214)
§ 14-216 PARKING OF TRUCKS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES; WHERE PROHIBITED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a truck with a registered
gross weight of over 12,000 pounds, or a bus, truck tractor, road tractor, or
semi-trailer regardless of weight, or a recreational vehicle, boat, or trailer
on any street within a residential area within the city except as follows:
      (1)   For loading or unloading of merchandise, furniture, or other goods
in the normal course of business or personal necessity for as long as is
reasonably necessary.
      (2)   For an incapacitated or disabled vehicle that is unable to move for
as long as is reasonably necessary to remove it.
      (3)   As needed in the normal course of business for a reasonable amount
of time and in a manner that does not create an unnecessary inconvenience to
the neighborhood when alternative off- street parking is not available.
   (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) above, a truck
tractor or road tractor may be parked, if detached from its trailer or load on
private property, with the consent of the owner of the property, if the motor
is immediately turned off.
(Prior Code, § 14-215) (Ord. 1541, passed 7-10-2023)
§ 14-217 LOUD SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person operating or occupying a motor vehicle on a street, highway,
alley, parking lot or driveway shall operate or permit the operation of any
sound amplification system from within the vehicle so that the sound is plainly
audible at a distance of 50 or more feet from the vehicle.
   (b)   SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM means any radio, tape player, compact disc
player, loud speaker or other electronic device used for the amplification of
sound.
   (c)   PLAINLY AUDIBLE means any sound produced by a sound amplification
system from within the vehicle, which clearly can be heard at a distance of 50
feet or more. Measurement standards shall be by the auditory senses, based upon
direct line of sight. Words or phrases need not be discernible and bass
reverberations are included. The motor vehicle may be stopped, standing, parked
or moving on a street, highway, alley, parking lot or driveway.
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
operator was not otherwise prohibited by law from operating the sound
amplification system, and that any of the following apply:
      (1)   The system was being operated to request medical or vehicular
assistance or to warn of a hazardous road condition;
      (2)   The vehicle was an emergency or public safety vehicle;
      (3)   The vehicle was owned and operated by the city or a gas, electric,
communications or refuse company;
      (4)   The system was used for the purpose of giving instructions,
directions, talks, addresses, lectures or transmitting music to any persons or
assemblages of persons in compliance with the ordinances of the city; and
      (5)   The vehicle was used in authorized public activities, such as
parades, fireworks, sports events, musical productions and other activities
which have the approval of the department of the city authorized to grant such
approval.
(Prior Code, § 14-216)
§ 14-218 OPERATION OF SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES.
   (a)   Micro utility trucks may be operated upon the public highways,
streets, roads and alleys within the corporate limits of the city under the
following conditions.
      (1)   Micro utility trucks, worksite utility vehicles and golf carts may
be operated upon the public highways, streets, roads and alleys within the
corporate limits of the city, consistent with the intended use and purpose of
such special purpose vehicles, subject to the conditions set forth herein and
the Humboldt municipal code. Such special purpose vehicles shall be operated
only between sunrise and sunset unless such vehicle is equipped with front and
rear lights are required by law for motorcycles. Only three persons per bench
seat of any special purpose vehicle shall be allowed. Every person operating a
special use vehicle on the public highways, streets, roads and alleys of the
city shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to a driver of a vehicle
imposed by law.
      (2)   The person operating a micro utility truck shall be subject to all
of the duties applicable to a driver of a motor vehicle imposed by law.
      (3)   Such micro utility truck is insured in compliance with the
requirements of § 200 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, then in effect, which
requires liability insurance and which is expressly made applicable herein to
micro utility trucks.
      (4)   The person operating a micro utility shall have a valid driver’s
license.
      (5)   The micro utility truck shall prominently display a valid permit
issued by the city allowing for the operation of that particular micro utility
truck within the city limits. Such permit shall be issued by the City Clerk
after inspection by the city to ensure that all equipment and insurance
requirements of this section are met and upon the payment of a $50 fee. Such
permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance. In the event the State
of Kansas should require state registration of micro utility trucks, then this
subsection (a)(5) shall not be applicable.
   (b)   Violation of this section shall be deemed an ordinance traffic
infraction. Upon conviction of such violation, the penalty imposed shall be in
accordance with the penalties imposed for such infractions by the Standard
Traffic Ordinance, then in effect.
   (c)   MICRO UTILITY TRUCK shall mean any motor vehicle which:
      (1)   Has an overall width of not less than 48 inches;
      (2)   Has an overall length, including the bumper, of not more than 144
inches;
      (3)   Has an unladen weight, including fuel and fluids, of more than
1,500 pounds;
      (4)   Can exceed 40 mph as originally manufactured; and
      (5)   Is manufactured with a metal cab.
(Ord. 1435, passed 11-24-2008; Ord. 1530, passed 9-13-2021)
ARTICLE 3: IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
14-301   Definitions
   
14-302   Impounding vehicles
   
14-303   Same
   
14-304   Notice of impoundment; storage of vehicle
   
14-305   Impoundment after request to leave motor vehicle
   
14-306   Release of motor vehicle from impoundment
   
14-307   Hearing
   
14-308   Charges constitute a lien
   
14-309   Satisfaction of lien; notice of public sale
   
14-310   Redemption
   
14-311   Sale proceeds
   
14-312   Statutory procedures
   
14-313   Implementation of article
   
14-314   Reimbursement for discharged liens
§ 14-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel. Where the word HIGHWAY or the word STREET is used in this
article, it means street, avenue, boulevard, thoroughfare, alley and other
public way for vehicular travel by whatever name, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
   OWNER or OCCUPANT. A party having fee simple title in the real property, or
a party having a leasehold interest in the real property, or a party who is the
beneficiary of a private easement for the purpose of egress or ingress to or
from said real property.
(Prior Code, § 14-301)
§ 14-302 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   The Police Department may cause to be impounded:
   (a)   Any motor vehicle unlawfully parked on a highway in violation of any
provision of a city ordinance which prohibits the parking of vehicles at the
place where or time when the impounded motor vehicle is found;
   (b)   Any motor vehicle that has been abandoned and left on a highway or
other property open to use by the public for a period in excess of 48 hours
pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1102;
   (c)   Any motor vehicle which:
      (1)   Is subject to removal pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1570 or 8-1102;
      (2)   Is subject to seizure and forfeiture under the laws of the State of
Kansas; or
      (3)   Is subject to being held for use as evidence in a criminal trial.
   (d)   Any motor vehicle, the continued presence of which, because of the
physical location or condition of the motor vehicle, poses a danger to the
public safety or to the motor vehicle; and
   (e)   Any motor vehicle which has been abandoned or parked on any real
property, other than public property or property open to use by the public, may
be moved and disposed of in accordance with the terms of this article by the
Police Department upon the request of the owner or occupant of such real
property. The real property referred to herein shall not be owned or leased by
the person who abandons or parks said vehicle or by the owner or lessee of such
vehicle. The city or any person, partnership, corporation or their agent
conducting a business enterprise for the purpose of towing vehicles which
removes such vehicle from the real property at the request of the Police
Department shall have a possessory lien on such vehicle for the cost incurred
in removing, towing and storing such vehicle. For the purposes of this article,
common areas shall be construed not to mean public property or property open to
the public.
(Prior Code, § 14-302)
§ 14-303 SAME.
   The Police Department may authorize storage of such impounded motor vehicles
at any location, public or private, which is zoned for the storage of motor
vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 14-303)
§ 14-304 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT; STORAGE OF VEHICLE.
   (a)   When owner present. When the Police Department intends to impound a
motor vehicle pursuant to §
14-302 and the owner of the motor vehicle is then present, the Police
Department shall, before the motor vehicle is removed, provide the owner with a
notice, in the form prescribed by the Police Department that the motor vehicle
is being impounded, that towing and storage charges will be assessed against
the impounded motor vehicle, that the owner may claim and regain possession of
the impounded motor vehicle at the location to which it is being removed for
storage without prepayment of towing and storage charges and that the owner may
request a hearing as to the propriety of the impoundment and as to the amount
of and the owner’s liability for the towing and storage charges. The notice
shall also state the location where the impounded motor vehicle will be stored
and the place where the owner may make his or her request for the hearing. The
notice shall also state, in prominent language, that failure by the owner to
request a hearing within five days after receipt of the notice may act as a
waiver of his or her right to hearing and that this may result in the placing
of a lien against the motor vehicle for the towing and storage charges without
further notice to the owner; and that the motor vehicle be sold at public
auction to the highest bidder for cash after 15 days from the date of the
mailing of the notice. The owner of the impounded motor vehicle shall sign the
notice as an acknowledgment that he or she has received a copy of the notice
and a copy of the notice shall be provided to the owner.
   (b)   When owner not present.
      (1)   When the Police Department impounds and removes a motor vehicle
pursuant to §
14-302(a) and the owner of the motor vehicle is not present at the time of the
impoundment, the Police Department shall, if such motor vehicle has displayed
thereon a registration plate issued by the Division of Vehicles and has been
registered with said division, mail a notice by certified mail to the
registered owner thereof, addressed to the address as shown on the certificate
of registration and to the lienholder, if any, of record in the county in which
the title shows the owner resides, if registered in this state. The notice
shall be in the form prescribed by the Police Department containing the same
information as required by subsection (a) above. The Police Department shall
use reasonable diligence in determining the title owner, or if from a non-title
state, the registered owner, of the vehicle, and shall inquire by mail of the
office of the Register of Deeds of the county in which the title shows the
owner resides, if registered in this state, as to whether there are any
lienholders of record. If the owner cannot be served by certified mail at the
address on the motor vehicle registration and there is no other known address
of the owner, the owner shall be deemed to be a resident of the state whose
whereabouts are unknown and service shall be made on the Secretary of State as
provided in K.S.A. 8-401.
      (2)   If the owner does not reside in the state, as appears from the
motor vehicle registration and the owner cannot be served by certified mail at
the address on the motor vehicle registration and there is no other known
address of the owner, the owner shall be deemed a nonresident of the state and
service shall be made on the Secretary of State as provided in K.S.A. 8-401.
   (c)   Failure or refusal to sign notice. If any person required by this
section to sign a notice of impoundment willfully fails or refuses to do so, or
if such person cannot be found, the Police Department shall note this fact on
the face of the notice, which shall constitute prima facie evidence of delivery
or service of notice as required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 14-304)
§ 14-305 IMPOUNDMENT AFTER REQUEST TO LEAVE MOTOR VEHICLE.
   In all cases wherein the owner or operator of a motor vehicle which is on a
public street has requested that the motor vehicle be left unattended at that
location, in lieu of impoundment of the motor vehicle pursuant to §
14-302, the Police Department may honor said request for a period of time not
exceeding 24 hours, after which time the motor vehicle shall either be removed
from the location by the owner or operator or be impounded by the Police
Department pursuant to §
14-304. The Police Department shall be immune from liability for any damage,
loss or destruction of the motor vehicle occasioned by its being left
unattended pursuant to the request of the owner or operator thereof, in lieu of
impoundment. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority
of the Police Department to order the removal of a motor vehicle by its owner
or operator or to impound a motor vehicle pursuant to §
14-304 at any time whenever in his or her judgment the presence of the
unattended motor vehicle constitutes a danger to the public safety.
(Prior Code, § 14-305)
§ 14-306 RELEASE OF MOTOR VEHICLE FROM IMPOUNDMENT.
   (a)   Generally. Unless the vehicle is impounded pursuant to §
14-302(b) herein, the owner of an impounded motor vehicle may secure the
release of the motor vehicle from impoundment upon requesting such release and
presenting proof of ownership satisfactory to the custodian of the place where
the motor vehicle is stored, if the custodian is satisfied that the person
making the request is the owner or his or her authorized agent, he or she shall
release the motor vehicle to the owner or his or her agent. Nothing in the
preceding sentence shall preclude the owner of the impounded motor vehicle or
his or her agent from paying any towing and storage charges that may be
assessed against the motor vehicle, but neither the Police Department nor the
custodian of the storage space may require payment of any towing or storage
charges as a condition precedent to such release. At the same time as the owner
or his or her agent requests release of the impounded motor vehicle, and if
such request is made with 40 days after the owner receives a copy of the notice
of impoundment, the Police Department shall provide him or her an opportunity
to make a request for a hearing on the propriety of the impoundment and on the
amount and his or her liability for the towing and storage charges occasioned
by the impoundment; provided, that if the owner or his or her agent requests
release of the impounded motor vehicle more than 40 days after the owner
receives a copy of the notice of impoundment, no hearing may be requested on
the impoundment or on the towing and storage charges and the owner shall be
conclusively presumed to have consented to the impoundment and to the amount of
and his or her liability for the towing and storage charges.
   (b)   Security for payment of charges. If the ownership of the impounded
motor vehicle is evidenced by a title certificate issued by the State
Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles, the owner or his or her agent
may secure the release of the motor vehicle from impoundment without the
payment of any towing or storage charges or the deposit of any security for the
payment thereof. If the ownership of the impounded motor vehicle is evidenced
by a foreign title instrument, or if the jurisdiction in which title is
recorded is not evidenced from the document establishing ownership, the owner
or his or her agent, before the custodian of the place where the motor vehicle
is stored authorizes release of the motor vehicle from impoundment, shall
deposit with the custodian cash in the amount of the towing and storage charges
to the date of the request. If the owner or his or her agent refuses to provide
the cash deposit, the custodian shall not authorize release of the impounded
motor vehicle but if the request is timely made, a date shall be set for the
hearing on the impoundment and charges.
(Prior Code, § 14-306)
§ 14-307 HEARING.
   (a)   (1)   If the owner of an impounded motor vehicle or his or her agent
timely requests the release of the motor vehicle from impoundment and a hearing
on the impoundment and charges, as provided in §
14-306, a date shall be set, not more than five days after the date of request,
for the hearing. The City Attorney shall provide a hearing examiner to conduct
the hearings required by this section. At the hearing, the owner, his or her
agent or his or her attorney shall be afforded an opportunity to present, by
oral testimony or documentary evidence, his or her objections to:
         (A)   The impoundment of the motor vehicle; and
         (B)   (1)   The amount of the towing and storage charges; and
            (2)   His or her liability for the payment thereof.
      (2)   If the owner or his or her agent requested the hearing more than
five days but not more than 40 days after the owner received a copy of the
notice of impoundment, the owner, his or her agent or his or her attorney shall
be required at the hearing, as a condition precedent to the presentation of any
objections by the owner, to show good cause for the delay in making the request
more than five days after the owner received a copy of the notice of
impoundment; if good cause cannot be shown, the hearing officer shall dismiss
the hearing and make the finding stated in subsection (b) below; otherwise, the
hearing examiner shall proceed to hear the owner’s objections.
      (3)   At the conclusion of the hearing on the owner’s objections, the
hearing examiner shall render his or her decision if the hearing examiner:
         (A)   Finds that the impoundment was improper, he or she shall:
            (1)   Find that the owner is not liable for any towing or storage
charges occasioned by the impoundment; and
            (2)   Determine whether and to what extent the city shall be the
expense of the towing and storage charges.
         (B)   Finds that the impoundment was proper, he or she shall
establish:
            (1)   The amount of the towing and storage charges to be assessed
against the impounded motor vehicle; and
            (2) The extent of the liability of the owner for payment of the
towing and storage charges so established. The decision of the hearing examiner
shall be final, and a copy of the decision shall be furnished to the owner of
the impounded motor vehicle, to the custodian of the place where the motor
vehicle is stored and to the city attorney.
   (b)   In the event that the impoundment was pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1102(b),
the owner or occupant of the real property upon which the abandoned vehicle was
located shall not be assessed the costs of towing and storage of the vehicle.
Further, nothing within this article shall be construed to modify or effect the
validity of the possessory lien of the person removing such vehicle from the
real property established by K.S.A. 8-1102(b).
(Prior Code, § 14-307)
§ 14-308 CHARGES CONSTITUTE A LIEN.
   The towing and storage charges occasioned by the impoundment of a motor
vehicle pursuant to §
14-302 shall be and constitute a lien upon the impounded motor vehicle, except
as provided in this section. If the hearing examiner finds pursuant to §
14-307 that the impoundment was improper and if he or she determines that the
city shall bear part or all of the towing and storage charges, the lien created
by this section shall be discharged. If the hearing examiner finds pursuant to
§
14-306 that the impoundment was proper but that the towing and storage charges
should be in an amount less than the amount of the lien, the lien created by
this section shall be discharged to the extent that it exceeds the amount
established by the hearing examiner. The holder of a lien created by this
section may perfect such lien in any manner provided by law, but he or she may
not retain possession of the motor vehicle when it has been released pursuant
to §
14-306(a). In the event that the impounded motor vehicle is released from
impoundment and the owner or his or her agent has provided security for payment
of charges as required by §
14-306(b), the lien created by this section shall also be a lien against the
security so provided, subject to being wholly or partially discharged as
provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 14-308)
§ 14-309 SATISFACTION OF LIEN; NOTICE OF PUBLIC SALE.
   The holder of a lien against a motor vehicle created by §
14-308, to the extent that such lien has not been discharged as provided in §
14-308 or otherwise satisfied, may enforce such lien in any manner provided by
law after 60 days from the date the motor vehicle is impounded by the Police
Department. If the owner of the motor vehicle or his or her agent has provided
security for the payment of the lien as provided in §
14-306(b), the lien shall first be satisfied out of the security so provided
and, if any portion of the lien remains unsatisfied and undischarged, may then
be enforced in any manner provided by law. If the motor vehicle against which
the lien is created pursuant to §
14-308 is still under impoundment 60 days from the date it is impounded by the
Police Department and the owner has not requested release of the motor vehicle
from impoundment nor paid the towing and storage charges that are the basis for
the lien, the motor vehicle shall be sold at public sale to the highest and
best bidder for cash to satisfy the lien. Notice of the sale shall be given in
accordance with K.S.A. 8-1102. Publication, required by K.S.A. 8-1102, may be
made before the termination of the 60-day period for a sale thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 14-309)
§ 14-310 REDEMPTION.
   If the city is to conduct the sale:
   (a)   Any holder of a recorded lien or retained title on a motor vehicle to
be sold by the city under the provisions of §
14-309 may claim and take possession thereof, upon payment of accrued charges
and estimated costs of publication of the notice of sale to the Police
Department and the deposit with the Police Department of sufficient assurance
by surety bond or otherwise, approved by the City Attorney, that the motor
vehicle will be forthcoming for public sale thereof or upon claim of the
rightful owner prior to the sale. The Police Department shall, within three
days, make a report to the City Treasurer and deliver the charges and costs so
paid to the City Treasurer, taking a receipt therefor and filing it, together
with a duplicate copy of the report to the City Treasurer, with the records in
his or her office. The funds shall be held in a trust account until final
disposition of the motor vehicle. Not less than five days before the date for
sale of the motor vehicle, the Police Department shall notify the lienholder or
retained titleholder of the time and place for the sale, and the lienholder or
retained titleholder shall deliver such motor vehicle to the Police Department
at or before 12:00 noon of the day before the sale. At the sale, the amount
paid shall be credited on the bid of the lienholder or retained titleholder. If
the lienholder or retained titleholder is the successful bidder for the motor
vehicle, the Police Department shall report this fact to the City Treasurer and
then the funds previously paid by the lienholder or retained titleholder shall
be relieved of the trust previously impressed and become the same as other
funds received by the city for storage and costs of impounded motor vehicles.
If the motor vehicle is sold for a higher bid to any person other than the
lienholder or retained titleholder, the Police Department shall report this
fact to the City Treasurer and the lienholder or retained titleholder shall be
refunded the amount previously paid by him or her out of the trust account; and
   (b)   If the rightful owner of the motor vehicle claims the same before the
sale by payment of the accrued charges, the Police Department shall immediately
notify the lienholder or retained titleholder in possession of the motor
vehicle and he or she shall return the same to the Police Department within 12
hours. The Police Department shall report this redemption by the rightful owner
to the City Treasurer and the lienholder or retained titleholder shall be
refunded the amount previously paid by him or her out of the trust account.
(Prior Code, § 14-310)
§ 14-311 SALE PROCEEDS.
   The proceeds of a public sale held pursuant to §
14-308 whether such sale was conducted by the city or by any other person,
after payment of the towing and storage charges and costs and expenses incident
to the sale, shall be deposited with the City Treasurer, if the owner of the
motor vehicle is absent from the sale, for credit to the trust account. The
funds deposited in the trust account pursuant to this section shall remain in
the account subject to the order of the person legally entitled thereto, but if
no claim is made for these funds within a period of one year after the sale,
the funds shall become the property of the city, be released from the trust
account and be paid into the general fund as miscellaneous revenues.
(Prior Code, § 14-311)
§ 14-312 STATUTORY PROCEDURES.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to augment, diminish, supersede
or otherwise interfere with any statutory procedure established by the
legislature for the collection of unpaid towing and storage charges. The
procedures in this article are supplementary and cumulative to any statutory
procedures.
(Prior Code, § 14-312)
§ 14-313 IMPLEMENTATION OF ARTICLE.
   The Police Department and City Treasurer are authorized to make rules for
the implementation and administration of this article.
(Prior Code, § 14-313)
§ 14-314 REIMBURSEMENT FOR DISCHARGED LIENS.
   If a lien created by §
14-308 and held by a private wrecker or towing firm is discharged by §
14-308 pursuant to a determination by a hearing examiner that an impoundment
was improper and that the city shall bear part or all of the towing and storage
charges, the city shall pay to the firm the amount determined by the hearing
examiner. No payment shall be made until it is authorized by the City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 14-314)
ARTICLE 4: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
14-401   Hazardous material defined
   
14-402   Same; exceptions
   
14-403   Transportation of hazardous materials
   
14-404   Hazardous materials routes
   
14-405   Parking of vehicles or trailers carrying hazardous materials
   
14-406   Removal of illegally parked trailers
§ 14-401 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL DEFINED.
   As used in this article, the term HAZARDOUS MATERIAL shall mean any material
or combination of materials that, because of its quantity, concentration or
physical, chemical, biological or infectious characteristics, poses a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health or safety or the
environment if released into the workplace or environment or when improperly
treated, stored, transported or disposed of or otherwise managed.
§ 14-402 SAME; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to any container that shall
have a capacity of 150 gallons or less that shall be used for the purpose of
supplying fuel for the vehicle on which it is mounted. These provisions shall
also not apply to vehicles, trailers, containers or tanks containing anhydrous
ammonia or other material primarily used by farmers for fertilizer purposes
when such vehicles, trailers, containers or tanks are parked or housed upon
property designated for the placement of such vehicle, trailer, container or
tank by any farmers cooperative, elevator company or farm supply store located
within the city limits.
§ 14-403 TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   Except as provided in §
14-404, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity
to transport any hazardous material upon any street, avenue, highway, road,
alley or any other public right-of-way in the city.
§ 14-404 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ROUTES.
   The provisions of §
14-403 shall apply to all streets, avenues, highways, roadways, alleys or other
public rights-of-way within the city, except those specified within this
section where transportation of hazardous materials shall be allowed.
Transportation of hazardous materials shall be allowed upon the streets,
avenues, highways or roadways as determined by the city.
§ 14-405 PARKING OF VEHICLES OR TRAILERS CARRYING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (a)   Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c) below, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to park any vehicle,
trailer or semi-trailer carrying any hazardous material within any city zoning
districts as defined in Chapter XVI of this code.
   (b)   Subsection (a) above shall not apply to vehicles, trailers or semi-
trailers parked for continuous periods of time not to exceed one hour where
such vehicles, trailers or semi-trailers are parked along those routes
specified in §
14-404 of this code.
   (c)   Subsection (a) above shall not apply to any vehicle, trailer or semi-
trailer carrying any hazardous material where such vehicle, trailer or semi-
trailer is not parked within 500 feet of any structure used for human
habitation.
§ 14-406 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED TRAILERS.
   If any vehicle, trailer or a semi-trailer is found parked in violation of
the provisions of this article, the Fire Chief or Assistant Chief or any law
enforcement officer may require the owner, operator or lessee of the trailer to
move it within two hours. If such removal is not accomplished on the order of
any such officer, it may be accomplished by any such officer, by any reasonable
means, if the continued presence of the trailer or semi-trailer at its parked
location constitutes, adds to or prevents correction of a situation threatening
imminent injury or damage to persons or property.
CHAPTER XV: UTILITIES
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   WATER AND GAS
      
3.   SEWERS
      
4.   SOLID WASTE
      
5.   LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GASES
      
6.   WATER/DROUGHT EMERGENCY
      
7.   DRAINAGE UTILITY FUND
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
15-101   Definition
   
15-102   Delinquent accounts
   
15-103   Bills due date; penalty for delinquency
   
15-104   Notice; hearing
   
15-105   Same; finding
   
15-106   Refuse collection charges; delinquency
   
15-107   Utility deposit
   
15-108   Superintendent of Utilities and Public Services; powers and duties
§ 15-101 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UTILITY SERVICES. Includes water, electrical, sewer, solid waste (refuse)
and other utility services provided by the city.
§ 15-102 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, water, electric, sewer, solid waste (refuse) or
other utility service shall be terminated for nonpayment of service fees or
charges in accordance with §§
15-104 and
15-105.
§ 15-103 BILLS DUE DATE; PENALTY FOR DELINQUENCY.
   (a)   All water, gas, trash and sewer bills shall be due and payable on the
first day of each month for water and gas received to the last meter reading
date from the meter reading date prior thereto, which date shall be on or about
the twentieth day of each and every month, and for sewer and trash charges
corresponding to the gas and water meter reading dates. There shall be no
minimum charge or billing issued for service on gas, water, sewer or sanitation
which is less than ten days unless there is actual gas and water usage, in
which case minimum sewer charges will also apply.
   (b)   If payment for all such bills is not made by the close of regular
business hours of the office of the City Clerk on the tenth day of the month, a
5% penalty shall be added to the bill. If the tenth of the month should fall on
a Saturday, Sunday or any legal holiday, the applicable penalty shall not be
added until the close of regular business hours of the office of the City Clerk
on the next working day following the due date.
   (c)   Payments by mail, properly stamped and addressed, will be considered
as made upon the date and hour of the postmark, and payments deposited after
office hours and prior to the opening hour of the office of the City Clerk on
the next normal working day in the drop slot installed at the office of the
City Clerk, will be considered as made prior to the closing hour of the office
on the next normal working day preceding that hour.
(Prior Code, § 15-103) (Ord. 1118, passed 1-10-1983; Ord. 1162, passed 2-10-
1986; Ord. 1301, passed 11-12-1996; Ord. 1405, passed 6-11-2007)
§ 15-104 NOTICE; HEARING.
   (a)   If a utility bill has not been paid on or before the due date as
provided in this article, a delinquency and a termination notice shall be
issued by the City Clerk within five days after the delinquency occurs and
mailed to the customer’s last known address and to the occupant of the premises
if the occupant and the customer are not the same person.
   (b)   The notice shall state:
      (1)   The amount due, plus the delinquency charge;
      (2)   Notice that utility service will be terminated if the amount due is
not paid by the twenty-first day of the month unless such date should fall on a
Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, in which case payment shall be made by the
close of regular business hours on the next business day;
      (3)   Notice that the customer has the right to a hearing before the
designated hearing officer; such hearing to be held on the twenty-first day of
the month, unless such date should fall on a Saturday, Sunday or any legal
holiday, in which case the hearing shall be held on the next regular business
day at 9:00 a.m. at the City Hall;
      (4)   At such hearing, any interested party may present evidence to show
good cause why such water, gas and sewer service should not be terminated. In
the absence of an appearance at the hearing, or in the absence of good cause
being shown, water, gas and sewer service shall be terminated. The city may
disconnect and terminate such utility services after 4:00 p.m. on the day of
the hearing; and
      (5)   A $25 collection fee shall be assessed to each account which is
subject to termination following such hearing or upon failure to pay the
account pursuant to such notice. Utility services that have been terminated
under this provision shall not be reinstated or reconnected until all amounts
due the city, including penalties, have been paid in full including an
additional reconnection fee of $25 per utility services reconnected.
(Prior Code, § 15-104) (Ord. 1289, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 1405, passed 6-11-
2007)
§ 15-105 SAME; FINDING.
   Following the hearing, if the Hearing Officer shall find that service should
not be terminated, then notice of such finding shall be presented to the City
Clerk. If the Officer finds that service should be terminated, an order shall
be issued terminating service five days after the date of the order. The
customer shall be notified either in person or by mailing a letter to his or
her last known address by certified mail, return receipt requested, however, if
the order is made at the hearing in the presence of the customer, then no
further notice need be given. The Hearing Officer has a right, for good cause,
to grant an extension, not to exceed ten days, for the termination of such
service.
§ 15-106 REFUSE COLLECTION CHARGES; DELINQUENCY.
   (a)   The city will not discontinue refuse collection for failure to pay
refuse collection charges, also known as trash charges. However, it is
specifically declared that such charge is a charge due and owing from the
account and/or from the owner of the real estate upon which the dwelling to
which the services are provided is located, and all unpaid trash charges will
constitute assessments against the respective parcels of ground in accordance
with K.S.A. 65-3410.
   (b)   It is further provided that gas, water and sewer shall not be
discontinued by virtue of the failure to pay the trash charge of the city.
Nonpayment of the trash charge for one month shall not relieve the person of
his or her obligation for such trash charges for any subsequent month. No
person having a delinquent trash charge will be connected to any of the
utilities of the city until all bills and penalties owned by the person to the
city are paid in full. All methods of collection of such charges set out in
this paragraph shall be in addition to the right of the city to proceed with
the collection of such unpaid charges in any manner provided by law for the
collection of a municipal claim, including its civil remedies. Any deposit
placed with the city for the security of any utility bill may be used to
satisfy delinquent trash charges.
(Prior Code, § 15-106) (Ord. 1031, passed 3-8-1976)
§ 15-107 UTILITY DEPOSIT.
   No utility deposits shall be required for utility service.
(Ord. 1289, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 15-108 SUPERINTENDENT OF UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICES; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   The Superintendent of Utilities and Public Services shall have
supervision over the keeping and repair of all streets, alleys and public
thoroughfares of the city.
   (b)   He or she shall have charge of the operation and maintenance of the
water and gas distribution systems and the sanitary sewer collection system.
   (c)   He or she may be designated as the building, plumbing, electrical and
gas fitting inspector and shall perform such inspection duties as may be
required of him or her by the code or ordinances of the city and the Mayor and
Council.
   (d)   He or she shall have supervision over the maintenance and upkeep of
the city parks, swimming pool and municipal building.
   (e)   He or she shall have charge of and control over all tools, equipment
and machinery used in connection with the duties set forth in this section.
   (f)   He or she shall perform such other duties as may be directed by the
Mayor, City Council or any committee of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 15-109)
ARTICLE 2: WATER AND GAS
Section
   
15-201   Superintendent of Water and Sewage
   
15-202   Regulations
   
15-203   Service not guaranteed
   
15-204   Service connections required
   
15-205   Application for water or gas service
   
15-206   City to make connections
   
15-207   Connection permit; fees
   
15-208   Connection permit; restrictions
   
15-209   Curb cocks
   
15-210   Check valves
   
15-211   Excess flow valve required
   
15-212   Unauthorized service
   
15-213   Meters
   
15-214   Same; testing
   
15-215   Moving gas meters; fee
   
15-216   Tampering with meter
   
15-217   Leaks prohibited; penalty
   
15-218   Initial connection charge
   
15-219   Disconnection, reconnection charge
   
15-220   Interrupt service
   
15-221   Prohibited acts
   
15-222   Wasting water
   
15-223   Right of access
   
15-224   Rates
   
15-225   Maintenance and repair
   
15-226   After-hours shutoff of water service
   
15-227   Reserved
   
15-228   Delinquent accounts; notice; hearing; finding; liability
   
15-229   Use during fire
   
15-230   Cross-connections prohibited
   
15-231   Same; protective backflow devices required
   
15-232   Same; inspection
   
15-233   Same; protection from contaminants
   
15-234   Automatic adjustment of gas rates
   
15-235   Multiple tenancy; gas and water rates
   
15-236   Rules and regulations
§ 15-201 SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER AND SEWAGE.
   The Superintendent of the water and sewer plants shall have charge, care and
operation of the water plant of the city and the sewage disposal treatment
plant of the city and all tools, equipment and machinery used in connection
therewith. He or she shall make such monthly and annual reports and shall have
such other duties as may be required by the Mayor and Council.
(Prior Code, § 15-201)
§ 15-202 REGULATIONS.
   The furnishing of water to customers by the city through its waterworks
system shall be governed by the regulations set out in this article.
§ 15-203 SERVICE NOT GUARANTEED.
   The city does not guarantee the delivery of water through any of its mains
and connecting services at any time except only when its mains, pumping
machinery and power service connection are in good working order, and the
supply of water is sufficient for the usual demand of its consumers.
§ 15-204 SERVICE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (a)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose, situated within the city
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located near public water mains, is hereby required at his
or her own expense to make connection to such public water main.
   (b)   Before any connection is made to the city’s water system, an
application must be made in writing to the City Clerk by the owner of the
premises, or his or her authorized representative, for a permit to make such
connection.
§ 15-205 APPLICATION FOR WATER OR GAS SERVICE.
   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a connection with the
municipal water or gas system shall apply in writing to the City Clerk, on a
form furnished by the city for that purpose, for a permit to make the
connection.
      (1)   Applicants shall:
         (A)   Be the owner or current occupant of the premises; and
         (B)   Be of legal age or, if not yet the age of majority, must have a
responsible adult co-sign the application and assume responsibility for any
charges incurred.
      (2)   A permit issued to an applicant who has since become deceased may
be revoked by the city and service terminated if the service is not transferred
to another owner or occupant and the appropriate transfer fee paid within 12
months of such deceased applicant’s death.
   (b)   The application for water service shall:
      (1)   Contain an exact description including street address of the
property to be served;
      (2)   State the size of tap required;
      (3)   State the size and kind of service pipe to be used;
      (4)   State the full name of the owner of the premises to be served;
      (5)   State the purpose for which the water is to be used;
      (6)   State any other pertinent information required by the City Clerk;
and
      (7)   Be signed by the owner or occupant of the premises to be served, or
his or her authorized agent.
   (c)   All applications for gas service in new residential buildings shall be
accompanied by a certificate from the owner of such new residential dwelling or
new commercial building that the structure is equipped with storm windows and
storm doors or other satisfactory window and door thermal treatment, and total
heat loss, based on the ASHRAE Handbook of Fundamentals, of any new residential
dwelling from and after August 1, 1978 shall not exceed 35 BTUs per square foot
per hour of floor area of heated finished living space at a design temperature
differential of 80°F with a maximum of 1? air changes per hour. Certificate for
all new commercial buildings for which the foundation has not been completed by
August 1, 1978, shall indicate that the same has been constructed so heat
transmission loss of heated areas, based on the ASHRAE Handbook of
Fundamentals, does not exceed 35 BTUs per square foot per hour of floor area
based on a design temperature differential of 80°F. Further, the owner will
attach supporting statements from the architect and contractor, if either or
both such persons were employed in the design and construction of the new
residential dwelling or commercial buildings showing that the above standards
have been met. Until such certificates and statements have been attached to
such application, the same shall not be granted.
   (d)   Each application for a connection permit shall be accompanied by
payment of fees and/or costs specified in § 15-207.
(Prior Code, § 15-205) (Ord. 1056, passed 6-12-1978; Ord. 1345, passed 2-12-
2001)
§ 15-206 CITY TO MAKE CONNECTIONS.
   All taps shall be given, street excavations made, corporation cocks
inserted, pipes installed from main to curb and the curb cock installed in a
meter box to which the service pipe is to be connected by city employees only.
(Prior Code, § 15-206)
§ 15-207 CONNECTION PERMIT; FEES.
   (a)   Upon receipt of a satisfactory and complete application as provided by
§
15-205, a permit to connect with the city’s water, gas and/or sewer systems
shall be issued to the applicant upon the applicant’s payment of the applicable
fees as set forth herein.
   (b)   Connection and tap fees for a connection permit shall be as follows.
      (1)   Water service tap: $150 for each three-fourths inch water tap.
      (2)   Gas service tap: $150 for each one-inch gas tap.
      (3)   Sewer service tap: $20 for each four-inch sewer tap.
   (c)   Water, gas and sewer taps to service premises outside the city limits
must first have the approval of the city Governing Body and, if approved, an
additional connection and tap fee of $25 shall be assessed for each tap.
   (d)   Water, gas and sewer connection fees shall be waived for all newly
constructed residences.
   (e)   Any tap in excess of the size designated above shall be installed only
in accord with §
15-208, and the additional costs incurred by the city in accommodating and
connecting the requested over-sized tap shall be assessed to the applicant in
addition to the applicable connection and tap fees set forth above.
(Ord. 1424, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 15-208 CONNECTION PERMIT; RESTRICTIONS.
   Before any permit is granted by the Utilities Department for making an
attachment larger than one inch, the application shall be examined by the
Superintendent of Utilities and Public Services and he or she shall mark
thereon his or her approval or objections to the granting of the permit and
refer the same to the Council which shall approve or disapprove the
application. No water tap larger than one inch shall be permitted for any
single dwelling house and no water tap larger than one inch for any double
dwelling house or apartment, nor any gas tap larger than two inches for any
business building.
(Prior Code, § 15-208)
§ 15-209 CURB COCKS.
   There shall be a curb cock in every service line attached to the city main,
the same to be placed within the meter box. Curb cocks shall be supplied with
strong and suitable “T” handles.
§ 15-210 CHECK VALVES.
   Check valves are required on all connections to steam boilers or on any
other connection deemed necessary by the Water Superintendent. Safety and
relief valves shall be placed on all boilers or other steam apparatus connected
with the water system where the steam pressure may be raised in excess of 40
pounds per square inch.
§ 15-211 EXCESS FLOW VALVE REQUIRED.
   (a)   An excess flow valve shall be installed by the city on all new or
replaced gas service lines serving a single-family residence where the fitting
that connects the service line to the main line is either newly installed or
replaced.
   (b)   There shall be charged a fee of $100 for each excess flow valve
installed by the city.
(Ord. 1476, passed 2-11-2013)
§ 15-212 UNAUTHORIZED SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, other than duly
authorized city officials or employees, to turn water on or off at the water
meter or curb cock shut off, with a key or in any other manner, without first
obtaining written permission from the Mayor or the Governing Body.
§ 15-213 METERS.
   (a)   All water furnished to customers shall be metered.
   (b)   Meters shall be located between the sidewalk or property line and
curbing when the main is in the street and on private property within three
feet of the alley line when the main is in the alley. In the business district,
the meters may be installed in the basement at a location specified by the
city.
   (c)   The city’s responsibility stops at the property line.
§ 15-214 SAME; TESTING.
   Meters shall be tested before being set and at any other time thereafter
when they appear to be measuring incorrectly. If a test is requested by the
customer and the meter is found to be accurate within 2%, the meter shall be
deemed correct and the costs of testing the meter and any shipping charges
shall be assessed to the customer. If the meter is found to be inaccurate by
greater than 2%, the city shall adjust the customer’s billings for the previous
90 days to reflect the customer’s average usage for such utility and the city
shall incur the costs of testing the meter.
(Ord. 1403, passed 5-14-2007)
§ 15-215 MOVING GAS METERS; FEE.
   Whenever a gas meter is moved from its current location at the request of
the owner or occupant of the premises being served by the meter, a fee shall be
charged. If the meter is to be moved 15 feet or less, the fee shall be equal to
50% of the original tap fee being charged by the city at the time the meter is
moved. If the meter is to be moved more than 15 feet, the fee shall be equal to
100% of the original tap fee being charged by the city at the time the meter is
moved.
(Prior Code, § 15-215) (Ord. 1189, passed 10-12-1987)
§ 15-216 TAMPERING WITH METER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break the seal of any meter, to alter
the register or mechanism of any meter, or to make any outlet or connection in
any manner so that water supplied by the city may be used or wasted without
being metered. It shall be unlawful for any person except an authorized
employee of the Water Department to turn any meter on or off.
§ 15-217 LEAKS PROHIBITED; PENALTY.
   No allowances shall be made for water used or lost through leaks,
carelessness and neglect or otherwise after the same has passed through the
meter, however, every customer shall have the right to appeal to the city a
water bill or meter reading that he or she considers excessive.
§ 15-218 INITIAL CONNECTION CHARGE.
   There shall be a charge for initial connection for water and gas utilities
of $25 per utility.
(Ord. 1289, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 15-219 DISCONNECTION, RECONNECTION CHARGE.
   There shall be a water and gas service charge for disconnection,
reconnection or transfer of services of $10 per utility. Whenever the city
receives a request from a customer for termination of water or gas service, the
disconnection charge shall be added to the customer’s final bill. Any transfer
of services or service disconnected for nonpayment of delinquent bill shall be
transferred or reconnected only upon payment of all delinquent charges,
interest and penalty thereon, and the transfer or reconnection charge.
(Ord. 1289, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 15-220 INTERRUPT SERVICE.
   The city reserves the right to interrupt water service for the purpose of
making repairs or extensions to water lines or equipment.
§ 15-221 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be a violation of this article for any unauthorized person to:
   (a)   Perform any work upon the pipes or appurtenances of the city’s
waterworks system beyond a private property line unless such person is employed
by the city;
   (b)   Make any connections with any extension of the supply pipes of any
consumer without written permission to do so having been first obtained from
the Governing Body; and
   (c)   Remove, handle or otherwise molest or disturb any meter, meter lid,
cutoff or any other appurtenances to the water system of the city.
§ 15-222 WASTING WATER.
   (a)   (1)   Water users shall prevent unnecessary waste of water and shall
keep sprinklers, hydrants, faucets and all apparatus, including the service
line leading from the property to the meter, in good condition at their
expense.
      (2)   Wasting water may include but is not limited to:
         (A)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface
drain;
         (B)   Failing to repair an irrigation system’s malfunction; or
         (C)   Failing to repair a controllable water leak due to defective
plumbing.
   (b)   It shall be a violation of this article and unlawful for any owner,
occupant or manager of real property served by the city water utility to
wastewater or to permit the willful waste of water to occur.
   (c)   In the event of a violation of this section, the Superintendent of
Water, or such other person as may be designated by the city, shall give
written notice of the violation and opportunity for hearing in accordance with
§
15-610.
   (d)   The penalties for violating this section shall be the same as those
set forth in §
15-610.
§ 15-223 RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   Authorized employees of the city may enter upon any premises at reasonable
hours for the purpose of reading the meter or servicing or inspecting meters or
water lines.
§ 15-224 RATES.
   Classes of customers of the city’s municipal water system and the rates to
be charged to each are as follows:
 
                                                   April     April     April
Commencing:                                        2017      2018      2019
                                                   Billing   Billing   Billing
                                                   Statement Statement Statement
(a)   Customers inside the city limits:
(1)      1,000 gallons water usage or less/mo$21.32    $21.96    $22.62
(2)       Over 1,000 gallons, per each 1,000 $7.79     $8.02     $8.26
gallons:
(b)   Customers outside the city limits:
(1)      1,000 gallons water usage or less/mo$24.96    $25.96    $27
(2)      Over 1,000 gallons, per each 1,000  $8.80     $9.15     $9.52
gallons:
 
(Ord. 1504, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 15-225 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   (a)   The City Public Works Director shall, pursuant to the Pipeline Safety
Regulations of the State Corporation Commission and any applicable federal
regulations, conduct periodic flame ionization leak surveys on all customer-
owned natural gas lines serviced by the natural gas distribution system. The
city shall assume no other responsibility or liability with regard to the
maintenance of such customer-owned natural gas lines.
   (b)   If such survey should identify a customer-owned natural gas line
which, in the opinion of the City Public Works Director, constitutes a
dangerous or hazardous condition, the City Public Works Director is hereby
authorized to disconnect gas service to such customer until such time as the
dangerous or hazardous condition has been remedied to the satisfaction of the
City Public Works Director.
   (c)   All repair, replacement, modification or alteration if any kind made
to the customer-owned natural gas lines must be inspected and approved by the
City Public Works Director or his or her designee for compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations prior togas service being restored.
The customer shall provide to the City Public Works Director all required
documentation of compliance with such regulations. The City Public Works
Director is hereby authorized to disconnect gas service to any customer who
fails to obtain such inspection and approval.
   (d)   Customer-owned natural gas lines which are replaced shall be replaced
only with poly pipe materials.
   (e)   At the request of the customer, the city will perform the fusing of
the customer-owned natural gas line to the city’s distribution lines under the
following conditions.
      (1)   Only Driscoplex poly pipe and US poly pipe shall be used as
replacement materials.
      (2)   A service fee of $30 per hour will be charged to the customer for
such work performed during regular business hours.
      (3)   A service fee equal to the cost of the labor, equipment and
materials used by the city shall be charged to the customer for such work
performed during nonbusiness hours.
(Prior Code, § 15-231) (Ord. 1215, passed 6-12-1989; Ord. 1325, passed 7-12-
1999; Ord. 1434, passed 11-11-2008)
§ 15-226 AFTER-HOURS SHUTOFF OF WATER SERVICE.
   A fee of $30 shall be assessed to the owner/customer for any requested
shutoff of water by the city made after regular working hours. No fee shall be
assessed if, in the opinion of the City Superintendent, the need for the
shutoff of water service is necessitated by the failure or fault of the city or
its equipment.
(Prior Code, § 15-237) (Ord. 1250, passed 7-13-1992)
§ 15-227 RESERVED.
§ 15-228 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; NOTICE; HEARING; FINDING; LIABILITY.
   Water service shall be terminated for nonpayment of service fees or charges
as provided in §§
15-102 through
15-104.
§ 15-229 USE DURING FIRE.
   No person owning or occupying premises connected to the municipal water
system shall use or allow to be used during a fire any water from the water
system except for the purpose of extinguishing the fire. Upon the sounding of a
fire alarm, it shall be the duty of every such person to see that all water
services are tightly closed and that no water is used except in extraordinary
cases of emergency during the fire.
§ 15-230 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall establish or permit to be established, or maintain or permit
to be maintained, any cross-connection whereby a private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the city
may enter the supply and distributing system of the city unless specifically
approved by the State Department of Health and Environment and the Governing
Body.
§ 15-231 SAME; PROTECTIVE BACKFLOW DEVICES REQUIRED.
   Approved devices to protect against backflow or backsiphonage shall be
installed at all fixtures and equipment where backflow and/or backsiphonage may
occur and where there is a hazard to the potable water supply in that polluted
water or other contaminating materials may enter into the public water supply.
Any situation in which a heavy withdrawal of water, such as a sudden break in
the main or water being used from a fire hydrant, may cause a negative pressure
to develop that could lead to backsiphonage of polluted water into the system
shall be improper and must be protected by approved backflow preventive valves
and systems as determined by the Superintendent.
§ 15-232 SAME; INSPECTION.
   The City Utility Superintendent or other designee of the Governing Body
shall have the right of entry into any building or premises in the city as
frequently as necessary in his or her judgment to ensure that plumbing has been
installed in accordance with the laws of the city so as to prevent the
possibility of pollution of the city’s water supply.
§ 15-233 SAME; PROTECTION FROM CONTAMINANTS.
   Under the city’s constitutional home rule authority and K.S.A. 65-163a, the
city, by its Utility Superintendent, may refuse to deliver water through pipes
and mains to any premises where a condition exists that might lead to the
contamination of the public water supply system and it may continue to refuse
the delivery of water to the premises until that condition is remedied. In
addition, the City Utility Superintendent may terminate water service to any
property where the cross-connections or backsiphonage condition creates, in the
judgment of the Superintendent, an emergency danger of contamination to the
public water supply.
§ 15-234 AUTOMATIC ADJUSTMENT OF GAS RATES.
   (a)   (1)   The gas rates set out in §
15-224 shall be the base gas rate for the city. The base costs used to
establish the above rates is $2.50 per 1,000 cubic feet (MCF). Whenever the
cost of natural gas purchased by the city changes, the rates as provided in §
15-224 shall be reduced or increased, as the case may be, by the same amount
per 1,000 cubic feet, in dollars and cents as the rate alteration to the city
from its supplier.
      (2)   Any such rate adjustment for the cost of the purchased natural gas
shall be determined as follows.
         (A)   Referring to the monthly invoice from the supplier, the cost of
natural gas per 1,000 cubic feet shall be determined.
         (B)   Next, the alteration in such cost from the previous rate in
dollars and cents per 1,000 cubic feet shall be calculated.
         (C)   The rates as established in §
15-224, including the minimum, will be raised or lowered as the case may be, by
the same dollars and cents amount as the cost to the city was altered and shall
be applied to the previous rate and such newly calculated rate will be charged
to customers for the next billing period.
   (b)   Any monetary refunds received by the city from the supplier shall be
deducted from the actual cost of natural gas on the next invoice period.
However, if such refund results in a decrease of more than 10% from the rates
that would have been charged in the absence of such a refund, such refund shall
be spread over sufficient months that it does not exceed such 10% reduction
figure.
(Prior Code, § 15-231)
§ 15-235 MULTIPLE TENANCY; GAS AND WATER RATES.
   (a)   Each premises shall have its own tap or service connection and meter
except as otherwise provided by the Governing Body; provided, however, that if
the Governing Body shall or has authorized more than one premises to be
connected to one meter, the person responsible for payment for gas or water
delivered through the meter shall obtain further authority from the Governing
Body prior to connecting any other premises to the meter, and further provided
that this provision will not require the readjustment of any service now
installed on any premises, except on being reconstructed.
   (b)   Where any building is owned by two or more persons, each owning
separate parts of the same, each part shall be considered for the purpose of
this chapter to be a separate premises.
   (c)   A premises may consist of one or more buildings if they are located on
connecting lots and are under one ownership.
   (d)   In premises occupied or to be occupied by more than one tenant or
occupant which are under one ownership, water service may be measured either
through one head meter and charged to the owner or person in control of the
same or through multiple meters and charged to the tenants as the City
Superintendent of Utilities and Public Services may decide.
   (e)   (1)   Whenever water or gas service is furnished to more than one
tenant through one meter, the person responsible for payment for the water or
gas provided shall pay, in addition to all other charges as provided for in
this article, a service charge for each additional person or address to which
such water or gas is furnished as follows:
 
Commencing:           April 2017 Billing April 2018 Billing April 2019 Billing
                      Statement          Statement          Statement
(a) Customers inside
the city limits:
(1)    For water:  $13.53             $13.94             $14.36
(2)    For gas:    $7.25
(b) Customers outside
the city limits:
(1)    For water:  $16.16             $16.81             $17.48
     (2)    Fo$8.25:
 
      (2)   This section shall not apply to situations where the city has
entered into a contract to provide water to an organized rural water district.
(Prior Code, § 15-233) (Ord. 1349, passed 8-20-2001; Ord. 1368, passed 11-10-
2003; Ord. 1504, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 15-236 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Superintendent or his or her designee shall have the authority to
make such other reasonable policies or regulations that may be necessary to
implement the aforementioned provisions and to protect the public water supply
system.
(Prior Code, § 15-240)
ARTICLE 3: SEWERS
Section
   
15-301   Definitions
   
15-302   Sewer connection required
   
15-303   Permit; connection fee
   
15-304   Application
   
15-305   Costs
   
15-306   Sewer connection
   
15-307   Sewer for each building
   
15-308(1)   Same; specifications
   
15-308(2)   Same; specifications; size and slope of building sewer
   
15-308(3)   Same; specifications; elevation
   
15-308(4)   Same; specifications; lift
   
15-308(5)   Same; specifications; cesspool, septic tank or vault
   
15-308(6)   Same; specifications; excavations
   
15-308(7)   Same; specifications; joints
   
15-309   Sewer excavations: damages
   
15-310   Failure to connect
   
15-311   Privy unlawful
   
15-312   Reserved
   
15-313   Reserved
   
15-314   Reserved
   
15-315   Reserved
   
15-316   Reserved
   
15-317   Disposal of sewage
   
15-318   Damage to sewers
   
15-319   Natural outlet
   
15-320   Standards
   
15-321   Old building sewers
   
15-322   Mud, grease traps
   
15-323   Roof, foundation drains
   
15-324   Same; exception
   
15-325   Prohibited discharges
   
15-326   Bills
   
15-327   Delinquent accounts; lien against property; other remedies
   
15-328   Sewer service charge
   
15-329   Same; additional charges.
   
15-330   Same; applicability
   
15-331   Same; review
   
15-332   Same; notification
§ 15-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the innerface of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   B.O.D. (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic meter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   COMBINED SEWERS. Sewers receiving both surface runoff and sewage, are not
permitted.
   INDIVIDUAL DOMESTIC. Any single-family residence, commercial business,
office, institution, school, church or public entity having an individual
direct or indirect connection to the wastewater facilities of the city and on
individual city or private water service meter, or connection to any such water
service.
   INDUSTRIAL. Any industrial business engaged in the manufacturing or
processing of one or more products, and in which wastewaters are produced from
such manufacturing or processing and said wastewaters are discharged directly
or indirectly to the wastewater facilities of the city.
   MULTI-DOMESTIC. Any multi-family residence, apartment or mobile home and any
commercial business, office, institution, school, church or public entity
having a direct or indirect connection to the wastewater facilities of the city
and not having an individual water service meter but is served with city or
private metered water by the owner of the property on which it is located.
   NORMAL WASTEWATER. The strength of normal wastewater shall be considered
within the following ranges:
   (1)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand of 300 milligrams per liter or
less;
   (2)   A suspended solid concentration of 350 milligrams or less; and
   (3)   Hydrogen ion concentration of 5.0 to 9.0.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the city or his or her authorized
deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   USER. Any person as defined in §
1-102, including an institution, governmental agency or political subdivision
producing wastewater requiring processing and treatment to remove pollutants
and having premises connected to the wastewater facilities.
   WASTEWATER. Sewage, the combination of liquids and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial and industrial buildings, institutions, governmental
agencies, together with any ground, surface or storm water that may be present.
(Prior Code, § 15-301)
§ 15-302 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purpose, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby required
at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this article, within 90 days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within 140 feet of the
property line.
§ 15-303 PERMIT; CONNECTION FEE.
   (a)   No person shall uncover, make any connections with, or opening into,
use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (b)   There shall be charged a fee of $20, payable at the time of making
application for the permit.
(Prior Code, § 15-303)
§ 15-304 APPLICATION.
   (a)   Any person desiring to make a connection to the city sewer system
shall apply in writing to the City Clerk who shall forward the application to
the Utility Superintendent.
   (b)   The application shall contain:
      (1)   The legal description of the property to be connected;
      (2)   The name and address of the owner or owners of the property;
      (3)   The kind of property to be connected (residential, commercial or
industrial); and
      (4)   The point of proposed connection to the city sewer line.
§ 15-305 COSTS.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be paid by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
§ 15-306 SEWER CONNECTION.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at
the “Y” branch if such branch is available at a suitable location. Where no
properly located “Y” branch is available, the connection shall be made in the
manner approved by the Utility Superintendent and at a location designated by
the Superintendent.
§ 15-307 SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be feasiblely constructed to the
rear building. In such case, the building sewer from the front building may be
extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
§ 15-308(1) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS.
   The building sewer shall be constructed of cast iron pipe, ASTM
specifications A74-42, or approved equal; vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM
specifications C13-44T, or approved equal; or an approved plastic pipe. Any
plastic pipe to be installed on any building sewer shall not be approved by the
city until the owner has furnished descriptive literature and typical sample
section of the plastic pipe proposed for installation, to the city for
inspection and review. All joints on all pipe installed shall be tight and
water- proof. Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet of
a water service pipe or city water main shall be constructed of approved cast
iron soil pipe with approved joints. No building sewer shall be installed
within three feet of existing gas lines. If installed in filled or unstable
ground, the building sewer shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe, except
that non-metallic material may be accepted if laid on a suitable concrete bed
or cradle as approved by the city.
§ 15-308(2) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; SIZE AND SLOPE OF BUILDING SEWER.
   The size and slope of the building sewer to be installed shall be subject to
the approval of the City Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter of the
pipe be less than four inches. The slope at which a six inch pipe is to be laid
shall be not less than one-eighth inch per foot and for four inch pipe, not
less than one-fourth inch per foot. Any grades for the pipe, which are proposed
for installation at grades less than these specified, shall be approved by the
City Inspector prior to placement.
§ 15-308(3) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to
or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be weakened. The
depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The building sewer
shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible.
Changes in direction shall be made only with approved curved pipe and fittings,
including cleanout fittings.
§ 15-308(4) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; LIFT.
   At buildings in which the building drain is too low to permit gravity flow
to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall be lifted by
approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer. The use of any
pumping equipment for which cross-connections with a public water supply system
are needed, is prohibited. The total costs of pumping equipment and pumping
equipment operational costs shall be those of the owner.
§ 15-308(5) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; CESSPOOL, SEPTIC TANK OR VAULT.
   No building sewer shall be laid across a cesspool, septic tank or vault
until the cesspool, septic tank or vault has been well cleaned and filled with
an approved earth or sand fill, then thoroughly tamped and water settled. Cast
iron pipe may be used across cesspools or septic tanks, if proper bedding and
support for the sewer pipe is acquired.
§ 15-308(6) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavation required for the installation of the building sewer shall be
open trench work unless otherwise approved by the city. Pipe laying and
backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specifications C12-19,
except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected and
approved.
§ 15-308(7) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; JOINTS.
   (a)   All joints in the building sewers shall be made water-tight. If
recommended by the City Inspector, a water pressure test shall be made on the
completed sewer to ensure a compliance with this requirement, requiring that
the building sewer withstand an internal water pressure of five psi, without
leakage.
   (b)   Cast iron pipe with lead joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or
hemp and filled with molten lead, federal specifications QQ-L-156, not less
than one inch deep. Lead shall be run in one pour and caulked and packed tight.
No paint, varnish or other coatings shall be permitted on the jointing material
until after the joint has been tested and approved.
   (c)   All joints in vitrified clay pipe shall be the polyurethane-
compression type joints, approved by the City Inspector.
   (d)   Joints for all plastic pipe used in building sewers shall be the slip
type joints or solvent weld type, approved by the city.
   (e)   Joints between any two different types of pipes shall be made with
lead, asphaltic jointing materials or concrete, as approved by the city. All
joints shall be water-tight and constructed to ensure minimum root penetration
and to the satisfaction of the city.
§ 15-309 SEWER EXCAVATIONS: DAMAGES.
   All excavations for buildings sewers shall be adequately guarded with
barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, curb
and gutters, sidewalks, parkways and other public property removed or damaged
during the installation of the building sewer shall be repaired or replaced in
a manner acceptable to the city and at the total expense of the owner. It is
further agreed that any parties involved in any excavating or installation work
for sewer installations as above set out, will hold the city harmless from any
and all damages to persons or property resulting from or growing out of any
opening or excavation or any negligent act or from any operation made within
the city.
§ 15-310 FAILURE TO CONNECT.
   (a)   If any person as defined in §
1-102 shall fail to connect any dwelling or building with the sewer system
after being noticed, the city may cause such buildings to be connected with the
sewer system as authorized by K.S.A. 12-631.
   (b)   The cost and expense, including inspection fees, shall be assessed
against the property. Until such assessments shall have been collected and paid
to the city, the cost of making such connection may be paid from the General
Fund or through the issuance of no fund warrants.
§ 15-311 PRIVY UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
except as provided in this article.
§ 15-312 RESERVED.
§ 15-313 RESERVED.
§ 15-314 RESERVED.
§ 15-315 RESERVED.
§ 15-316 RESERVED.
§ 15-317 DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or discharge from any source
whatsoever any sewage or human excrement upon any public or private grounds
within the city, or to permit the contents of any privy, vault or septic tank
to be deposited or discharged upon the surface of any grounds. Any unauthorized
or unapproved privy vault, septic tank or other means or places for the
disposal of sewage, excrement and polluted water may be abated as a public
nuisance upon the order of the City or County Board of Health in accordance
with the laws of Kansas.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e, 12-1617g)
§ 15-318 DAMAGE TO SEWERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to maliciously, willfully
or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any
sewer, structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the municipal
sewer system.
§ 15-319 NATURAL OUTLET.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sanitary sewage, industrial
wastes or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with the provisions of this article.
§ 15-320 STANDARDS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials, excavation, placing of pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city.
§ 15-321 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Utility Superintendent, to meet
all requirements of this article.
§ 15-322 MUD, GREASE TRAPS.
   All garages, filling stations, milk plants or other commercial or industrial
plants connected to the public sewer shall construct and maintain proper and
sufficient interceptors or traps to prevent the discharge of any sand, mud,
sediment, litter, waste or any substance harmful to the effective operation and
maintenance of the city sewer system, into the building sewer.
§ 15-323 ROOF, FOUNDATION DRAINS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to connect downspouts from any roof area, drains
from any building foundation, paved areas, yards or open courts, or to
discharge liquid wastes from any air conditioning unit or cooling device having
a capacity in excess of one ton per hour or one horsepower into any city
sanitary sewer.
   (b)   All discharges prohibited in subsection (a) above may be discharged
into the public gutter or storm drains or open drainage ditches provided such
discharge does not create a nuisance. No such liquids may be discharged into
any unpaved street or alley.
§ 15-324 SAME; EXCEPTION.
   Discharges from air conditioning units in excess of one ton per hour or one
horsepower may be permitted into a building sewer upon approval of the Utility
Superintendent where there is a finding that such cooling water cannot be
recirculated and that such wastewater does not overload the capacity of the
sewer or interfere with the effective operation of the sewage disposal works of
the city.
§ 15-325 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge any of the following waters or wastes to any
public sewer:
   (a)   Liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
   (b)   Water or waste that may contain more than 100 parts per million, by
weight, of fat, oil or grease;
   (c)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive
liquid, solid or gas;
   (d)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded;
   (e)   Ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
   (f)   Waters or wastes having a ph lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
   (g)   Waters or wastes containing a toxic poisonous substance in sufficient
quantity to injury or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of
the sewage treatment plant;
   (h)   Water or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials
at the sewage treatment plant; or
   (i)   Noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a public
nuisance.
§ 15-326 BILLS.
   Bills shall be rendered monthly as provided in §
15-103 and shall be collected as a combined utility bill.
(Prior Code, § 15-321) (Ord. 1162, passed 2-10-1986)
§ 15-327 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY; OTHER REMEDIES.
   (a)   In the event any person, except the United States and the State of
Kansas, shall fail to pay the user charges when due, water service shall be
terminated as provided in §§
15-102 to
15-104.
   (b)   All other remedies regarding delinquent accounts, and exceptions
thereto, contained in §
15-106 shall apply to sewer service fees, charges and services.
§ 15-328 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE.
   Classes of users of sewer services and the rates to be charged to each are
as follows:
Commencing: April 2017 Billing April 2018 Billing April 2019 Billing Statement
            Statement          Statement
                                                                             April     April     April
Commencing:                                                                  2017      2018      2019
                                                                             Billing   Billing   Billing
                                                                             Statement Statement Statement
(a) Residential customers inside the city limits:
(1)    0 - 1,000 gallons average monthly water usage:                     $29.01    $30.46    $31.98
(2)    Each additional 1,000 gallons average monthly water usage, or part $5.42     $5.69     $5.97
thereof:
(b) Residential customers outside the city limits:
(1)    0 - 1,000 gallons average monthly water usage:                     $33.79    $35.48    $37.25
(2)    Each additional 1,000 gallons average monthly water usage, or part $7.44     $7.81     $8.20
thereof:
(c) Commercial customers inside the city limits:
(1)    0 - 1,000 gallons average monthly water usage:                     $33.79    $35.48    $37.25
(2)    Each additional 1,000 gallons average monthly water usage, or part $7.64     $8.02     $8.42
thereof:
(d) Commercial customers outside the city limits:
(1)    0 - 1,000 gallons average monthly water usage:                     $41.13    $43.19    $45.35
(2)    Each additional 1,000 gallons average monthly water usage, or part $9.40     $9.87     $10.36
thereof:
(e) A residential customer’s average monthly water usage shall, whenever possible, be determined by the
customer’s average city water usage for the preceding months of December, January and February. If a
residential customer has not established an average water usage in the preceding months of December,
January and February, the charge shall be based on the city’s per residential customer average water usage
in those months. Residential customers outside the city limits who do not receive city water service shall
be charged under the above rates based on the monthly volume of wastewater delivered to the city for
treatment as measured by an approved metering or measuring method.
 
(Ord. 1505, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 15-329 SAME; ADDITIONAL CHARGES.
   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the city’s treatment
works, or any user which discharges any substance which singly or by
interaction with other substances causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance, or replacement of the treatment works, shall pay for
such increased costs. The charge to each such user shall be as determined by
the responsible plant operating personnel and approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 15-324) (Ord. 1126, passed 11-14-1983)
§ 15-330 SAME; APPLICABILITY.
   The user charge rates established in this article apply to all users,
regardless of their location, of the city’s treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 15-325) (Ord. 1126, passed 11-14-1983)
§ 15-331 SAME; REVIEW.
   The city will review the user charge system at least annually, and revise
user charge rates as necessary to ensure that the system generates adequate
revenues to pay the costs of operation and maintenance including replacement
and that the system continues to provide for the proportional distribution of
operation and maintenance including replacement costs among users and user
classes.
(Prior Code, § 15-326) (Ord. 1126, passed 11-14-1983)
§ 15-332 SAME; NOTIFICATION.
   The city will notify each user at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate being charged for operation, maintenance including
replacement of the treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 15-327) (Ord. 1126, passed 11-14-1983)
ARTICLE 4: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
15-401   Definitions
   
15-402   Collection
   
15-403   Contracts
   
15-404   Duty of owner, occupant
   
15-405   Containers
   
15-406   Bulk containers
   
15-407   Enter private premises
   
15-408   Ownership of solid waste
   
15-409   Wrapping garbage
   
15-410   Heavy, bulky waste
   
15-411   Hazardous materials
   
15-412   Prohibited practices
   
15-413   Objectionable waste
   
15-414   Unauthorized disposal
   
15-415   Closed vehicle
   
15-416   Rules and regulations
   
15-417   Failure to secure license
   
15-418   Charges
   
15-419   Same; fee schedule
§ 15-401 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL WASTE. All refuse emanating from establishments engaged in
business including, but not limited to, stores, markets, office buildings,
restaurants, shopping centers, theaters, hospitals, governments and nursing
homes.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any enclosure, building or portion thereof occupied by one or
more persons for and as living quarters.
   GARBAGE. Waste resulting from the handling, processing, storage, packaging,
preparation, sale, cooking and serving of meat, produce and other foods and
shall include unclean containers.
   MULTI-FAMILY UNIT. Any structure containing more than four individual
dwelling units.
   REFUSE. All garbage and/or rubbish or trash.
   RESIDENTIAL. Any structure containing four or fewer individual dwelling
units, rooming houses having no more than four persons in addition to the
family of the owner or operator, and mobile homes.
   RUBBISH or TRASH. All nonputrescible materials such as paper, tin cans,
bottles, glass, crockery, rags, ashes, lawn and tree trimmings, stumps, boxes,
wood, street sweepings and mineral refuse. RUBBISH or TRASH shall not include
earth and waste from building operations or wastes from industrial processes or
manufacturing operations.
   SINGLE-DWELLING UNIT. An enclosure, building or portion thereof occupied by
one family as living quarters.
   SOLID WASTE. All non-liquid garbage, rubbish or trash.
§ 15-402 COLLECTION.
   All solid waste accumulated within the city shall be collected, conveyed and
disposed of by the city or by contractors specifically authorized to collect
and dispose of solid waste.
§ 15-403 CONTRACTS.
   The city shall have the right to enter into a contract with any responsible
person for collection and disposal of solid waste.
§ 15-404 DUTY OF OWNER, OCCUPANT.
   The owner or occupant of every dwelling unit or commercial enterprise shall
provide at his or her own expense a suitable container for the storage of solid
waste as provided in this article. No owner or occupant shall permit to
accumulate quantities of refuse or other waste materials within or close to any
structure within the city unless the same is stored in approved containers and
in such a manner as not to create a health or fire hazard.
§ 15-405 CONTAINERS.
   Residential containers shall have a capacity of not more than 30 gallons.
They shall be of galvanized metal or other non-rusting material of substantial
construction. Each container shall have a tight-fitting lid and shall be leak-
proof and fly-tight. All containers shall have handles of suitable construction
to permit lifting. Plastic bags manufactured for garbage and refuse disposal
may be substituted for residential containers. Plastic bags, when used, shall
be securely closed. All garbage shall be drained of all liquids before being
placed in bags or containers.
§ 15-406 BULK CONTAINERS.
   On premises where excessive amounts of refuse accumulate or where cans or
bags are impractical, bulk containers for the storage of refuse may be used.
Containers shall have a capacity and shall be equipped with appurtenances for
attaching mechanical lifting devices that are compatible with the collection
equipment being used. Containers shall be constructed of durable rust- and
corrosion-resistant material that is easy to clean. All containers shall be
equipped with tight-fitting lids or doors to prevent entrance of insects or
rodents. Doors and lids shall be constructed and maintained so they can be
easily opened. Containers shall be water-tight, leak-proof and weather-proof
construction.
§ 15-407 ENTER PRIVATE PREMISES.
   Solid waste collectors, employed by the city or operating under contract
with the city, are hereby authorized to enter in and upon private property for
the purpose of collecting solid waste therefrom as required by this article.
§ 15-408 OWNERSHIP OF SOLID WASTE.
   Ownership of solid waste when placed in containers by the occupants or
owners of premises upon which refuse accumulates, shall be vested in the city
and thereafter shall be subject to the exclusive control of the city, its
employees or contractors. No person shall meddle with refuse containers or in
anyway pilfer or scatter contents thereof in any alley or street within the
city.
§ 15-409 WRAPPING GARBAGE.
   All garbage shall be drained of all excess liquid and wrapped in paper or
other disposable container before being placed in solid waste containers.
§ 15-410 HEAVY, BULKY WASTE.
   Heavy accumulations such as brush, tree limbs, broken concrete, sand or
gravel, automobile frames, dead trees and other bulky, heavy materials shall be
disposed of at the expense of the owner or person controlling same.
§ 15-411 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any hazardous garbage, refuse or waste, hazardous material shall
include:
   (a)   Explosive materials;
   (b)   Rags or other waste soaked in volatile and flammable materials;
   (c)   Chemicals;
   (d)   Poisons;
   (e)   Radio-active materials;
   (f)   Highly combustible materials;
   (g)   Soiled dressings, clothing, bedding and/or other wastes, contaminated
by infection or contagious disease;
   (h)   Dead animal carcass. Fish, and other sport game entrails may be
deposited for collection if properly wrapped or contained in an air-tight bag
or container; or
   (i)   Any other materials which may present a special hazard to collection
or disposal personnel, equipment or to the public.
(Ord. 1322, passed 4-12-1999)
§ 15-412 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (a)   Deposit solid waste in any container other than that owned or leased
by him or her or under his or her control without written consent of the owner
and/or with the intent of avoiding payment of the refuse service charge;
   (b)   Interfere in any manner with employees of the city or its contractors
in the collection of solid waste;
   (c)   Burn solid waste except in an approved incinerator and unless a
variance has been granted and a written permit obtained from the city or the
appropriate air pollution control agency; and
   (d)   Bury refuse at any place within the city except that lawn and garden
trimmings may be composted.
§ 15-413 OBJECTIONABLE WASTE.
   Manure from cow lots, stables, poultry yards, pigeon lofts and other animal
or fowl pens, and waste oils from garages or filling stations shall be removed
and disposed of at the expense of the person controlling the same and in a
manner consistent with this article.
§ 15-414 UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL.
   No person shall haul or cause to be hauled any garbage, refuse or other
waste material of any kind to any place, site or area within or without the
limits of the city unless such site is a sanitary landfill, transfer point or
disposal facility approved by the State Department of Health and Environment.
§ 15-415 CLOSED VEHICLE.
   Any vehicle used by any person for the collection and transportation of
solid waste shall be maintained in a good mechanical condition. The vehicle
shall be equipped with an enclosed covered body to prevent the contents leaking
or escaping therefrom. Only tree trimmings or brush may be transported in open-
bodied vehicles provided the material is securely tied in place to prevent
scattering along the streets and alleys.
§ 15-416 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The collection and transportation of trash and waste materials shall be at
all times under the general supervision of the Mayor or his or her duly
authorized agent, who shall have the authority by and with the consent of the
Governing Body to make additional rules and regulations not inconsistent with
the terms and provisions of this article requiring that the collection and
transportation of trash and waste materials shall be conducted in such manner
as not to endanger the public health, or to become an annoyance to the
inhabitants of the city, and providing for a proper fee to be charged to the
customer.
§ 15-417 FAILURE TO SECURE LICENSE.
   Any person who shall conduct or operate within the city limits any vehicle
for the purpose of collecting and transporting solid waste without first
obtaining a license as required by this article or who shall violate the terms
and provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this
code and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in §
1-116.
§ 15-418 CHARGES.
   The city shall establish and collect a service charge to defray the cost and
maintenance of the collection and disposition of solid waste within the city.
§ 15-419 SAME; FEE SCHEDULE.
   The city shall assess and charge a fee for the collection of solid waste
according to the following schedule:
   (a)   Residential:
      (1)   For each occupied residential dwelling within the city limits, one
collection per week (includes one poly cart): $10.75/month; and
      (2)   For each residential dwelling within the city limits that utilizes
a dumpster:
 
Collections per week Dumpster < 1 yard Dumpster 1 to 2 yards
1                    $15.65            $22.30
2                    $22.30            $29.60
3                    $28.95            $36.90
4                    $35.60            $43.20
5                    $42.25            $51.50
6                    $48.90            $58.80
 
   (b)   Commercial:
      (1)   For each commercial and non-residential unit within the city
limits, one collection per week: $15.25/month;
      (2)   For each organized church within the city limits - one poly cart,
one collection per week: fee waived; and
      (3)   For each commercial and non-residential unit within the city limits
that utilizes a dumpster:
 
Collections per week Dumpster > 1 yard Dumpster 1 to 2 yards
1                    $24.15            $32.80
2                    $30.80            $40.10
3                    $37.45            $47.40
4                    $44.10            $54.70
5                    $50.75            $62.00
6                    $57.40            $69.30
 
   (c)   Collections outside the city limits:
      (1)   For each collection made outside the city limits, one collection
per week: $15.75/month; and
      (2)   For each collection outside the city limits that utilizes a
dumpster:
 
Collections per week Dumpster > 1 yard Dumpster 1 to 2 yards
1                    $21.65            $30.30
2                    $28.30            $37.60
3                    $34.95            $44.90
4                    $41.60            $52.20
5                    $48.25            $59.50
6                    $54.90            $66.80
 
      (3)   The city reserves the right to limit, refuse or to discontinue at
its discretion any solid waste collection outside the city limits.
(Ord. 1491, passed 3-9-2015; Ord. 1531, passed 2-14-2022)
ARTICLE 5: LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES
Section
   
15-501   Use of liquefied petroleum gases
§ 15-501 USE OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES.
   It is unlawful or any person to use liquified petroleum gases for domestic
use within the city limits, except as follows:
   (a)   In connection with the temporary use by an owner or occupant of a
recreational type vehicle or mobile unit which is equipped with mounted
liquified petroleum gas storage tanks; or
   (b)   In connection with the use of a gas grill or domestic cooking unit
located and used outside of a structure.
(Prior Code, § 15-501) (Ord. 1247, passed 4-13-1992)
ARTICLE 6: WATER/DROUGHT EMERGENCY
Section
   
15-601   Water drought/emergency
   
15-602   Definitions
   
15-603   Declaration of water watch
   
15-604   Declaration of water warning
   
15-605   Declaration of water emergency
   
15-606   Voluntary conservation measures
   
15-607   Mandatory conservation measures
   
15-608   Emergency water rates
   
15-609   Regulations
   
15-610   Violations, disconnections and penalties
   
15-611   Emergency termination
§ 15-601 WATER DROUGHT/EMERGENCY.
   The purpose of this article is to provide for the declaration of a water
supply watch, warning or emergency and the implementation of voluntary and
mandatory water conservation measures throughout the city in the event such a
watch, warning or emergency is declared.
(Ord. 1282, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 15-602 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLASSES OF USES OF WATER. The following classes of uses of water are
established:
      (1)   CLASS 1. Water used for outdoor watering, either public or private,
for gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses, playing fields,
swimming pools or other recreational areas; or the washing of motor vehicles,
boats, trailers or the exterior of any building or structure;
      (2)   CLASS 2. Water used for any commercial or industrial, including
agricultural, purposes: except water actually necessary to maintain the health
and personal hygiene of bona fide employees while such employees are engaged in
the performance of their duties at their place of employment;
      (3)   CLASS 3. Domestic usage, other than that which would be included in
either Classes 1 or 2; and
      (4)   CLASS 4. Water necessary only to sustain human life and the lives
of domestic pets and maintain standards of hygiene and sanitation.
   CUSTOMER. The customer of record using water for any purpose from the city’s
water distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or, in
the case of coin sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface
drain; or
      (2)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
   WATER. Water available to the city for treatment by virtue of its water
rights or any treated water introduced by the city into its water distribution
system, including water offered for sale at any coin-operated site.
(Ord. 1282, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 15-603 DECLARATION OF WATER WATCH.
   Whenever the Governing Body of the city finds that conditions indicate that
the probability of a drought or some other condition causing a major water
supply shortage is rising, it shall be empowered to declare, by resolution,
that a water watch exists and that it shall take steps to inform the public and
ask for voluntary reductions in water use. Such a watch shall be deemed to
continue until it is declared by resolution of the Governing Body to have
ended. The resolutions declaring the existence and end of a water watch shall
be effective upon their publication in the official city newspaper.
(Ord. 1282, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 15-604 DECLARATION OF WATER WARNING.
   Whenever the Governing Body of the city finds that drought conditions or
some other condition causing a major water supply shortage are present and
supplies are starting to decline, it shall be empowered to declare by
resolution that a water warning exists and that it will recommend restrictions
on nonessential uses during the period of the warning. Such a warning shall be
deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution of the Governing Body to
have ended. The resolutions declaring the beginning and ending of the water
warning shall be effective upon their publication in the official city
newspaper.
(Ord. 1282, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 15-605 DECLARATION OF WATER EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Governing Body of the city finds that an emergency exists by
reason of a shortage of water supply needed for essential uses, it shall be
empowered to declare by resolution that a water supply emergency exists and
that it will impose mandatory restrictions on water use during the period of
the emergency. Such an emergency shall be deemed to continue until it is
declared by resolution of the Governing Body to have ended. The resolutions
declaring the existence and end of a water supply emergency shall be effective
upon their publication in the official city newspaper.
(Ord. 1282, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 15-606 VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of a water watch or water warning as provided in §§
15-603 and
15-604, the Mayor is authorized to call on all water consumers to employ
voluntary water conservation measures to limit or eliminate nonessential water
uses including, but not limited to, limitations on the following uses:
   (a)   Sprinkling of water on lawns, shrubs or trees (including golf
courses);
   (b)   Washing of automobiles;
   (c)   Use of water in swimming pools, fountains and evaporative air
conditioning systems; and
   (d)   Waste of water.
(Ord. 1282, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 15-607 MANDATORY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in § 15-605,
the Mayor is also authorized to implement certain mandatory water conservation
measures, including, but not limited to, the following:
   (a)   Suspension of new connections to the city’s water distribution system,
except connections of fire hydrants and those made pursuant to agreements
entered into by the city prior to the effective date of the declaration of the
emergency;
   (b)   Restrictions on the uses of water in one or more classes of water use,
wholly or in part;
   (c)   Restrictions on the sales of water at coin-operated facilities or
sites;
   (d)   The imposition of water rationing based on any reasonable formula
including, but not limited to, the percentage of normal use and per capita or
per consumer restrictions;
   (e)   Complete or partial bans on the water; and
   (f)   Any combination of the foregoing measures.
(Ord. 1282, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 15-608 EMERGENCY WATER RATES.
   (a)   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in § 15-
605, the Governing Body of the city shall have the power to adopt emergency
water rates by ordinance designed to conserve water supplies.
   (b)   Such emergency rates may provide for, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Higher charges for increasing usage per unit of use (increasing
block rates);
      (2)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
rate); or
      (3)   Extra charges in excess of a specified level of water use (excess
demand surcharge).
(Ord. 1282, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 15-609 REGULATIONS.
   During the effective period of any water supply emergency as provided for in
§ 15-605, the Mayor and/or City Superintendent is empowered to promulgate such
regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this article,
any water supply emergency resolution or emergency water rate ordinance. Such
regulations shall be subject to the approval of the Governing Body at its next
regular or special meeting.
(Ord. 1282, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 15-610 VIOLATIONS, DISCONNECTIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   If the Mayor, City Superintendent or other city official or officials
charged with implementation and enforcement of this article or a water supply
emergency resolution learn of any violation of any water use restrictions
imposed pursuant to §§ 15-607 or 15-609, a written notice of the violation
shall be affixed to the property where the violation occurred and the customer
of record and any other person known to the city who is responsible for the
violation or its correction shall be provided with either actual or mailed
notice. Said notice shall describe the violation and order that it be
corrected, cured or abated immediately or within such specified time as the
city determines is reasonable under the circumstances. If the order is not
complied with, the city may terminate water service to the customer subject to
the following procedures.
      (1)   The city shall give the customer notice by mail or actual notice
that water service will be discontinued within a specified time due to the
violation and that the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the
termination by requesting a hearing scheduled before the city Governing Body or
a city official designated as a hearing officer by the Governing Body.
      (2)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered.
      (3)   The Governing Body or hearing officer shall make findings of fact
and order whether service should continue or be terminated.
   (b)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water service
terminated pursuant to subsection (a) above. In the event of subsequent
violations, the reconnection fee shall be $200 for the second reconnection and
$300 for any additional reconnections.
   (c)   Violations of this article shall be a municipal offense and may be
prosecuted in Municipal Court. Any person so charged and found guilty in
Municipal Court of violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of
municipal offense. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
The penalty for an initial violation shall be a mandatory fine of $100. In
addition, such customer may be required by the court to serve a definite term
of confinement in the city or county jail which shall be fixed by the Court and
which shall not exceed 30 days. The penalty for a second or subsequent
conviction shall be a mandatory fine of $200. In addition, such customer shall
serve a definite term of confinement in the city or county jail which shall be
fixed by the Court and which shall not exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 1282, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 15-611 EMERGENCY TERMINATION.
   Nothing in this article shall limit the ability of any properly authorized
city official from terminating the supply of water to any or all customers upon
the determination of such city official that emergency termination of water
service is required to protect the health and safety of the public.
(Ord. 1282, passed 8-14-1995)
ARTICLE 7: DRAINAGE UTILITY FUND
Section
   
15-701   Creation and purpose of Drainage Utility Fund
   
15-702   Regulations
   
15-703   Services provided
   
15-704   Service not guaranteed
   
15-705   Costs
   
15-706   Special assessments
   
15-707   Flood control and damages
§ 15-701 CREATION AND PURPOSE OF DRAINAGE UTILITY FUND.
   (a)   The city shall, as a part of the city utility services, provide the
resources and infrastructure to control the flow of ground and surface water
within the city limits.
   (b)   Such resources and infrastructure shall be funded by a Drainage
Utility Fund which is hereby established.
(Ord. 1436, passed 12-8-2008)
§ 15-702 REGULATIONS.
   The administration and control of the city of ground and surface water
drainage services shall be governed by the regulations set forth in this
article.
(Ord. 1436, passed 12-8-2008)
§ 15-703 SERVICES PROVIDED.
   Ground and surface water drainage services may include the following:
   (a)   Adequate and controlled drainage of ground and surface water within
the city;
   (b)   Installation and maintenance of bridges, walkways, whistles, culverts,
underground collection lines, ditches, flues and other infrastructure to
control the flow and drainage of ground and surface water within the city; and
   (c)   Development and implementation of recommended water and soil
conservation methods, practices and procedures to help direct and control the
drainage of ground and surface water within the city.
(Ord. 1436, passed 12-8-2008)
§ 15-704 SERVICE NOT GUARANTEED.
   The provision of ground and surface water drainage services within the city
is not guaranteed except when adequate ditches, underground collection lines,
bridges, whistles and culverts or other adequate infrastructure is in place and
in proper working order and a flood disaster declaration has not been issued.
(Ord. 1436, passed 12-8-2008)
§ 15-705 COSTS.
   To provide the resources necessary to fund such ground and surface water
drainage services, a fee shall be assessed as follows.
   (a)   A monthly fee of $1 shall be assessed to each city water utility
customer.
   (b)   Such fee shall be included on the city’s monthly utility billing
statement as a line item fee and shall be clearly identified as “drainage
utility service fee”.
   (c)   Such fee shall be added to all other utility charges set forth on the
utility billing statement, and shall be billed and collected through the city’s
utility billing office.
   (d)   All drainage utility service fees collected shall be deposited to the
Drainage Utility Fund.
   (e)   The assessment of the drainage utility service fee provided for herein
shall not preclude the city from utilizing other revenue sources as may be
deemed appropriate to adequately provide such ground and surface water drainage
services.
(Ord. 1436, passed 12-8-2008)
§ 15-706 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The city shall be authorized to assess the costs associated with providing
adequate and proper ground and surface water drainage services necessitated as
a result of new developments or new construction within the city. The costs for
such shall be assessed proportionately against the property owners directly
benefitting from such new ground and surface water drainage services.
(Ord. 1436, passed 12-8-2008)
§ 15-707 FLOOD CONTROL AND DAMAGES.
   The city may, from time to time, hold public meetings to discuss and
publicize designated flood plain or flood control areas within or adjacent to
the city which, under federal regulations, may require certain types of flood
insurance. The city shall have no responsibility or liability for any damage or
loss to any property resulting from flooding caused by the accumulation of
ground or surface water or from a flood event which has been declared by the
State of Kansas as a natural disaster.
(Ord. 1436, passed 12-8-2008)
CHAPTER XVI: ZONING AND PLANNING
   Article
      
1.   CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
      
2.   ZONING REGULATIONS
      
3.   FLOOD PLAIN ZONING
      
4.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
5.   NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION PLAN
ARTICLE 1: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
16-101   Commission re-establishment
   
16-102   Membership, terms, interest and compensation
   
16-103   Bylaws, officers, meetings, votes and records
   
16-104   Powers and duties
   
16-105   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
16-106   Budget
§ 16-101 COMMISSION RE-ESTABLISHMENT.
   The City Planning Commission is hereby re-established, such having been
previously established on June 12, 1995 by Ord. 1280.
(Ord. 1430, passed 8-11-2008)
§ 16-102 MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, INTEREST AND COMPENSATION.
   (a)   The Planning Commission shall be composed of seven members, of which
five members shall be residents of the city and two members shall be residents
outside the city, but within the three-mile designated planning area of the
city’s corporate limits. Members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
consent of the Governing Body at the first regular meeting of the Governing
Body in May of each year and shall take office at the next regular meeting of
the Commission.
   (b)   Members shall be appointed for staggered three-year terms. The terms
of the two members residing outside of the city’s corporate limits shall be
staggered such that they do not both expire within the same year. A vacancy on
the Commission created by reason of death, incapacity, resignation or
disqualification of any member, shall be filled by appointment for the
remainder of such member’s unexpired term. The Governing Body may adopt rules
and regulations to provide for removal of members of the Commission.
   (c)   Any member having a conflict of interest, either directly or
indirectly, in any matter coming before the Commission, shall be disqualified
to discuss or vote on the matter.
   (d)   Members shall serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed for
expenses actually incurred in the performance of their duties as deemed
appropriate by the Governing Body.
(Ord. 1430, passed 8-11-2008)
§ 16-103 BYLAWS, OFFICERS, MEETINGS, VOTES AND RECORDS.
   (a)   The Commission shall adopt bylaws to govern the transaction of
business and establish hearing procedures.
   (b)   The Commission shall elect one member as Chairperson and one member as
Vice-Chairperson who shall serve one year terms and until their successors have
been elected. A Secretary shall also be elected who may or may not be a member
of the Commission.
   (c)   The Planning Commission shall meet at such times and places as may be
fixed in the Commission’s bylaws. Special meetings may be called at any time by
the Chairperson or, in the Chairperson’s absence, by the Vice Chairperson.
   (d)   A vote of a majority of the members present and voting shall be
required to recommend approval or denial of an amendment to the zoning
regulations, a rezoning amendment or a special use permit. A majority vote of
the entire membership of the Commission shall be required for all other actions
by the Commission.
   (e)   A record shall be kept of all proceedings of the Commission.
(Ord. 1430, passed 8-11-2008)
§ 16-104 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Governing Body and the Planning Commission shall have all the rights,
powers and duties as authorized in K.S.A. 12-741 et seq., and amendments
thereto, which are hereby incorporated by reference as part of this article.
The Commission is hereby authorized to make or cause to be made, adopted and
maintained a Comprehensive Plan for the city and any unincorporated territory
lying outside of the city, but within the county, which, in the opinion of the
Commission, forms the total community of which the city is a part. The
Commission shall also cause to be prepared, adopted and maintained zoning and
subdivision regulations on all land within the jurisdiction designated by the
Governing Body. The Comprehensive Plan and zoning and subdivision regulations
shall be subject to final approval of the Governing Body by ordinance. The
Governing Body may request the Commission to undertake other assignments
related to planning and land use regulations.
(Ord. 1430, passed 8-11-2008)
§ 16-105 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The Planning Commission is hereby designated to also serve as the city’s
Board of Zoning Appeals with all the powers and duties as provided for in
K.S.A. 12-759, and amendments thereto, which are hereby incorporated by
reference as part of this article. The Board shall adopt bylaws to govern its
operation and hearing procedures. Such bylaws shall be subject to the approval
of the Governing Body. A record shall be kept of all official actions of the
Board which shall be maintained separately from those of the Commission. The
Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing evidence presented,
findings of fact, decisions made, and the vote upon each question or appeal. A
majority of the members of the Board present and voting at the hearing shall be
required to decide any appeal. The present membership of the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall be disbanded effective as of the effective date of this article.
(Ord. 1430, passed 8-11-2008)
§ 16-106 BUDGET.
   The Governing Body shall, as a part of the general budget or from the
General Fund, appropriate funds and make such allowances to the Commission for
it to perform its function and duties as it deems proper.
(Ord. 1430, passed 8-11-2008)
ARTICLE 2: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
16-201   Zoning regulations
   
16-202   Official zoning map incorporated
§ 16-201 ZONING REGULATIONS.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference as if set out fully herein, zoning
regulations entitled “Zoning Ordinance for the City of Humboldt, Kansas,” as
adopted by the Governing Body January 11, 2011 in Ord. 1448. No fewer than
three copies of the zoning ordinance for the city shall be marked “Official
Copy Incorporated by the Code of the City of Humboldt, Kansas,” and to which
there shall be attached a published copy of this section and which shall be
filed with the City Clerk to be open and available for inspection by the public
at all reasonable business hours.
(Prior Code, § 16-201) (Ord. 1010, passed - -; Ord. 1073, passed 9-10-1979;
Ord. 1110, passed 5-10-1982; Ord. 1196, passed 6-13-1988; Ord. 1294, passed 8-
19-1996; Ord. 1417, passed 1-7-2008; Ord. 1449, passed 1-11-2010)
§ 16-202 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth fully herein, the
Official Zoning Map of the City of Humboldt, as adopted by the Governing Body
January 11, 2010 in Ord. 1449. No fewer than three copies of the official
zoning map of the city shall be marked “Official Copy Incorporated by the Code
of the City of Humboldt,” and to which there shall be attached a published copy
of this section and which shall be filed with the City Clerk to be open and
available for inspection by the public at all reasonable business hours.
(Ord. 1450, passed 1-11-2010)
ARTICLE 3: FLOOD PLAIN ZONING
Section
   
16-301   Flood plain zoning regulations incorporated
§ 16-301 FLOOD PLAIN ZONING REGULATIONS INCORPORATED.
   There are hereby incorporated by reference as if set out fully herein, the
flood plain zoning regulations adopted by the Governing Body of the city,
prepared by the city and consisting of Ord. 1190 and entitled, “Flood Plain
Zoning Regulations of the City of Humboldt, Kansas.” No fewer than three copies
of the flood plain zoning regulations, marked “Official Copy as incorporated by
the Code of the City of Humboldt,” and to which there shall be a published copy
of this section attached, shall be filed with the City Clerk to be open for
inspection and available to the public at all reasonable business hours.
(Prior Code, § 16-301) (Ord. 1190, passed 10-12-1987; Ord. 1196, passed 6-13-
1988; Ord. 1488, passed 2-9-2015)
ARTICLE 4: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
16-401   Regulations incorporated
§ 16-401 REGULATIONS INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference, as if set forth fully herein, the
“Subdivision Regulations of the City of Humboldt,” as adopted by the Governing
Body January 11, 2010 in Ord. 1450. No fewer than three copies of the
subdivision regulations of the city shall be marked “Official Copy Incorporated
by the Code of the City of Humboldt,” and to which there shall be attached a
published copy of this section and which shall be filed with the City Clerk to
be open and available for inspection by the public at all reasonable business
hours.
(Ord. 1451, passed 1-11-2010)
ARTICLE 5: NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION PLAN
Section
   
16-501   Neighborhood Revitalization Plan
   
16-502   Designation of neighborhood revitalization area
   
16-503   Neighborhood Revitalization Fund
§ 16-501 NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION PLAN.
   The city does hereby adopt and incorporate by reference as if fully set
forth herein, the document captioned “Neighborhood Revitalization Plan of the
City of Humboldt, Kansas.” No fewer than three copies of such Neighborhood
Revitalization Plan of the city shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as
Adopted by Ordinance No. 1419,” and to which shall be attached a copy of this
article, and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available
to the public at all reasonable hours.
(Ord. 1419, passed 2-11-2008)
§ 16-502 DESIGNATION OF NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION AREA.
   The city does hereby designate the real property described in § 11 of the
Neighborhood Revitalization Plan as the neighborhood revitalization area, and
finds that the following conditions exist within such described area:
   (a)   A predominance of buildings which, by reason of dilapidation or
obsolescence, are detrimental to the public’s health, safety and welfare;
   (b)   A substantial number of deteriorating structures which impair the
sound growth of the city, retards the provision of housing and constitutes an
economic liability; and
   (c)   A predominance of buildings which, by reason of age, history or
architecture are significant and should be restored to productive use and that
the rehabilitation, conservation and redevelopment of such area is necessary to
protect the public’s health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 1419, passed 2-11-2008)
§ 16-503 NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION FUND.
   The city does hereby create a Neighborhood Revitalization Fund to finance
the redevelopment of the revitalization area and to provide a rebate of
property tax increments as set forth in the Neighborhood Revitalization Plan.
(Ord. 1419, passed 2-11-2008)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   CHARTER ORDINANCES
   
II.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: CHARTER ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
1    - -    Exempts the city from K.S.A. 12-112
2    - -    Exempts the city from K.S.A. 14-201
3    - -    Exempts the city from K.S.A. 14-807, 14-819 and 14-820
4    10-17- Exempts the city from K.S.A. Chapter 41
     1963
5    - -    Exempts the city from K.S.A. 12-1640
6    10-14- Removes certain limitations of tax levy
     1968
7    9-11-  Exempts the city from K.S.A. 14-103 and 14-201
     1972
8    11-14- Exempts the city from K.S.A. 79-1952
     1977
9    - -    Exempts the city from K.S.A. 79-5001 through 79-5017
10   3-10-  Establishes the operation of the City Fire Department outside the aggregate
     1980   tax levy limitation
11   - -    Establishes the operation of the City Police Department
12   3-8-   Exempts the city from requirements of fixed asset accounting, K.S.A. 79-
     1982   1120a
13   3-11-  Exempts the city from K.S.A. 14-205
     1985
14   5-9-   Exempts the city from K.S.A. 79-5001 through 79-5017
     1988
15   7-10-  Exempts the city from § 2 of 1989 House Bill 2454, relating to the natural
     1989   gas pipeline inspection and maintenance
16   - -    Exempts the city from K.S.A. 79-5021 et seq.
17   - -    Exempts the city from K.S.A. 12-4112
18   6-14-  Repeals Charter Ord. 17
     1993
19   8-12-  Exempts the city from K.S.A. 25- 2303, 25-2309 and 25-2709
     1996
20   9-11-  Exempts the city from K.S.A. 14-205
     2006
21   3-10-  Exempts the city from K.S.A. 12-1758
     2008
22   6-9-   Exempts the city from K.S.A. 12-4112
     2014
     9-12-  Exempts city from provisions of K.S.A. 14-103, 14-201, 14- 204, relating to
23   2016   the election of officers, terms of office, transitions to November
            elections; repeals Charter Ord. 7
           
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
1100 4-16-  Acton CATV; community antenna television system
     1981
1142 2-11-  Amends § 19 of Ord. 1100; eliminating municipal control over rates charged by
     1985   grantee
1158 2-17-  Kansas Gas and Electric; electric service
     1986
1257 2-8-   Amends Ord. 1100; extends term of franchise
     1993
1271 11-14- Kansas Gas and Electric; electric franchise
     1994
1291 2-12-  KGE; electric service
     1996
1337 9-11-  Southwestern Bell Company; telecommunications system
     2000
1400 1-8-   Kansas Gas and Electric Company, doing business as Westar Energy; electric
     2007   franchise
1401 3-12-  Southwestern Bell Telephone, L.P.; telecommunications local exchange service
     2007   provider
1495 2-8-   Kansas Fiber Network; telecommunications franchise
     2016
1513 7-9-   JMZ, doing business as Kwikom Communications; telecommunications franchise
     2018
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kansas Statutes Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Charter Ordinances
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KANSAS STATUTES ANNOTATED
K.S.A. Reference Code Section
K.S.A. Reference              Code Section
Chapter 2, Article 13         8-406
8-126 to 8-149                8-303
8-401                         14-304
                              8-313,
8-1102                        14-302,
                              14-309
8-1102(b)                     14-307
8-1406                        3-110
8-1424                        3-110
8-1473                        3-110
8-1570                        14-302
8-1599                        3-106
8-1717                        14-202
8-2118                        14-102
9-1402                        1-704
9-2107                        1-704
10-116a                       1-1104
10-803                        1-310
Chapter 12, Article 41        9-108
                              4-609,
12-1,115                      8-110,
                              8-212,
                              8-404
12-103                        1-202
12-120 to 12-121              1-113
12-187 et seq.                5-301
12-631                        15-310
12-741 et seq.                16-104
12-759                        16-105
12-1608                       1-310
                              8-105,
                              8-106,
12-1617e                      8-110,
                              8-208,
                              8-308,
                              15-317
12-1617f                      8-404
12-1617g                      15-317
12-1675                       1-704
12-1675a(g)                   1-704
12-1677a                      1-704
12-1677b                      1-704
12-1740 et seq.               3-105
12-1750 et seq.               8-1007,
                              8-1008
12-1750 to 12-1756            4-611
12-1751                       4-601
12-1752                       4-604
12-1756                       4-610,
                              8-1009
                              1-1101,
12-1757 et seq.               1-1104,
                              1-1108
12-1760                       1-1102
12-1761                       1-1105
12-1763                       1-1107
12-1801                       13-102
12-1802                       13-103
12-1803                       13-104
12-1804                       13-105
12-1805                       13-106
12-1806                       13-107
12-1807                       13-102
12-1808                       13-108
12-3002                       1-108
12-3007                       1-110
12-3008                       1-111
12-3009 et seq.               4-202
                              4-402,
12-3009 through 12-3012       4-302,
                              4-402
12-3014                       Adopting Ordinance,
                              1-106
12-3015                       Adopting Ordinance,
                              1-106
12-4101 et seq.               9-102,
                              9-106
12-4107                       9-105
12-4108                       9-108
12-4112                       9-112
14-103                        6-101
14-111                        1-203,
                              1-204
14-201                        6-101
                              1-206,
14-204                        1-208,
                              6-101
15-204                        10-101
17-1914                       4-502
17-1915                       4-503
17-1916                       4-508
17-1917                       4-509
17-1918                       4-510
17-12a401                     1-704
21-6204 et seq.               8-101
22-2512                       10-203
25-205                        6-301,
                              6-302
25-21a01                      6-301,
                              6-302
Chapter 27                    3-105
Chapter 32                    2-108
32-1047                       10-203
36-501                        8-702
40-2404                       8-1011
40-3101 et seq.               14-202
40-3901 et seq.               4-609,
                              8-1001
41-101 et seq.                3-201
41-308d                       3-305
41-710                        3-306
41-713                        3-305
                              3-104,
41-719                        3-105,
                              3-106
41-804                        3-110
41-2601 et seq.               3-216
41-2614                       3-403,
                              3-503
41-2701                       3-201
41-2708                       3-208
41-2719                       3-103
                              1-603,
45-215 et seq.                1-607,
                              1-609
Chapter 47                    2-108
50-6,121 et seq.              4-211
50-6,122                      4-211
50-6,129(a)(1) through (a)(8) 4-211
54-104                        1-501
54-106                        1-501
60-238                        8-705
60-1111                       13-109
60-2101                       4-605,
                              8-212
65-1,202                      4-211
65-163a                       15-233
65-3410                       15-106
75-1212                       3-110
75-4308                       1-501
78-111                        1-504
80-906 through 80-909         12-401
                              
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Reference 2022 Code Section
Prior Code Reference 2022 Code Section
1-203                1-203
1-208                1-208
1-302                1-302
1-312                1-312
1-313                1-313
1-314                1-314
1-315                1-315
1-316                1-316
1-317                1-317
1-601                1-601
1-608                1-610
1-612                1-613
1-613                1-614
1-614                1-615
1-801                1-801
1-802                1-802
1-803                1-803
1-804                1-804
1-901                1-901
1-902                1-902
1-903                1-903
1-904                1-904
1-905                1-905
1-906                1-906
1-1001               1-1001
1-1002               1-1002
1-1003               1-1003
1-1004               1-1004
1-1005               1-1005
1-1006               1-1006
2-101                2-101
2-107                2-107
2-108                2-108
2-123                2-122
2-201                2-201
2-202                2-202
2-206                2-206
2-208                2-208
2-211                2-211
3-102                3-105
3-103                3-110
3-106                3-108
3-107                3-109
3-402                3-402
4-101                4-101
4-201                4-201
4-204                4-204
4-205                4-205
4-313                4-313
4-317                4-317
4-413                4-413
4-417                4-417
4-701                4-701
4-702                4-702
4-703                4-703
4-704                4-704
4-705                4-705
4-706                4-706
4-707                4-707
5-106                5-206
6-201                6-201
6-202                6-202
6-203                6-203
7-101                7-101
7-109                7-109
7-204                7-204
7-205                7-205
7-207                7-206
8-101                8-101
8-301                8-301
8-302                8-302
8-303                8-303
8-304                8-304
8-305                8-305
8-306                8-306
8-308                8-309
8-309                8-310
8-310                8-311
8-311                8-312
8-312                8-313
8-313                8-314
8-314                8-315
8-701                8-701
8-702                8-702
8-703                8-703
8-704                8-704
8-705                8-705
8-706                8-706
8-707                8-707
8-708                8-708
8-709                8-709
8-710                8-710
8-801                8-801
8-802                8-802
8-803                8-803
8-804                8-804
8-805                8-805
8-901                8-901
8-902                8-902
8-903                8-903
8-904                8-904
8-905                8-905
8-906                8-906
8-907                8-907
8-908                8-908
8-909                8-909
10-101               10-101
10-103               10-103
11-201               11-201
11-202               11-202
11-203               11-203
11-204               11-204
11-205               11-205
12-113               12-112
12-114               12-113
12-115               12-114
12-116               12-115
12-201               12-201
12-203               12-203
12-204               12-204
12-205               12-205
12-206               12-206
12-207               12-207
12-301               12-301
12-302               12-302
12-303               12-303
12-304               12-304
12-305               12-305
12-401               12-401
12-402               12-402
12-403               12-403
13-216               13-216
13-217               13-217
13-310               13-311
13-311               13-312
13-501               13-501
13-502               13-502
14-202               14-203
14-203               14-204
14-204               14-205
14-205               14-206
14-206               14-207
14-207               14-208
14-208               14-209
14-209               14-210
14-210               14-211
14-211               14-212
14-212               14-213
14-213               14-214
14-214               14-215
14-215               14-216
14-216               14-217
14-301               14-301
14-302               14-302
14-303               14-303
14-304               14-304
14-305               14-305
14-306               14-306
14-307               14-307
14-308               14-308
14-309               14-309
14-310               14-310
14-311               14-311
14-312               14-312
14-313               14-313
14-314               14-314
15-103               15-103
15-104               15-104
15-106               15-106
15-109               15-108
15-201               15-201
15-205               15-205
15-206               15-206
15-208               15-208
15-215               15-215
15-231               15-225,
                     15-234
15-233               15-235
15-237               15-226
15-240               15-236
15-301               15-301
15-303               15-303
15-321               15-326
15-324               15-329
15-325               15-330
15-326               15-331
15-327               15-332
15-501               15-501
16-201               16-201
16-301               16-301
                     
 
REFERENCES TO CHARTER ORDINANCES
Charter Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Charter Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1                - -         TSO, Table I
2                - -         TSO, Table I
3                - -         TSO, Table I
5                - -         TSO, Table I
9                - -         TSO, Table I
11               - -         TSO, Table I
16               - -         TSO, Table I
17               - -         TSO, Table I
4                10-17-1963  TSO, Table I
6                10-14-1968  TSO, Table I
7                9-11-1972   TSO, Table I
8                11-14-1977  TSO, Table I
10               3-10-1980   TSO, Table I
12               3-8-1982    TSO, Table I
13               3-11-1985   TSO, Table I
14               5-9-1988    TSO, Table I
15               7-10-1989   TSO, Table I
18               6-14-1993   TSO, Table I
19               8-12-1996   TSO, Table I
20               9-11-2006   TSO, Table I
21               3-10-2008   TSO, Table I
22               6-9-2014    TSO, Table I
23               9-12-2016   6-101,
                             TSO, Table I
24               10-10-2016  1-301
                            
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1010     - -         16-201
1031     3-8-1976    15-106
1045     8-8-1977    7-101
1056     6-12-1978   15-205
1062     11-13-1978  2-201
1067     6-11-1979   12-203,
                     12-204
1073     9-10-1979   16-201
1084     6-9-1980    12-112
1085     6-9-1980    11-202,
                     11-203
1088     7-14-1980   3-105
1099     4-1-1981    8-701 through
                     8-710
1100     4-16-1981   TSO, Table II
1108     3-8-1982    8-708
1110     5-10-1982   16-201
1118     1-10-1983   15-103
1126     11-14-1983  15-329 through
                     15-332
1139     12-10-1984  10-101,
                     10-103
1142     2-11-1985   TSO, Table II
                     1-601,
1145     3-11-1985   1-613 through
                     1-615
1162     2-10-1986   15-103,
                     15-326
1158     2-17-1986   TSO, Table II
1173     10-13-1986  8-101
1176     11-10-1986  1-802
1189     10-12-1987  15-215
1190     10-12-1987  16-301
1196     6-13-1988   16-201,
                     16-301
1208     2-13-1989   3-108
1215     6-12-1989   15-225
1231     11-13-1990  1-312 through
                     1-315
                     8-301 through
1234     4-8-1991    8-306,
                     8-310 through
                     8-315
1238     8-12-1991   8-901 through
                     8-909
1246     2-10-1992   8-801 through
                     8-805
1247     4-13-1992   15-501
1250     7-13-1992   15-226
1257     2-8-1993    TSO, Table II
1271     11-14-1994  TSO, Table II
1279     4-10-1995   2-122
1282     8-14-1995   15-601 through
                     15-611
                     15-104,
1289     12-11-1995  15-107,
                     15-218,
                     15-219
1291     2-12-1996   TSO, Table II
1293     5-13-1996   2-208
1294     8-19-1996   16-201
1301     11-12-1996  15-103
1307     8-11-1997   8-1001 through
                     8-1011
1310     8-11-1997   9-113
1321     3-8-1999    3-304
1322     4-12-1999   15-411
1324     6-14-1999   2-206
1325     7-12-1999   15-225
1328     10-11-1999  7-303,
                     7-304
1336     6-12-2000   11-205
1337     9-11-2000   TSO, Table II
1345     2-12-2001   15-205
1349     8-20-2001   15-235
1362     2-10-2003   3-501 through
                     3-503
1363     2-10-2003   4-218
1365     4-14-2003   5-301
1368     11-10-2003  15-235
1379     1-10-2005   11-206
1389     3-13-2006   4-202,
                     7-201
1400     1-8-2007    TSO, Table II
1401     3-12-2007   TSO, Table II
1403     5-14-2007   15-214
1404     6-11-2007   8-304,
                     8-309
1405     6-11-2007   15-103,
                     15-104
                     2-102,
                     2-122,
1407     7-9-2007    2-201,
                     2-206 through
                     2-208
1414     1-7-2008    1-401
1415     1-7-2008    2-109,
                     2-211
1417     1-7-2008    16-201
1416     1-14-2008   1-402
1419     2-11-2008   16-501 through
                     16-503
1420     2-11-2008   4-326,
                     4-424
1421     2-11-2008   5-207
1422     4-14-2008   4-601 through
                     4-611
1423     4-14-2008   8-201 through 8-213
1424     4-14-2008   15-207
1427     6-8-2008    5-301
1425     6-9-2008    1-1101 through
                     1-1108
1430     8-11-2008   16-101 through
                     16-106
1434     11-11-2008  15-225
1435     11-24-2008  14-218
1436     12-8-2008   15-701 through
                     15-707
1437     1-12-2009   8-401 through
                     8-406
1449     1-11-2010   16-201
1450     1-11-2010   16-202
1451     1-11-2010   16-401
1456     9-13-2010   2-111
1461     5-9-2011    1-211
1466     11-14-2011  14-202
1476     2-11-2013   15-211
1488     2-9-2015    16-301
1489     2-9-2015    4-210
1490     2-9-2015    4-213
1491     3-9-2015    15-423
1495     2-8-2016    TSO, Table II
1499     6-13-2016   14-202
1502     8-8-2016    9-112
1504     2-13-2017   15-224,
                     15-235
1505     2-13-2017   15-328
1506     3-13-2017   6-301,
                     6-302
1510     5-14-2018   11-207
1513     7-9-2018    TSO, Table II
1469     3-11-2019   3-302
1516     3-11-2019   3-201 through
                     3-218
1526     6-14-2021   1-203
1528     9-13-2021   14-101 through
                     14-103
1529     9-13-2021   11-101
1530     9-13-2021   14-218
1531     2-14-2022   15-423
1534     7-11-2022   14-101 through
                     14-103
1535     7-11-2022   11-101
1536     3-13-2023   Adopting Ordinance
1538     5-8-2023    1-1001 through
                     1-1006
1539     7-10-2023   11-101
1540     7-10-2023   14-101 through
                     14-103
1541     7-10-2023   14-216
1543     12-11-2023  7-303,
                     7-304
1544     5-13-2024   6-401
1545     6-10-2024   11-101
1546     6-10-2024   14-101 through
                     14-103
                    
 
 
