KINGMAN, KANSAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2024 S-1, current through:
Ordinance 2126, passed 4-11-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2092
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF KINGMAN, KANSAS,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF KINGMAN, KANSAS, DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN
SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of Kingman
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs;
and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Kansas empower and
authorize the City of Kingman to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not theretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Governing Body of the City of Kingman has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of Kingman
of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF KINGMAN,
KANSAS:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City of Kingman as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Kingman, Kansas.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
         CHAPTER I: ADMINISTRATION
            1.   General Provisions
            2.   Governing Body
            3.   Officers and Employees
            4.   Personnel Policy and Employee Benefits
            5.   Oaths and Bonds
            6.   Open Records
            7.   Investment of Public Funds
            8.   Capital Improvement Fund
         CHAPTER II: ANIMAL CONTROL AND REGULATION
            1.   General Provisions
            2.   Dogs and Cats
            3.   Pitbulls
            4.   Exotic Animals
            5.   Cats
         CHAPTER III: BEVERAGES
            1.   General Provisions
            2.   Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverages
            3.   Alcoholic Liquor
            4.   Private Clubs
            5.   Drinking Establishments
            6.   Caterers
            7.   Temporary Permits (K.S.A. 41-719)
            8.   Special Event Permits
            9.   Keg Registration
         CHAPTER IV: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
            1.   Reserved
            2.   Building Code
            3.   Electrical Code
            4.   Plumbing and Gasfitting Code
            5.   Moving Buildings
            6.   Dangerous and Unfit Structures
            7.   Awnings and Signs
            8.   Swimming Pools
         CHAPTER V: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
            1.   General Regulations and Licensing
            2.   Solicitors, Canvassers and Peddlers
            3.   Pawnbrokers and Secondhand dealers
         CHAPTER VI: ELECTIONS
            1.   City Elections
         CHAPTER VII: FIRE
            1.   Fire Department
            2.   Fire Prevention
            3.   Fireworks
            4.   Disaster Action Plan
            5.   Flammable Liquids
            6.   Liquefied Petroleum Gas
            7.   Explosives
         CHAPTER VIII: HEALTH AND WELFARE
            1.   Board of Health
            2.   Health Nuisances
               A.   Environmental Code
            3.   Junked Motor Vehicles on Private Property
            4.   Weeds
            5.   Minimum Housing code
            6.   Rodent Control
            7.   Insurance Proceeds Fund
            8.   Fair Housing
         CHAPTER IX: MUNICIPAL COURT
            1.   General Provisions
         CHAPTER X: POLICE
            1.   Police Department
            2.   Property in Police Custody
            3.   Police Fees
         CHAPTER XI: PUBLIC OFFENSES
            1.   Uniform Offense Code
            2.   Local Regulations
            3.   Parades
         CHAPTER XII: PUBLIC PROPERTY
            1.   City Parks
            2.   Walnut Hill Cemetery
            3.   City Swimming Pool
            4.   Park Mill Race and Other City Waters
            5.   Municipal Airport Board
            6.   Concealed Carry of Handguns
            7.   City Progress Board
            8.   Kingman Economic Development Advisory Committee
         CHAPTER XIII: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
            1.   Sidewalks
            2.   Streets
               A.   Use Restrictions for Certain Streets
            3.   Trees and Shrubs
            4.   Snow and Ice
            5.   Street Names and House Numbers
         CHAPTER XIV: TRAFFIC
            1.   Standard Traffic Ordinance
            2.   Local Traffic Regulations
            3.   Parking
            4.   Hazardous Materials
            5.   Enforcement - Appearance Bonds
         CHAPTER XV: UTILITIES
            1.   General Provisions
            2.   Water
            3.   Electricity
            4.   Sewers
            5.   Solid Waste
            6.   Water Conservation
            7.   Utility Connections; New Building Requirements
            8.   Surface Runoff or Groundwater Utility
            9.   Standards for Wireless Facilities in Public Rights-of-Way
         CHAPTER XVI: ZONING AND PLANNING
            1.   City Planning Commission/Board of Zoning Appeals
            2.   Zoning Regulations
            3.   Subdivision Regulations
            4.   Floodplain Management
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
         Table
            I.   Charter Ordinances
            II.   Franchises
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Governing Body and the Clerk of the City of Kingman is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the
Office of the Clerk.,
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance shall take effect upon one (1) publication in the
official city paper of Kingman, Kansas.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Governing Body of the City of Kingman on this 28th
day of April, 2022.
                                       THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE
                                       CITY OF KINGMAN, KANSAS
                                        /s/
                                       Adrian Harrel, Mayor
(Seal)
 
Attest:
/s/
Cindy Conrady, City Clerk
City Clerk
CHAPTER I: ADMINISTRATION
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   GOVERNING BODY
      
3.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
4.   PERSONNEL POLICY AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
      
5.   OATHS AND BONDS
      
6.   OPEN RECORDS
      
7.   INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS
      
8.   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-101   Code designated
   
1-102   Definitions
   
1-103   Existing ordinances
   
1-104   Effect of repeal
   
1-105   Catchlines of sections
   
1-106   Parenthetical and reference matter
   
1-107   Amendments; repeal
   
1-108   Ordinances
   
1-109   Same; subject and title; amendment
   
1-110   Same; publication
   
1-111   Same; ordinance book
   
1-112   Resolutions, motions
   
1-113   City records
   
1-114   Altering code
   
1-115   Scope of application
   
1-116   General penalty
   
1-117   Severability
   
1-118   Assessment of the costs to collect debts owed to the city
§ 1-101 CODE DESIGNATED.
   The chapters, articles and sections herein shall constitute and be
designated as “The Code of the City of Kingman, Kansas”, and may be so cited.
The code may also be cited as the “Kingman City Code”.
§ 1-102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Kingman, Kansas.
   CODE. The code of the City of Kingman, Kansas.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; and if the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
   COUNTY. The County of Kingman in the State of Kansas.
   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision appears requiring or
authorizing the head of a department or officer of the city to do some act or
perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department head or
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required
act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate
otherwise.
   ELECTRONIC MEDIA.
      (1)   Electronic storage media including memory devices in computers
(hard drives) and any removable/transportable digital memory medium, such as
magnetic tape or disk, optical disk or digital memory card; or
      (2)   Transmission media used to exchange information already in
electronic storage media.  TRANSMISSION MEDIA includes, for example, the
Internet (wide open), extranet (using Internet technology to link a business
with information accessible only to collaborating parties), leased lines, dial-
up lines, private networks and the physical movement of removable/transportable
electronic storage media. Certain transmissions, including paper, via
facsimile, and of voice, via telephone, are not considered to be transmissions
via ELECTRONIC MEDIA because the information being exchanged did not exist in
electronic form before the transmission.
   GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender include the feminine and
neuter.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Board of Commissioners of the city, or those persons
appointed to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor or the person designated by
the city as provided in this code.
   IN THE CITY. Includes all territory in which the city now has, or shall
hereafter acquire jurisdiction for the exercise of its police powers or other
regulatory powers.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the
plural include the singular.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an OATH, and in such cases the word “swear” is
equivalent to the word “affirm”.
   OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS AND THE LIKE. Officers, departments, boards,
commissions and employees referred to in this code shall mean officers,
departments, boards, commissions and employees of the city, unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include not only the owner of
the whole but any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or joint tenant of
the whole or a part of such building or land.
   PERSON. Includes a firm, partnership, association of persons, corporation,
organization or any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal and mixed property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments, and all rights
thereto and interest therein, equitable as well as legal.
   SHALL, MAY. SHALL is mandatory and MAY is permissive.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE, SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write, when
his or her name is written near such mark, and is witnessed by a person who
writes his or her own name as a witness.
   STATE. The State of Kansas.
   STREET. Includes public streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto and all other
public thoroughfares in the city.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any person
holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such
building or land, whether alone or with others.
   TENSES. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
   WRITING or WRITTEN. May include printing, engraving, lithography and any
other mode of representing words and letters, except those cases where the
written signature or the mark of any person is required by law.
   YEAR. A calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
(2010 Code, § 1-102) (Ord. 1892, passed - -)
§ 1-103 EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are in substance the
same as those of ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this
code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
§ 1-104 EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive an ordinance previously
repealed, nor shall such repeal affect any right that has accrued, any duty
imposed, any penalty incurred, or any proceeding commenced under or by virtue
of the ordinance repealed, except as shall be expressly stated therein.
§ 1-105 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the sections of this code printed in capital letters are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall
not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of any
section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any
section, including its catchline, is amended or reenacted.
§ 1-106 PARENTHETICAL AND REFERENCE MATTER.
   The matter in parenthesis at the ends of sections is only for information
purposes and is not a part of the code. Citations indicate only the source and
the text may or may not be changed by this code. This code is a new enactment
under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-3014 and 12-3015. Reference matter not in
parenthesis is only for information purposes and is not a part of this code.
§ 1-107 AMENDMENTS; REPEAL.
   Any portion of this code may be amended by specific reference to the section
number as follows: “Section _____ of the code of the City of Kingman is hereby
amended to read as follows: (the new provisions shall then be set out in full).
. .” A new section not heretofore existing in the code may be added as follows:
“The code of the City of Kingman is hereby amended by adding a section (or
article or chapter) which reads as follows: . . .(the new provisions shall be
set out in full). .” All sections, or articles, or chapters to be repealed
shall be repealed by specific reference as follows: “Section (or article or
chapter) __________ of the code of the City of Kingman is hereby repealed”.
§ 1-108 ORDINANCES.
   The governing body shall have the care, management and control of the city
and its finances, and shall pass all ordinances needed for the welfare of the
city. All ordinances shall be valid when a majority of all the members-elect of
the City Commission shall vote in favor. Where the number of favorable votes is
one less than required, the Mayor shall have power to cast the deciding vote in
favor of the ordinance.
(K.S.A. 12-3002)
§ 1-109 SAME; SUBJECT AND TITLE; AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall contain more than one subject, which shall be clearly
expressed in its title; and no section or sections of an ordinance shall be
amended unless the amending ordinance contains the entire section or sections
as amended and the section or sections amended shall be repealed.
§ 1-110 SAME; PUBLICATION.
   (a)   No ordinance, except those appropriating money, shall be in force
until published in the official city newspaper by the City Clerk. One
publication of any such ordinance shall be sufficient unless additional
publications are required by statute or ordinance. The publisher of the
newspaper shall prefix such published ordinance by a line in brackets stating
the month, day and year of such publication.
   (b)   In lieu of division (a) above, the city may opt to publish a summary
of an ordinance so long as:
      (1)   The publication is identified as a “summary” and contains notice
that the complete text of the ordinance may be obtained or viewed free of
charge at the office of the City Clerk;
      (2)   The City Attorney certifies the summary of the ordinance prior to
publication to ensure that the summary is legally accurate and sufficient; and
      (3)   The publication contains the city’s official website address where
a reproduction of the original ordinance is available for a minimum of one week
following the summary publication in the newspaper.
   (c)   If an ordinance is subject to petition pursuant to state law, then the
summary shall contain a statement that the ordinance is subject to petition.
(K.S.A. 12-3007)
§ 1-111 SAME; ORDINANCE BOOK.
   Following final passage and approval of each ordinance, the City Clerk shall
enter the same in the ordinance book of the city as provided by law. Each
ordinance shall have appended thereto the manner in which the ordinance was
passed, the date of passage, the page of the journal containing the record of
the final vote on its passage, the name of the newspaper in which published and
the date of publication.
(K.S.A. 12-3008)
§ 1-112 RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS.
   Except where a state statute or city ordinance specifically requires
otherwise, all resolutions and motions shall be passed if voted upon favorably
by a majority present at a meeting of the City Commission.
§ 1-113 CITY RECORDS.
   The City Clerk or any other officer or employee having custody of city
records and documents shall maintain such records and documents in accordance
with K.S.A. 12-120 to 12-121 inclusive, which is incorporated by reference
herein as if set out in full and as provided in the State Open Records Act and
the city policy regarding open public records.
(K.S.A. 12-120 to 12-121)
§ 1-114 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend
by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby. This restriction shall not apply to amendments or revisions of this
code authorized by ordinance duly adopted by the governing body.
§ 1-115 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   Any person convicted of doing any of the acts or things prohibited, made
unlawful, or the failing to do any of the things commanded to be done, as
specified and set forth in this code, shall be deemed in violation of this code
and punished in accordance with § 1-116. Each day any violation of this code
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
§ 1-116 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever any offense is declared by any provision of this code, absent a
specific or unique punishment prescribed, the offender shall be punished in
accordance with this section:
   (a)   A fine of not more than $1,000;
   (b)   Imprisonment in jail for not more than 179 days; or
   (c)   Both such fine and imprisonment not to exceed divisions (a) and (b)
above.
§ 1-117 SEVERABILITY.
   If for any reason any chapter, article, section, subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase of this code or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance, is declared to be unconstitutional or invalid or unenforceable,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
code.
§ 1-118 ASSESSMENT OF THE COSTS TO COLLECT DEBTS OWED TO THE CITY.
   Every citizen/debtor shall pay any and all charges related to the reasonable
costs of collection of any fine/fee/costs of services, as well as any costs/
assessments for clean-up of the property for a municipal violation that is the
issue herein. This specifically applies to, but is not limited to, charges for
water, electricity, property code violation fines, parking tickets, municipal
court fines, fees, court costs, interest accrued thereon, and any other debt
due and owing to the municipality. The costs of collection include, but are not
limited to, court costs, surcharges, attorney fees, and collection agency fee,
except that such costs of collection may not include both attorney fees and
collection agency fees.
(Ord. 2053, passed 8-22-2019)
ARTICLE 2: GOVERNING BODY
Section
   
1-201   Governing body
   
1-202   Establishment of Commission-Manager government
   
1-203   Composition and general powers of governing body
   
1-204   Same; powers generally
   
1-205   Same; meetings
   
1-206   Same; quorum
   
1-207   Annual organizational meeting
   
1-208   Powers of the Mayor
   
1-209   Prohibitions
   
1-210   Vacancies in governing body; how filled
   
1-211   Compensation
   
1-212   Expenses
   
1-213   Incorporating code of procedure for Kansas cities
   
1-214   Same; amendments
   
1-215   Same; deletions
   
1-216   Code of Ethics
   
1-217   Abandonment
   
1-218   Start date for newly-elected City Commissioner terms of office
§ 1-201 GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body shall consist of the Board of Commissioners to be elected
as set out in
Ch. I, Art. 6 of this code.
(2010 Code, § 1-201) (Ord. 1892, passed - - )
§ 1-202 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION-MANAGER GOVERNMENT.
   (a)   On August 6, 1996, the question was submitted to the qualified
electors of the city, whether or not the form of government of the city, should
be changed from a City Commission form of government to a Commission-Manager
form of government under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-1001 et seq. The qualified
electors of the city approved said question on August 6, 1996.
   (b)   The provisions of Charter Ord. 23 passed under the home rule powers of
the city, pursuant to Art. 12, § 5 of the Constitution of the state, provides
substitute and additional provisions for the Commission-Manager form of
government for the city.
   (c)   All ordinances, resolutions, policies, rules and regulations in force
at the time Charter Ord. 23 takes effect, which are not inconsistent with the
provisions of Charter Ord. 23, shall remain and be in force until altered,
modified or repealed by or under the authority of Charter Ord. 23.
   (d)   All charter ordinances previously adopted by the city, before the
enactment of Charter Ord. 23, with provisions inconsistent with Charter Ord.
23, are hereby repealed.
   (e)   If a court of competent jurisdiction should hold any section or part
of Charter Ord. 23 invalid, such holding shall not affect the remainder of said
charter ordinance, nor the context in which such section or part so held
invalid may appear, except to the extent that an entire section or part may be
inseparably connect in meaning and effect with that section or part.
(2010 Code, § 1-202) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - - )
§ 1-203 COMPOSITION AND GENERAL POWERS OF GOVERNING BODY.
   (a)   The governing body of the city shall be the City Commission that shall
consist of five Commission members.
   (b)   All powers of the city, shall be vested in the governing body, except
as the Constitution and statutes of the state and this code of ordinances may
otherwise provide.
   (c)   The governing body shall provide for the performance of all duties and
obligations imposed upon the city by law.
   (d)   The governing body shall adopt such codes, rules and regulations as
may be necessary for the establishment of proper authority and direction for
the administration of the affairs of the city.
   (e)   The governing body shall employ a City Manager as set forth herein.
   (f)   The governing body shall set priorities for budget preparation and
adopt the annual budget of the city.
   (g)   The governing body shall, by ordinance, fix the salaries of the
members of the governing body.
   (h)   It shall be the duty of the governing body to be the policy-making
body of the city; to pass resolutions, ordinances and contracts necessary for
the welfare of the city; to provide for such offices as shall be necessary to
carry out the provisions of this code of ordinances and to determine the
salaries for each.
(2010 Code, § 1-203) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - - )
§ 1-204 SAME; POWERS GENERALLY.
   (a)   All powers exercised by cities of the second class or which shall
hereafter be conferred upon them, shall be exercised by the governing body,
subject to such limitations as prescribed by law, and insofar as they do not
conflict with statutes relating to the Commissioner-Manager plan of government.
   (b)   The Mayor or Chairperson of a board is the presiding officer or
Chairperson of the meeting. As presiding officer, he or she is charged with
preserving order and decorum at the meeting. Preserving decorum shall require
every member to address the Chairperson and wait until he or she is recognized
before proceeding. Proper address for the presiding officer shall be Mr. or
Madam Mayor, or Mr. or Madam Chairperson.
(2010 Code, § 1-204) (Ord. 1892, passed - - )
§ 1-205 SAME; MEETINGS.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) below, the Board of Commissioners
of the city shall meet on each and every second and fourth Thursdays of each
month in a regular meeting in the City Hall at such times as shall be fixed by
said Board of Commissioners, and take under advisement and act upon such
business as may come before it.
   (b)   In the event Thanksgiving Day falls on a regular meeting scheduled for
the fourth Thursday of November, said meeting shall instead be held on the
Tuesday immediately preceding Thanksgiving Day at such time as fall be fixed by
the Board of Commissioners.
   (c)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or Chairperson of the
Board, on the written request of any three members of the City Commission,
specifying the object and purpose of such meeting, which request shall be read
at a meeting and entered at length on the journal.
   (d)   Regular or special meetings of the governing body may be adjourned for
the completion of its business at such subsequent time and place as the
governing body shall determine in its motion to adjourn.
(2010 Code, § 1-205) (Charter Ord. 18, passed - - ; Ord. 1892, passed - - ;
Ord. 2100, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 1-206 SAME; QUORUM.
   The majority of said Board shall consist of a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(2010 Code, § 1-206) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - - ; Ord. 1892, passed - - )
§ 1-207 ANNUAL ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   On the first regular meeting of April, the governing body shall:
   (a)   Elect from one of its members by majority vote a Mayor to serve until
the next regularly scheduled organizational meeting;
   (b)   Elect from one of its members by majority vote a Vice-Mayor who, in
the absence, disability or disqualification of the Mayor, shall become acting
Mayor. Such Commission member shall retain all voting rights and other
prerogatives as a Commission member while acting as Mayor;
   (c)   Conduct, in odd-numbered years, the organizational meeting at the
first, regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body after certification of
the election; and
   (d)   When there is a vacancy in the office of Mayor, the Vice-Mayor, upon
being qualified, shall become the Mayor to serve until the next regular
organizational meeting.
   (e)   The annual organizational meeting set forth in this section shall be
held on the first regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body in
December.
(2010 Code, § 1-207) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - - ; Ord. 2059, passed 10-24-
2019)
§ 1-208 POWERS OF THE MAYOR.
   The City Mayor shall:
   (a)   Be the titular head of the city and shall preside at all meetings of
the governing body;
   (b)   Sign all ordinances and resolutions passed by the governing body;
   (c)   Have the right to vote as a member of the governing body on all
questions that may arise, but he or she shall not have veto power;
   (d)   Sign all contracts authorized by the governing body before the city
shall be liable thereon;
   (e)   Represent the governing body at all official city functions and shall
be the official representative of the governing body at all meetings,
conferences and negotiations relating to policy matters involving other
governmental units and shall recommend governing body action relating thereto;
   (f)   Be the official representative of the governing body at all
conferences and meetings with citizens’ groups and organizations interested in
promoting the welfare and development of the city and shall recommend governing
body action relative thereto;
   (g)   Inform the governing body concerning questions of policy and may make
policy recommendations to the governing body; and
   (h)   Shall be empowered to call special meetings as provided for in §
1-205.
(2010 Code, § 1-208) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - - )
§ 1-209 PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Neither the governing body nor any of its individual members shall, in
any manner, direct, supervise or require the appointment, promotion, transfer,
assignment, demotion, discipline, laying off, suspension, discharge or removal
of any officers or employees whom the City Manager is empowered to appoint.
   (b)   Governing body members may express his or her view and fully and
freely discuss with the City Manager anything pertaining to appointment,
promotion, transfer, assignment, demotion, suspension, discharge and removal of
such appointive officers and employees whom the City Manager is empowered to
appoint.
   (c)   No member of the governing body shall directly interfere with the
conduct of any department, except at the express direction of the governing
body.
   (d)   The governing body and its individual members shall deal with
appointive officers and employees solely through the City Manager, but they may
request information necessary for work of the governing body.
(2010 Code, § 1-209) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-210 VACANCIES IN GOVERNING BODY; HOW FILLED.
   In case of a vacancy in the office of Commissioner occurring by resignation,
death or removal from office or from the city, the Mayor, by and with the
consent of a majority of the remaining Commissioners, shall appoint such
suitable elector of the city to fill the vacancy until the next election for
that office.
(2010 Code. § 1-210) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-211 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the governing body shall receive as compensation such amounts as
may be fixed by ordinance, however, a member of the governing body may submit
to the City Clerk a signed statement that declares the member does not desire
to receive any compensation authorized by this section. Upon receipt, no
compensation shall be paid to said member as set forth in this section until
such written statement is revoked by another signed statement from the member.
(Ord. 1982, passed 8-28-2014)
§ 1-212 EXPENSES.
   Each member of the governing body shall receive for his or her services and
as reimbursement for his or her expenses, compensation as follows:
   (a)   Mileage at the same rate as is established by law by the state for
state employees for each mile traveled by the shortest route upon the
performance of duties assigned by the Mayor and/or Commission; and/or
   (b)   Reimbursement for actual food and lodging expenses upon the
performance of duties assigned by the Mayor and/or Commission, provided, such
expenses shall be documented by proper receipts
§ 1-213 INCORPORATING CODE OF PROCEDURE FOR KANSAS CITIES.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of establishing a
code of procedure for the conduct of City Commission meetings, that certain
code known as the “Code of Procedure for Kansas Cities”, Edition of 2006,
prepared and published in book form by the League of Kansas Municipalities,
Topeka, Kansas, save and except such articles, sections, parts or portions as
are hereafter omitted, deleted, modified or changed. One copy of said Code of
Procedure for Kansas Cities shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as
Incorporated by the Code of the City of Kingman, Kansas”, with all sections or
portions thereof intended to be omitted or changed clearly marked to show any
such omission or change and to which shall be attached a copy of this section,
and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the
public at all reasonable hours.
§ 1-214 SAME; AMENDMENTS.
   (a)   Section 7 of the Code of Procedure for Kansas Cities, shall be amended
to read as follows: “Public Comment: if public comment is allowed during a
meeting, the citizen desiring to comment on matters of a general nature, not
specific to an agenda item, shall sign up in advance of the meeting and shall
provide his or her name and address for the purpose of putting both in the
minutes of the meeting. The Mayor may limit the time of the each citizen based
upon the number of people wishing to speak and the amount of time available for
the public comment portion of the meeting. The public is not guaranteed the
right to speak during a meeting except during public comment. The Mayor or
presiding officer shall be the only person to recognize speakers”.
   (b)   (1)   Section 12 shall be amended to read as follows: “Order of
Business: at the hour appointed for the meeting the Mayor shall call the
meeting to order. The Vice-Mayor shall chair the meeting in the absence of the
Mayor.
      (2)   Upon having a quorum present, the governing body shall proceed to
business which shall be conducted in the following order:
         (A)   Call to order;
         (B)   Kingman Area Ministries, Inc.;
         (C)   Approval of agenda;
         (D)   Approval of minutes;
         (E)   Approval of bills payable;
         (F)   Approval of appointments or license;
         (G)   Notice and communications;
         (H)   Engineers report;
         (I)   Public comment;
         (J)   Ordinances and resolutions;
         (K)   New business;
         (L)   Unfinished business;
         (M)   Administrative report;
         (N)   Building permits approved by inspector; and
         (O)   Commissioner comments”.
   (c)   Section 36 shall be amended to read as follows: “Same; Transaction of
City Business; Majority Requirement: no transaction of any city business shall
be valid unless a majority of the members-elect of the Commission vote in favor
thereof”.
   (d)   Section 38 shall be amended to read as follows: “Voting; Charter
Ordinance; Commission City: the adoption of a charter ordinance requires four
affirmative votes of the Commission. The Mayor is considered a member of the
governing body”.   
(2010 Code, § 1-214) (Ord. 1892, passed - -; Ord. 1895, passed - -)
§ 1-215 SAME; DELETIONS.
    Sections 13, 31, 32, 33, 34, 37, 39 and 40 of the Code of Procedure for
Kansas Cities, is hereby declared deleted.
(2010 Code, § 1-215) (Ord. 1892, passed - -; Ord. 1895, passed - -)
§ 1-216 CODE OF ETHICS.
   (a)   Declaration of policy. The proper operation of our government requires
that public officials and employees be independent, impartial and responsible
to the people; that governmental decisions and policy be made in the proper
channels; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its
government. In recognition of those goals, there is hereby established a Code
of Ethics for all officials and employees, whether elected or appointed, paid
or unpaid. The purpose of this Code is to establish ethical standards by
setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the best
interests of the city.
   (b)   Responsibilities of public office. Public officials and employees are
agents of public purpose and hold office for the benefit of the public. They
are bound to uphold the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of this state and to carry out impartially the laws of the nation, state and
city and thus to foster respect for all government. They are bound to observe
in their official acts the highest standards of morality and to discharge
faithfully the duties of their office regardless of personal considerations,
recognizing that the long-term public interest must be their primary concern.
Their conduct in both their official and private affairs should be above
reproach.
   (c)   Dedicated service.
      (1)   All officials and employees of the city should be responsive to the
political objectives expressed by the electorate and the programs developed to
attain those objectives. Appointive officials and employees should adhere to
the rule of work and performance established as the standard for their
positions by the appropriate authority.
      (2)   Officials and employees should not exceed their authority or breach
the law or ask others to do so, and they should work in full cooperation with
other public officials and employees unless prohibited from so doing by law or
by officially recognized confidentiality of their work.
   (d)   Fair and equal treatment.
      (1)   Interest in appointments. Canvassing of members of the City
Commission, directly or indirectly, in order to obtain preferential
consideration in connection with any appointment to the municipal service shall
disqualify the candidate for appointment except with reference to positions
filled by appointment by the City Commission.
      (2)   Use of public property. No official or employee shall request or
permit the use of city- owned vehicles, equipment, materials or property for
personal convenience or profit, except when such services are available to the
public generally or are provided as city policy for the use of such official or
employee in the conduct of official business.
      (3)   Obligations to citizens. No official or employee shall grant any
special consideration, treatment or advantage to any citizen beyond that which
is available to every other citizen.
   (e)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   Financial or personal interests. No elected or appointive city
official or employee, whether paid or unpaid, shall engage in any business or
transaction or shall have a financial or other personal interest, direct or
indirect, which is incompatible with the proper discharge of his or her duties
in the public interest or would tend to impair his or her independence of
judgment or action in the performance of his or her official duties. Personal,
as distinguished from financial interests, includes an interest arising from
blood or marriage relationships or close business or political association.
      (2)   Specific conflicts of interests. Specific conflicts of interest are
enumerated below for the guidance of officials and employees.
         (A)   Incompatible employment. No elected or appointive city official
or employee shall engage in or accept private employment or render services for
private interests when such employment or service is incompatible with the
proper discharge of his or her official duties or would tend to impair his or
her independence of judgment or action in the performance of his or her
official duties.
         (B)   Disclosure of confidential information. No elected or appointive
city official or employee shall, without proper legal authorization, disclose
confidential information concerning the property, government or affairs of the
city. Nor shall he or she use such information to advance the financial or
other private interest of himself, herself or others.
      (3)   Gifts and favors. No elected or appointive city official or
employee shall accept any valuable gift, whether in the form of service, loan,
thing or promise, from any person, firm or corporation which to his or her
knowledge is interested directly or indirectly in any manner whatsoever in
business dealings with the city; nor shall any such official or employee accept
any gift, favor or thing of value that may tend to influence him or her in the
discharge of his or her duties or grant in the discharge of his or her duties
any improper favor, service or thing of value. The prohibition against gifts or
favors shall not apply to an occasional non-pecuniary gift, of only nominal
value, an award publicly presented in recognition of public service, or any
gift which would have been offered or given to him or her if not an official or
employee.
      (4)   Representing private interest before city agencies or courts. No
elected or appointive city official or employee whose salary is paid in whole
or in part by the city shall appear in behalf of private interest before any
agency of this city. He or she shall not represent private interests in any
action or proceeding against the interest of the city in any litigation to
which the city is a party.
§ 1-217 ABANDONMENT.
   (a)   A proposition to abandon the Commission-Manager form of government and
accept either the Mayor and Commissioner form of government law or the Mayor
and Council form of government law must first be submitted to a vote of
qualified electors of the city, in the manner proscribed by K.S.A. 12-184.
   (b)   Whenever the proposition to abandon the Commissioner-Manager form of
government shall have been defeated at any election, another election to vote
on such proposition shall not be called until after the expiration of four
years from such previous election.
   (c)   The heading of any petition for a special election to abandon the
Commission-Manager form of government, and any ballot for a special election
called on the basis of said petition, must include the specific new government
form to be adopted in its place.
   (d)   Any petition for the submission of a proposition hereunder shall be
headed: “Petition for a Special Election of the city, to vote on the
abandonment of the Commission-Manager form of government and adopt the (Mayor
and Commissioner) (Mayor and Council) form of government”.
   (e)   The form of the ballots to be used at said election on the Commission-
Manager form of government shall be as follows: “Shall the city abandon the
Commission-Manager form of government and become a city operating under the
general laws governing (Mayor and Commissioner) (Mayor and Council) form of
government”.
   (f)   If a majority of the votes cast upon said proposition shall be in
favor of abandoning the Commission-Manager form of government, then at the next
regular city election, a new governing body shall be elected in conformance
with the proposition and, upon its qualification; the rights, powers and duties
of the City Manager and previous City Commission shall cease and terminate.
(2010 Code, § 1-217) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-218 START DATE FOR NEWLY-ELECTED CITY COMMISSIONER TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of newly-elected commission members shall commence on the
first regularly scheduled meeting of December following certification of the
November election.
(Ord. 2058, passed 10-24-2019)
ARTICLE 3: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
1-301   Appointment
   
1-302   Appoint City Manager
   
1-303   Qualifications; requirements; compensation
   
1-304   Powers and duties
   
1-305   Acting City Manager
   
1-306   Creation of Departments
   
1-307   Same; eligibility of office
   
1-308   Appointment
   
1-309   Same; removal and vacancies
   
1-310   Acting City Engineer designated
   
1-311   City Clerk
   
1-312   Same; seal; oaths
   
1-313   Collection and record-keeping of debts
   
1-314   Same; other duties
   
1-315   City Treasurer; record-keeping and inspection
   
1-316   Same; duties; under “cash basis” law
   
1-317   Emergency medical services; duties of Director and assistants
   
1-318   Superintendent of Municipal Power and Light; Duties of Superintendent
and assistants
   
1-319   Superintendent of Public Works; duties of Superintendent and assistants
   
1-320   City Attorney; office; duties
   
1-321   City Prosecutor; office; duties
   
1-322   Appointment or employment in more than one position
   
1-323   Conflict of interest
   
1-324   Appointment of city attorney by governing body
§ 1-301 APPOINTMENT.
   All officers elected or appointed shall be qualified electors of said city,
except that the city may appoint nonresidents as City Attorney, Municipal Judge
and as law enforcement officers when deemed necessary, including the
appointment of nonresidents who also serve as City Attorney, Municipal Judge or
law enforcement officers of another municipality or public agency; provided,
that nothing herein shall authorize the appointment of nonresidents of this
state. The City Attorney shall be qualified elector of the county in which said
city is located or of an adjoining county. The removal from such city of any
officer required to be a qualified elector shall occasion a vacancy in such
office. The Clerk shall enter every appointment to office, and the date
thereof, on the journal of proceedings. The Commission may require all city
officers, elected or appointed, to take and subscribe an oath and give bonds
and security for the faithful performance of its duties.
(2010 Code, § 1-301) (Charter Ord. 11, passed - -)
§ 1-302 APPOINT CITY MANAGER.
   The governing body shall appoint a City Manager as provided in this article,
and shall be responsible for his or her efficient administration of the city’s
business. The City Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the governing body.
(2010 Code, § 1-302) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-303 QUALIFICATIONS; REQUIREMENTS; COMPENSATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall establish the compensation of the City
Manager.
   (b)   The City Manager shall be appointed primarily upon the basis of
executive, managerial and administrative qualifications as demonstrated by a
verified record of training and experience in public administration and shall
have such other qualifications as the governing body shall determine to be
relevant.
   (c)   The governing body shall conduct an annual job performance review of
the City Manager.
   (d)   The City Manager need not be a resident of the city at the time of
appointment, but he or she must reside in the city while in office.
   (e)   The terms and conditions of employment of the City Manager shall be
reduced to a written contract and approved by the governing body. The governing
body shall retain the power to remove the City Manager from office upon
reasonable notice at its pleasure as set forth in the contract between the City
Manager and the governing body.
(2010 Code, § 1-303) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-304 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   The City Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city
and shall be responsible to the governing body for administration of the city’s
affairs placed in his or her charge by this code of ordinances.
   (b)   The City Manager shall:
      (1)   Provide assistance and advice to the governing body as needed;
      (2)   After appropriate consultation with the governing body, prepare and
submit a recommended annual budget to the governing body for final adoption;
      (3)   Be responsible for administration of the city’s budget after the
governing body adopts it;
      (4)   Make recommendations to the governing body on all matters
concerning the welfare of the city;
      (5)   Ensure that all ordinances, resolutions, codes, regulations, rules,
policies, directions and acts of the governing body are faithfully enforced,
administered and executed;
      (6)   Appoint, promote, transfer, assign, demote, discipline, lay off,
suspend, discharge or remove appointed officers and employees of the city. The
City Manager may authorize any appointive officer who is subject to his or her
direction and supervision to exercise these powers with respect to subordinates
of that officer;
      (7)   Direct and supervise the administration of all offices and all
appointive officers and employees of the city;
      (8)   Attend all governing body meetings, unless excused by the governing
body, and have the right to take part in discussions, but the City Manager
shall not have the right to vote;
      (9)   Assist the governing body in the preparation of meeting agendas,
ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations or policies, as well as other such
matters as may be requested by the governing body;
      (10)   Submit to the governing body, and make available to the public,
periodic and annual reports on the financial and administrative affairs of the
city;
      (11)   Keep the governing body advised on the financial conditions and
needs of the city;
      (12)   Annually prepare and submit to the governing body recommendations
for a capital development and financing program for the city;
      (13)   Make such other reports as the governing body may require
concerning the operations of the city; and
      (14)   Have such other powers and duties consistent with this code of
ordinances as the governing body may prescribe.
(2010 Code, § 1-304) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-305 ACTING CITY MANAGER.
   By written notice filed with the governing body, the City Manager may
designate, subject to approval of the governing body, a qualified appointive
administrative officer to exercise the powers and perform the duties of City
Manager during any temporary absence or disability of the City Manager.
(2010 Code, § 1-305) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-306 CREATION OF DEPARTMENTS.
   Administrative departments shall be created by the governing body as the
public business may demand.
(2010 Code, § 1-306) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-307 SAME; ELIGIBILITY OF OFFICE.
   (a)   No person shall be eligible to any appointive office unless he or she
shall be a bona fide resident of the city prior to his or her appointment,
except as may be otherwise provided by statute or §
1-301.
   (b)   Nonresident expert employees may be hired by the City Manager when he
or she deems it necessary.
      (1)   Residency provisions of this section shall not apply to city
employees or officers that are employed at the time Charter Ord. 23 is passed.
      (2)   Residency provisions shall not at any time apply to volunteer
firefighters and emergency medical service employees.
(2010 Code, § 1-307) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-308 APPOINTMENT.
   (a)   All appointments shall be made by the City Manager based upon
qualification, competence and merit. All department heads shall be ready to
furnish the City Manager with such information as he or she may require.
   (b)   The offices to be filled are as follows:
      (1)   City Clerk;
      (2)   City Treasurer;
      (3)   City Attorney;
      (4)   Municipal Judge;
      (5)   Fire Chief;
      (6)   Superintendent of Municipal Power and Light;
      (7)   Chief of Police;
      (8)   Superintendent of Public Works;
      (9)   Health Officer; and
      (10)   Any other such officers and assistants as deemed necessary by the
governing body for the best interests of the city.
(2010 Code, § 1-308) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-309 SAME; REMOVAL AND VACANCIES.
   (a)   The City Manager shall have the power to remove for cause any and all
of the officials named in §
1-308.
   (b)   The governing body may, at any time, deemed necessary or expedient
discontinue any office, except those specifically provided for by statute.
   (c)   In case of the disability or vacancy occurring by death, resignation
or removal by the City Manager of any city officer, the City Manager shall
appoint some suitable person to fill the unexpired term.
   (d)   All resignations of appointive officers shall be made in writing to
the City Manager for his or her action thereupon.
   (e)   An officer moving his or her residence from the territorial limits of
the city shall automatically vacate his or her office, except as provided in §
1-307.
(2010 Code, § 1-309) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-310 ACTING CITY ENGINEER DESIGNATED.
   The City Manager may retain a licensed professional engineer to act in the
capacity of City Engineer for specifically defined duties and provide for
reasonable compensation for the services rendered.
(2010 Code, § 1-310) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-311 CITY CLERK.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Be custodian of all city records, books, files, papers, documents and
other personal effects belonging to the city and not properly pertaining to any
other office;
   (b)   Carry on all official correspondence of the city;
   (c)   Attend and keep a record of the proceedings of all regular and special
meetings of the governing body;
   (d)   Enter every appointment of office and the date thereof in the journal;
   (e)   Enter or place each ordinance of the city in the ordinance books after
its passage; and
   (f)   Publish all ordinances, except those appropriating money, and such
resolutions, notices and proclamations as may be required by law or ordinance.
§ 1-312 SAME; SEAL; OATHS.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Have custody of the corporate seal of the city and shall affix the
same to the official copy of all ordinances, contracts and other documents
required to be authenticated;
   (b)   Have power to administer oaths for all purposes pertaining to the
business and affairs of the city; and
   (c)   Keep suitable files of all such oaths required to be deposited in his
or her office.
§ 1-313 COLLECTION AND RECORD-KEEPING OF DEBTS.
   The City Clerk shall collect all money due the city as directed by the City
Manager or applicable statutes, including water, light and power bills. The
City Clerk shall keep a record of the various funds into which the money is
paid and shall keep a record of all indebtedness created by the governing body,
in such record there shall be shown the date of the making of the contract or
the creation of the debt, the amount of the contract or debt, the time payable
and the particular fund from which the payment is to be made. The City Clerk
shall, upon request of the City Manager, any member of the governing body, any
taxpayer of the city, or any person desiring to enter into any contract with
the city or who has any claim against the city, exhibit such records to such
person.
(2010 Code, § 1-313) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-314 SAME; OTHER DUTIES.
   The City Clerk shall perform all such other duties as required by statute or
the City Manager.
(2010 Code, § 1-314) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-315 CITY TREASURER; RECORD-KEEPING AND INSPECTION.
   The City Treasurer shall keep the city’s books and accounts in a regular
system as required by statute and the City Manager. Such books and accounts
shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by the governing body, City
Manager, City Attorney or City Clerk.
(2010 Code, § 1-315) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-316 SAME; DUTIES; UNDER “CASH BASIS” LAW.
   The City Treasurer shall not knowingly pay any order, warrant, check or
other evidence of indebtedness out of the Treasury of the city in excess of the
amount of funds actually on hand in the Treasury at the time for such purpose,
unless otherwise provided in the Cash Basis Act. The City Treasurer shall keep
a record of the amount of money in each particular fund and each order,
warrant, check or other evidence of indebtedness drawn on the Treasury and
paid, giving the date of payment. The City Treasurer shall, upon request of any
member of the governing body, the City Manager, any taxpayer of the city, or
any person desiring to contract with the city or who has a claim against the
city, exhibit such record to such person or give such person a statement in
writing, showing the balances on hand in each fund of the city.
(2010 Code, § 1-316) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-317 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES; DUTIES OF DIRECTOR AND ASSISTANTS.
   (a)   Under the direction of the City Manager, the Director of Emergency
Medical Services shall have general supervision of the emergency medical
services department and direct supervision of all assistants under him or her.
   (b)   Assistants shall perform such duties as the Director or the City
Manager may direct.
   (c)   The Director of Emergency Medical Services shall supervise and
operate, under the ordinances of the city and direction of the City Manager,
all emergency medical equipment and emergency medical vehicles of the city.
(2010 Code, § 1-317) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-318 SUPERINTENDENT OF MUNICIPAL POWER AND LIGHT; DUTIES OF SUPERINTENDENT
AND ASSISTANTS.
   (a)   Under the direction of the City Manager, the Superintendent of
Municipal Power and Light shall have general supervision of the electric power
and light system and direct supervision of all assistants under him or her.
   (b)   Assistants shall perform such duties as the Superintendent or the City
Manager may direct.
(2010 Code, § 1-318) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-319 SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS; DUTIES OF SUPERINTENDENT AND
ASSISTANTS.
   (a)   Under the direction of the City Manager, the Superintendent of Public
Works shall have general supervision of the water works system, sanitary sewer
system and the sewage treatment and disposal plant as well as the streets,
parks and cemetery operations of the city.
   (b)   Under the direction of the City Manager, the Superintendent of Public
Works shall have direct supervision of all assistants under him or her.
   (c)   Assistants shall perform such duties as the Superintendent or the City
Manager may direct.
(2010 Code, § 1-319) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 1-320 CITY ATTORNEY; OFFICE; DUTIES.
   (a)   There is hereby established the office of City Attorney. No person
shall be eligible for the office of City Attorney who is not an attorney at law
admitted to practice in the Supreme Court of the state. The City Attorney shall
be charged with the general direction and supervision of the legal affairs of
the city.
   (b)   The City Attorney shall:
      (1)   Attend meetings of the City Commission when so directed to attend
by the City Commission;
      (2)   Advise the Mayor and City Commission and all officers of the city
upon such legal questions affecting the city and its offices as may be
submitted to him or her;
      (3)   When requested by the City Commission, give opinions in writing
upon any such questions;
      (4)   Draft such ordinances, contracts, leases, easements, conveyances
and other instruments in writing as may be submitted to him or her in the
regular transaction of affairs of the city;
      (5)   Approve all ordinances of the city as to form and legality;
      (6)   Attend Planning Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals meetings
when so directed by the Boards;
      (7)   Appear and prosecute all violations of city ordinances in Municipal
Court when his or her services shall be required; and
      (8)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing
body and the state statutes.
§ 1-321 CITY PROSECUTOR; OFFICE; DUTIES.
   (a)   (1)   There is hereby established the Office of City Prosecutor. No
person shall be eligible for the Office of City Prosecutor who is not an
attorney at law admitted to practice law in the state.
      (2)   The City Prosecutor shall:
         (A)   Attend meetings of the governing body when so directed to attend
by the Mayor or City Attorney;
         (B)   Advise the City Commission and all officers of the city upon
legal questions affecting the city and its officers as may be submitted to him
or her;
         (C)   Draft such ordinances and other instruments in writing as may be
submitted to him or her in the regular transactions of the affairs of the city;
         (D)   Appear and prosecute all violations of city ordinances in
Municipal Court; and
         (E)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing
body and the state statutes.
   (b)   The governing body may appoint a City Prosecutor in accordance with §
1-301. In the event that there is no City Prosecutor, the City Attorney shall
serve in such capacity
§ 1-322 APPOINTMENT OR EMPLOYMENT IN MORE THAN ONE POSITION.
   The same person may be appointed to more than one appointive office, or
employed in more than one department, except that the same person shall not be
appointed to incompatible offices. Salaries or wages of such persons shall be
prorated between the proper funds of the several offices or departments.
§ 1-323 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   All city officers and employees shall comply with the requirements of K.S.A.
75-4301a et seq., concerning governmental ethics and refrain from making or
participating in the making of a contract when prohibited by state law.
§ 1-324 APPOINTMENT OF CITY ATTORNEY BY GOVERNING BODY; WHEN.
   In the event the City Manager is professionally affiliated with the law firm
of the City Attorney or a prospective City Attorney, the appointment of the
City Attorney shall be made by the governing body. In this instance, the
governing body shall also determine compensation for the City Attorney.
(Ord. 2033, passed 12-28-2017)
ARTICLE 4: PERSONNEL POLICY AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Section
   
1-401   Personnel policies and guidelines
§ 1-401 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND GUIDELINES.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of establishing
employee personnel rules and regulations the document entitled “Uniform
Personnel Policies and Guidelines for the City of Kingman”. One copy of said
document shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as adopted by the Code of
the City of Kingman” and which there shall be attached a copy of this section.
Said official copy shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall be open to
inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours. All departments
of the city shall be supplied with copies of such rules and regulations as may
be deemed necessary.
ARTICLE 5: OATHS AND BONDS
Section
   
1-501   Oath; affirmation
   
1-502   Oaths filed
   
1-503   Bonds required
   
1-504   Same; premiums
   
1-505   Condition of bonds
   
1-506   Approval of bonds
§ 1-501 OATH; AFFIRMATION.
   All officers and employees of the city, whether elected or appointed, either
under the laws of the state or ordinances of the city, shall before entering
upon the duties of their respective offices, take and subscribe an oath or
affirmation as follows.
   (a)   Oath. “I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will
support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State
of Kansas and faithfully discharge the duties of __________ (here enter name of
office or position). So help me God.”
   (b)   Affirmation. “I do solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of the State of
Kansas and faithfully discharge the duties of ___________ (enter name of office
or position). This I do under the pains and penalties of perjury.”
(K.S.A. 54-104, 54-106, 75-4308)
§ 1-502 OATHS FILED.
   All officers and employees required to take and subscribe or sign an oath or
affirmation shall be supplied the forms for the purpose at the expense of the
city, and upon taking and subscribing or signing any such oath or affirmation,
the same shall be filed by the City Clerk.
§ 1-503 BONDS REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   The following city officers shall each, before entering upon the
duties of his or her office, give a good and sufficient corporate surety bond
to the city.
      (2)   The bond shall be in the following amount, to wit:
         (A)   City Treasurer: $200,000;
         (B)   City Clerk: $200,000;
         (C)   Clerk of Municipal Court: $10,000; and
         (D)   Judge of Municipal Court: $1,000.
   (b)   The governing body may provide for the coverage by blanket bond of
such officers and employees and in such amounts as the governing body may, by
resolution, designate.
§ 1-504 SAME; PREMIUMS.
   All premiums on surety bonds shall be paid by the city.
(K.S.A. 78-111)
§ 1-505 CONDITION OF BONDS.
   Each of the bonds required in §
1-503 shall be conditioned for the faithful performance of duty and all acts
required by the laws of the state and of the city, and for the application and
payment over to the proper persons of all monies or property coming into the
hands of each such officer by virtue of his or her office.
§ 1-506 APPROVAL OF BONDS.
   All bonds given to the city shall be approved as to their form by the City
Attorney and as to surety and sufficiency by the governing body, unless
otherwise provided by the laws of the state.
ARTICLE 6: OPEN RECORDS
Section
   
1-601   Policy
   
1-602   Record custodians
   
1-603   Local Freedom of Information Officers
   
1-604   Public request for access
   
1-605   Facilities for public inspection
   
1-606   Procedures for inspection
   
1-607   Appointment of official custodians
   
1-608   Appointment of Local Freedom of Information Officer
   
1-609   Designation of additional record custodians
   
1-610   Requests to be directed to custodians
   
1-611   Fee administration
   
1-612   Inspection fee
   
1-613   Copying fee
   
1-614   Prepayment of fees
   
1-615   Payment
§ 1-601 POLICY.
   (a)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that all public
records which are made, maintained or kept by or are in the possession of the
city, its officers and employees, shall be open for public inspection as
provided by, and subject to the restrictions imposed by, the State Open Records
Act.
   (b)   Any person, upon request, shall have access to such open public
records for the purpose of inspecting, abstracting or copying such records
while they are in the possession, custody and control of the appointed or
designated record custodian thereof, or his or her designated representative.
§ 1-602 RECORD CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   All city officers and employees appointed or designated as record
custodians under this article shall: protect public records from damage and
disorganization; prevent excessive disruption of the essential functions of the
city; provide assistance and information upon request; ensure efficient and
timely action and response to all applications for inspection of public
records; and shall carry out the procedures adopted by this city for inspecting
and copying open public records.
   (b)   The official custodian shall prominently display or distribute or
otherwise make available to the public a brochure in the form prescribed by the
Local Freedom of Information Officer that contains basic information about the
rights of a requester, the responsibilities of a public agency and the
procedures for inspecting or obtaining a copy of public records under the State
Open Records Act. The official custodian shall display or distribute or
otherwise make available to the public the brochure at one or more places in
the administrative offices of the city where it is available to members of the
public who request public information in person.
§ 1-603 LOCAL FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICERS.
   The Local Freedom of Information Officer shall:
   (a)   Prepare and provide educational materials and information concerning
the State Open Records Act;
   (b)   Be available to assist the city and members of the general public to
resolve disputes relating the State Open Records Act;
   (c)   Respond to inquiries relating to the State Open Records Act; and
   (d)   Establish the requirements for the content, size, shape and other
physical characteristics of a brochure required to be displayed or distributed
or otherwise made available to the public under the State Open Records Act. In
establishing such requirements for the content of the brochure, the Local
Freedom of Information Officer shall include plainly written basic information
about the rights of a requester, the responsibilities of the city and the
procedures for inspecting and obtaining a copy of public records under the Act.
§ 1-604 PUBLIC REQUEST FOR ACCESS.
   All city offices keeping and maintaining open public records shall establish
office hours during which any person may make a request for access to an open
public record. Such hours shall be no fewer than the hours each business day
the office is regularly open to the public. For any city office not open Monday
through Friday, hours shall be established by the record custodian for each
such day at which time any person may request access to an open public record.
§ 1-605 FACILITIES FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   All city offices keeping and maintaining open public records shall provide
suitable facilities to be used by any person desiring to inspect and/or copy an
open public record. The office of the City Clerk, being the principal record-
keeper of the city, shall be used as the principal office for providing access
to and providing copies of open records to the maximum extent practicable.
Requesters of records shall be referred to the office of the City Clerk except
when the requested records are not in that office and are available in another
city office.
§ 1-606 PROCEDURES FOR INSPECTION.
   Any person requesting access to an open public record for purposes of
inspecting or copying such record, or obtaining a copy thereof, shall abide by
the procedures adopted by the governing body for record inspection and copying,
including those procedures established by record custodians as authorized by
the governing body. Such procedures shall be posted in each city office keeping
and maintaining open public records.
§ 1-607 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICIAL CUSTODIANS.
   The following city officers are hereby appointed as official custodians for
purposes of the State Open Records Act and are hereby charged with
responsibility for compliance with that Act with respect to the hereinafter
listed public records:
   (a)   City Clerk. All public records kept and maintained in the City Clerk’s
office and all other public records not provided for elsewhere in this section;
   (b)   City Treasurer. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Treasurer’s office;
   (c)   Chief of Police. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Police Department;
   (d)   Fire Chief. All public records not on file in the office of the City
Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Fire Department;
   (e)   City Attorney. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Attorney’s office; and
   (f)   Clerk of the Municipal Court. All public records not on file in the
office of the City Clerk and kept and maintained in the Municipal Court.
§ 1-608 APPOINTMENT OF LOCAL FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICER.
   The person designated by the city is hereby appointed as the Local Freedom
of Information Officer and charged with all of the duties as set forth in §
1-603.
§ 1-609 DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL RECORD CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   Each of the official custodians appointed in §
1-607 is hereby authorized to designate any subordinate officers or employees
to serve as record custodian. Such record custodians shall have such duties and
powers as are set out in the State Open Records Act.
   (b)   Whenever an official custodian shall appoint another person as a
record custodian he or she shall notify the City Clerk of such designation and
the City Clerk shall maintain a register of all such designations.
§ 1-610 REQUESTS TO BE DIRECTED TO CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   All members of the public, in seeking access to, or copies of, a
public record in accordance with the provisions of the State Open Records Act,
shall address their requests to the custodian charged with responsibility for
the maintenance of the record sought to be inspected or copied.
   (b)   Whenever any city officer or employee appointed or designated as a
custodian under this article is presented with a request for access to, or copy
of, a public record which record the custodian does not have in his or her
possession and for which he or she has not been given responsibility to keep
and maintain, the custodian shall so advise the person requesting the record.
Further, the person making the request shall be informed as to which custodian
the request should be addressed to, if such is known by the custodian receiving
the request.
§ 1-611 FEE ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to provide the Clerk’s office, and the
office of each record custodian, with sufficient cash to enable the making of
change for record fee purposes. Each custodian shall transmit all record fee
monies collected to the City Treasurer not less than monthly. Each custodian
shall maintain duplicates of all records and copy request forms, completed as
to the amount of fee charged and collected, which amounts shall be periodically
audited by the Clerk-Finance Officer and Treasurer of the city.
§ 1-612 INSPECTION FEE.
   (a)   Where a request has been made for inspection of any open public record
which is readily available to the record custodian, there shall be no
inspection fee charged to the requester.
   (b)   In all cases not covered by division (a) above, a record inspection
fee shall be charged, at the rate, as set by the governing body, per hour per
employee engaged in the record search. A minimum charge, as set by the
governing body, shall be charged for each such request.
§ 1-613 COPYING FEE.
   (a)   A fee, as set by the governing body, shall be charged for photocopying
public records, such fee to cover the cost of labor, materials and equipment.
   (b)   For copying any public records which cannot be reproduced by the
city’s photocopying equipment, the requester shall be charged the actual cost
to the city, including staff time, in reproducing such records.
§ 1-614 PREPAYMENT OF FEES.
   (a)   A record custodian may demand prepayment of the fees established by
this article whenever he or she believes this to be in the best interest of the
city. The prepayment amount shall be an estimate of the inspection and/or
copying charges accrued in fulfilling the record request. Any overage or
underage in the prepayment shall be settled prior to inspection of the
requested record or delivery of the requested copies.
   (b)   Prepayment of inspection and/or copying fees shall be required
whenever, in the best estimate of the record custodian, such fees are estimated
to exceed a fee, as set by the governing body.
   (c)   Where prepayment has been demanded by the record custodian, no record
shall be made available to the requester until such prepayment has been made.
§ 1-615 PAYMENT.
   All fees charged under this article shall be paid to the custodian of the
records inspected and/or copied unless the requester has established an
account, for purposes of billing and payment, with the city.
ARTICLE 7: INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS
Section
   
1-701   Purpose and goals
   
1-702   Active funds; designation of depositories; eligible depositories
   
1-703   Definitions
   
1-704   Investment of idle funds
   
1-705   Procedures and restrictions
   
1-706   Custody and safekeeping
   
1-707   Sale or transfer
   
1-708   Interest on time deposits
§ 1-701 PURPOSE AND GOALS.
   (a)   It is the purpose of this statement to set forth the public policies
of the city relating to the investment of public monies, and establish
procedural requirements as to investment management practice.
   (b)   The objective of the investment policy and program of the city shall
be as follows.
      (1)   The safeguarding of all public monies shall be of the highest
priority. Public money shall not be invested or managed in any matter which
would jeopardize the safety of the principal.
      (2)   Consistent with the requirement of safety, the objective of the
investment program shall be to aggressively manage and invest all public monies
to maximize net earnings, consistent with the public responsibility to secure
maximum, safe investment return possible from monies assigned to its
stewardship, to relieve demands on the property tax, and to otherwise reduce
the cost of public services.
§ 1-702 ACTIVE FUNDS; DESIGNATION OF DEPOSITORIES; ELIGIBLE DEPOSITORIES.
   (a)   The governing body shall designate the banks, savings and loan
associations and savings banks which shall serve as depositories of its funds.
The Clerk, Treasurer or other city officer or employee having the custody of
city funds shall deposit such funds only at the designated banks, savings and
loan associations and savings banks. Only banks, savings and loan associations
and savings banks that have main or branch offices in the county shall be
designated as official depositories. No such bank, savings bank or savings and
loan association shall be designated as a depository until the city is assured
that it can obtain satisfactory security for its deposits.
   (b)   The Clerk, Treasurer or other city officer or employee depositing
public funds shall deposit all such public funds coming into such person’s
possession in his, her or their name and official title as such officer. If the
governing body fails to designate an official depository or depositories, the
officer thereof having custody of city funds shall deposit such funds with one
or more banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks which have main
or branch offices in the county if satisfactory security can be obtained
therefor and if not then elsewhere. In such event, the officer or employee
shall serve notice in writing on the governing body showing the names and
locations of such banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks where
such funds are deposited, and upon so doing, the officer or employee having
custody of such funds shall not be liable for the loss of any portion thereof
except for official misconduct or for the misappropriation of such funds by the
officer or employee.
   (c)   If eligible banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks
under divisions (a) or (b) above cannot or will not provide an acceptable bid,
which shall include services for the depositing of public funds under this
section, then banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks that have
main or branch offices in any immediately adjoining county may receive deposits
of the city’s active funds, if such banks, savings and loan associations or
savings banks have been designated as official depositories under division (a)
above and the city can obtain satisfactory security therefor.
§ 1-703 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANK. Any bank incorporated under the laws of the state or any other state,
or organized under the laws of the United States and which has a main or branch
office in the state.
   BRANCH. Any office within this state, other than the main office, that is
approved by a federal or state supervisory agency at which deposits are
received, checks paid or money lent. BRANCH does not include an automated
teller machine, remote service unit or similar device or a loan production
office.
   INVESTMENT RATE. A rate which is the equivalent yield for United States
government securities having a maturity date as published in the Wall Street
Journal, nearest the maturity date for equivalent maturities. The zero- to 90-
day rate shall be computed on the average effective federal funds rate as
published by the Federal Reserve System for the previous week.
   MAIN OFFICE. The place of business specified in the articles of association,
certificate of authority or similar document, where the business of the
institution is carried on and which is not a branch.
   SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION. Any savings and loan association incorporated
under the laws of the state or any other state, or organized under the laws of
the United States and which has a main or branch office in the state.
   SAVINGS BANK. Any savings bank organized under the laws of the United States
and which has a main or branch office in the state.
(K.S.A. 12-1675a)
§ 1-704 INVESTMENT OF IDLE FUNDS.
   Temporarily idle monies of the city not currently needed, may in accordance
with the procedure hereinafter described be invested:
   (a)   In temporary notes or no-fund warrants issued by the city;
   (b)   In savings deposits, demand deposits, time deposit, open accounts,
certificates of deposit or time certificates of deposit with maturities of not
more than two years:
      (1)   In banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks which
have main or branch offices located in the city; or
      (2)   If no main or branch office of a bank, savings and loan association
or savings bank is located in the city, then in banks, savings and loan
associations and savings banks, which have main or branch offices in the county
or counties in which all or part of the city is located.
   (c)   In repurchase agreements with:
      (1)   Banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks, which have
main or branch offices located in the city, for direct obligations of, or
obligations that are insured as to principal and interest by, the United States
government or any agency thereof;
      (2)   If no main or branch office of a bank, savings and loan association
or savings bank, is located in the city. If no such bank, savings and loan
association or savings bank having a main or branch office located in the city
is willing to enter into such an agreement with the city at an interest rate
equal to or greater than the investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g),
and amendments thereto, then such repurchase agreements may be entered into
with banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks which have main or
branch offices in the county or counties in which all or part of the city is
located; or
      (3)   If no bank, savings and loan association or savings bank, having a
main or branch office in such county or counties is willing to enter into such
an agreement with the city at an interest rate equal to or greater than the
investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto, then
such repurchase agreements may be entered into with banks, savings and loan
associations or savings banks located within the state.
   (d)   In direct obligations of or obligations that are insured as to
principal and interest by the United States or any agency thereof, not
including mortgage-backed securities with maturities as the governing body
shall determine, but not exceeding two years. Such investment transactions
shall only be conducted with banks, savings and loan associations and savings
banks; the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, Missouri; or with primary
government securities dealers which report to the market report division of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or any broker-dealer engaged in the business
of selling government securities which is registered in compliance with the
requirements of §§ 15 or 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
registered pursuant to K.S.A. 17-12a401, and amendments thereto;
   (e)   In the Municipal Investment Pool Fund established in K.S.A. 12-1677a,
and amendments thereto;
   (f)   In the investments authorized and in accordance with the conditions
prescribed in K.S.A. 12-1677b, and amendments thereto;
   (g)   In multiple municipal client investment pools managed by the trust
departments of banks which have main or branch offices located in county or
counties where city is located or with trust companies incorporated under the
laws of this state which have contracted to provide trust services under the
provisions of K.S.A. 9-2107, and amendments thereto, with banks which have main
or branch offices located in the county or counties in which the city is
located. Public monies invested under this division (g) shall be secured in the
same manner as provided for under K.S.A. 9-1402, and amendments thereto. Pooled
investments of public monies made by trust departments under this division (g)
shall be subject to the same terms, conditions and limitations as are
applicable to the municipal investment pool established by K.S.A. 12-1677a, and
amendments thereto;
   (h)   The investments authorized in divisions (d), (e), (f) or (g) above
shall be utilized only if the banks, savings and loan associations and savings
banks eligible for investments authorized in division (b) above, cannot or will
not make the investments authorized in division (b) above available to the city
at interest rates equal to or greater than the investment rate, as defined in
K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto; or
   (i)   In selecting a depository pursuant to division (b) above, if a bank,
savings and loan association or savings bank eligible for an investment deposit
thereunder has an office located in the city and such financial institution
will make such deposits available to the city at interest rates equal to or
greater than the investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and
amendments thereto, and such financial institution otherwise qualifies for such
deposit, the governing body shall select one or more of such eligible financial
institutions for deposit of funds pursuant to this section. If no such
financial institution qualifies for such deposits, the city shall select for
such deposits one or more eligible banks, savings and loan associations or
savings banks which have offices in the county or counties in which all or a
part of the city is located which will make such deposits available to the city
at interest rates equal to or greater than the investment rate, as defined in
K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto, and which otherwise qualify for
such deposits.
(K.S.A. 12-1675)
§ 1-705 PROCEDURES AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Clerk shall periodically report to the governing body as to the
amount of money available for investment and the period of time such amounts
will be available for investment, and shall submit such recommendations as
deemed necessary for the efficient and safe management of city finances. The
recommendations of the City Clerk shall provide for an investment program which
shall so limit the amounts invested and shall schedule the maturities of
investments so that the city will, at all times, have sufficient monies
available on demand deposit to assure prompt payment of all city obligations.
§ 1-706 CUSTODY AND SAFEKEEPING.
   Securities purchased pursuant to this article shall be under the care of the
City Clerk and Treasurer and shall be held in the custody of a state or
national bank or trust company, or shall be kept by such officers in a safety
deposit box of the city in a bank or trust company. Securities in the original
or receipt form held in the custody of a bank or trust company shall be held in
the name of the city, and their redemption, transfer or withdrawal shall be
permitted only upon the written instruction of the city officers. Securities
not held in the custody of a bank or trust company shall be personally
deposited by such officer in a safety deposit box in the name of the city in a
bank or trust company, access to which shall be permitted only in the personal
presence and under the signature of two of the abovementioned officers.
§ 1-707 SALE OR TRANSFER.
   If, in order to maintain sufficient monies on demand deposit in any fund as
provided in §
1-705, it becomes necessary to transfer or sell any securities of such funds,
the officers specified in §
1-706 may transfer said securities to any other fund or funds in which there
are temporarily idle monies, or shall sell such securities, and for such
purpose they shall have authority to make any necessary written direction,
endorsement or assignment for and on behalf of the city.
§ 1-708 INTEREST ON TIME DEPOSITS.
   The City Clerk shall deposit the interest earned on invested idle funds to
the General Fund, unless otherwise required or authorized by law.
ARTICLE 8: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND
Section
   
1-801   Fund established
   
1-802   Policy objective
   
1-803   Use for studies
   
1-804   Plan of operation
   
1-805   Levy of taxes
   
1-806   Investments
§ 1-801 FUND ESTABLISHED.
   In accordance with the provisions of K.S.A. 12-1,118, there is hereby
established a Capital Improvement Fund which shall be used by the city to
finance, in whole or in part, in any public improvement needs set forth in the
city’s Capital Improvement Plan previously adopted by the city.
(2010 Code, § 1-801) (Charter Ord. 24, passed - -)
§ 1-802 POLICY OBJECTIVE.
   It is the policy objective of the governing body that such Fund shall be
used to provide from current revenues all or part of the financing needed for
present and future public infrastructure needs, so as to provide an orderly
plan for the completion of such improvements, and to reduce the amount of
indebtedness necessary to pay for such needs.
(2010 Code, § 1-802) (Charter Ord. 24, passed - -)
§ 1-803 USE FOR STUDIES.
   Monies in such Fund may be used to pay the cost of engineering and other
advanced public improvement plans and studies, with the Fund to be periodically
reimbursed from bonds proceeds, special assessments or state or federal aid
that may be available for completed projects. No expenditures for such purposes
shall be made, except on a finding of the governing body of its probable intent
to proceed with the improvement following such engineering or advanced study.
(2010 Code, § 1-803) (Charter Ord. 24, passed - -)
§ 1-804 PLAN OF OPERATION.
   The City Manager shall submit to the governing body a plan for the
implementation of this article. Such plan shall provide for the annual, revised
and adopted Capital Improvement Plan of the city, identifying those
improvements to be financed from the Fund during the following year. The City
Manager shall annually submit, at the same time and as part of the annual
operating budget, proposed tax levies, revenue allocations and budget transfers
as may be necessary to Fund such portion of the improvements scheduled for
completion for the next fiscal year, to be paid from such Fund, and to set
aside monies to be annually reserved for future improvements, all as provided
in the Capital Improvement Plan, as amended from time to time.
(2010 Code, § 1-804) (Charter Ord. 24, passed - -)
§ 1-805 LEVY OF TAXES.
   In the exercise of its home rule powers, pursuant to Art. 12, § 5, of the
State Constitution and K.S.A. 12-101, the governing body is hereby authorized
to levy taxes, on an annual basis, to provide funds for allocation to the
Capital Improvement Fund. Such taxes, if levied, shall be levied as part of the
city’s annual budget.
(2010 Code, § 1-805) (Charter Ord. 24, passed - -)
§ 1-806 INVESTMENTS.
   Monies in the Capital Improvement Fund shall be invested in accordance with
the provisions of K.S.A. 10-131, as amended, and interest thereon shall be
credited to the Fund.
(2010 Code, § 1-806) (Charter Ord. 24, passed - -)
CHAPTER II: ANIMAL CONTROL AND REGULATION
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   DOGS
      
3.   PIT BULL DOGS
      
4.   EXOTIC ANIMALS
      
5.   CATS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
2-101   Definitions
   
2-102   Animal Control Officer; duty to impound; citation alternative
   
2-103   Same; capture/destruction
   
2-104   Same; right of entry; unlawful interference
   
2-105   Municipal pound established
   
2-106   Breaking pound
   
2-107   Reserved
   
2-108   Reserved
   
2-109   Keeping animals
   
2-110   Animal traps
   
2-110A   Cat trapping
   
2-111   Nuisance; animal activities prohibited
   
2-112   Noisy animals
   
2-113   Animal confines; shelters
   
2-113A   Same; stockyards; commercial holding pens
   
2-114   Death of animals
   
2-115   Vicious animals
   
2-116   Running at large
   
2-117   Impoundment; fee; notice; record
   
2-118   Redemption of impounded animals
   
2-119   Impoundment of rabies suspects
   
2-120   Animals bitten by rabid animals
   
2-121   Vehicular accidents involving animals
   
2-122   Emergency; proclamation
   
2-123   Kennel licenses
§ 2-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Includes the leaving of an animal by its owner or other person
responsible for its care or custody without making effective provisions for its
proper care over a 48-hour-period.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The facility or facilities operated by the city or its
authorized agents for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals under the
authority of this chapter or state law.
   ANIMALS. All vertebrate and invertebrate animals, such as, but not limited
to, bovine cattle, horses and other equines, hogs, goats, dogs, cats, rabbits,
sheep, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, pigeons and other fowl or wild animals,
reptiles, fish, bees or birds that have been tamed, domesticated or captivated.
   AT LARGE. To be outside of a fence or other enclosure that restrains the
animals to a particular premises or not under the control, by leash or lead, of
the owner or other authorized person capable of restraining the animal. Animals
tethered to a stationary object within range of public thoroughfares are deemed
to be AT LARGE.
   BITE. Any actual or suspected abrasion, scratch, puncture, tear, bruise or
piercing of the skin, caused by any animal, which is actually or suspected of
being contaminated or inoculated with the saliva from the animal, directly or
indirectly, regardless of the health of the animal causing such bite.
   CAT. Any member of the species felis catus, regardless of sex.
   DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal deemed to be dangerous or vicious
per §
2-115.
   DOG. Any member of the species canis familiaris, regardless of sex.
   FOWL. All animals that are included in the zoological class aves, which
shall include, but not limited to, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, guineas and
pigeons.
   HARBOR. Any person who shall allow any animal to habitually remain or lodge
or to be fed within his or her home, store, yard, enclosure or place of
business or any other premises where he or she resides or controls.
   HUMANE LIVE ANIMAL TRAP. Any cage trap that upon activation encloses an
animal without placing any physical restraint upon any part of the body of such
animal.
   HUMANELY EUTHANIZE. The proper injection of a substance that quickly and
painlessly terminates the life of an animal, or any other method approved by
the American Veterinary Medical Association or the American Humane Society.
   IMMEDIATE CONTROL. The regulation and supervision by a competent person so
that an animal is unable to run or get loose at will.
   KENNEL. Any establishment, commercial or otherwise, maintained for breeding,
rearing, grooming, boarding or otherwise harboring in an enclosure in one
location only, more than five dogs.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes, but is not limited to cattle, horses, goats, sheep or
other animals commonly regarded or used as farm or ranch animals.
   NEUTERED. Any male or female cat or dog that has been permanently rendered
sterile.
   OWN. Includes own, keep, harbor, shelter, manage, possess or have a part
interest in any animal. If a minor OWNS any such animal subject to the
provisions of this chapter, the head of the household of which such minor is a
member shall be deemed to OWN such animal for the purposes of this chapter.
   OWNER. The one who owns, or his or her employee, agent or other competent
person into whose charge an animal has been placed by the actual owner as
described in the definition for “own” above.
   VACCINATION. An injection of a vaccine, approved by the State Board of
Public Health, and administered by a licensed veterinarian for the purpose of
immunizing an animal against rabies.
   VETERINARIAN. A doctor of veterinary medicine licensed by the State of
Kansas.
§ 2-102 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; DUTY TO IMPOUND; CITATION ALTERNATIVE.
   (a)   There is hereby created the position of Animal Control Officer for the
city and such officer shall be charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
Any person employed by the city as an Animal Control Officer and commissioned
by the City Council of the city shall have such powers and authority as allowed
by law in the enforcement of this chapter. All Animal Control Officers shall be
subject to the supervision and direction of the Mayor of the city.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (c) below, it shall be the duty of the
Animal Control Officer to take up and impound all animals found in the city in
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   As an alternative to the provisions of division (b) above, any law
enforcement officer or the Animal Control Officer may issue a citation to the
owner, harborer or keeper of an animal in violation of this chapter, and the
person receiving the citation shall, within ten days, appear in the Municipal
Court of the city to answer the charged violation of this chapter.
§ 2-103 SAME; CAPTURE/DESTRUCTION.
   When deemed necessary by law enforcement officers or the Animal Control
Officer for the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city, such
officers and/or their agents may:
   (a)   Place a humane trap on public or a requesting resident’s property for
the purpose of capturing any animal defined in this chapter as creating a
nuisance in the city;
   (b)   Use any tranquilizer guns, humane traps or other suitable devices to
subdue and capture any animal that is deemed by the Animal Control Officer, in
his or her discretion, to be of a danger to itself or to the public health and
safety; or
   (c)   Use firearms or other suitable weapons to destroy any rabid animal,
any vicious animal as defined in §
2-115 or any animal creating a nuisance as defined in §
2-111, where such animal is impossible or impractical to catch, capture or
tranquilize.
§ 2-104 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY; UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE.
   (a)   The Animal Control Officer or any law enforcement officer shall have
the right of entry upon any private unenclosed lots or lands for the purpose of
collecting any animal whose presence thereupon is a violation of this chapter,
to the extent allowed by law.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the Animal
Control Officer in the exercise of his or her duties.
§ 2-105 MUNICIPAL POUND ESTABLISHED.
   (a)   A municipal pound shall be established to carry out the provisions of
this chapter. Such a pound may be operated by a contractor and all services
required herein may be provided by a contractor.
   (b)   When so contracted, the pound shall have the following services and
facilities as a minimum:
      (1)   Adequate pickup and impounding of all stray and ownerless dogs and
cats and animals otherwise in violation of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Group holding facilities for stray, ownerless and unvaccinated
animals impounded for violation of the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Individual isolation facilities for sick, biting, rabid and
suspected rabid animals; and
      (4)   Facilities for the humane destruction of animals.
§ 2-106 BREAKING POUND.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to open, unlock,
break open or attempt to break open the pound, or to take or let out any animal
placed therein, or take or attempt to take from an authorized officer of this
city any animal taken up by him or her under the provisions of this chapter, or
in any manner interfere with or hinder any authorized officer or employee of
this city in catching, taking up or impounding any animal.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, other than those duly
authorized, to care for, feed, attempt to feed or interfere in any way with the
care of impounded animals.
§ 2-107 RESERVED.
§ 2-108 RESERVED.
§ 2-109 KEEPING ANIMALS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, occupant or person in
charge of any premises in the city to possess and maintain any animal or fowl
within the city or permit to be maintained thereon any stable, shed, pen or
other place where horses, mules, cattle, sheep, goats or swine, or
undomesticated animals are kept.
   (b)   This provision shall not apply to:
      (1)   The maintaining of a stockyard or sales barn for the loading,
unloading, temporary detention and sale of such livestock, if the location of
such stockyard or sales barn does not otherwise violate the zoning ordinances
of the city;
      (2)   The maintaining of dogs which are regulated by
Art. 2 of this chapter;
      (3)   The maintaining of non-poisonous and non-vicious animals and fowl
which are commonly kept as household pets, such as cats, hamsters, rabbits,
parakeets and comparable animals, when kept as household pets and in a safe and
sanitary manner in accordance with §
2-113; and
      (4)   The transporting of animals through the city by ordinary and
customary means.
§ 2-110 ANIMAL TRAPS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, place, set out or deploy any
animal trap aboveground, which makes use of a spring gun, spring jaws, clamping
devices, cutting or stabbing mechanism, or any other devices that will damage
or severely injure any animal when caught or trapped by the device or trap;
except that nothing herein contained shall prohibit the use of animal traps
that are so designed to trap and hold animals without injuring the animals.
§ 2-110A CAT TRAPS.
   (a)   Any person who traps a cat within the city limits will be required to
take the trapped cat to the city pound and pay a $200 trapping fee upon
presenting the cat to the city pound.
   (b)   If a trapped cat is promptly returned to its owner, the trapper is not
required to submit the cat to the city pound.
   (c)   Unless excused by this section, failure to take a trapped cat to the
city pound shall be a violation subject to the general penalty in this code.
   (d)   If an impounded cat is eventually claimed by its owner, the owner
shall pay an impoundment fee of $25, plus the actual cost of feeding and
maintaining the animal while impounded. Before the owner takes possession of
the cat, the animal must be registered and tagged pursuant to this code.
   (e)   If no owner is found after three days, the impounded cat may be spayed
or neutered and released back into its general area of habitation as determined
by the city pound or Kingman County Humane Society.
   (f)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to trap and release
spay and neuter programs conducted by the Kingman County Humane Society.
   (g)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a humane trapping
program for injured animals conducted by the Kingman County Humane Society.
(Ord. 2066, passed 5-28-2020)
§ 2-111 NUISANCE; ANIMAL ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to keep or maintain
such animal in the city so as to constitute a nuisance.
   (b)   For the purpose of this section, NUISANCE is defined as any animal
which:
      (1)   Molests or interferes with persons in the public right-of-way;
      (2)   Attacks or injures persons or other domestic animals;
      (3)   Damages public or private property other than that of its owner or
harborer by its activities or with its excrement;
      (4)   Scatters refuse that is bagged or otherwise contained; or
      (5)   Causes any condition that threatens or endangers the health or
well-being of persons or other animals.
   (c)   If a summons is issued charging violation of this provision, a
subpoena shall also be issued to the complainant to testify to the nuisance
under oath.
§ 2-112 NOISY ANIMALS.
   The keeping or harboring of any animal which by loud, frequent and habitual
barking, howling, yelping, mewing, roaring or screeching shall disturb the
peace of any neighborhood is hereby prohibited. It shall be the duty of any
person harboring or keeping such loud or noisy animal or animals to abate the
condition, and if he or she fails to do so, the city may abate it by taking up,
impounding and/or disposing of the animal at the expense of the owner.
§ 2-113 ANIMAL CONFINES; SHELTERS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any animal in
any yard, structure or area that is not clean, dry and sanitary, free from
debris and offensive odors that annoy any neighbor, and devoid of rodents and
vermin.
   (b)   Excrement shall be removed at least once each week from any animal
shelter, pen or yard area where animals are kept, or more often if necessary to
prevent or control odors, fly breeding or rodent infestation. If excrement is
stored on the premises by any animal owner, it shall be stored in adequate
containers with fly-tight lids, and all such stored or accumulated wastes shall
be disposed of at least once each week.
   (c)   All animal shelters, pens and yards shall be so located that adequate
drainage is obtained, normal drying occurs, and standing water is not present.
   (d)   All animal shelters and board fences confining animals shall be
maintained in good repair, and all animal shelters and board fences confining
animals subject to residential and commercial classification shall be protected
from deterioration by painting or comparable treatment.
   (e)   Barbed wire fences and electrically charged fences shall not be
permitted for animal confines except on properties in which an agricultural
classification permit is held or where the barbed wire fence or electrically
charged fence is protected by an exterior fence.
   (f)   All premises in which animals are kept shall be subject to inspection
by the Animal Control Officer, duly authorized law enforcement officer or
Public Health Official. If the Officer or Official determines from such
inspection that the premises are not being maintained in a clean and sanitary
manner, he or she shall notify the owner of the animals in writing to correct
the sanitation deficiencies within 24 hours after notice is served on the
owner. Any animal kept under any condition that could endanger the public or
animal health or create a health nuisance may be impounded. Animals shall be
released after fees are paid and cause for impoundment has been corrected.
§ 2-113A SAME; STOCKYARDS; COMMERCIAL HOLDING PENS.
   Animal shelters owned or operated as a stockyard or commercial holding pen
shall be adequately maintained and cleaned as often as is necessary, as
determined by the Health Officer, to control fly breeding or to control other
conditions adversely affecting the public health including the following:
   (a)   Collected fecal material and other solid organic waste shall be
disposed of at a sanitary landfill, fertilizer processing plant or by proper
dispersal on land used for agricultural purposes;
   (b)   Grain or protein feed shall be stored in tightly covered rodent-proof
metal containers or rodent-proof bins;
   (c)   Premises subject to the terms of this section shall be maintained free
of rodent harborage and in accordance with
Ch. VIII, Art. 6 of this code;
   (d)   Wherever reasonable, use shall be made of anti-coagulant rodenticides
for the control of rodents and organo-phosphorus insecticides for the control
of flies or any other effective chemical means for the control of rodents and
flies;
   (e)   Wherever reasonable, use shall be made of soil sterilants and
herbicides or other effective means for the control of weeds and grass around
structures and buildings;
   (f)   Enclosures including fences where animals such as horses, cows, sheep
and goats are maintained shall be constructed in a manner, using dimension
lumber materials, or other effective means to prevent such animals from
breaking out or causing hazard to persons or property;
   (g)   The solid wastes accumulated from the cleaning of animal shelters and
holding pens maintained by persons subject to a residential classification
permit as herein provided shall be stored in metal containers, with tight-
fitting metal lids, and all such stored or accumulated wastes shall be disposed
of at least once each week;
   (h)   Holding lots, pens and floors of sheds and buildings where animals are
held and which are maintained by persons subject to a commercial, industrial or
agricultural classification permit according to the terms of this chapter shall
be surfaced with concrete or asphaltic materials and that the drainage system
of such surfaced areas shall include proper retaining walls and traps to
control the waste from draining into watercourses and such drainage system
shall be subject to the approval of the Health Officer. The Health Officer
shall waive this standard for domestic animal holding operations where such
animal holding is longer than 24 hours for any domestic animal involved or
where dirt lots are more appropriate to the proper care of cattle, horses or
sheep; and
   (i)   Solid wastes accumulated from the cleaning of animal shelters and
holding pens maintained by persons subject to a commercial, industrial or
agricultural permit according to the terms of this chapter shall be stored on
concrete slabs or other facilities, such as dirt lots on which is stockpiled
manure with an exposed perimeter as approved by the Health Officer; provided,
that all solid waste shall be properly disposed of at least once each week or
as may be approved by the Health Officer.
§ 2-114 DEATH OF ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be disposed of by the owner or keepers within 24
hours of the animal’s death, by burial, incineration in a facility approved by
the Animal Control Officer, by rendering or by other lawful means approved by
the Animal Control Officer. No dead animal shall be dumped on any public or
private property.
§ 2-115 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (a)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, possess or
harbor a vicious animal within the city. Impoundment of animals whose owners
have been cited for violation of this section shall be at the discretion of the
Animal Control Officer. If the animal presents a clear and present danger to
the public health or safety, it shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer
or his or her agent to impound such animal.
   (b)   Defined. For purposes of this chapter a VICIOUS ANIMAL shall include:
      (1)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human
beings or domestic animals;
      (2)   Any animal that attacks a human being or domestic animal without
provocation;
      (3)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of fighting or any animal trained for fighting; or
      (4)   Any animal that is urged by its owner or harborer to attack, or
whose owner or harborer threatens to provoke such animal to attack, any law
enforcement officer while such officer is engaged in the performance of
official duty.
   (c)   Complaint.
      (1)   Whenever a sworn complaint is filed in the Municipal Court against
the owner of an animal alleging that such animal is vicious and in violation of
this section, the Municipal Judge shall hold a hearing to determine whether or
not the animal is vicious within the meaning of this section and thereby in
violation of this section. The owner of the animal shall be notified in writing
of the time and place of the hearing at least one week before the hearing.
      (2)   In making a determination, the Municipal Judge shall consider the
following:
         (A)   The seriousness of the attack or bite;
         (B)   Past history of attacks or bites;
         (C)   Likelihood of attacks or bites in the future;
         (D)   The condition and circumstances in which the animal is kept or
confined; and
         (E)   Other factors that may reasonably relate to the determination of
whether or not the animal is vicious.
      (3)   The Municipal Judge shall order the impoundment, the muzzling in
accordance with division (d) below, and/or the confinement of the animal
accused of being in violation of this section in a manner and location that
will ensure that it is no threat to persons or other animals pending the
outcome of the hearing. If such impoundment, muzzling or otherwise safe
confinement is not possible or if prior court orders to restrain such animal
have gone unheeded, the Municipal Judge may order the animal immediately
destroyed.
   (d)   Vicious dogs to be muzzled. It shall be the duty of every owner,
keeper or harborer of any dog in the city, which dog is vicious or has been
known to bite, chase or run after any person or animal in the streets, alleys
or any public place in the city, to keep the same muzzled with a good and
sufficient wire or leather muzzle, securely fastened so as to wholly prevent
such dog from biting any animal or person until such time as a determination
has been made by the court as to whether the dog is vicious or not. Any person
owning, keeping or harboring any dog within the city limits contrary to this
section shall be guilty of a violation of this code.
   (e)   Immediate destruction. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
prevent the Animal Control Officer or any law enforcement officer from taking
whatever action is reasonably necessary to protect himself or herself or
members of the public from injury or danger, including immediate destruction of
any vicious animal without notice to the owner.
   (f)   Release of. If a complaint has been filed in the Municipal Court
against the owner of an impounded animal for a charge under this section, the
animal shall not be released except on the order of the Municipal Judge, who
may also direct the owner to pay all impounding fees in addition to any
penalties for violation of this chapter. The Municipal Judge may, upon making a
finding that an animal is vicious or that it represents a clear and present
danger to the citizens or to other animals in the community, order the animal
to be destroyed in a humane manner by the animal shelter. Surrender of an
animal by the owner thereof to the Animal Control Officer does not relieve or
render the owner immune from the decision of the Court, nor to the fees and
fines which may result from a violation of this section.
§ 2-116 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully allow any animal or fowl
under his or her control to be or to run at large within the city. Any animal
or fowl found at large shall be impounded as provided in §§
2-117 or
2-207 (dogs).
§ 2-117 IMPOUNDMENT; FEE; NOTICE; RECORD.
   (a)   The Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer shall impound
any animal or fowl found at large in the city or constituting a nuisance or
otherwise in violation of this chapter in a suitable pound or enclosure
provided or contracted for by the city. The impounding officer shall make
diligent inquiry as to the owner of the animal and shall notify the owner
thereof of such impoundment as soon as reasonably possible.
   (b)   The city shall be entitled to receive from such owner an impoundment
fee, as approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman
Schedule of Fees, plus the actual cost of feeding and maintaining the animal
while impounded.
   (c)   In case the identity of the owner of the impounded animal or fowl
cannot be ascertained, the Animal Control Officer or police officer shall, upon
taking any such animal into custody and impounding the same, make a record
thereof, with a description of the animal and the date and place taken into
custody and the place of impounding, and shall thereupon immediately post a
public notice stating that the animal, describing the same with the date and
place of taking, has been taken up, and that unless the charges of impounding
the same, together with any license fees due and unpaid, are paid within three
business days from the date of the notice, that the animal will be disposed of
as provided in this code.
   (d)   The Animal Control Officer shall each month submit a report to the
person designated by the city showing the number of animals impounded and
disposed of, and the fees collected pursuant to this article and shall pay
those fees to the City Clerk for credit to the General Operating Fund.
§ 2-118 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   At any time before the sale or destruction of any animal impounded under the
provisions of this article, except for animals impounded under §§
2-115 (vicious) and
2-119 (rabid), the owner thereof may redeem the animal by paying the Animal
Control Officer or any person in charge, the impounding fee and all costs
incurred as a result of such impoundment.
§ 2-119 IMPOUNDMENT OF RABIES SUSPECTS.
   (a)   Any law enforcement officer or local Health Officer may take up, upon
private or public property, any animal that has bitten or scratched a person or
other animal and impound the animal in the city pound, securely penned and
separated from other animals, or in a veterinary hospital or animal care
facility for a period of not more than 30 days during which time the local
Health Officer shall determine whether or not such animal is suffering from a
disease and, if not, the local Health Officer shall authorize the release of
the animal upon payment by the owner of the boarding fee therefore. The Health
Officer may authorize the keeping of any such animal on the owner’s premises if
the owner produces a rabies vaccination certificate showing that the animal has
valid rabies vaccination protection. Impoundment costs shall be borne by the
owner. If in the opinion of the local Health Officer symptoms develop
justifying a microscopic examination, then the animal shall be killed and
examination made by the State Board of Health.
   (b)   In lieu of the provisions of division (a) above, the owner of any such
animal may, at his or her own expense, take such animal to any duly qualified
and licensed veterinarian in the city for observation. Such veterinarian shall
report his or her findings in writing to the local Health Officer. If in the
opinion of such veterinarian a microscopic examination is justified, then the
animal shall be turned over to the Animal Control Officer or any law
enforcement officer to be killed and examination made by the State Board of
Health.
   (c)   Any animal desired for observation by the local Health Officer under
this section shall be delivered to the Animal Control Officer or any law
enforcement officer upon demand and shall not be withheld, hidden or harbored.
Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a violation of this code.
Upon refusal of any person to so deliver such animal, the Municipal Judge shall
cause a warrant to be issued for the arrest of such person, which warrant shall
also provide for the surrender of the animal and shall be lawful authority for
the apprehending and forcible taking of such animal.
§ 2-120 ANIMALS BITTEN BY RABID ANIMALS.
   (a)   Whenever a dog, cat or other animal is bitten by a rabid animal or an
animal later proved to have been rabid, it shall be the duty of the owner of
the animal that is bitten, to report that fact to the local Health Officer and/
or the Police Department.
   (b)   It shall also be the duty of the owner of the bitten animal to either
destroy or have his or her bitten animal destroyed unless:
      (1)   The animal that was bitten had been vaccinated against rabies at
least three weeks before being bitten and has a current vaccination;
      (2)   If the bitten animal has a current vaccination, it shall be
confined for 90 days;
      (3)   The bitten animal shall be released from confinement only upon
written order from the local Health Officer, who declares the animal to be free
of rabies; and
      (4)   If the animal is found to have contracted rabies during
confinement, it shall be properly disposed of.
§ 2-121 VEHICULAR ACCIDENTS INVOLVING ANIMALS.
   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes any animal shall
stop at once and shall immediately report such injury or death to the owner of
such animal, or in the event that the owner cannot be ascertained, and located,
the operator shall at once report the accident to the Animal Control Officer or
any law enforcement officer.
§ 2-122 EMERGENCY; PROCLAMATION.
   The person designated by the city is hereby authorized, whenever in his or
her opinion, the danger to the public safety from rabid animals is made
imminent to issue a proclamation ordering all persons owning any animal in the
city to confine the animal in a good and sufficient enclosure from which the
animal cannot escape, or fasten such animal by means of a chain on the premises
where the owner may reside, for such time as may be specified in such
proclamation. Any animal not confined during such time may be disposed of
wherever found by any police officer or the Animal Control Officer of the city.
The owner of such animal shall be prosecuted for such violation thereof.
§ 2-123 KENNEL LICENSES.
   (a)   No person or household shall own or harbor more than three dogs of six
months of age or older or more than one litter of pups, or more than three cats
of more than six months of age or more than one litter of kittens, or more than
a total of five dogs and cats more than six months of age in any combination,
or engage in the commercial business of breeding, buying, selling, trading,
training or boarding cats or dogs or both cats and dogs, without having
obtained a kennel license from the City Clerk.
   (b)   Kennel licenses must be renewed annually. No kennel license shall be
issued until an inspection certificate has been issued by the Animal Control
Officer certifying approval of the kennel and compliance with the applicable
laws of the city and the state, and a certificate by the Zoning Code
Enforcement Officer has been issued certifying that the applicant for the
kennel license is not violating zoning laws of the city. If the City Clerk has
not received any protest against the kennel, the City Clerk may issue a renewal
of an existing kennel license at the same location without any report from the
Animal Control Officer and Zoning Code Enforcement Officer. If the Animal
Control Officer or the Zoning Code Enforcement Officer finds that the holder of
any kennel license is violating any zoning law, or any other law of the state,
or of the city, or is maintaining the facility in a manner detrimental to the
health, safety or peace of mind of any person residing in the immediate
vicinity, he or she shall report such fact to the City Clerk, and the license
shall not be renewed except after a public hearing before the governing body.
   (c)   The Animal Control Officer, the Zoning Enforcement Officer or any law
enforcement officer shall have the right to inspect any premises licensed under
this section at any reasonable time and nothing shall prevent the entry onto
private property for the purpose of inspection. The application for a kennel
shall constitute consent to such entry and inspection.
   (d)   The governing body may suspend or revoke a kennel license if, pursuant
to a public hearing, it finds any of the following:
      (1)   The kennel is maintained in violation of any applicable law of the
state or of the city;
      (2)   The kennel is maintained so as to be a public nuisance; or
      (3)   The kennel is maintained so as to be detrimental to the health,
safety or peace of mind of persons residing in the immediate vicinity.
   (e)   The annual kennel license fee shall be as approved by the governing
body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees. Payment of such
license fee is in addition to, and not in lieu of, the dog license fees
otherwise required under this chapter.
   (f)   This section shall not apply to and will not be construed to require a
kennel license for a licensed veterinarian to operate an animal hospital.
ARTICLE 2: DOGS
Section
   
2-201   Registration and vaccination required; fee
   
2-202   Dog tags
   
2-203   Same; counterfeit tag
   
2-204   Evidence of vaccination
   
2-205   Visiting dogs
   
2-206   Running at large; fine
   
2-207   Impoundment; record; notice; redemption; minimum fee
   
2-208   Disposition of unclaimed dogs
   
2-209   Confinement of dogs in heat
   
2-210   Muzzling
§ 2-201 REGISTRATION AND VACCINATION REQUIRED; FEE.
   (a)   (1)   Every owner of any dog over six months of age shall annually
register with the City Clerk his or her name and address with the name, sex and
description of each dog owned and kept within the city. It shall be unlawful
for the owner of any newly acquired dog or any dog brought into the city to
fail to register such animal within 30 days from acquisition or bringing the
dog into the city. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any previously
registered dog to fail to maintain current registration of such dog.
      (2)   Upon registration, the owner shall present a current, completed
certificate of immunization against rabies. No registration shall follow
without evidence of this document, and it shall be unlawful for the owner of
any dog over six months of age to fail to maintain effective rabies
immunization of such dog.
      (3)   The owner or harborer of any dog shall, at the time of registering
such dog, present to the City Clerk a certificate from an accredited
veterinarian showing that a male dog has been neutered or a female dog has been
spayed, if the dog has been neutered or spayed.
      (4)   The City Clerk shall collect an annual registration fee, as
approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman
Schedule of Fees, for each neutered male dog and for each spayed female dog,
and a fee, as approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City of
Kingman Schedule of Fees, for each unneutered male dog and for each unspayed
female dog.
      (5)   The registration year shall be from January 1 through December 31
of each year. The fee shall be payable before March 1 of each year without
penalty.
   (b)   Registration fees as enumerated above may be prorated for newly
acquired dogs or for dogs owned by a person or persons moving to and
establishing a home in the city during a calendar year. Every owner or harborer
of dog or dogs who shall fail to register the same prior to March 1 of each
year shall pay in addition to the registration fee herein provided a penalty
fee for late registration, as approved by the governing body and listed in the
latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees.
§ 2-202 DOG TAGS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk or designated agent, upon a showing
of current rabies immunization and receipt of the registration fee hereinbefore
required, to keep a record of the registration of dogs, the time of the
registration, the name of the owner or keeper, the number of the registration,
and the amount paid therefor, and shall deliver to the owner or keeper of the
dog a certificate in writing, stating that the person has registered the dog
and the number by which the dog is registered, and shall also deliver to the
owner or keeper of the dog a tag with the registration number and the
registration year thereon, which shall be, by the owner or keeper, attached to
the collar to be used on the dog so registered. When any tag has become lost
during a registration period, the owner of the dog may request a duplicate tag
for the remainder of the registration period. When so requested, the City Clerk
shall, upon presentation of the registration certificate, issue a duplicate of
such tag upon the payment of the fee, as approved by the governing body and
listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees. It shall be unlawful for
any person to take off or remove the city registration tag from any dog
belonging to another, or remove the strap or collar on which the same is
fastened.
§ 2-203 SAME; COUNTERFEIT TAG.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place on any dog a tag issued for any
other dog or to make or use any false, forged or counterfeited tag or imitation
thereof.
§ 2-204 EVIDENCE OF VACCINATION.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog kept within the city to fail
to display a current certificate of immunization against rabies issued by an
accredited veterinarian evidencing the vaccination of such dog within two
years, when requested by the Animal Control Officer or any law enforcement
officer.
§ 2-205 VISITING DOGS.
   The provisions of this article with respect to registration shall not apply
to any dog owned by any person visiting or temporarily remaining within the
city for less than 30 days, however, such dogs shall be kept under restraint by
the owner thereof at all times.
§ 2-206 RUNNING AT LARGE; FINE.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or harborer of any dog to permit
such dog to run at large within the city at any time.
   (b)   Any dog running at large within the city shall be impounded as set out
in §
2-207.
   (c)   The owner of any dog impounded for running at large without the tag
required by §
2-202 shall, for the first offense, pay a fine, as approved by the governing
body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees, plus the board
bill.
   (d)   For the first offense of an animal running at large with a tag as
required by §
2-202, the owner or harborer claiming any animal, shall, in addition to
presenting a registration receipt, pay the cost of the board bill. For a second
offense within a one-year-period, the owner or harborer shall pay a fine, as
set by the governing body, plus the board bill. For a third and all subsequent
offenses within a one-year-period, the owner or harborer shall pay a fine, as
set by the governing body, plus the cost of the board bill.
§ 2-207 IMPOUNDMENT; RECORD; NOTICE; REDEMPTION; MINIMUM FEE.
   (a)   Any dog found in violation of the provisions of this article shall be
subject to impoundment by the city.
   (b)   A record of all dogs impounded shall be kept by the city containing
the following information: color; sex; weight; height; identifying marks;
registration number (if any); and the date of impoundment.
   (c)   No dog impounded under this section shall be disposed of until after
expiration of a minimum of three full business days of custody during which the
public has clear access to inspect and recover the dog through time periods
ordinarily accepted as usual business hours. During such time of custody, the
city shall attempt to notify the owner or custodian of any dog impounded by
such facility if the owner or custodian is known or reasonably ascertainable.
Such dog may, at any time, be released to the legal owner, moved to a
veterinary hospital for treatment or observation, released in any manner, if
such dog was a gift to the animal shelter, or euthanized by a licensed
veterinarian if it appears to the veterinarian that the dog is diseased or
disabled beyond recovery. If within three full business days the owner does not
appear to claim the dog, then the dog may be sold, euthanized or otherwise
disposed of.
   (d)   If at any time before the sale or destruction of any dog impounded
under the provisions of this article, the owner of an impounded dog does appear
and redeem the dog, it shall be turned over to the person claiming it upon
payment of any impoundment fees or penalties plus the actual costs of
impoundment, and shall not apply to any dog alleged as being vicious under §
2-115 or suspected of rabies under §
2-119.
   (e)   The minimum impoundment fee shall be as approved by the governing body
and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees.
   (f)   Any dog impounded may not be released without a current rabies
vaccination.
    (g)   Impoundment hereunder shall not preclude any court from imposing and
executing any fine that might otherwise be levied under this article for
violation of any of the provisions thereof; nor shall impoundment be a defense
in any prosecution commenced hereunder.
   (h)   The redemption of any dog impounded for a violation of any provision
of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence of the violation of such
provision by the person redeeming the dog.
§ 2-208 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED DOGS.
   (a)   If any dog is not redeemed by its owner or harborer within the time
allowed for redemption as specified in §
2-207 thereof, the Animal Control Officer, any authorized law enforcement
officer, any authorized veterinarian or any duly authorized pound personnel may
destroy such dog or sell the same for the costs of impoundment and keeping,
plus any registration fee due for the current year.
   (b)   No dog may be transferred to the permanent custody of a prospective
owner unless:
      (1)   Such dog has been surgically spayed or neutered before the physical
transfer of the dog occurs; or
      (2)   The prospective owner signs an agreement to have the dog spayed or
neutered and deposits with the city not less than the lowest nor more than the
highest cost of spaying or neutering in the community as determined by the
city. Any funds deposited under such an agreement shall be refunded to such
person upon presentation of a written statement signed by a licensed
veterinarian that the dog has been spayed or neutered. If such person does not
reclaim the deposit within six months after receiving custody of the dog, the
city shall keep the deposit and may reclaim the unspayed or unneutered dog.
   (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require sterilization of
a dog that is being held by the city and that may be claimed by its rightful
owner within the holding period established in §
2-207.
§ 2-209 CONFINEMENT OF DOGS IN HEAT.
   Any unspayed female dog in the stage of estrus (heat) shall be confined
during such period of time in a house, building or secure enclosure, and the
area of enclosure shall be so constructed that no other dog or dogs may gain
voluntary access to the confined animal except for purposes of planned
breeding. Any animal that is in the state of estrus (heat) and that is not
properly confined, or any such animal that is creating a neighborhood nuisance,
shall be removed to a boarding kennel, to a veterinary hospital or to the
animal shelter. All expenses incurred as a result of the confinement shall be
paid by the owner. The owner of animals removed to the animal shelter shall be
charged at the rate established from time to time by the animal shelter for
routine confinement.
§ 2-210 MUZZLING.
   Whenever the Mayor shall deem it necessary for the protection and welfare of
the inhabitants of the city, he or she shall issue an order requiring all dogs
kept within the city to be effectively muzzled for such length of time as may
be specified in the order, to prevent them from biting or injuring persons or
animals. Such order shall be published in the official newspaper of the city
for such period of time as the Mayor may deem necessary.
ARTICLE 3: PIT BULL DOGS
Section
   
2-301   Pit bull dogs; keeping prohibited
§ 2-301 PIT BULL DOGS; KEEPING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, own or in any way possess within
the corporate limits of the city any pit bull dog.
   (b)   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PIT BULL.
         (A)   The Bull Terrier breed of dogs;
         (B)   The Staffordshire Bull Terrier breed of dogs;
         (C)   The American Pit Bull Terrier breed of dogs;
         (D)   The American Staffordshire Terrier breed of dogs;
         (E)   Dogs of mixed breed or of other breeds than above listed which
breed or mixed breed is known as pit bulls, pit bull dogs or pit bull terriers;
or
         (F)   Any dog which has the appearance and characteristics of being
predominantly of the breeds of Bull Terrier, Staffordshire Bull Terrier,
American Pit Bull Terrier or American Staffordshire Terrier; any other breed
commonly known as pit bulls, pit bull dogs or pit bull terriers or a
combination of any of these breeds.
(Ord. 1699, passed - -)
ARTICLE 4: EXOTIC ANIMALS
Section
   
2-401   Exotic animals
§ 2-401 EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep,
maintain or have in his or her possession or under his or her control within
the city any poisonous reptile or any other dangerous wild animal or reptile,
any vicious or dangerous animal, or any other animal or reptile of wild,
vicious or dangerous propensities.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or have in his
or her possession or under his or her control within the city any of the
following animals:
      (1)   All poisonous animals including rear-fang snakes;
      (2)   Apes: chimpanzees; gibbons; gorillas; orangutans; and siamangs;
      (3)   Baboons;
      (4)   Badgers;
      (5)   Bears;
      (6)   Bison;
      (7)   Bobcats;
      (8)   Cheetahs;
      (9)   Crocodilians, 30 inches in length or more;
      (10)   Constrictor snakes, six feet in length or more;
      (11)   Coyotes;
      (12)   Deer; includes all members of the deer family, for example, white-
tailed deer, elk, antelope and moose;
      (13)   Elephants;
      (14)   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
      (15)   Hippopotami;
      (16)   Hyenas;
      (17)   Jaguars;
      (18)   Leopards;
      (19)   Lions;
      (20)   Lynxes;
      (21)   Monkeys;
      (22)   Ostriches;
      (23)   Pumas; also known as cougars, mountain lions and panthers;
      (24)   Raccoons;
      (25)   Rhinoceroses;
      (26)   Skunks;
      (27)   Tigers; and
      (28)   Wolves.
   (c)   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to bona fide pet
shops, zoos, circuses, carnivals, educational institutions or medical
institutions, if:
      (1)   Their location conforms to the provisions of the zoning ordinance
of the city;
      (2)   All animals and animal quarters are kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and so maintained as to eliminate objectionable odors; and
      (3)   Animals are maintained in quarters so constructed as to prevent
their escape.
   (d)   The Municipal Judge shall have the authority to order any animal
deemed vicious confined, destroyed or removed from the city.
ARTICLE 5: CATS
Section
   
2-501   Registration and vaccination required; fee
   
2-502   Cat tags
   
2-503   Same; counterfeit tag
   
2-504   Evidence of vaccination
   
2-505   Visiting cats
§ 2-501 REGISTRATION AND VACCINATION REQUIRED; FEE.
   (a)   Every owner of any cat over six months of age shall annually register
with the City Clerk his or her name and address with the name, sex and
description of each cat owned and kept within the city. It shall be unlawful
for the owner of any newly acquired cat or any cat brought into the city to
fail to register such animal within 30 days from acquisition or bringing the
cat into the city. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any previously
registered cat to fail to maintain current registration of such cat.
   (b)   Upon registration, the owner shall present a current, completed
certificate of immunization against rabies. No registration shall follow
without evidence of this document, and it shall be unlawful for the owner of
any cat over six months of age to fail to maintain effective rabies
immunization of such cat.
   (c)   The owner or harborer of any cat shall, at the time of registering
such cat, present to the City Clerk a certificate from an accredited
veterinarian showing that a male cat has been neutered or a female cat has been
spayed, if the cat has been neutered or spayed.
   (d)   The City Clerk shall collect an annual registration fee of $10 for
each neutered male cat and for each spayed female cat, and $10 for each
unneutered male cat and for each unsprayed female cat.
   (e)   The registration shall coincide with the vaccination certificate.
(2010 Code, § 2-301)
§ 2-502 CAT TAGS.
   It shall be the duty of the city clerk or designated agent, upon a showing
of current rabies immunization and receipt of the registration fee hereinbefore
required, to keep in a book suitable for the registration of cats, the time of
the registration, the name of the owner or keeper, the number of the
registration and the amount paid therefore, and shall deliver to the owner or
keeper of the cat a certificate in writing, stating that the person has
registered the cat and the number by which the cat is registered, and shall
also deliver to the owner or keeper of the cat a tag with the registration
number and the registration year thereon, which shall be, by the owner or
keeper, attached to the collar to be used on the cat so registered. In lieu of
a tag, an implant may be authorized evidencing the registration rather than a
tag. When any tag has become lost during a registration period, the owner of
the cat may request a duplicate tag for the remainder of the registration
period. When so requested, the city clerk shall, upon presentation of the
registration certificate, issue a duplicate of such tag upon the payment of the
$1 fee. It shall be unlawful for any person to take off or remove the city
registration tag from any cat belonging to another, or remove the strap or
collar on which the same is fastened.
(2010 Code, § 2-302)
§ 2-503 SAME; COUNTERFEIT TAG.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place on any cat a tag issued for any
other cat or to make or use any false, forged or counterfeited tag or imitation
thereof.
(2010 Code, § 2-303)
§ 2-504 EVIDENCE OF VACCINATION.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cat kept within the city to fail
to display a current certificate of immunization against rabies issued by an
accredited veterinarian evidencing the vaccination of such cat.
(2010 Code, § 2-304)
§ 2-505 VISITING CATS.
   The provisions of this article with respect to registration shall not apply
to any cat owned by any person visiting or temporarily remaining within the
city for less than 30 days. However, such cats shall be kept under restraint by
the owner thereof at all times.
(2010 Code, § 2-305)
CHAPTER III: BEVERAGES
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   ENHANCED CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES
      
3.   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
      
4.   PRIVATE CLUBS
      
5.   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
      
6.   CATERERS
      
7.   TEMPORARY PERMITS (K.S.A. 41-719)
      
8.   SPECIAL EVENT CMB PERMITS
      
9.   KEG REGISTRATION
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
3-101   Definitions
   
3-102   Restriction on location
   
3-103   Minors on premises
   
3-104   Consumption on public property; exception
   
3-105   Public sale; consumption
   
3-106   Consumption while driving
   
3-107   Identification card
   
3-108   Public intoxication
§ 3-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol, but does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Alcohol, spirits, wine, beer and every liquid or solid,
patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being
consumed as a beverage by a human being, but shall not include any cereal malt
beverage.
   CATERER. An individual, partnership or corporation which sells alcoholic
liquor by the individual drink, and provides services related to the serving
thereof, on unlicensed premises which may be open to the public, but does not
include a holder of a temporary permit selling alcoholic liquor in accordance
with the terms of such permit.
   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE. Any fermented but undistilled liquor brewed or made
from malt or from a mixture of malt or malt substitute, but does not include
any such liquor which is more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   CLASS A CLUB. A premises which is owned or leased by a corporation,
partnership, business trust or association and which is operated thereby as a
bona fide nonprofit social, fraternal or war veterans’ club, as determined by
the state, for the exclusive use of the corporate stockholders, partners, trust
beneficiaries or associates (hereinafter referred to as members), and their
families and guests accompanying them.
   CLASS B CLUB. A premises operated for profit by a corporation, partnership
or individual, to which members of such club may resort for the consumption of
food or alcoholic beverages and for entertainment.
   CLUB. A Class A or Class B club.
   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT. Premises which may be open to the general public,
where alcoholic liquor by the individual drink is sold.
   GENERAL RETAILER. A person who has a license to sell cereal malt beverages
at retail.
   LIMITED RETAILER. A person who has a license to sell cereal malt beverages
at retail only in original and unopened containers and not for consumption on
the premises.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any place at which cereal malt beverages, or alcoholic
beverages, or both are sold.
   TEMPORARY PERMIT. A permit, issued in accordance with the laws of the state,
which allows the permit holder to offer for sale, sell and serve alcoholic
liquor for consumption on unlicensed premises, open to the public.
   WHOLESALER or DISTRIBUTOR. Any individuals, firms, co-partnerships,
corporations and associations which sell or offer for sale any beverage
referred to in this chapter, to persons, co-partnerships, corporations and
associations authorized by this chapter to sell cereal malt beverages at
retail.
§ 3-102 RESTRICTION ON LOCATION.
   (a)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold or served by a person holding a
license or permit from the city whose place of business or other premises are
located within 300 feet of any (church, school, nursing home, library,
hospital, said distance to be measured from the nearest property line of such
church, school, nursing home, library, hospital), to the nearest portion of the
building occupied by the premises.
   (b)   The distance location of division (a) above shall not apply to a club,
drinking establishment, caterer or temporary permit holder when the license or
permit applicant petitions for and receives a waiver of the distance limitation
from the governing body. The governing body shall grant such a waiver only
following public notice and hearing and a finding by the governing body that
the proximity of the establishment is not adverse to the public welfare or
safety.
   (c)   No license or permit shall be issued for the sale of alcoholic liquor
if the building or use does not meet the zoning ordinance requirements of the
city or conflicts with other city laws, including building and health codes.
§ 3-103 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
remain on any premises where the sale of alcoholic liquor is licensed for on-
premises consumption, or where a caterer or temporary permit holder is serving
alcoholic liquor.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for the operator, person in charge, or licensee
of any premises licensed for on-premises consumption of alcoholic liquor or a
caterer or temporary permit holder who is serving alcoholic liquor to permit
any person under the age of 21 years to remain on the premises.
   (c)   This section shall not apply if the person under the age of 21 years
is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or if the licensed or
permitted premises derive not more than 30% of its gross receipts in each
calendar year from the sale of alcoholic liquor for on-premises consumption.
§ 3-104 CONSUMPTION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, no person shall drink or consume
alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage on city-owned public property, nor any
public streets, alleys, roads, or highways or inside vehicles while on the
public streets, alleys, roads or highways.
   (B)   Alcoholic liquor and cereal malt beverage may be consumed on city-
owned public property, public streets, alleys, roads, sidewalks, or highways
when approved by the governing body and all licenses and permits required by
law have been issued. No alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage may be
consumed inside vehicles while on public streets, alleys, roads or highways at
any time.
(Ord. 2091, passed 3-24-2022)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see K.S.A. 41-719
§ 3-105 PUBLIC SALE; CONSUMPTION.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, serve or dispense any
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic beverage in any public place not licensed to
sell, serve or dispense such beverage at such public place within or under the
jurisdiction of the city.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or consume any cereal
malt beverage or alcoholic beverage in any public place not licensed to sell
and serve such beverage for public consumption at such public place within or
under the jurisdiction of the city.
   (c)   For purposes of this section, the term PUBLIC PLACE shall include upon
any street, public thoroughfare, public parking lot or any privately-owned
parking area made available to the public generally, within any parked or
driven motor vehicle situated in any of the aforesaid places or upon any
property owned by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless such
property is leased to others under K.S.A. 12-1740 et seq., if the property is
being used for hotel or motel purposes or purposes incidental thereto or is
owned or operated by an airport authority created pursuant to K.S.A. Ch. 27.
(K.S.A. 41-719)
§ 3-106 CONSUMPTION WHILE DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any cereal malt beverage or
alcoholic beverage while operating any vehicle upon any street or highway.
(K.S.A. 8-1599, 41-719)
§ 3-107 IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Display, cause or permit to be displayed, or have in possession,
any fictitious, fraudulently altered or fraudulently obtained identification
card for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor;
      (2)   Display or represent any identification card not issued to such
person as being his or her card for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or
consumption of either cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor;
      (3)   Permit any unlawful use of an identification card issued to a
person for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor; and
      (4)   Photograph, photostat, duplicate or in any way reproduce any
identification card or facsimile thereof in such a manner that it could be
mistaken for a valid identification card or display or have in possession any
such photograph, photostat, duplicate, reproduction or facsimile for purposes
relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either cereal malt beverage or
alcoholic liquor.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Lend any identification card to or knowingly permit the use of any
identification card by any person under 21 years of age for use in the sale,
purchase or consumption of any alcoholic liquor; or
      (2)   Lend any identification card to or knowingly permit the use of any
identification card by any person under 21 years of age for use in the sale,
purchase or consumption of any cereal malt beverage.
§ 3-108 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   It is unlawful for any person to be under the influence of beer,
intoxicating liquor, narcotics or other drug to the degree that he or she may
endanger himself or other persons or property or annoy persons in his or her
vicinity whenever he may be within the city.
(Ord. 1947, passed 10-14-2010)
ARTICLE 2: ENHANCED CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES
Section
   
3-201   Definition
   
3-202   License issued by the city
   
3-203   License required of retailer
   
3-204   Application
   
3-205   License application procedures
   
3-206   License granted; denied
   
3-207   License to be posted
   
3-208   License, disqualification
   
3-209   Restriction upon location
   
3-210   License fee
   
3-211   Suspension of license
   
3-212   License suspension/revocation by governing body
   
3-213   Same; appeal
   
3-214   Change of location
   
3-215   Wholesalers and/or distributors
   
3-216   Business regulations
   
3-217   Prohibited conduct on premises
   
3-218   Sanitary conditions required
§ 3-201 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENHANCED CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE. Cereal malt beverage as that term is defined
in K.S.A. 41-2701, and amendments thereto, and such term shall include beer
containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume when such beer is sold by a
retailer licensed under the Kansas Cereal Malt Beverage Act.
§ 3-202 LICENSE ISSUED BY THE CITY.
   The cereal malt beverage license issued by the city pursuant to this
article, authorizes the sale of enhanced cereal malt beverage as defined in §
3-201, by those retailers in compliance with this article and other laws and
regulations that may apply.
§ 3-203 LICENSE REQUIRED OF RETAILER.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any enhanced cereal malt
beverage at retail without a license for each place of business where enhanced
cereal malt beverages are to be sold at retail.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, having a license to sell enhanced
cereal malt beverages at retail only in the original and unopened containers
and not for consumption on the premises, to sell any enhanced cereal malt
beverage in any other manner.
§ 3-204 APPLICATION.
   (a)   Any person desiring a license shall make an application to the
governing body of the city and accompany the application by the required
license fee for each place of business for which the person desires the
license. The application shall be verified, and upon a form prepared by the
Attorney General of the state, and shall contain:
      (1)   The name and residence of the applicant and how long he or she has
resided within the state;
      (2)   The particular place for which a license is desired;
      (3)   The name of the owner of the premises upon which the place of
business is located;
      (4)   The names and addresses of all persons who hold any financial
interest in the particular place of business for which a license is desired;
      (5)   A statement that the applicant is a citizen of the United States
and not less than 21 years of age and that he or she has not within two years
immediately preceding the date of making application been convicted of a felony
or any crime involving moral turpitude, or been adjudged guilty of drunkenness,
or driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
the violation of any other intoxicating liquor law of any state or of the
United States;
      (6)   Each application for a general retailer’s license shall be
accompanied by a certificate from the city Health Officer certifying that he or
she has inspected the premises to be licensed; and
      (7)   Each application for a general retailer’s license must be
accompanied by a certificate from the city Fire Chief certifying that he or she
has inspected the premises to be licensed.
   (b)   The application shall be accompanied by a statement, signed by the
applicant, authorizing any governmental agency to provide the city with any
information pertinent to the application. One copy of such application shall
immediately be transmitted to the Chief of Police of the city for investigation
of the applicant. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to investigate
such applicant to determine whether he or she is qualified as a licensee under
the provisions of this article. The Chief shall report to the appropriate city
official not later than five working days subsequent to the receipt of such
application. The application shall be scheduled for consideration by the
governing body at the earliest meeting consistent with current notification
requirements.
§ 3-205 LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (a)   All applications for a new and renewed enhanced cereal malt beverage
license shall be submitted to the City Clerk ten days in advance of the
governing body meeting at which they will be considered.
   (b)   The City Clerk’s office shall notify the applicant of an existing
license 30 days in advance of its expiration.
   (c)   The City Clerk’s office shall provide copies of all applications to
the Police Department, to the Fire Department, and to the City-County Health
Department, when they are received. The Police Department will run a record
check on all applicants and the Fire Department and Health Department will
inspect the premises. The Departments will then recommend approval, or
disapproval, of applications within five working days of the Department’s
receipt of the application.
   (d)   The governing body will not consider any application for a new or
renewed license that has not been submitted ten days in advance and been
reviewed by the above city departments.
   (e)   An applicant who has not had an enhanced cereal malt beverage license
in the city shall attend the governing body meeting when the application for a
new license will be considered.
§ 3-206 LICENSE GRANTED; DENIED.
   (a)   The journal of the governing body shall show the action taken on the
application.
   (b)   If the license is granted, the City Clerk shall issue the license
which shall show the name of the licensee and the year for which issued.
   (c)   No license shall be transferred to another licensee.
   (d)   If the license shall be denied, the license fee shall be immediately
returned to the person who has made application.
§ 3-207 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   Each license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the place of business
for which the license is issued.
§ 3-208 LICENSE, DISQUALIFICATION.
   No license shall be issued to:
   (a)   A person who has not been a resident in good faith of the state for at
least one year immediately preceding application and a resident of Kingman
County for at least six months prior to filing of such application;
   (b)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (c)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (d)   A person who, within two years immediately preceding the date of
making application, has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral
turpitude, or has been adjudged guilty of drunkenness or driving a motor
vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or the violation of
any other intoxicating liquor law of any state or of the United States;
   (e)   A partnership, unless all the members of the partnership shall
otherwise be qualified to obtain a license;
   (f)   A corporation if any manager, officer or director thereof or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of such
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason
other than non-residence within the city or county;
   (g)   A corporation, if any manager, officer or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of such
corporation, has been an officer, manager or director, or a stockholder owning
in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock, of a corporation which:
      (1)   Has had a retailer’s license revoked under K.S.A. 41-2708 and
amendments thereto; or
      (2)   Has been convicted of a violation of the drinking establishment act
or the cereal malt beverage laws of this state.
   (h)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee; and
   (i)   A person whose spouse would be ineligible to receive a retailer’s
license for any reason other than citizenship, retailer residency requirements
or age, except that this division (i) shall not apply in determining
eligibility for a renewal license.
§ 3-209 RESTRICTION UPON LOCATION.
   (a)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any enhanced
cereal malt beverage on premises which are located in areas not zoned for such
purpose.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to sell or dispense at retail any enhanced cereal
malt beverage at any place within the city limits that is within a 200-foot
radius of any church, school or library.
   (c)   Provisions shall not apply to any establishment holding a private club
license issued by the state.
   (d)   The distance limitation of division (b) above shall not apply to any
establishment holding an enhanced cereal malt beverage license issued by the
city when the licensee has petitioned for and received a waiver of the distance
limitation. The governing body shall grant such a waiver only following public
notice and hearing.
§ 3-210 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   The rules and regulations regarding license fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   General retailer. For each place of business selling enhanced
cereal malt beverages at retail, as approved by the governing body and listed
in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees; and
      (2)   Limited retailer. For each place of business selling only at retail
enhanced cereal malt beverages in original and unopened containers and not for
consumption on the premises, as approved by the governing body and listed in
the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees.
   (b)   Full amount of the license fee shall be required regardless of the
time of the year in which the application is made, and the licensee shall only
be authorized to operate under the license for the remainder of the calendar
year in which the license is issued.
§ 3-211 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   The Chief of Police, upon five days’ written notice, shall have the
authority to suspend such license for a period not to exceed 30 days, for any
violation of the provisions of this article or other laws pertaining to
enhanced cereal malt beverages, which violation does not in his or her judgment
justify a recommendation of revocation. The licensee may appeal such order of
suspension to the governing body within seven days from the date of such order.
§ 3-212 LICENSE SUSPENSION/REVOCATION BY GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body of the city, upon five days’ written notice, to a person
holding a license to sell enhanced cereal malt beverages shall permanently
revoke or cause to be suspended for a period of not more than 30 days such
license for any of the following reasons:
   (a)   If a licensee has fraudulently obtained the license by giving false
information in the application therefor;
   (b)   If the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this section or
has become ineligible to obtain a license under this section;
   (c)   Drunkenness of a person holding such license, drunkenness of a
licensee’s manager or employee while on duty and while on the premises for
which the license is issued, or for a licensee, his or her manager or employee
permitting any intoxicated person to remain in such place selling enhanced
cereal malt beverages;
   (d)   The sale of enhanced cereal malt beverages to any person under 21
years of age;
   (e)   For permitting any gambling in or upon any premises licensed;
   (f)   For permitting any person to mix drinks with materials purchased in
any premises licensed or brought into the premises for this purpose;
   (g)   For the employment of any person under the age established by the
state for employment involving dispensing enhanced cereal malt beverages;
   (h)   For the employment of persons adjudged guilty of a felony or of a
violation of any law relating to intoxicating liquor;
   (i)   For the sale or possession of, or for permitting the use or
consumption of alcoholic liquor within or upon any premise licensed;
   (j)   The nonpayment of any license fees;
   (k)   If the licensee has become ineligible to obtain a license; and
   (l)   The provisions of divisions (f) and (i) above shall not apply if such
place of business is also currently licensed as a private club.
§ 3-213 SAME; APPEAL.
   The licensee, within 20 days after the order of the governing body revoking
any license, may appeal to the District Court of Kingman County and the
District Court shall proceed to hear such appeal as though such Court had
original jurisdiction in the matter. Any appeal taken shall not suspend the
order of revocation of the license of any licensee, nor shall any new license
be issued to such person or any person acting for or on his or her behalf, for
a period of six months thereafter.
§ 3-214 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   If a licensee desires to change the location of his or her place of
business, he or she shall make an application to the governing body showing the
same information relating to the proposed location as in the case of an
original application. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee as
approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman
Schedule of Fees. If the application is in proper form and the location is not
in a prohibited zone and all other requirements relating to such place of
business are met, a new license shall be issued for the new location for the
balance of the year for which a current license is held by the licensee.
§ 3-215 WHOLESALERS AND/OR DISTRIBUTORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any wholesaler and/or distributor, his, her or its
agents or employees, to sell and/or deliver enhanced cereal malt beverages
within the city, to persons authorized to sell the same within this city unless
such wholesaler and/or distributor has first secured a license from the
Director of Revenue, State Commission of Revenue and Taxation of the state
authorizing such sales.
§ 3-216 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of every licensee to observe the following regulations.
   (a)   The place of business licensed and operating shall at all times have a
front and rear exit unlocked when open for business.
   (b)   The premises and all equipment used in connection with such business
shall be kept clean and in a sanitary condition and shall at all times be open
to the inspection of the police and health officers of the city, county and
state.
   (c)   Except as provided by division (d) below, no enhanced cereal malt
beverages may be sold or dispensed between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00
a.m., or consumed between the hours of 12:30 a.m., and 6:00 a.m., or on Sunday,
except in a place of business which is licensed to sell cereal malt beverage
for consumption on the premises, which derives not less than 30% of its gross
receipts from the sale of food for consumption on the licensed premises;
closing hours for clubs shall conform to K.S.A. 41-2614 and amendments thereto.
   (d)   Enhanced cereal malt beverages may be sold at any time alcoholic
liquor is allowed by law to be served on premises which are licensed pursuant
to K.S.A. 41-2601 et seq. and amendments thereto, and licensed as a club by the
State Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control.
   (e)   The place of business shall be open to the public and to the police at
all times during business hours, except that premises licensed as a club under
a license issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control shall be
open to the police and not to the public.
   (f)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or agent or employee of the
licensee to become intoxicated in the place of business for which such license
has been issued.
   (g)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
intoxicated person to remain in the place of business for which such license
has been issued.
   (h)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall sell or permit
the sale of enhanced cereal malt beverage to any person under 21 years of age.
   (i)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
gambling in the place of business for which such license has been issued.
   (j)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
person to mix alcoholic drinks with materials purchased in said place of
business or brought in for such purpose.
   (k)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall employ any
person under 18 years of age in dispensing enhanced cereal malt beverages. No
licensee shall employ any person who has been judged guilty of a felony.
§ 3-217 PROHIBITED CONDUCT ON PREMISES.
   The following conduct by an enhanced cereal malt beverage licensee, manager
or employee of any licensed enhanced cereal malt beverage establishment is
deemed contrary to public welfare and is prohibited:
   (a)   Remaining or permitting any person to remain in or upon the premises
who exposes to view any portion of the female breasts below the top of the
areola or any portion of males/female’s pubic hair, anus, buttocks or genitals;
   (b)   Permitting any employee on the licensed premises to touch, caress or
fondle the breasts, buttocks, anus, vulva or genitals of any other employee or
any patron;
   (c)   Encouraging or permitting any patron on the licensed premises to
touch, caress or fondle the breasts, buttocks, anus, vulva or genitals of any
employee;
   (d)   Performing or permitting any person to perform on the licensed
premises acts of or acts which simulate:
      (1)   Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy or any other sexual act
which is prohibited by law; or
      (2)   Touching, caressing or fondling such persons’ breasts, buttocks,
anus or genitals.
   (e)   Using or permitting any person to use on the licensed premises, any
artificial devices or inanimate objects to depict any of the acts prohibited by
division (d) above;
   (f)   Showing or permitting any person to show on the licensed premises any
motion picture, film, photograph, electronic reproduction or other visual
reproduction depicting:
      (1)   Acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy
or any sexual act which is prohibited by law;
      (2)   The touching, caressing or fondling of the buttocks, anus, genitals
or the female breasts; or
      (3)   Scenes in which a person displays the buttocks, anus, genitals or
the female breasts.
   (g)   The term PREMISES means the premises licensed by the city as an
enhanced cereal malt beverage establishment and such other areas, under the
control of the licensee or his or her employee or employees, that are in such
close proximity to the licensed premises that activities and conduct of persons
within such other areas may be viewed by persons on or within the licensed
premises.
§ 3-218 SANITARY CONDITIONS REQUIRED.
   All parts of the licensed premises including furnishings and equipment shall
be kept clean and in a sanitary condition, free from flies, rodents and vermin
at all times. The licensed premises shall have at least one restroom for each
sex easily accessible at all times to its patrons and employees. The restroom
shall be equipped with at least one lavatory with hot and cold running water,
be well lighted, and be furnished at all times with paper towels or other
mechanical means of drying hands and face. Each restroom shall be provided with
adequate toilet facilities which shall be of sanitary design and readily
cleanable. The doors of all toilet rooms shall be self-closing and toilet paper
at all times shall be provided. Easily cleanable receptacles shall be provided
for waste material and such receptacles in toilet rooms for women shall be
covered. The restrooms shall at all times be kept in a sanitary condition and
free of offensive odors and shall be at all times subject to inspection by the
city Health Officer or designee.
ARTICLE 3: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
Section
   
3-301   State license required
   
3-302   Occupational tax
   
3-303   Posting of receipt
   
3-304   Hours of sale
   
3-305   Business regulations
   
3-306   Restrictions on location
§ 3-301 STATE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep for sale, offer for sale
or expose for sale or sell any alcoholic liquor as defined by the State Liquor
Control Act without first having obtained a state license to do so.
   (b)   The holder of a license for the retail sale in the city of alcoholic
liquors by the package issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage
Control shall present such license to the City Clerk when applying to pay the
occupation tax levied in §
3-302 and the tax shall be received and a receipt shall be issued for the
period covered by the state license.
§ 3-302 OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   There is hereby levied a biennial occupation tax, as approved by the
governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees, on
any person holding a license issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage
Control for the retail sale within the city of alcoholic liquors for
consumption off the premises. Such tax shall be paid by the retailer to the
City Clerk before business is begun under an original state license and shall
be paid within five days after any renewal of a state license.
(K.S.A. 41-310)
§ 3-303 POSTING OF RECEIPT.
   Every licensee under this article shall cause the city alcoholic liquor
retailer’s occupation tax receipt to be placed in plain view, next to or below
the state license in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
§ 3-304 HOURS OF SALE.
   No person shall sell at retail any alcoholic liquor:
   (a)   On the first day of the week, commonly called Sunday;
   (b)   On Decoration or Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day; and
   (c)   Before 9:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. of each night, other than
Saturday night, or after 11:00 p.m. on Saturday night, on any day when the sale
is permitted.
(2010 Code, § 3-304) (Ord. 1759, passed - -)
§ 3-305 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for a retailer of alcoholic liquor to:
   (a)   Permit any person to mix drinks in or on the licensed premises unless
the person is preparing or mixing samples for the purposes of conducting wine,
beer or distilled spirit tastings, or any combination thereof, as authorized by
K.S.A. 41-308d, and amendments thereto;
   (b)   Employ any person under the age of 21 years in connection with the
operation of the retail establishment;
   (c)   Employ any person in connection with the operation of the retail
establishment who has been adjudged guilty of a felony;
   (d)   Furnish any entertainment in his or her premises or permit any pinball
machine or game of skill or chance to be located in or on the premises;
   (e)   Have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, cask or
other containers containing alcoholic liquor, except in the original package;
or
   (f)   Sell, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver, or permit the sale,
gift or procuring of any alcoholic liquor to or for any person under 21 years
of age.
(K.S.A. 41-713)
§ 3-306 RESTRICTIONS ON LOCATION.
   No person shall knowingly or unknowingly sell, give away, furnish, dispose
of, procure, exchange or deliver, or permit the selling, giving away,
furnishing, disposing of, procuring, exchanging or delivering of any alcoholic
beverage in any building, structure or premises, for consumption in such
building or upon such premises if such consumption is within 200 feet from the
nearest property line of any existing hospital, school, church or library.
(K.S.A. 41-710)
ARTICLE 4: PRIVATE CLUBS
Section
   
3-401   License required
   
3-402   License fee
   
3-403   Business regulations
§ 3-401 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person granted a private club license by the
state to sell or serve any alcoholic liquor authorized by such license within
the city without first obtaining a local license from the City Clerk.
§ 3-402 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied a biennial license fee on each private club
located in the city which has a private club license issued by the State
Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control, which fee shall be paid before business
is begun under an original state license and within five days before the
license expires. The city license fee for a Class A club shall be as approved
by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees
and the city license fee for a Class B club shall be as approved by the
governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees.
   (b)   All applications for new or renewal city licenses shall be submitted
to the City Clerk. Upon presentation of a state license, payment of the city
license fee and the license application, the City Clerk shall issue a city
license for the period covered by the state license, if there are no conflicts
with any zoning or alcoholic beverage ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The license period shall extend for the period covered by the state
license. No license fee shall be refunded for any reason.
   (d)   Every licensee shall cause the city club license to be placed in plain
view next to or below the state license in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises.
§ 3-403 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No club licensed hereunder shall allow the serving, mixing or
consumption of alcoholic liquor on its premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 6:00 a.m. on any day. (Note: 6:00 a.m. is the earliest a private club can
serve alcoholic liquor; however, a city can set a later start time. Prior to
2018 the start time could not be before 9:00 a.m.)
   (b)   Cereal malt beverages may be sold on premises licensed for the retail
sale of cereal malt beverages for on-premises consumption at any time when
alcoholic liquor is allowed by law to be served on the premises.
   (c)   No club membership shall be sold to any person under 21 years of age,
nor shall alcoholic beverages or cereal malt beverages be given, sold or traded
to any person under 21 years of age.
(K.S.A. 41-2614)
ARTICLE 5: DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
3-501   License required
   
3-502   License fee
   
3-503   Business regulations
§ 3-501 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person granted a drinking establishment license
by the state to sell or serve any alcoholic liquor authorized by such license
within the city without first obtaining a city license from the City Clerk.
§ 3-502 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied a biennial license fee in the amount as
approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman
Schedule of Fees on each drinking establishment located in the city which has a
drinking establishment license issued by the State Director of Alcoholic
Beverage Control, which fee shall be paid before business is begun under an
original state license and within five days after any renewal of a state
license.
   (b)   All applications for new or renewal city licenses shall be submitted
to the City Clerk. Upon presentation of a state license, payment of the city
license fee and the license application, the City Clerk shall issue a city
license for the period covered by the state license, if there are no conflicts
with any zoning or alcoholic beverage ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The license period shall extend for the period covered by the state
license. No license fee shall be refunded for any reason.
   (d)   Every licensee shall cause the city drinking establishment license to
be placed in plain view next to or below the state license in a conspicuous
place on the licensed premises.
§ 3-503 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No drinking establishment licensed hereunder shall allow the serving,
mixing or consumption of alcoholic liquor on its premises between the hours of
2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day. (Note: 6:00 a.m. is the earliest a private
club can serve alcoholic liquor; however, a city can set a later start time.
Prior to 2018 the start time could not be before 9:00 a.m.)
   (b)   Cereal malt beverages may be sold on premises licensed for the retail
sale of cereal malt beverage for on-premises consumption at any time when
alcoholic liquor is allowed by law to be served on the premises.
   (c)   No alcoholic beverages or cereal malt beverages shall be given, sold
or traded to any person under 21 years of age.
(K.S.A. 41-2614)
ARTICLE 6: CATERERS
Section
   
3-601   License required
   
3-602   License fee
   
3-603   Business regulations
   
3-604   Notice to Chief of Police
§ 3-601 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed by the state as a caterer to
sell alcoholic liquor by the drink, to sell or serve any liquor by the drink
within the city without obtaining a local caterer’s license from the City
Clerk.
§ 3-602 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied an annual license fee in the amount as approved
by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees
on each caterer doing business in the city who has a caterer’s license issued
by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control, which fee shall be paid
before business is begun under an original state license and within five days
after any renewal of a state license.
   (b)   All applications for new or renewal city licenses shall be submitted
to the City Clerk. Upon presentation of a state license, payment of the city
license fee and the license application, the City Clerk shall issue a city
license for the period covered by the state license, if there are no conflicts
with any zoning or alcoholic beverage ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The license period shall extend for the period covered by the state
license. No license fee shall be refunded for any reason.
   (d)   Every licensee shall cause the caterer license to be placed in plain
view on any premises within the city where the caterer is serving or mixing
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises.
§ 3-603 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No caterer licensed hereunder shall allow the serving, mixing or
consumption of alcoholic liquor between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on
any day.
   (b)   No alcoholic beverages or cereal malt beverages shall be given, sold
or traded to any person under 21 years of age.
(K.S.A. 41-2614)
§ 3-604 NOTICE TO CHIEF OF POLICE.
   Prior to any event at which a caterer will sell or serve alcoholic liquor by
the individual drink, the caterer shall provide written notice to the Chief of
Police at least 48 hours prior to the event if the event will take place within
the city. The notice shall contain the location, name of the group sponsoring
the event, and the exact date and times the caterer will be serving.
ARTICLE 7: TEMPORARY PERMITS (K.S.A. 41-719)
Section
   
3-701   Permit required
   
3-702   Permit fee
   
3-703   City temporary permit
   
3-704   Permit regulations
§ 3-701 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person granted a temporary permit by the state
to sell or serve any alcoholic liquor within the city without first obtaining a
local temporary permit from the City Clerk.
§ 3-702 PERMIT FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied a temporary permit fee in the amount as
approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman
Schedule of Fees on each group or individual holding a temporary permit issued
by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control authorizing sales within
the city, which fee shall be paid before the event is begun under the state
permit.
   (b)   Every temporary permit holder shall cause the temporary permit receipt
to be placed in plain view on any premises within the city where the holder of
the temporary permit is serving or mixing alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises.
§ 3-703 CITY TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   (a)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct an event under a
state issued temporary permit without first applying for a local temporary
permit at least seven days before the event.
      (2)   Written application for the local temporary permit shall be made to
the City Clerk and shall clearly state:
         (A)   The name of the applicant;
         (B)   The group for which the event is planned;
         (C)   The location of the event;
         (D)   The date and time of the event; and
         (E)   Any anticipated need for police, fire or other municipal
services.
(K.A.R. 14-23-5)
   (b)   Upon presentation of a state temporary permit, payment of the city’s
temporary permit fee and a written application as provided for in division (a)
above, the City Clerk shall issue a local temporary permit to the applicant if
there are no conflicts with any zoning or other ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The City Clerk shall notify the Chief of Police whenever a temporary
permit has been issued and forward a copy of the permit and application to the
Chief of Police.
§ 3-704 PERMIT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No temporary permit holder shall allow the serving, mixing or
consumption of alcoholic liquor between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. at
any event for which a temporary permit has been issued.
   (b)   No alcoholic beverages shall be given, sold or traded to any person
under 21 years of age.
ARTICLE 8: SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS
Section
   
3-801   Special event CMB permits; permit required
   
3-802   Same; permit fee
   
3-803   Plain view requirements
   
3-804   Defining a special event
   
3-805   City special event permit
   
3-806   Permit regulations
§ 3-801 SPECIAL EVENT CMB PERMITS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or serve any CMB at any special
event within the city without first obtaining a local special event permit from
the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1984, passed 8-28-2014)
§ 3-802 SAME; PERMIT FEE.
   There is hereby levied a special event permit fee in the amount as approved
by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees
on each group or individual, and such fee shall be paid before the event
begins. Such fee shall be in addition to the $25 fee to be remitted to the
Division of Alcohol Beverage Control.
(Ord. 1984, passed 8-28-2014)
§ 3-803 PLAIN VIEW REQUIREMENTS.
   Every special event permit holder shall cause the permit receipt to be
placed in plain view on any premises within the city where the holder of the
special event permit is serving CMB for consumption on the premises.
(Ord. 1984, passed 8-28-2014)
§ 3-804 DEFINING A SPECIAL EVENT.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Shall be defined for the purposes of acquiring a special
event CMB permit to be a one-time event or function of any type within the city
that is open to the public and the sale or consumption of CMB will occur at
said event.
(Ord. 1984, passed 8-28-2014)
§ 3-805 CITY SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to serve a CMB at a special event
without first applying for a local special event permit at least 30 days prior
to the event. Written application for the local special event permit shall be
made to the City Clerk on the form used for annual cereal malt beverage sales
as directed by the City Clerk.
   (b)   In addition to any other information required, the applicant shall
provide the following:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The group for which the event is planned;
      (3)   The location of the event;
      (4)   The date and time of the event;
      (5)   Any anticipated need for police, fire or other municipal services;
      (6)   A security plan approved by the Chief of Police; and
      (7)   Verification from the Zoning Administrator that no zoning or other
ordinances would be violated by issuing requested permit.
   (c)   Upon meeting the requirements to obtain a special event permit, the
governing body shall consider the application for the special event permit and
the required supplemental information to determine whether said permit should
be approved.
   (d)   If approved, the City Clerk shall issue a local special event permit
to the applicant. The City Clerk shall notify the Chief of Police whenever a
special event permit has been issued and forward a copy of the permit and
application to the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 1984, passed 8-28-2014)
§ 3-806 PERMIT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No special event permit holder shall allow the serving of CMB between
the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. at any event for which a special event
permit has been issued.
   (b)   No CMB shall be given, sold or traded to any person under 21 years of
age.
   (c)   No more than four special event permits may be issued in a calendar
year to the same applicant.
   (d)   No special event permit issued hereunder may be transferred or
assigned to any other vendor.
   (e)   All local ordinances and state statutes for the sale and consumption
of CMB apply to holders of special event permits.
(Ord. 1984, passed 8-28-2014)
ARTICLE 9: KEG REGISTRATION
Section
   
3-901   Definitions
   
3-902   Retailer duties
   
3-903   Purchaser requirements
   
3-904   Identification requirements
   
3-905   Deposit refund
   
3-906   Violations
§ 3-901 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEER. A beverage, containing more than 6.0% alcohol by weight, obtained by
alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or concoction of barley, or other grain,
malt and hops in water and includes beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and
similar beverages having such alcoholic content.
   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE. Any fermented but undistilled liquor brewed or made
from malt or from a mixture of malt or malt substitute, but does not include
any such liquor which is more than 6.0% alcohol by weight.
   KEG. A reusable container of beer or cereal malt beverage having a liquid
capacity of four or more gallons.
   LEGAL AGE FOR CONSUMPTION. Twenty-one years of age.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, trust or association.
   PROPER PROOF OF IDENTIFICATION. A photographic motor vehicle operator’s
license, a valid passport, a United States military identification card, a
state photographic non-driver’s identification card, or other official or
apparently official document, containing a photograph, signature and birth date
of the person.
   RETAILER. A person who sells at retail, or offers for sale at retail, beer
or cereal malt beverage for use or consumption and not for resale in any form,
and includes sales of beer or cereal malt beverage in a keg returnable to the
seller. Such terms shall not refer to or mean sales by a distributor or sales
by one retailer to another.
   SELL or SELL AT RETAIL. Sales of beer or cereal malt beverage for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form, and includes sales of beer or
cereal malt beverage in a keg returnable to the seller. Such terms shall not
refer to or mean sales by a distributor or sales by one retailer to another.
§ 3-902 RETAILER DUTIES.
   A retailer, or retailer’s employee or agent, prior to or at the time of any
sale at retail of a keg, shall:
   (a)   Affix or cause to be affixed to the keg a keg identification tag, in
accordance with the provisions of §
3-904;
   (b)   Require the purchaser to exhibit proper proof of identification. If
the purchaser fails to provide such proof of identification, the retailer shall
refuse to sell the keg to such person;
   (c)   Require the purchaser to sign a declaration and receipt for the keg in
the form provided for in §
3-904;
   (d)   Record on the declaration the keg identification tag number, the date
of sale, the purchaser’s name and address, and the type, number and expiration
date of the purchaser’s identification;
   (e)   Inform the purchaser, that any deposit paid by the purchaser for the
keg, if required, shall be forfeited if the keg is returned without the
original keg identification tag intact and readable;
   (f)   Require each purchaser of any such keg to acknowledge as part of the
declaration that persons under 21 are not of legal age for consumption of beer
or cereal malt beverage and that the declaration is subject to inspection by
law enforcement personnel; and
   (g)   Provide a copy of the declaration and receipt to the purchaser.
§ 3-903 PURCHASER REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person who purchases a keg or the contents thereof shall:
   (a)   Be of legal age to purchase, possess or use beer and cereal malt
beverage;
   (b)   Provide proof of identification and such other information as the
retailer may require in accordance with §
3-902;
   (c)   Sign a declaration and receipt in the form required by §
3-902;
   (d)   Not allow any person under the age of 21 to consume the keg contacts
except as allowed by law;
   (e)   Not remove, obliterate or allow to be removed or obliterated, the keg
identification tag required by §
3-902; and
   (f)   Maintain a copy of the declaration and receipt with the keg during the
time the keg is in the purchaser’s possession or control.
§ 3-904 IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   The keg identification tag required under this article shall be in the
form of a uniquely numbered and coded tag or label, prescribed and furnished by
the City Clerk. Such tag or label is used for a single sale of the marked keg
and is to be removed from the keg by the retailer upon return of the keg to the
retail seller and maintained with the records of the sale. Such tags shall be
fabricated and made attachable in such a manner as to make the tag removable
for the purpose of the cleaning and reusing the keg by a manufacturer.
   (b)   The declaration and receipt required shall be on a form prescribed and
furnished by the City Clerk and shall include the information as required by §§
3-902 and
3-903 thereof, and may include such other identifying information as the City
Clerk may deem necessary and appropriate.
   (c)   Retailers may apply for and receive keg identification tags and
declaration and receipt forms from the City Clerk upon submittal of an
application on a form as prescribed by the City Clerk and such proof as may be
required by the City Clerk that the applicant is duly licensed to sell beer or
cereal malt beverages in a keg. The City Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for
furnishing the tags and forms required by this article not to exceed the actual
cost of furnishing such tags and forms.
   (d)   The retailer shall retain a copy of all such declarations and receipts
required on the retailer’s licensed premises for a period of six months. Such
declarations and receipts shall be available for inspection and copying by any
law enforcement officer during normal business hours for the purpose of
identifying persons suspected of a violation of law.
   (e)   Falsifying any information on a declaration and receipt shall be a
violation of this section.
§ 3-905 DEPOSIT REFUND.
   No retailer may refund any deposit upon return of a keg that:
   (a)   Does not have the required identification tag; or
   (b)   Has an identification tag that has been defaced to the extent that the
information contained on the tag cannot be read.
§ 3-906 VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Remove from a keg all or part of a keg identification tag required
pursuant to this article;
      (2)   Deface a keg identification tag to the extent the information
contained on the tag cannot be read;
      (3)   Fail to return a keg within ten days of the due date; or
      (4)   Possess a keg that does not have the keg identification tag.
   (b)   Provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply to a
manufacturer, distributor or retailer, and division (a)(4) above shall not
apply to any person who finds a discarded keg on such person’s property.
CHAPTER IV: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
   Article
      
1.   RESERVED
      
2.   BUILDING CODE
      
3.   ELECTRICAL CODE
      
4.   PLUMBING AND GASFITTING CODE
      
5.   MOVING BUILDINGS
      
6.   DANGEROUS AND UNFIT STRUCTURES
      
7.   AWNINGS AND SIGNS
      
8.   SWIMMING POOLS
ARTICLE 1: RESERVED
Section
   
4-101   Reserved
§ 4-101 RESERVED.
ARTICLE 2: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
4-201   Definitions
   
4-202   International Building Code incorporated
   
4-202A   International Residential Code incorporated
   
4-202B   International Existing Building Code incorporated
   
4-202C   International Fuel Gas Code incorporated
   
4-203   Additional provisions
   
4-204   Building Official; powers; duties
   
4-205   Building Inspector; appointment
   
4-206   Same; duties
   
4-207   Same; powers
   
4-208   Same; right of entry
   
4-209   Clarification; modification
   
4-210   Building permit required; application; approval
   
4-211   Same; application information required
   
4-212   Same; plans and specifications
   
4-213   Same; fees
   
4-214   Same; posting
   
4-215   Certificate of approval
   
4-216   Inspections of building; layout of building; foundations and footings;
notice to Inspector
   
4-217   Request for inspection
   
4-218   Inspection fee
   
4-219   Builder or building contractor defined
   
4-220   Builder’s or building contractor’s license required; building permits;
unlawful acts
   
4-221   Same; application; granting
   
4-222   Same; license fees; conditions; renewal; unlawful acts
   
4-223   Reserved
   
4-224   Insurance
   
4-225   License suspension; revocation; appeal; unlawful acts
   
4-226   Work by property owners
   
4-227   Liability
   
4-228   Severability
§ 4-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person designated by the city or his or her
authorized designee.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The City Attorney of the City of Kingman.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Kingman, Kansas.
§ 4-202 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE INCORPORATED.
   (a)   The standard code known as the 2015 Edition of the International
Building Code by the International Code Council is hereby incorporated by
reference herein and made part of this article as authorized and in the manner
prescribed by K.S.A. 12-3009, as amended. One copy of the 2015 International
Building Code shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Incorporated by Ord.
2017” with all sections or portions thereof intended to be omitted clearly
marked to show any such omission or showing the sections, articles, chapters,
parts, or portions that are incorporated, as the case may be, and to which
shall be attached a copy of the incorporating ordinance, and filed with the
City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable hours of business.
   (b)   Any person violating sections of the 2015 International Building Code
shall be punished as provided in §
1-116 of this code.
(Ord. 2017, passed 12-22-2016)
§ 4-202A INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE INCORPORATED.
   (a)   The standard code known as the 2015 Edition of the International
Residential Code by the International Code Council is hereby incorporated by
reference herein and made part of this article as authorized and in the manner
prescribed by K.S.A. 12-3009, as amended. One copy of the 2015 International
Residential Code shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Incorporated by
Ord. 2018” with all sections or portions thereof intended to be omitted clearly
marked to show any such omission or showing the sections, articles, chapters,
parts, or portions that are incorporated, as the case may be, and to which
shall be attached a copy of the incorporating ordinance, and filed with the
City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable hours of business.
   (b)   Any person violating sections of the 2015 International Residential
Code shall be punished as provided in §
1-116 of this code.
(2010 Code, § 4-202A) (Ord. 2018, passed 12-22-2016)
§ 4-202B INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE INCORPORATED.
   (a)   The standard code known as the 2015 Edition of the International
Existing Building Code by the International Code Council is hereby incorporated
by reference herein and made part of this article as authorized and in the
manner prescribed by K.S.A. 12-3009, as amended. One copy of the 2015
International Existing Building Code shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy
as Incorporated by Ord. 2019” with all sections or portions thereof intended to
be omitted clearly marked to show any such omission or showing the sections,
articles, chapters, parts, or portions that are incorporated, as the case may
be, and to which shall be attached a copy of the incorporating ordinance, and
filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public
at all reasonable hours of business.
   (b)   Any person violating sections of the 2015 International Existing
Building Code shall be punished as provided in §
1-116 of this code.
(Ord. 2019, passed 12-22-2016)
§ 4-202C INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE INCORPORATED.
   (a)   The standard code known as the 2015 Edition of the International Fuel
Gas Code by the International Code Council is hereby incorporated by reference
herein and made part of this article as authorized and in the manner prescribed
by K.S.A. 12-3009, as amended. One copy of the 2015 International Fuel Gas Code
shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Incorporated by Ord. 2020” with
all sections or portions thereof intended to be omitted clearly marked to show
any such omission or showing the sections, articles, chapters, parts, or
portions that are incorporated, as the case may be, and to which shall be
attached a copy of the incorporating ordinance, and filed with the City Clerk
to be open to inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours of
business.
   (b)   Any person violating sections of the 2015 International Fuel Gas Code
shall be punished as provided in §
1-116 of this code.
§ 4-203 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following sections of this article are in addition to the provisions of
the standard code incorporated by reference in §
4-202.
§ 4-204 BUILDING OFFICIAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (a)   This and other articles of the city relating generally to building and
structures shall be administered and enforced by the Code Enforcement Officer.
The Code Enforcement Officer shall act as Chief Building Official and may
assume the responsibilities of or with the consent and approval of the
governing body appoint a Building Inspector and such other assistants as may be
advisable for the issuance of building permits and the inspection of building
work.
   (b)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall prepare such application, permit,
inspection and record forms as may be required for the purposes of the article.
The Code Enforcement Officer may make and promulgate the necessary rules and
regulations to obtain conformity with this article pertaining to the making of
applications for building permits, issuing of building permits, and inspecting
of buildings and building works.
§ 4-205 BUILDING INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The Code Enforcement Officer may assume the responsibilities of or appoint
some qualified officer or employee of the city to be and perform the duties of
Building Inspector as may be required, subject to the consent and approval of
the governing body.
§ 4-206 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Building Inspector shall have the following duties:
   (a)   To enforce all regulations relating to construction, alteration,
repair, removal and demolition of building and structures;
   (b)   May permit, with the approval of the governing body, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of construction, not provided for in this article, and may, for the
purpose of carrying out the intent of this article adopt an accepted standard
of material or workmanlike practices of federal or state bureaus, national,
technical organizations or fire underwriters;
   (c)   To examine all buildings in the process of erection, construction,
alteration or relocation in the city for the purpose of determining whether the
work is in compliance with the permit given and in compliance with the
regulations of the city pertaining to such work, including zoning regulations;
and
   (d)   To keep comprehensive records of applications, of permits or
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices
or orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection during
stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building
Official without his or her written consent.
§ 4-207 SAME; POWERS.
   The Building Inspector shall have the following powers:
   (a)   To enter any building or structure or premises at any reasonable hour,
whether complete or in the process of erection, to perform the duties contained
in this article;
   (b)   To adopt and enforce all such prudent emergency measures as he or she
may deem necessary and expedient for the public safety under the laws of the
city; and
   (c)   May cause any work done in violation of this article to be
discontinued until he or she shall have satisfactory evidence that the work
will be done in accordance with the building regulations of the city, subject
to the right of any builder or owner to appeal to the governing body.
§ 4-208 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Building Inspector, or his or her agent, upon proper identification,
shall have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any
reasonable hour to perform his or her duties as set out in this article.
§ 4-209 CLARIFICATION; MODIFICATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall be the final determiner of the scope and
meaning of all provisions of the Building Code which may be unclear, ambiguous
or requiring interpretation.
   (b)   The Building Inspector shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Building Code upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee or his or her authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code. In approving
modifications, the Building Inspector shall see that the spirit of the code is
observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars
of a modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the Inspector
thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Building Inspector and a
signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
§ 4-210 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; APPROVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or authorized agent who intends to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish or change the occupancy of a
building or structure or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove,
convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, the
installation of which is regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to
be done within the city without a building permit being first obtained therefor
from the City Clerk, after approval by the Chief Building Official or his or
her duly authorized assistant. The application for such permit shall be made
and the permit obtained before work is commenced upon any building or structure
or the foundation thereof, or before the removal of any building begins.
§ 4-211 SAME; APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   A building permit shall be issued upon an application in writing
to the office of City Clerk on a form or forms provided for the purpose.
      (2)   This application shall, among other things, disclose the following:
         (A)   The name of the owner of the lot or tract of ground;
         (B)   The location of the building or structure;
         (C)   The building work proposed;
         (D)   The outside dimensions of the building by floors and dimensions
of the basement (if any);
         (E)   The class of occupancy;
         (F)   The class of construction;
         (G)   The kind of materials to be used for walls, floors, ceilings,
roofs and foundations;
         (H)   The estimated cost of the work;
         (I)   The date work will commence;
         (J)   Expected date of completion;
         (K)   Name and address of contractor or contractors doing the work;
and
         (L)   Such other information as may be pertinent to the issuance of
the required permit.
   (b)   (1)   An application for a building permit shall be signed by the
owner or his or her duly authorized agent, or a building contractor licensed by
the city. If the application is made by the owner or his or her agent, it shall
contain the name or names of the licensed contractor or contractors doing the
work described, or a building permit may be issued to the owner upon his or her
application disclosing satisfactory evidence that the proposed work will be
performed by the owner, himself or herself and not by a licensed contractor,
and likewise subject to the final approval of the Building Inspector for work
performed.
      (2)   If an application for a building permit indicates that it is for
commercial or residential roofing services, including construction,
installation, renovation, repair, maintenance, alteration or water-proofing,
the application shall include the contractor’s name, the contractor’s place of
business within the city (and home office if not a resident), the contractor’s
state registration number as issued under the State Roofing Registration Act
(K.S.A. 50-6,121 et seq.), and shall also be signed by the roofing contractor
or contractor’s authorized agent; provided, however, that this division (b)(2)
shall not apply to:
         (A)   An actual owner of commercial or residential property who
physically performs, or has employees who perform, roofing services on such
owner’s own dwelling or other structures located on the residential property
without the assistance of a registered roofing contractor;
         (B)   To those persons identified in K.S.A. 50-6,129(a)(1) through (a)
(8), and amendments thereto; or
         (C)   To an “exempt general contractor”, as defined in K.S.A. 50-
6,122, and amendments thereto.
      (3)   If the application for a building permit indicates that it involves
renovation, repairing or painting of a home or child-occupied facility,
including day care centers and schools, built before 1978 and will disturb six
square feet of painted interior surfaces or 20 square feet of painted exterior
surfaces, the contractor performing the services must furnish proof of state
certification as a licensed renovation firm or renovator; provided, however,
that this division (b)(3) does not apply to a home owner performing work on an
owner-occupied residence. In addition, this division (b)(3) does not apply to
any other exception or exemption set forth in the State Department of Health
and Environment Renovation, Repair and Painting Rule, as described in K.A.R.
28-72-1:54 and in 40 C.F.R. pt. 745, and amendments thereto.
   (c)   Upon approval of the completed application, including, if required,
the verification of state roofer registration or other state certification, and
a determination that a permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or
his or her assistant shall issue a permit to the owner or contractor
authorizing the building work covered by the application. If applicable, the
permit shall include the roofer registration number or any other certification
or license number issued by the state.
   (d)   Any permit issued under this section shall be valid and subsisting for
a period of not more than six months from the date of issuance unless the
permittee shall have commenced, within the period so limited, the building work
authorized by such permit. BUILDING WORK COMMENCED for the purpose of this
section shall mean the beginning of building work other than the preparation of
plans or the staking out of the building location or the letting of a building
contract.
§ 4-212 SAME; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever an application for a building permit is made, the Chief Building
Official may, if he or she finds it necessary to determine whether building
work described in the application will comply with the laws pertaining to such
work, require that the applicant file a written description or drawing of the
proposed building as may be prepared for the purpose. If such drawing or
description is insufficient for the purposes of determining whether a permit
should be issued, the Building Official may require the applicant to file
complete architectural and engineering plans and specifications for such
building, or any part thereof, as may be necessary for the Inspector to
determine compliance with this article. The filing of such plans and
specifications and the approval thereof in connection with an application for a
permit shall not in any way affect the authority of the city to deny or issue a
permit, or to inspect any building work for conformity with this article.
§ 4-213 SAME; FEES.
   (a)   The fee for a building permit shall be as approved by the governing
body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees.
   (b)   The fee herein shall be paid to the City Clerk upon obtaining a
building permit and the same shall be credited to the General Operating Fund of
the city.
(2010 Code, § 4-213) (Ord. 1861, passed - -)
§ 4-214 SAME; POSTING.
   A copy of the building permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the performance of the work and until the completion of the
same. The Building Inspector may require a certified copy of the approved plans
to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work to
the completion thereof.
§ 4-215 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   Upon the completion of any work under a building permit, the Chief Building
Official or the Building Inspector or his or her designee is authorized to
issue a certificate of approval for the occupancy and use of the building or
structure. The certificate shall show the number of inspections made and the
orders and corrections required during the course of the work. A copy of such
certificate shall be given the owner.
§ 4-216 INSPECTIONS OF BUILDING; LAYOUT OF BUILDING; FOUNDATIONS AND FOOTINGS;
NOTICE TO INSPECTOR.
   (a)   The contractor or builder having a permit for new construction, or
additions to existing buildings, shall notify the Chief Building Official or
Building Inspector immediately upon the marking or laying out of the site and
foundation for such work. The Official or Inspector shall inspect the layout
for conformity with this article and with respect to lot lines, setbacks and
location of the proposed buildings to determine conformity with the city zoning
regulations. In case of doubt respecting the required location, the Chief
Building Official may require an official survey of the lot lines to determine
conformity, at the expense of the permit holder.
   (b)   Upon completion of the excavation for the building foundation and
footings and the construction of the necessary forms thereof and before the
foundation and footings are poured or laid, the Official or Inspector shall be
notified as in the first case, and it shall be his or her duty to inspect all
such work for conformity with laws respecting location of the building
foundations and footings.
   (c)   The Building Inspector shall, during the course of all building, make
such other inspections as may be directed by the Chief Building Official to be
made during any successive stage of the construction or other work covered by a
permit in order to secure compliance with laws pertaining thereto.
§ 4-217 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of any building construction work covered by this
article, it shall be the duty of the person doing such work to notify the
Building Inspector and request that it be inspected; after which such work
shall be inspected promptly as hereinafter provided.
§ 4-218 INSPECTION FEE.
   An initial inspection fee, as set by the governing body, and an inspection
fee, as set by the governing body, for subsequent inspections required shall be
paid before any building or construction work will be approved or a certificate
of approval issued.
§ 4-219 BUILDER OR BUILDING CONTRACTOR DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDER or BUILDING CONTRACTOR.
      (1)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, corporation, association, or any
combination thereof, whether a resident or not of the city:
         (A)   Who or which undertakes with or for another, for a fixed sum,
price, fee or any compensation other than wages, to build, construct, alter,
repair, add to, wreck or move any building or structure (or any portion
thereof), or any sidewalk, driveway entrance or structure in any street, or any
advertising sign, panel poster or billboard, or any other structure, in the
city, for which a building or construction permit may now or hereafter be
required by the laws of the city;
         (B)   Who or which advertises or represents himself, herself or itself
to the public to have the capacity or ability to undertake, or submit a bid or
offer to build, construct, alter, repair, add to or wreck, remove, restore or
replace any building, structure or construction work or any portion thereof; or
         (C)   Who or which builds, constructs, alters, adds to or wrecks any
buildings or structures either on his or her own or other property for purposes
of sale or speculation.
      (2)   A BUILDER or BUILDING CONTRACTOR shall not mean or include:
         (A)   Any subcontractor, except for a roofing contractor, working
under the supervision of a general contractor;
         (B)   Any plumbers, gasfitters, electricians or other specialized
occupation for which special licenses or bonds are required by other city laws;
         (C)   Any owner or his or her authorized agents or employees making
ordinary repairs to his, her or its own building or structure not involving the
structural parts of the building for which a permit is not required or on which
a contractor, as defined, is not required, employed or engaged to perform;
         (D)   Any property owner personally performing any improvements,
alterations or building construction within or upon his or her own residence
and intended for his or her own personal use and permanent occupancy; provided,
the owner shall satisfy the Building Official as to his or her ability to
perform such work secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in accordance
with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive approval. Personal
building construction by an owner under this section shall be by himself,
herself, for himself or herself on his or her own residence, without
compensation and no person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on
such work except a builder or building contractor licensed by the city; or
         (E)   Any person engaged in construction work not involving a total
cost of greater than a fee as set by the governing body, exclusive of labor.
§ 4-220 BUILDER’S OR BUILDING CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED; BUILDING PERMITS;
UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   Each builder or building contractor shall before entering upon any
building or construction work subject to regulation by city laws, apply to the
City Clerk for a builder’s or building contractor’s license and receive the
same as hereinafter provided and have in his or her possession a valid license
authorizing him, her or it to engage in the trade or occupation of a builder or
building contractor in the city.
   (b)   No permit for any building or construction work shall be issued for
any such work to be performed by a builder or building contractor, as defined,
who has not first obtained a license upon making a proper application and
payment of the license fee as required.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, association or
corporation to enter into a contract or agreement with another so as to bring
himself, herself or itself under the definition of builder or building
contractor herein, or to perform any work as a builder or building contractor
or any work under a contract for any work involving the construction, wrecking
or moving of any building, without first having obtained a builder’s or
building contractor’s license issued by the city.
§ 4-221 SAME; APPLICATION; GRANTING.
   (a)   Application for a builder’s or building contractor’s license shall be
made upon a form to be supplied by the city which shall disclose the name of
the applicant, his or her place of business in the city (and home office if a
nonresident), the kind of contracting work engaged in (as general contracting,
roofing, siding, masonry, plastering, lathing, excavating, water-proofing,
metal work, foundation work, sign hanging, cement work and painting and paper
hanging, house wrecking, or moving and the like), the length of time engaged in
such work and places where work has been performed within the past two years.
The application shall be signed by the builder or building contractor or his or
her authorized agent. The applications shall be, by the Chief Building
Official, referred to the governing body at its next meeting for action
thereon. Such license shall be issued by the City Clerk, upon payment of the
fees hereinafter provided after approval of the governing body.
   (b)   If the applicant is in the business of a roofing contractor, as
defined by the Kansas Roofing Registration Act (KRRA), K.S.A. 50-6,121 et seq.,
and amendments thereto, the applicant shall be required to have a valid state
registration as required under the KRRA and shall present such certificate to
the City Clerk when applying for a builder’s or building contractor’s license.
No such license shall be issued until it is verified that the roofing
contractor is in good standing pursuant to the KRRA; provided, however, that
this division (b) does not apply to an “exempt general contractor” as defined
in K.S.A. 50-6,122, and amendments thereto.
§ 4-222 SAME; LICENSE FEES; CONDITIONS; RENEWAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The following license fees shall be paid for the calendar year
or major fraction thereof:
         (A)   General builder or building contractor, who shall qualify to
engage in more than one kind of contract work, except house moving, the sum as
approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman
Schedule of Fees;
         (B)   Limited builder or building contractor, who shall qualify to
engage in not more than one kind of contract work, the sum as approved by the
governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees;
         (C)   House wreckers or movers, the sum as approved by the governing
body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees;
         (D)   Sign hangers and panel posters, the sum as approved by the
governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees; and
         (E)   Roofing contractor, the sum as approved by the governing body
and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees.
      (2)   Any license issued on or after July 1 of each year shall be issued
upon payment of one-half the annual license fee.
   (b)   Each such license shall set forth the kind of contract work in which
the licensee may engage. The licensee shall display his or her license at any
place where he or she may be engaged in contract work or produce the same on
demand of any city officer. All licenses shall be renewable annually as in the
case of an original license on or before January 1 of the year for which
issued.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to contract
for any kind of work covered by this article without having a valid license
issued by the city to perform such contracts.
§ 4-223 RESERVED.
§ 4-224 INSURANCE.
   A builder or contractor may qualify us to the insurance requirements of this
section by filing a certificate of general liability insurance, with a limit of
no less than $500,000, with the City Clerk executed by the resident agent of
such company stating that:
   (a)   The required policy of insurance has been issued by such company for
the purpose required by this section;
   (b)   Such insurer will not cancel the policy except upon giving 30 days’
notice in writing to the city; and
   (c)   The certificate shall be filed for an annual period each year.
(Ord. 2072, passed 3-11-2021)
§ 4-225 LICENSE SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The license of any builder or building contractor may be
suspended temporarily, for a period of not to exceed 30 days at any one time,
by the Chief Building Official upon his or her own motion or upon a complaint
of the City Building Inspector.
      (2)   Notice shall be given in writing to such builder or building
contractor giving reasonable notice of a time of hearing of the complaint or
the matter alleged against such builder or building contractor involving any
one or more of the following:
         (A)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by applicant in obtaining a
license;
         (B)   Use of license to obtain a building permit for another;
         (C)   Failure or neglect to observe conditions of permit authorizing
encumbering of streets or sidewalks for safety of public;
         (D)   Performance of any building or construction work without a
permit where one is required by law; or
         (E)   Willful disregard of any violation of the building and
construction laws, or failure to comply with any lawful order of the City
Building Inspector.
   (b)   Any licensee may, within 15 days, appeal in writing to the governing
body from any order of the Chief Building Official suspending his or her
license for its final decision thereon. The governing body may upon such
hearing terminate such suspension within not more than 30 days thereafter, or
may revoke such license. If any license shall be revoked, the builder or
building contractor shall not be eligible for a new license during a period of
six months thereafter. No fee shall be refunded in event of the suspension or
revocation of any contractor’s license.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the occupation or trade of builder
or building contractor during the time any license of such builder or building
contractor has been suspended or revoked.
§ 4-226 WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
performing any building or construction work within and upon his or her own
residence and intended for his or her personal use and permanent occupancy;
provided, the owner shall satisfy the Building Inspector as to his or her
ability to perform such work, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in
accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive a
certificate of approval. Personal building or construction performed by an
owner under this section shall be by himself, herself, for himself or herself
on his or her own residence, without compensation and no person shall be
employed to assist him or her in any way on such work except a builder or
building contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-227 LIABILITY.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from any liability or lessen
the liability of any person performing any activity connected herewith, nor
shall the city be held as assuming any liability by reason of any inspection
authorized herein, by reason of any certificate of inspection issued by it or
by reason of any permit or license granted herein.
§ 4-228 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of the International Building Code or of this article shall
be held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the
remaining sections, the section to be completely severable from the remaining
provisions which shall continue in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 3: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
   
4-301   Definitions
   
4-302   Adoption of Electrical Code by reference
   
4-303   Additional provisions
   
4-304   Building Official; authority
   
4-305   Electrical Inspector; appointment
   
4-306   Same; duties
   
4-307   Same; powers
   
4-308   Same; right of entry
   
4-309   Clarification; modification
   
4-310   Electrical permit required; application; approval
   
4-311   Same; application information required
   
4-312   Same; plans and specifications
   
4-313   Same; fees
   
4-314   Same; posting
   
4-315   Request for inspection
   
4-316   Inspection; concealment of prior work
   
4-317   Inspection fee
   
4-318   Certificate of approval
   
4-319   Connection to installations
   
4-320   Reinspection
   
4-321   Condemnation; appeal
   
4-322   Interference by unauthorized person
   
4-323   Electrician or electrical contractors defined
   
4-324   Electrician’s or electrical contractor’s license required; electrical
permits; unlawful acts
   
4-325   Same; application; granting
   
4-326   Same; license fees; conditions; renewal; unlawful acts
   
4-327   Reserved
   
4-328   Insurance
   
4-329   License suspension; revocation; appeal; unlawful acts
   
4-330   Work by property owners
   
4-331   Approved materials
   
4-332   Liability
   
4-333   Severability
§ 4-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Chief Building Official, the Electrical Inspector,
or his or her designee.
   AUTHORIZED PERSON. Any individual, firm or corporation who or which is
licensed under the provisions of this article to do the work as permitted under
the specified provisions of this article.
   CITY. The territory within the corporate limits of this city.
   CONDUCTOR. A wire or cable or other form of metal suitable for carrying the
electric current or potential.
   ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION OR INSTALLATION.
      (1)   Includes all work and materials used in installing, maintaining or
extending a system of electrical wiring and all appurtenances, apparatus or
equipment used in connection therewith, inside or attached to any building,
structure, lot or premises, except industrial plants where full-time
maintenance is provided and other agencies providing inspections of
installations and facilities.
      (2)   ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION shall not be held to mean or include any of
the following:
         (A)   The replacement of lamps, fuses, bulbs or the connection of
portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed receptacles and
replacement of receptacles and switches, lighting fixtures, and apparatus where
no changes or alterations are made to the wiring;
         (B)   Any work involved in the manufacturing, repair or testing of any
electrical equipment or apparatus, but not including any permanent wiring; or
         (C)   Any work in industrial establishments where inspections come
under the scope of other inspection agencies.
   EQUIPMENT. Conductors, materials, fittings, devices, appliances, fixtures,
apparatus, motors and the like, used as a part of or in connection with an
electrical installation.
   INSPECTOR. The Chief Building Official or any individual who has been
appointed by the city as Electrical Inspector.
   PERSON. A natural person, his or her heirs, executors, administrators or
assigns, and also includes a firm, partnership or corporation, its or their
successors, assigns or the agent of any of the aforesaid.
   SPECIAL PERMISSION. The written consent of the Chief Building Official or
the Electrical Inspector.
   SPECIAL RULING. A written ruling filed in the office of the Chief Building
Official or the Electrical Inspector.
§ 4-302 ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (a)   The standard code known of the 2014 National Electric Code published
by the National Fire Protection Association, the same being a standard code for
the installation of electrical wiring and apparatus and available in book and
pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by reference herein and made part of this
article as authorized and in the manner prescribed by K.S.A. 12-3009, as
amended. One copy of the 2014 National Electric Code shall be marked or stamped
“Official Copy as Incorporated by the Code of the City of Kingman” and be filed
with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable hours of business.
   (b)   Any person violating sections of the 2014 National Electric Code shall
be punished as provided in §
1-116 of this code.
(2010 Code, § 4-302) (Ord. 1889, passed - - ; Ord. 2009, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 4-303 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following sections of this article are in addition to the provisions of
the standard code incorporated by reference in §
4-302.
§ 4-304 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The person designated by the city or his or her authorized designee shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article and
appointment of an Electrical Inspector in accordance with §
4-204, which shall apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-305 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The person designated by the city may assume the responsibilities of or
appoint some qualified officer or employee of the city to be and perform the
duties of Electrical Inspector as may be required, subject to the consent and
approval of the governing body.
§ 4-306 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Electrical Inspector shall have the following duties:
   (a)   To enforce all regulations relating to electrical construction,
alteration, repair or removal;
   (b)   May permit, with the approval of the governing body, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of electrical construction, not provided for in this article, and may,
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of this article adopt an accepted
standard of material or workmanlike practices of federal or state bureaus,
national, technical organizations or fire underwriters;
   (c)   To examine all buildings requiring electrical construction in the
process of erection, construction, alteration or relocation in the city for the
purpose of determining whether the work is in compliance with the permit given
and in compliance with the regulations of the city pertaining to such work,
including zoning regulations; and
   (d)   To keep comprehensive records of applications, of permits or
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices
or orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection during
stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building
Official or Electrical Inspector without his or her written consent.
§ 4-307 SAME; POWERS.
   The Electrical Inspector shall have the following powers:
   (a)   To enter any building or structure or premises at any reasonable hour,
whether complete or in the process of erection, to perform the duties contained
in this article;
   (b)   To adopt and enforce all such prudent emergency measures as he or she
may deem necessary and expedient for the public safety under the laws of the
city; and
   (c)   May cause any work done in violation of this article to be
discontinued until he or she shall have satisfactory evidence that the work
will be done in accordance with the electrical regulations of the city, subject
to the right of any installer or owner to appeal to the governing body.
§ 4-308 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Electrical Inspector, or his or her agent, upon proper identification,
shall have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any
reasonable hour to perform his or her duties as set out in this article.
§ 4-309 CLARIFICATION; MODIFICATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall be the final determiner of the scope and
meaning of all provisions of the Electrical Code which may be unclear,
ambiguous or requiring interpretation.
   (b)   The Electrical Inspector shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Electrical Code upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee or his or her authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code. In approving
modifications, the Electrical Inspector shall see that the spirit of the code
is observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The
particulars of a modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the
Inspector thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Electrical Inspector
and a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
§ 4-310 ELECTRICAL PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; APPROVAL.
   (a)   No wiring for electric light, heat or power shall be done in the city
by any person, firm or corporation without first having procured from the City
Clerk a permit therefor; the permit may be issued upon application therefor at
the office of the City Clerk, upon the payment of $10, and as provided in this
article. No more than three permits will be issued at one time to each
applicant until inspection is called for and received with applicant or
representative present. The City Inspector may grant additional permits due to
active construction in progress.
   (b)   No electrical permit shall be required for any of the following:
      (1)   The replacement of lamps, fuses, bulbs or the connection of
portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed receptacles and
replacement of receptacles and switches, lighting fixtures and apparatus where
no changes or alterations are made to the wiring;
      (2)   Any work involved in the manufacturing, repair or testing of any
electrical equipment or apparatus, but not including any permanent wiring; or
      (3)   Any work in industrial establishments where the issuance of
electrical permits come under the scope of other agencies.
(2010 Code, § 4-310) (Ord. 1872, passed - -)
§ 4-311 SAME; APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   An electrical permit shall be issued upon an application in
writing to the office of City Clerk on a form or forms provided for the
purpose.
      (2)   This application shall, among other things, disclose the following:
         (A)   The name of the owner of the lot or tract of ground;
         (B)   The location of the building or structure;
         (C)   The electrical construction work proposed;
         (D)   The class of occupancy;
         (E)   The class of electrical construction;
         (F)   The kind of materials to be used;
         (G)   The estimated cost of the work;
         (H)   The date work will commence;
         (I)   Expected date of completion;
         (J)   Name and address of electrical contractor or contractors doing
the work; and
         (K)   Such other information as may be pertinent to the issuance of
the required permit.
   (b)   An application for an electrical permit shall be signed by the owner
or his or her duly authorized agent, or an electrician or electrical contractor
licensed by the city. If the application is made by the owner or his or her
agent, it shall contain the name or names of the licensed electrician or
electrical contractor or contractors doing the work described, or an electrical
permit may be issued to the owner upon his or her application disclosing
satisfactory evidence that the proposed work will be performed by the owner,
himself or herself and not by a licensed electrical contractor, and likewise
subject to the final approval of the Electrical Inspector for work performed.
   (c)   Upon approval of the completed application and a determination that a
permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or his or her assistant
shall issue a permit to the owner, electrician or electrical contractor
authorizing the electrical construction work covered by the application.
   (d)   Any permit issued under this section shall be valid and subsisting for
a period of not more than six months from the date of issuance unless the
permittee shall have commenced, within the period so limited, the electrical
construction work authorized by such permit. ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION WORK
COMMENCED, for the purpose of this section, shall mean the beginning of
electrical construction work other than the preparation of plans or the letting
of an electrical contract.
§ 4-312 SAME; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever an application for a electrical permit is made, the Chief Building
Official or the Electrical Inspector may, if he or she finds it necessary to
determine whether electrical construction work described in the application
will comply with the laws pertaining to such work, require that the applicant
file a written description or drawing of the proposed electrical construction
as may be prepared for the purpose. If such drawing or description is
insufficient for the purposes of determining whether a permit should be issued,
the Building Official may require the applicant to file complete electrical and
engineering plans and specifications for such electrical construction, or any
part thereof, as may be necessary for the Inspector to determine compliance
with this article. The filing of such plans and specifications and the approval
thereof in connection with an application for a permit shall not in any way
affect the authority of the city to deny or issue a permit, or to inspect any
electrical construction work for conformity with this article.
§ 4-313 SAME; FEES.
   The fee for an electrical permit shall be as set by the governing body,
however, no fee shall be required to obtain a permit where the total estimated
cost, the reasonable value of all services, labor and materials required, as
approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman
Schedule of Fees. The fee herein shall be paid to the City Clerk upon obtaining
an electrical permit and the same shall be credited to the General Operating
Fund of the city.
§ 4-314 SAME; POSTING.
   A copy of the electrical permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the performance of the work and until the completion of the
same. The Electrical Inspector may require a certified copy of the approved
plans to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work
to the completion thereof.
§ 4-315 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of any electrical work covered by this article, it shall
be the duty of the person doing such work to notify the Electrical Inspector
and request that it be inspected; after which such work shall be inspected
promptly as hereinafter provided.
§ 4-316 INSPECTION; CONCEALMENT OF PRIOR WORK.
   (a)   When any electric equipment is to be hidden from view by the permanent
placement of parts of the building, the person, firm or corporation installing
the equipment shall notify the Building Inspector and such equipment shall not
be concealed until it has been inspected, approved or authorized by the
Electrical Inspector or until 24 hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays, shall have elapsed from the time of such notification. On large
installations, where the concealment of equipment proceeds continuously, the
person, firm or corporation installing the electrical equipment shall give the
Electrical Inspector due notice and inspections shall be made periodically
during the progress of the work.
   (b)   The Electrical Inspector shall have the authority to require building
contractors to open such work which, in any manner, conceals electrical wiring
that has been closed without his or her knowledge or permission, and in no case
shall the Inspector issue a certificate of approval until satisfied that the
work is in accordance with the provisions of this article. The Inspector shall
also have the right to refuse to issue a certificate of approval on any wiring,
that is concealed in such manner that it cannot be fully determined that it has
been done in accordance with this article.
§ 4-317 INSPECTION FEE.
   An initial inspection fee, as set by the governing body, and an inspection
fee, as set by the governing body, for subsequent inspections required shall be
paid before any electrical installation will be approved or a certificate of
approval issued.
§ 4-318 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   (a)   When the Electrical Inspector finds an electrical construction or
installation to be in conformity with the provisions of this article, he or she
shall issue to the person, firm or corporation performing the electrical
construction work or making the installation, a certificate of approval, with
duplicate copy for delivery to the owner, authorizing the use of the
installation and connection to the supply of electricity.
   (b)   When a certificate of approval is issued authorizing the connection
and use of a temporary installation, the certificate shall expire at a time to
be stated therein and shall be revocable for cause by the Electrical Inspector.
   (c)   In no case shall certificates of approval be issued on electrical
construction, installations or parts of installations where the work installed
does not conform to the requirements of this article.
   (d)   If, upon inspection, the installation is not found to be fully in
conformity with the provisions of this article, the Electrical Inspector shall
immediately notify the person, firm or corporation performing the electrical
construction work or making the installation of the existing defects.
   (e)   No certificate of approval shall be issued unless the electric
conductor or equipment has been installed in strict conformity with the
provisions of this article and unless the electrical construction or
installation is made in compliance with nationally approved methods of
construction for safety to life and property as herein set forth.
   (f)   The Electrical Inspector shall be deemed the judge of whether the
installation of electric conductors and equipment has been made in accordance
with the requirements of this article.
   (g)   No certificate of approval shall be required for any of the following:
      (1)   The replacement of lamps, fuses, bulbs or the connection of
portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed receptacles and
replacement of receptacles and switches, lighting fixtures and apparatus where
no changes or alterations are made to the wiring;
      (2)   Any work involved in the manufacturing, repair or testing of any
electrical equipment or apparatus, but not including any permanent wiring; or
      (3)   Any work in industrial establishments where inspections come under
the scope of other inspection agencies.
§ 4-319 CONNECTION TO INSTALLATIONS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make
connection to a supply of electricity to any building or electrical equipment
for which an inspection is required, or which has been disconnected by the
order of the Electrical Inspector, until a certificate of approval has been
issued by the Electrical Inspector authorizing the connection and use of such
electric supply.
   (b)   The Electrical Inspector may, at his or her discretion, authorize a
temporary connection.
§ 4-320 REINSPECTION.
   The Electrical Inspector shall periodically re-inspect existing
installations of electrical conductors and equipment. When the installation of
any conductors or equipment is found to be in a dangerous or unsafe condition,
the person, firm or corporation owning, using or operating the installation
shall be notified in writing and shall make the necessary repairs or changes
required to place the conductors or equipment in safe condition and have the
work completed within the period specified by the Electrical Inspector.
§ 4-321 CONDEMNATION; APPEAL.
   (a)   If, in the judgment of the Electrical Inspector, after an inspection,
any electrical conductors, appliances or equipment in any building are unsafe
or dangerous to persons or property, the Inspector shall have the power to
cause the wires or appliances to be disconnected from the source of electrical
energy supplying these conductors or equipment, and may, at his or her
discretion, seal the control switches for the same in an open or disconnected
position, whereupon he or she shall give notice to the owner, or his or her
agent, or by posting such notice at the site and shall also notify the
utilities serving the premises. Thereafter, it shall be unlawful for any person
to cause or permit electric current to be supplied to the electrical
conductors, appliances or equipment so sealed until they shall have been made
safe and the Inspector shall have issued a certificate of approval to that
effect.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector to cause all dead
wires, unused poles or electric apparatus on the outside of the buildings or in
streets or alleys to be removed at the expense of the owners thereof by giving
the owners written notice.
   (c)   When the Electrical Inspector condemns all or part of any electrical
installation, the owner may, within ten days after receiving written notice
thereof, file a petition in writing for review of the action of the Building
Inspector by the governing body, upon the receipt of which the governing body
shall at once proceed to determine the facts, and within ten days from
receiving the petition make a decision in accordance with their findings.
§ 4-322 INTERFERENCE BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSON.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to, in any manner, change
or alter electrical conductors or equipment in or on any building. If, in the
course of the erection of a building or structure, electrical conductors or
equipment are in such position as to interfere with the erection or completion
of the structure, notice shall be immediately given the authorized person or
firm installing the electrical conductors or equipment, and the needed change
shall be made by such authorized person or firm.
§ 4-323 ELECTRICIAN OR ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS DEFINED.
   (a)   An ELECTRICIAN or ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR for purposes of this article
shall be any person, firm, co-partnership, corporation, association or any
combination thereof, whether a resident or not of the city:
      (1)   Who or which undertakes with or for another, for a fixed sum,
price, fee or any other compensation to install, construct, alter, repair, add
to or move any electrical installation or performs any electrical construction
work in the city, for which an electrical construction permit may now or
hereafter be required by the laws of the city;
      (2)   Who or which advertises or represents himself, herself or itself to
the public to have the capacity or ability to undertake, or submit a bid or
offer to install, construct, alter, repair, add to, remove, restore or replace
any electrical installation or perform any electrical construction work; or
      (3)   Who or which installs, constructs, alters, adds to or removes any
electrical installation or performs any electrical construction work either on
his or her own or other property for purposes of sale or speculation.
   (b)   An ELECTRICIAN or ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR as defined shall not mean or
include:
      (1)   Any owner or his or her authorized agents or employees making
ordinary repairs to his, her or its own building or structure not involving
electrical construction and for which a permit is not required or on which an
electrician or electrical contractor, as defined, is not required, employed or
engaged to perform; or
      (2)   Any property owner personally performing any improvements,
alterations or electrical construction within or upon his or her own residence
and intended for his or her own personal use and permanent occupancy; provided,
the owner shall satisfy the Electrical Inspector as to his or her ability to
perform such work, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in accordance
with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive approval. Personal
electrical construction by an owner under this section shall be by himself,
herself, for himself or herself on his or her own residence, without
compensation and no person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on
such work except an electrician or electrical contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-324 ELECTRICIAN’S OR ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED; ELECTRICAL
PERMITS; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   Each electrician or electrical contractor shall, before entering upon
any electrical construction work subject to regulation by city laws, apply to
the City Clerk for an electrician’s or electrical contractor’s license and
receive the same as hereinafter provided and have in his or her possession a
valid license authorizing him, her or it to engage in the trade or occupation
of electrician or electrical contractor in the city.
   (b)   No permit for any electrical construction work shall be issued for any
such work to be performed by an electrician or electrical contractor, as
defined, who has not first obtained a license upon making a proper application
and payment of the license fee as required.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, association or
corporation to enter into a contract or agreement with another so as to bring
himself, herself or itself under the definition of an electrician or electrical
contractor herein, or to perform any work as an electrician or electrical
contractor or any work under a contract for any work involving electrical
construction, without first having obtained an electrician’s or electrical
contractor’s license issued by the city.
§ 4-325 SAME; APPLICATION; GRANTING.
   Application for an electrician’s or electrical contractor’s license shall be
made upon a form to be supplied by the city which shall disclose the name of
the applicant, his or her place of business in the city (and home office if a
nonresident), the kind of contracting work engaged in the length of time
engaged in such work, and places where work has been performed within the past
two years. The application shall be signed by the electrician or electrical
contractor or his or her authorized agent. The applications shall be, by the
Chief Building Official, referred to the governing body at its next meeting for
action thereon. Such license shall be issued by the City Clerk, upon payment of
the fees hereinafter provided after approval of the governing body.
§ 4-326 SAME; LICENSE FEES; CONDITIONS; RENEWAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The following license fees shall be paid for the calendar year
or major fraction thereof:
         (A)   General electrician or electrical contractor, who shall qualify
to engage in more than one kind of electrical construction work, the sum as
approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman
Schedule of Fees; and
         (B)   Limited electrician or electrical contractor, who shall qualify
to engage in not more than one kind of electrical construction work, the sum as
approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman
Schedule of Fees.
      (2)   Any license issued on or after July 1 of each year shall be issued
upon payment of one-half the annual license fee.
   (b)   Each such license shall set forth the kind of electrical construction
work in which the licensee may engage. The licensee shall display his or her
license at any place where he or she may be engaged in contract work or produce
the same on demand of any city officer. All licenses shall be renewable
annually as in the case of an original license on or before January 1 of the
year for which issued.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to contract
for any kind of work covered by this article without having a valid license
issued by the city to perform such contracts.
§ 4-327 RESERVED.
§ 4-328 INSURANCE.
   In addition to obtaining a corporate surety bond as required by this code,
an electrician or electrical contractor must procure and maintain a liability
insurance policy in the amount of $100,000 for the death or injury of any one
person and $300,000 for the death or injury of any number of persons in any one
accident and $50,000 for property damage in any one accident. Such policies of
insurance shall be issued by some insurance company authorized to do business
in the state. An electrician or electrical contractor may qualify as to the
insurance requirements by filing a certificate with the City Clerk executed by
the resident agent of such company stating that the required policy of
insurance has been issued by such company for the purpose required by this
article and that such insurer will not cancel the policy except upon giving 30
days’ notice in writing to the city; and that the certificate shall be filed
for an annual period beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of such year.
§ 4-329 LICENSE SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The license of any electrician or electrical contractor may be
suspended temporarily, for a period of not to exceed 30 days at any one time,
by the Chief Building Official upon his or her own motion or upon a complaint
of the City Electrical Inspector.
      (2)   Notice shall be given in writing to such electrician or electrical
contractor giving reasonable notice of a time of hearing of the complaint or
the matter alleged against such electrician or electrical contractor involving
any one or more of the following:
         (A)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by applicant in obtaining a
license;
         (B)   Use of license to obtain an electrical permit for another;
         (C)   Failure or neglect to observe conditions of permit authorizing
encumbering of streets or sidewalks for safety of public;
         (D)   Performance of any electrical construction work without a permit
where one is required by law; or
         (E)   Willful disregard of any violation of the electrical
construction laws, or failure to comply with any lawful order of the City
Electrical Inspector.
   (b)   Any licensee may, within 15 days, appeal in writing to the governing
body from any order of the Chief Building Official suspending his or her
license for its final decision thereon. The governing body may upon such
hearing terminate such suspension within not more than 30 days thereafter, or
may revoke such license. If any license shall be revoked, the electrician or
electrical contractor shall not be eligible for a new license during a period
of six months thereafter. No fee shall be refunded in event of the suspension
or revocation of any electricians or electrical contractor’s license.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the occupation or trade of
electrician or electrical contractor during the time any license of such
electrician or electrical contractor has been suspended or revoked.
§ 4-330 WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
performing any electrical construction or installing electrical wiring or
equipment within and upon his or her own residence and intended for his or her
personal use and permanent occupancy; provided, the owner shall satisfy the
Electrical Inspector as to his or her ability to perform such work or install
such electrical wiring, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in
accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive a
certificate of approval. Personal electrical construction or installation
performed by an owner under this section shall be by himself, herself, for
himself or herself on his or her own residence, without compensation and no
person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on such work except an
electrician or electrical contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-331 APPROVED MATERIALS.
   No electric materials for wiring of appliances or equipment shall be
installed in the city unless they are in conformity with the provisions of this
article and with the approved standards of construction for safety to life and
property. Conformity of materials for wiring appliances and equipment to the
standards of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. shall be prima facie evidence
that the materials, devices, appliances and equipment comply with the
requirements of this article.
§ 4-332 LIABILITY.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
installing any electrical equipment for damages to persons or property caused
by any defect therein, nor shall the city be held as assuming any such
liability, by reason of the inspection or re-inspection authorized herein, or
the certificate of approval of any work or equipment authorized herein or by
reason of any permit or license granted herein.
§ 4-333 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of the National Electrical Code or of this article shall be
held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the
remaining provisions of the National Electrical Code or of this article, the
section is to be completely severable from the remaining provisions which shall
continue in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 4: PLUMBING AND GASFITTING CODE
Section
   
4-401   Definition
   
4-402   International Plumbing Code incorporated
   
4-402A   International Mechanical Code incorporated
   
4-403   Additional provisions
   
4-404   Building Official; authority
   
4-405   Plumbing Inspector; appointment
   
4-406   Same; duties
   
4-407   Same; powers
   
4-408   Same; right of entry
   
4-409   Clarification; modification
   
4-410   Plumbing permit required; exception
   
4-411   Same; application information required
   
4-412   Same; plans and specifications
   
4-413   Same; fees
   
4-414   Same; posting
   
4-415   Request for inspection
   
4-416   Inspection; concealment of prior work
   
4-417   Inspection fee
   
4-418   Certificate of approval
   
4-419   Connection to gas or water supply
   
4-420   Condemnation; appeal
   
4-421   Plumber or plumbing contractor; defined
   
4-422   Plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license required; plumbing permits;
unlawful acts
   
4-423   Same; application; granting
   
4-424   Same; license fees; conditions; renewal; unlawful acts
   
4-425   Reserved
   
4-426   Insurance
   
4-427   License suspension; revocation; appeal; unlawful acts
   
4-428   Excavations
   
4-429   Work by property owners
   
4-430   Approved materials
   
4-431   Liability
   
4-432   Severability
§ 4-401 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLUMBING. The installation of gas or water pipes, fixtures, apparatus and
the necessary connections either for supplying gas or water to premises or for
the removing of liquid and water-borne wastes from premises in the city, or
both such purposes, and shall also denote installed fixtures, drainage and vent
systems and gas or water distribution systems as the case may be.
§ 4-402 INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE INCORPORATED.
   (a)   The standard code known as the 2015 Edition of the International
Plumbing Code by the International Code Council is hereby incorporated by
reference herein and made part of this article as authorized and in the manner
prescribed by K.S.A. 12-3009, as amended. One copy of the 2015 International
Plumbing Code shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Incorporated by Ord.
2021” with all sections or portions thereof intended to be omitted clearly
marked to show any such omission or showing the sections, articles, chapters,
parts, or portions that are incorporated, as the case may be, and to which
shall be attached a copy of the incorporating ordinance, and filed with the
City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable hours of business.
   (b)   Any person violating sections of the 2015 International Plumbing Code
shall be punished as provided in §
1-116 of this code.
(Ord. 2021, passed 12-22-2016)
§ 4-402A INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE INCORPORATED.
   (a)   The standard code known as the 2015 Edition of the International
Mechanical Code by the International Code Council is hereby incorporated by
reference herein and made part of this article as authorized and in the manner
prescribed by K.S.A. 12-3009, as amended. One copy of the 2015 International
Mechanical Code shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Incorporated by
Ord. 2022” with all sections or portions thereof intended to be omitted clearly
marked to show any such omission or showing the sections, articles, chapters,
parts, or portions that are incorporated, as the case may be, and to which
shall be attached a copy of the incorporating ordinance, and filed with the
City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable hours of business.
   (b)   Any person violating sections of the 2015 International Mechanical
Code shall be punished as provided in §
1-116 of this code.
(2010 Code, § 4-402A) (Ord. 2022, passed 12-22-2016)
§ 4-403 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following sections of this article are in addition to the provisions of
the standard code incorporated by reference in §
4-402.
§ 4-404 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The person designed by the city or his or her authorized designee shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article and
appointment of a Plumbing Inspector in accordance with §
4-204, which apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-405 PLUMBING INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The person designated by the city may assume the responsibilities of or
appoint some qualified officer or employee of the city to be and perform the
duties of Plumbing Inspector as may be required, subject to the consent and
approval of the governing body.
§ 4-406 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the following duties:
   (a)   To enforce all regulations relating to plumbing construction,
alteration, repair or removal;
   (b)   May permit, with the approval of the governing body, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of construction, not provided for in this article, and may, for the
purpose of carrying out the intent of this article adopt an accepted standard
of material or workmanlike practices of federal or state bureaus, national,
technical organizations or fire underwriters;
   (c)   To examine all buildings in the process of erection, construction,
alteration or relocation in the city for the purpose of determining whether the
work is in compliance with the plumbing permit given and in compliance with the
regulations of the city pertaining to such work, including zoning regulations;
and
   (d)   To keep comprehensive records of applications, of permits or
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices
or orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection during
stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building
Official or Plumbing Inspector without his or her written consent.
§ 4-407 SAME; POWERS.
   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the following powers:
   (a)   To enter any building or structure or premises at any reasonable hour,
whether complete or in the process of erection, to perform the duties contained
in this article;
   (b)   To adopt and enforce all such prudent emergency measures as he or she
may deem necessary and expedient for the public safety under the laws of the
city; and
   (c)   May cause any work done in violation of this article to be
discontinued until he or she shall have satisfactory evidence that the work
will be done in accordance with the plumbing regulations of the city, subject
to the right of any plumber, plumbing contractor or owner to appeal to the
governing body.
§ 4-408 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Plumbing Inspector, or his or her agent, upon proper identification,
shall have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any
reasonable hour to perform his or her duties as set out in this article.
§ 4-409 CLARIFICATION; MODIFICATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall be the final determiner of the scope and
meaning of all provisions of the Plumbing Code which may be unclear, ambiguous
or requiring interpretation.
   (b)   The Plumbing Inspector shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Plumbing Code upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee or his or her authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code. In approving
modifications, the Plumbing Inspector shall see that the spirit of the code is
observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars
of a modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the Inspector
thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Plumbing Inspector and a
signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
§ 4-410 PLUMBING PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   (a)   No building or premises shall be piped or fitted for gas or gas
appliances, nor shall any extensions be made in any piping or gasfitting in or
about any premises unless a permit shall first be granted therefor by the City
Clerk. The permit may be issued upon the application therefor by the owner or
person licensed to engage in the gas piping or gasfitting, upon the payment of
$10 and as provided in this chapter. No more than three permits will be issued
at one time to each applicant or representative present. The City Inspector may
grant additional permits due to active construction in progress.
   (b)   No permit shall be required for making minor repairs of any plumbing
including repair of leaks in water pipes, traps or cocks; opening up stoppage
in waste or supply pipes, traps or drains, replacing fixtures when waste pipes
are not disturbed, or replacing frozen pipes inside the building, and like
repair work not involving original installation or reconstruction.
(2010 Code, § 4-410) (Ord. 1873, passed - -)
§ 4-411 SAME; APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   A plumbing permit shall be issued upon an application in writing
to the office of City Clerk on a form or forms provided for the purpose.
      (2)   This application shall, among other things, disclose the following:
         (A)   The name of the owner of the lot or tract of ground;
         (B)   The location of the building or structure;
         (C)   The plumbing work proposed;
         (D)   The class of occupancy;
         (E)   The class of construction;
         (F)   The kind of materials to be used;
         (G)   The estimated cost of the work;
         (H)   The date work will commence;
         (I)   Expected date of completion;
         (J)   Name and address of plumber, plumbing contractor or contractors
doing the work; and
         (K)   Such other information as may be pertinent to the issuance of
the required permit.
   (b)   An application for a plumbing permit shall be signed by the owner or
his or her duly authorized agent, or a plumber or plumbing contractor licensed
by the city. If the application is made by the owner or his or her agent, it
shall contain the name or names of the licensed plumber, plumbing contractor or
contractors doing the work described, or a plumbing permit may be issued to the
owner upon his or her application disclosing satisfactory evidence that the
proposed work will be performed by the owner, himself or herself and not by a
licensed plumber or plumbing contractor, and likewise subject to the final
approval of the Plumbing Inspector for work performed.
   (c)   Upon approval of the completed application and a determination that a
permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or his or her assistant
shall issue a permit to the owner or contractor authorizing the plumbing work
covered by the application.
   (d)   Any permit issued under this section shall be valid and subsisting for
a period of not more than six months from the date of issuance unless the
permittee shall have commenced, within the period so limited, the plumbing work
authorized by such permit. Plumbing work commenced for the purpose of this
section shall mean the beginning of plumbing work other than the preparation of
plans or the letting of a plumbing contract.
§ 4-412 SAME; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever an application for a plumbing permit is made, the Chief Building
Official or the Plumbing Inspector may, if he or she finds it necessary to
determine whether work described in the application will comply with the laws
pertaining to such work, require that the applicant file a written description
or drawing of the proposed plumbing construction as may be prepared for the
purpose. If such drawing or description is insufficient for the purposes of
determining whether a permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or
the Plumbing Inspector may require the applicant to file complete architectural
and engineering plans and specifications for such building or construction, or
any part thereof, as may be necessary for the Inspector to determine compliance
with this article. The filing of such plans and specifications and the approval
thereof in connection with an application for a permit shall not in any way
affect the authority of the city to deny or issue a permit, or to inspect any
plumbing work for conformity with this article.
§ 4-413 SAME; FEES.
   The fee for a plumbing permit, as approved by the governing body and listed
in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees, shall be required to obtain a
permit where the total estimated cost, the reasonable value of all services,
labor and materials required, as set by the governing body. The fee herein
shall be paid to the City Clerk upon obtaining a plumbing permit and the same
shall be credited to the General Operating Fund of the city.
§ 4-414 SAME; POSTING.
   A copy of the plumbing permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the performance of the work and until the completion of the
same. The Plumbing Inspector may require a certified copy of the approved plans
to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work to
the completion thereof.
§ 4-415 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of any plumbing work covered by this article, it shall
be the duty of the person doing such work to notify the Plumbing Inspector and
request that it be inspected; after which such work shall be inspected promptly
as hereinafter provided.
§ 4-416 INSPECTION; CONCEALMENT OF PRIOR WORK.
   (a)   When any plumbing is to be hidden from view by the permanent placement
of parts of the building, the person, firm or corporation installing the
plumbing shall notify the Plumbing Inspector and such equipment shall not be
concealed until it has been inspected, approved or authorized by the Plumbing
Inspector or until 24 hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays,
shall have elapsed from the time of such notification. On large installations,
where the concealment of plumbing proceeds continuously, the person, firm or
corporation installing the plumbing shall give the Plumbing Inspector due
notice and inspections shall be made periodically during the progress of the
work.
   (b)   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the authority to require owners or
contractors to open such work which, in any manner, conceals plumbing that has
been closed without his or her knowledge or permission, and in no case shall
the Inspector issue a certificate of approval until satisfied that the work is
in accordance with the provisions of this article. The Inspector shall also
have the right to refuse to issue a certificate of approval on any plumbing,
that is concealed in such manner that it cannot be fully determined that it has
been done in accordance with this article.
§ 4-417 INSPECTION FEE.
   An initial inspection fee, as set by the governing body, and an inspection
fee, as set by the governing body, for subsequent inspections required shall be
paid before any plumbing will be approved or a certificate of approval issued.
§ 4-418 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   (a)   When the Plumbing Inspector finds plumbing construction to be in
conformity with the provisions of this article, he or she shall issue to the
person, firm or corporation performing the plumbing construction, a certificate
of approval, with duplicate copy for delivery to the owner, authorizing the use
of the plumbing system and connection to the supply of gas or water, as the
case may be.
   (b)   When a certificate of approval is issued authorizing the connection
and use of a temporary gas or water supply, the certificate shall expire at a
time to be stated therein and shall be revocable for cause by the Plumbing
Inspector.
   (c)   In no case shall certificates of approval be issued on plumbing or
plumbing systems or parts of systems where the work installed does not conform
to the requirements of this article.
   (d)   If, upon inspection, the plumbing or plumbing system is not found to
be fully in conformity with the provisions of this article, the Plumbing
Inspector shall immediately notify the person, firm or corporation making the
installation of the existing defects.
   (e)   No certificate of approval shall be issued unless the plumbing or
plumbing system has been installed in strict conformity with the provisions of
this article and unless the plumbing or plumbing system is made in compliance
with nationally approved methods of construction for safety to life and
property as herein set forth.
   (f)   The Plumbing Inspector shall be deemed the judge of whether the
plumbing or plumbing system has been made in accordance with the requirements
of this article.
   (g)   No certificate of approval shall be required for making minor repairs
of any plumbing including repair of leaks in water pipes, traps or cocks,
opening up stoppage in waste or supply pipes, traps or drains, replacing
fixtures when waste pipes are not disturbed, or replacing frozen pipes inside
the building, and like repair work not involving original installation or
reconstruction.
§ 4-419 CONNECTION TO GAS OR WATER SUPPLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make connection
to a supply of gas or water for which an inspection is required, or which has
been disconnected by the order of the Plumbing Inspector, until a certificate
of approval has been issued by the Plumbing Inspector authorizing the
connection and use of such plumbing or plumbing system. The Plumbing Inspector
may, at his or her discretion, authorize a temporary connection.
§ 4-420 CONDEMNATION; APPEAL.
   (a)   If in the judgment of the Plumbing Inspector, after inspection, the
plumbing or plumbing system in any building are unsafe or dangerous to persons
or property, the Inspector shall have the power to cause the plumbing or
plumbing system to be disconnected from the supply of gas or water and may, at
his or her discretion, seal the control valves for the same in a closed or
disconnected position, whereupon he or she shall give notice to the owner, or
his or her agent, or by posting such notice at the site and shall also notify
the utilities serving the premises. Thereafter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to cause or permit gas or water to be supplied to the plumbing or
plumbing system so sealed until they shall have been made safe and the
Inspector shall have issued a certificate of approval to that effect.
   (b)   When the Plumbing Inspector condemns all or part of any plumbing
system, the owner may, within ten days after receiving written notice thereof,
file a petition in writing for review of the action of the Plumbing Inspector
by the governing body, upon the receipt of which the governing body shall at
once proceed to determine the facts, and within ten days from receiving the
petition make a decision in accordance with their findings.
§ 4-421 PLUMBER OR PLUMBING CONTRACTOR; DEFINED.
   (a)   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PLUMBER or PLUMBING CONTRACTOR.
         (A)   Any person engaged in the business of installing, altering,
maintaining or repairing plumbing, which shall include all materials and
plumbing fixtures, water pipes, portable water treatment equipment, traps,
drainage and vent piping, and building drains, including their respective
points, connections, devices, receptacles and appurtenances located within the
property lines of any premises or in any building; and
         (B)   Any gasfitter or person engaged in the business of installing,
altering or repairing fuel gas piping, gas systems or fixtures.
   (b)   A plumber or plumbing contractor as defined in division (a) above
shall not mean or include the owner of a residence who personally installs
plumbing piping or equipment within and upon his or her own residence and
intended for his or her own personal use and permanent occupancy; provided, the
owner shall satisfy the Plumbing Inspector as to his or her ability to install
such piping or equipment, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in
accordance with this article and apply for an inspection and receive approval.
Personal installation by an owner under this section shall be himself, herself,
for himself or herself on his or her own residence, without compensation and no
person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on such work except a
plumber or plumbing contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-422 PLUMBER’S OR PLUMBING CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED; PLUMBING PERMITS;
UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   Each plumber or plumbing contractor shall, before entering upon any
plumbing work subject to regulation by city laws, apply to the City Clerk for a
plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license and receive the same as hereinafter
provided and have in his or her possession a valid license authorizing him, her
or it to engage in the trade or occupation of a plumber or plumbing contractor
in the city.
   (b)   No permit for any plumbing work shall be issued for any such work to
be performed by a plumber or plumbing contractor, as defined, who has not first
obtained a license upon making a proper application and payment of the license
fee as required.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, association or
corporation to enter into a contract or agreement with another so as to bring
himself, herself or itself under the definition of a plumber or plumbing
contractor herein, or to perform any work as a plumber or plumbing contractor
or any work under a contract for any work involving plumbing construction,
without first having obtained a plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license
issued by the city.
§ 4-423 SAME; APPLICATION; GRANTING.
   Application for a plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license shall be made
upon a form to be supplied by the city which shall disclose the name of the
applicant, his or her place of business in the city (and home office if a
nonresident), the kind of contracting work engaged in, the length of time
engaged in such work and places where work has been performed within the past
two years. The application shall be signed by the plumber or plumbing
contractor or his or her authorized agent. The applications shall be, by the
Chief Building Official referred to the governing body at its next meeting for
action thereon. Such license shall be issued by the City Clerk, upon payment of
the fees hereinafter provided after approval of the governing body.
§ 4-424 SAME; LICENSE FEES; CONDITIONS; RENEWAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The following license fees shall be paid for the calendar year
or major fraction thereof:
         (A)   General plumber or plumbing contractor, who shall qualify to
engage in more than one kind of plumbing work, the sum as approved by the
governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees; and
         (B)   Limited plumber or plumbing contractor, who shall qualify to
engage in not more than one kind of plumbing work, the sum as approved by the
governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees.
      (2)   Any license issued on or after July 1 of each year shall be issued
upon payment of one-half the annual license fee.
   (b)   Each such license shall set forth the kind of plumbing work in which
the licensee may engage. The licensee shall display his or her license at any
place where he or she may be engaged in plumbing work or produce the same on
demand of any city officer. All licenses shall be renewable annually as in the
case of an original license on or before January 1 of the year for which
issued.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to contract
for any kind of work covered by this article without having a valid license
issued by the city to perform such contracts.
§ 4-425 RESERVED.
§ 4-426 INSURANCE.
   In addition to obtaining a corporate surety bond as required by this code, a
plumber or plumbing contractor must procure and maintain a liability insurance
policy in the amount of $100,000 for the death or injury of any one person and
$300,000 for the death or injury of any number of persons in any one accident
and $50,000 for property damage in any one accident. Such policies of insurance
shall be issued by some insurance company authorized to do business in the
state. A plumber or plumbing contractor may qualify as to the insurance
requirements by filing a certificate with the City Clerk executed by the
resident agent of such company stating that the required policy of insurance
has been issued by such company for the purpose required by this article and
that such insurer will not cancel the policy except upon giving 30 days’ notice
in writing to the city; and that the certificate shall be filed for an annual
period beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of such year.
§ 4-427 LICENSE SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The license of any plumber or plumbing contractor may be
suspended temporarily, for a period of not to exceed 30 days at any one time,
by the Chief Building Official upon his or her own motion or upon a complaint
of the City Plumbing Inspector.
      (2)   Notice shall be given in writing to such plumber or plumbing
contractor giving reasonable notice of a time of hearing of the complaint or
the matter alleged against such plumber or plumbing contractor involving any
one or more of the following:
         (A)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by applicant in obtaining a
license;
         (B)   Use of license to obtain a plumbing permit for another;
         (C)   Failure or neglect to observe conditions of a permit authorizing
encumbering of streets or sidewalks for safety of public;
         (D)   Performance of any plumbing work without a permit where one is
required by law; or
         (E)   Willful disregard of any violation of the plumbing laws, or
failure to comply with any lawful order of the City Plumbing Inspector.
   (b)   Any licensee may, within 15 days, appeal in writing to the governing
body from any order of the Chief Building Official suspending his or her
license for its final decision thereon. The governing body may, upon such
hearing, terminate such suspension within not more than 30 days thereafter, or
may revoke such license. If any license shall be revoked, the plumber or
plumbing contractor shall not be eligible for a new license during a period of
six months thereafter. No fee shall be refunded in event of the suspension or
revocation of any plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the occupation or trade of plumber
or plumbing contractor during the time any license of such plumber or plumbing
contractor has been suspended or revoked.
§ 4-428 EXCAVATIONS.
   When it appears that the laying or repairing of any water or sewer pipes or
the making of any connection therewith shall require excavation in any street,
alley or public way of the city or the cutting or removal of any pavement, curb
or gutter or any sidewalk, during the course of such work, the application for
a permit shall so state and describe the location and extent of the excavation,
cutting or removal. Before the City Clerk shall issue any permit for such work,
the applicant shall pay any fee required by this code. All excavations shall be
barricaded and guarded as provided by the appropriate sections of this code.
Before any such excavation shall be backfilled, new plumbing work therein shall
be inspected and the bottom of the excavation holding any sewer, drain or water
pipe shall be so filled, leveled and tamped as to properly support the pipe and
permit proper drainage when carrying sewage, and the excavation shall be
backfilled and all paving, curbing, guttering or sidewalks shall be restored as
near as possible to their last condition, subject always to the approval of the
Plumbing Inspector or the Superintendent of Streets.
§ 4-429 WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
installing plumbing piping or equipment within and upon his or her own
residence and intended for his or her personal use and permanent occupancy;
provided, the owner shall satisfy the Plumbing Inspector as to his or her
ability to install such piping or equipment, secure a permit, pay required
fees, do work in accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and
receive approval. Personal installation by an owner under this section shall be
by himself, herself, for himself or herself on his or her own residence,
without compensation and no person shall be employed to assist him or her in
any way on such work except a plumber or plumbing contractor licensed by the
city.
§ 4-430 APPROVED MATERIALS.
   No plumbing materials, appliances or equipment shall be installed in the
city unless they are in conformity with the provisions of this article and with
the approved standards of construction for safety to life and property.
Conformity of materials for plumbing materials, appliances and equipment to the
standards of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. shall be prima facie evidence
that the materials, devices, appliances and equipment comply with the
requirements of this article.
§ 4-431 LIABILITY.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
performing any plumbing construction for damages to persons or property caused
by any defect therein, nor shall the city be held as assuming any such
liability, by reason of the inspection or re-inspection authorized herein, or
the certificate of approval of any work or equipment authorized herein or by
reason of any permit or license granted herein.
§ 4-432 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of the Uniform Plumbing Code or of this article shall be held
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the remaining
provisions of the Uniform Plumbing Code or of this article, the section is to
be completely severable from the remaining provisions which shall continue in
full force and effect.
ARTICLE 5: MOVING BUILDINGS
Section
   
4-501   Building Official; authority
   
4-502   Permit required
   
4-503   Same: application for permit
   
4-504   Same; bond, insurance required
   
4-505   Same; fee
   
4-506   Contractor; license required; fee
   
4-507   Route; duties of Building Official
   
4-508   Notice to owners
   
4-509   Duty of owners
   
4-510   Interfering with poles; wires
   
4-511   Display of lanterns
§ 4-501 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The person designated by the city or his or her authorized designee shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article and
appointment of an inspector in accordance with §§ 4-204 through 4-209, which
apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-502 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall move, haul or transport any house,
building, derrick or other structure of the height when loaded for movement of
16 feet or more from the surface of the highway, road, street or alley, or a
width of eight feet or more or which cannot be moved at a speed of four mph or
faster, upon, across or over any street, alley or sidewalk in this city without
first obtaining a permit therefor.
(K.S.A. 17-1914)
§ 4-503 SAME: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   All applications for permits required under the provisions of this article
shall be made in writing to the City Clerk specifying the day and hour said
moving is to commence and the route through the city’s streets over which the
house, building, derrick or other structure shall be moved and stating whether
it will be necessary to cut and move, raise or in any way interfere with any
wires, cables or other aerial equipment of any public or municipally-owned
utility, and if so, the application shall also state the name of the public or
municipally-owned utility, and the time and location that the applicant’s
moving operations shall necessitate the cutting, moving, raising or otherwise
interfering with such aerial facilities.
(K.S.A. 17-1915)
§ 4-504 SAME; BOND, INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of any person at the time of making application
for a permit as provided in this article to give a good and sufficient surety
bond to the city, to be approved by the governing body, indemnifying the city
against any loss or damage resulting from the failure of any such person to
comply with the provisions of this article or for any damage or injury caused
in moving any such house or structure. The bond herein shall be in the sum of
$5,000, or cash may be deposited in lieu of such surety bond.
   (b)   A public liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state, in the amount of $100,000 per person,
$300,000 per accident as to personal injury, and $50,000 property damage may be
permitted in lieu of a bond.
§ 4-505 SAME; FEE.
   Before any permit to move any house or structure is given under the
provisions of this article, the applicant shall pay a fee as approved by the
governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Feesto the
City Clerk, plus the additional cost for the time for any city crews involved
in such moving.
§ 4-506 CONTRACTOR; LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   The provisions of §§
4-219 through
4-225 shall apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-507 ROUTE; DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The City Clerk shall, upon filing of the above application, refer the same
to the Chief Building Official or his or her authorized designee to check the
proposed route and determine if it is practical to move such house or other
structure over the route proposed. If it shall appear that such route is not
practical, and another route may be used equally well with less danger to
street and travel, then he or she may designate such other route as the one to
be used and shall notify the applicant of the same. The Building Official may
also require the planking of any street, bridge or culvert or any part thereof
to prevent damage thereto. It shall also be the duty of the Chief Building
Official or his or her authorized designee to inspect the progress of moving
any house or other structure to see that the same is being moved in accordance
with the provisions of this article.
§ 4-508 NOTICE TO OWNERS.
   (a)   Upon issuance of a moving permit, the applicant shall give not less
than 15 days’ written notice to any person owning or operating any wires,
cables or other aerial equipment along the proposed route of the intent to move
the structure, giving the time and location that the applicants moving
operation shall necessitate the cutting, moving, raising or interfering of any
wires, cables or other aerial equipment.
   (b)   The notice provision of division (a) above shall not apply where the
person owning or operating any wires, cables or other aerial equipment has
waived their right to advance notice.
   (c)   Should the moving operation be delayed, the applicant shall give the
owner or his or her agent not less than 24 hours’ advance notice of the actual
operation.
(K.S.A. 17-1916)
§ 4-509 DUTY OF OWNERS.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the person or the city owning or operating
such poles or wires after service of notice as provided herein, to furnish
competent lineman or workers to remove such poles, or raise or cut such wires
as will be necessary to facilitate the moving of such house or structure. The
necessary expense which is incurred thereby shall be paid by the holder of the
moving permit.
   (b)   The owner of any wires, cables or other aerial equipment, after
service of notice as provided in §
4-508, shall be liable to the permit holder for damages in an amount not to
exceed $100 per day for each day the owner shall fail or refuse to accommodate
the permit holder’s moving operations.
(K.S.A. 17-1917)
§ 4-510 INTERFERING WITH POLES; WIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in moving any house or other
structure to raise, cut or in any way interfere with any wires or poles bearing
wires or any other aerial equipment.
(K.S.A. 17-1918)
§ 4-511 DISPLAY OF LANTERNS.
   It shall be the duty of any person moving any of the structures mentioned in
this article upon or across any street, alley or sidewalk or other public
place, in this city, to display red lanterns thereon in such a manner as to
show the extreme height and width thereof from sunset to sunrise.
ARTICLE 6: DANGEROUS AND UNFIT STRUCTURES
Section
   
4-601   Purpose
   
4-602   Definitions
   
4-603   Enforcing officer; duties
   
4-604   Procedure; petition
   
4-605   Same; notice
   
4-606   Same; publication
   
4-607   Same; hearing, order
   
4-608   Duty of owner
   
4-609   Same; failure to comply
   
4-610   Same; make site safe
   
4-611   Assessment of costs
   
4-612   Immediate hazard
   
4-613   Appeals from order
   
4-614   Scope of article
§ 4-601 PURPOSE.
   The governing body has found that there exists within the corporate limits
of the city structures which are unfit for human use or habitation because of
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire or accidents, structural
defects or other conditions which render such structures unsafe, unsanitary or
otherwise inimical to the general welfare of the city, or conditions which
provide a general blight upon the neighborhood or surrounding properties. It is
hereby deemed necessary by the governing body to require or cause the repair,
closing or demolition or removal of such structures as provided in this
article.
(K.S.A. 12-1751)
§ 4-602 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCING OFFICER. The person designated by the city or his or her
authorized representative.
   STRUCTURE. Includes any building, wall, superstructure or other structure
which requires location on the ground, or is attached to something having a
location on the ground.
(K.S.A. 12-1750)
§ 4-603 ENFORCING OFFICER; DUTIES.
   The enforcing officer is hereby authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary to carry out the purposes of this article, including the following:
   (a)   Inspect any structure which appears to be unsafe, dangerous or unfit
for human habitation;
   (b)   Have authority to enter upon premises at reasonable hours for the
purpose of making such inspections. Entry shall be made so as to cause the
least possible inconvenience to any person in possession of the structure. If
entry is denied, the enforcing officer may seek an order for this purpose from
a court of competent jurisdiction;
   (c)   Report all structures which he or she believes to be dangerous, unsafe
or unfit for human habitation to the governing body; and
   (d)   Receive petitions as provided in this article.
§ 4-604 PROCEDURE; PETITION.
   Whenever a petition is filed with the enforcing officer by at least five
residents charging that any structure is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human
habitation, or whenever it appears to the enforcing officer on his or her own
motion that any structure is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human habitation,
he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
such charges, report such findings to the governing body.
§ 4-605 SAME; NOTICE.
   The governing body, upon receiving a report as provided in §
4-604, shall by resolution fix a time and place at which the owner, the owner’s
agent, any lienholder of records and any occupant of the structure may appear
and show cause why the structure should not be condemned and ordered repaired
or demolished.
(K.S.A. 12-1752)
§ 4-606 SAME; PUBLICATION.
   (a)   The resolution shall be published once each week for two consecutive
weeks on the same day of each week. At least 30 days shall elapse between the
last publication and the date set for the hearing.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be mailed by certified mail within
three days after its first publication to each owner, agent, lienholder and
occupant at the last known place of residence and shall be marked “deliver to
addressee only”.
(K.S.A. 12-1752)
§ 4-607 SAME; HEARING, ORDER.
   If, after notice and hearing, the governing body determines that the
structure under consideration is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human use or
habitation, it shall state in writing its findings of fact in support of such
determination and shall cause the resolution to be published once in the
official city newspaper and a copy mailed to the owners, agents, lienholders of
record and occupants in the same manner provided for the notice of hearing. The
resolution shall fix a reasonable time within which the repair or removal of
such structure shall be commenced and a statement that if the owner of such
structure fails to commence the repair or removal of such structure within the
time stated or fails to diligently prosecute the same until the work is
completed, the governing body will cause the structure to be razed and removed.
§ 4-608 DUTY OF OWNER.
   Whenever any structure within the city shall be found to be dangerous,
unsafe or unfit for human use or habitation, it shall be the duty and
obligation of the owner of the property to render the same secure and safe, or
to remove the same.
§ 4-609 SAME; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (a)   If, within the time specified in the order, the owner fails to comply
with the order to repair, alter, improve or vacate the structure, the enforcing
officer may cause the structure to be repaired, altered, improved or to be
vacated and closed.
   (b)   If, within the time specified in the order, the owner fails to comply
with the order to remove or demolish the structure, the enforcing officer may
cause the structure to be removed and demolished.
§ 4-610 SAME; MAKE SITE SAFE.
   Upon removal of any structure, the owner shall fill any basement or other
excavation located upon the premises and take any other action necessary to
leave the premises in a safe condition. If the owner fails to take such action,
the enforcing officer may proceed to make the site safe.
§ 4-611 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (a)   The cost to the city of any repairs, alterations, improvements,
vacating, removal or demolition by the enforcing officer, including making the
site safe, shall be reported to the City Clerk.
   (b)   The city shall give notice to the owner of the structure by restricted
mail of the cost of removing the structure and making the premises safe and
secure. The notice shall also state that payment of the cost is due and payable
within 30 days following receipt of the notice.
   (c)   If the costs remain unpaid after 30 days following receipt of notice,
the City Clerk may sell any salvage from the structure and apply the proceeds
or any necessary portion thereof to pay the cost of removing the structure and
making the site safe. Any proceeds in excess of that required to recover the
costs shall be paid to the owner of the premises upon which the structure was
located.
   (d)   If the proceeds of the sale of salvage or from the proceeds of any
insurance policy in which the city has created a lien pursuant to K.S.A. 40-
3901 et seq., and amendments thereto, are insufficient to recover the above
stated costs, or if there is no salvage, the balance shall be collected in the
manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or shall be
assessed as special assessments against the lot or parcel of land on which the
structure was located and the City Clerk, at the time of certifying other city
taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs to the County Clerk and
who shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against such lot or
parcel of land and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer and paid to
the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may pursue
collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner provided by
K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full cost and
applicable interest has been paid in full.
   (e)   If there is no salvage material, or if the monies received from the
sale of salvage or from the proceeds of any insurance policy in which the city
has created a lien pursuant to K.S.A. 40-3901 et seq., and amendments thereto,
are insufficient to pay the costs of the work and the costs of providing
notice, such costs or any portion thereof in excess of that received from the
sale of salvage or any insurance proceeds may be financed, until the costs are
paid, out of the General Fund or by the issuance of no-fund warrants.
(K.S.A. 12-1755)
§ 4-612 IMMEDIATE HAZARD.
   When, in the opinion of the governing body, any structure is in such
condition as to constitute an immediate hazard requiring immediate action to
protect the public, the governing body may direct the enforcing officer to
erect barricades or cause the property to be vacated, taken down, repaired,
shored or otherwise made safe without delay. Such action may be taken without
prior notice to or hearing of the owners, agents, lienholders and occupants.
The cost of any action under this section shall be assessed against the
property as provided in §
4-611.
(K.S.A. 12-1756)
§ 4-613 APPEALS FROM ORDER.
   Any person affected by an order issued by the governing body under this
article may, within 30 days following service of the order, petition the
District Court of the county in which the structure is located for an
injunction restraining the enforcing officer from carrying out the provisions
of the order pending final disposition of the case.
§ 4-614 SCOPE OF ARTICLE.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers
of the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its
charter or its ordinances or regulations, nor to prevent or punish violations
thereof; and the powers conferred by this article shall be in addition to and
supplemental to the powers conferred by the Constitution, any other law or
ordinance. Nothing in this article shall be construed to impair or limit in any
way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and to cause their
removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise or to exercise those
powers granted specifically by K.S.A. 12-1750 to 12-1756.
ARTICLE 7: AWNINGS AND SIGNS
Section
   
4-701   Definition
   
4-702   Compliance
   
4-703   Permit; required; fee
   
4-704   Retractable awnings prohibited on certain street
   
4-705   Supports
   
4-706   Extension and height restriction; alley or public way less than 26 feet
wide
   
4-707   Extension and height restriction; rigid structures
   
4-708   Extension and height; retractable structures
   
4-709   Slope
   
4-710   Drainage
   
4-711   General restrictions
   
4-712   Existing structures; compliance; exceptions
§ 4-701 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIGNS AND ADVERTISING STRUCTURES AND DEVICES. Any poster, bill, printing,
painting or other device intended as advertising, whether commercial or
otherwise, as well as the structure or device upon which the same is supported,
placed or displayed.
(2010 Code, § 4-701)
§ 4-702 COMPLIANCE.
   All awnings, canopies, marquees, balconies, signs and advertising structures
and devices now existing within the city, or hereafter erected, along the
streets, avenues, alleys and public ways of the city, shall conform to the
locations, specifications and requirements set out in this article, except as
limited or qualified in this article.
(2010 Code, § 4-702)
§ 4-703 PERMIT; REQUIRED; FEE.
   No person shall build, erect or construct any new awning, canopy, marquee,
balcony, sign or advertising structure, or remodel or change any existing
awning, canopy, marquee, balcony, sign or advertising structure along the
streets, avenues, alleys and other public ways of the city without first
obtaining a permit from the city and paying a fee as approved by the governing
body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees. Such permit may
be obtained by filing with the City Clerk plans and specifications for such
building, erection, construction, remodeling or changing in keeping with the
provisions set out in this article.
(2010 Code, § 4-703)
§ 4-704 RETRACTABLE AWNINGS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREET.
   For purpose of uniformity and beautification within the immediate business
area of the city, retractable awnings are prohibited along the Main Street of
the city from Sherman Street to Avenue “D”.
(2010 Code, § 4-704)
§ 4-705 SUPPORTS.
   (a)   Generally. No structure extending outside the property line shall be
supported or connected by a post or other support located outside the property
line, but shall be supported from the building, or by a post or structure
wholly within the property line.
   (b)   Exception. Support may be placed for balconies on public property when
the balcony and supports have been reviewed and approved by the Downtown
Development Board. This exception is for buildings and/or property located
within one-half block east and west of Main Street from Avenue D to Sherman
Avenue.
(2010 Code, § 4-705) (Ord. 1907, passed - -)
§ 4-706 EXTENSION AND HEIGHT RESTRICTION; ALLEY OR PUBLIC WAY LESS THAN 26 FEET
WIDE.
   No awning, canopy, marquee, balcony sign or advertising structure or device
along an alley or public way less than 26 feet in width shall be at a lesser
height above the grade level than 15 feet, nor extend outward from the property
line a greater distance than three feet.
(2010 Code, § 4-706)
§ 4-707 EXTENSION AND HEIGHT RESTRICTION; RIGID STRUCTURES.
   No rigid awning, canopy, marquee or balcony along a street or avenue, nor
any part thereof, shall be at a lesser height above the sidewalk level than
eight feet nor extend outward from the property line a greater distance than
ten feet, nor in any event to a point beyond one foot back from the back of the
curb.
(2010 Code, § 4-707)
§ 4-708 EXTENSION AND HEIGHT RESTRICTION; RETRACTABLE STRUCTURES.
   No retractable awning, marquee or canopy along a street or avenue shall be
maintained, let down or extended outward so that any part of the frame or rigid
portion thereof shall be at a lesser height above the sidewalk level than seven
feet nor extend outward from the property line a greater distance than ten
feet, nor in any event to a point beyond one foot back from the back of the
curb.
(2010 Code, § 4-708)
§ 4-709 SLOPE.
   The slope of any awning, canopy, marquee or balcony shall not be more than
one-half-inch to one foot of the width of such awning, canopy, marquee or
balcony.
(2010 Code, § 4-709)
§ 4-710 DRAINAGE.
   All awnings, canopies, marquees and balconies shall be further constructed
in either one of the two ways provided as follows:
   (a)   Such may be constructed so as to drain toward the building to which
they are attached, and the discharge of the water from such awning, canopy,
marquee or balcony shall be against the building, however, the water shall be
discharged into a pipe or other similar structure which shall carry the water
along the side of the building to and into the sidewalk and then under the
sidewalk to be discharged into the gutter in front of or side of the building;
or
   (b)   Such may be constructed so as to drain away from the building and the
discharge of water from such awning, canopy, marquee or balcony at control and
discharge point of not less than one per 25 feet nor more than two per 25 feet
of length of such awning, canopy, marquee or balcony with such control and
discharge points constructed at such an angle as to cause the discharge
therefrom to an angle toward the gutter in front or side of the building.
(2010 Code, § 4-710)
§ 4-711 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   No such sign or advertising structure or device shall be printed,
pasted, placed or displayed upon any sidewalk or the paving or surface of any
street or public way.
   (b)   No such sign or advertising structure or device along any street or
avenue shall be at a lesser height above the sidewalk level than eight feet,
nor extend outward from the property line a greater distance than eight feet,
nor in any event to a point beyond one foot back from the back of the curb;
provided, that as to any structure or device used as a sign, peculiar to the
trade, occupation or profession practiced at the location that does not extend
outward from the property line a distance greater than 12 inches, the
limitation as to height above the sidewalk may be reduced to six feet; provided
further, that as to any sign painted on the door, window or wall of the
building, or displayed on a structure not to exceed three inches in thickness
attached to the building, the limitations as to height above the sidewalk level
shall not apply.
(2010 Code, § 4-711)
§ 4-712 EXISTING STRUCTURES; COMPLIANCE; EXCEPTIONS.
   All such structures as designated in this article conform as to location,
specifications and requirements of this article shall be made to so conform
within 90 days; provided, that any such structures now supported solely from
the building or by a post or other structure located entirely upon private
property, and no part thereof below seven feet above the sidewalk or grade
level, may be allowed to remain and be used as the same are now constructed
until and unless the same shall need material repair or reconstruction, or are
changed in type, in which event, the same shall be constructed to meet the
requirements as set out in this article, or any amendment thereof; provided
further, that by resolution of the governing body, any such structures that do
not conform to the requirements of this article, or any amendments thereof, may
be ordered to be made to so conform. Notice of the enactment of such resolution
shall be served, in writing, upon the owner or operator of the premises where
such structure is to be altered, and such structure shall be made to so conform
within not to exceed 60 days from the service of the notice.
(2010 Code, § 4-712)
ARTICLE 8: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
4-801   Definitions
   
4-802   Permit; application
   
4-803   Applications; plans and drawings
   
4-804   Permit; fee
   
4-805   Location
   
4-806   General regulations
   
4-807   Family swimming pools; material
   
4-808   Same; walls and markings
   
4-809   Same; water inlets; outlets and drainage
   
4-810   Same; water requirements
   
4-811   Wiring and plumbing
   
4-812   Walk area
   
4-813   Fences
   
4-814   Construction, operation and maintenance; compliance
   
4-815   Inspections
   
4-816   Above-ground swimming pools
§ 4-801 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FAMILY SWIMMING POOLS. Any artificial or controlled body of water used
primarily for swimming or recreative bathing, having a depth of two feet at any
point and a surface area of 200 square feet, used by the owner or friends and
patrons thereof, invited and permitted to use such pool without charge.
   PUBLIC SWIMMING POOL. Any artificial or controlled body of water used
primarily for swimming or recreative bathing, having a depth of two feet at any
point and a surface area of 200 square feet, open to the public or operated in
conjunction with any business open to the public, and where a fee is charged
for the use thereof.
(2010 Code, § 4-801)
§ 4-802 PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   Before work is commenced on the construction of either a public swimming
pool or a family swimming pool, or any alteration, addition, remodeling or
other improvement thereof, a permit must be obtained from the City Clerk for
such work. An application for permission to construct, alter, add to, remodel
or otherwise improve either a public or family swimming pool must be filed with
the Building Inspector of this city, along with complete plans and
specifications for such work, and must have the approval of the Mayor and the
City Commissioners before a permit may be issued.
(2010 Code, § 4-802)
§ 4-803 APPLICATIONS; PLANS AND DRAWINGS.
   All plans and drawings shall be drawn to scale on paper or cloth, in ink or
by sole process that will not fade or obliterate. All distances and dimensions
shall be accurately figured and draftings made explicit and complete showing
lot lines and including information pertaining to the pool, walk and fence
construction, water supply system, drainage, and water disposal systems, and
all appurtenances pertaining to the public or family swimming pool. Detailed
plans and vertical elevations shall also be provided.
(2010 Code, § 4-803)
§ 4-804 PERMIT; FEE.
   There shall be a fee as approved by the governing body and listed in the
latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees charged for the permit to construct any
public or family swimming pool.
(2010 Code, § 4-804)
§ 4-805 LOCATION.
   (a)   Any public swimming pool may be permitted in any area zoned for
business, commercial or industrial use. Such swimming pool may be located upon
the lot to conform with the existing building code for such areas.
   (b)   Family swimming pools may be located in areas zoned for residential,
commercial or industrial uses. No family swimming pool may be located nearer to
the street property line, alley property line, or the property line, than as
set forth in this section. No wall of a family swimming pool shall be located
at a distance of less than eight feet from any side or rear property line or
less than 30 feet from the front property line, and all pumps, filters and pool
water disinfection equipment, and other equipment necessary thereto in the
operation and maintenance of the swimming pool shall also conform to the
restrictions set out in this article.
(2010 Code, § 4-805)
§ 4-806 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (a)   All public swimming pools shall be designated and operated to conform
to the regulations as set out by the State Board of Health. In no case shall
the drain of any swimming pool be discharged into the sanitary sewers of the
city.
   (b)   All family swimming pools shall be constructed, operated and
maintained in conformity with the requirements set out in §§
4-807 and
4-810.
(2010 Code, § 4-806)
§ 4-807 FAMILY SWIMMING POOLS; MATERIAL.
   The water-containing surface shall be light in color, impervious and provide
a tight tank with smooth and easily cleaned surfaces. Sand or dirt bottoms are
prohibited.
(2010 Code, § 4-807)
§ 4-808 SAME; WALLS AND MARKINGS.
   The wall of the pool shall be vertical. Conspicuous markings shall be
provided to regular intervals showing the depth of the pool. Special markings
for large and odd shaped pools shall be prescribed by the City Engineer or
Building Inspector.
(2010 Code, § 4-808)
§ 4-809 SAME; WATER INLETS, OUTLETS AND DRAINAGE.
   The pool shall be equipped with water inlets and outlets of sufficient size
and proper location to provide a uniform circulation of water in all parts of
the pool. All water inlets shall be located not less than one foot above the
rim of the pool, or shall be provided with a vacuum breaker sufficient in size
to prevent backflow in the event of lowered pressure in the public water lines.
All drainage of the pool shall be into a storm sewer, disposal well or
sprinkled onto the yard or lawn in such manner that no runoff will enter into
any street, alley or adjoining property. In no case shall the drain of any
swimming pool be discharged into the sanitary sewers of the city.
(2010 Code, § 4-809)
§ 4-810 SAME; WATER REQUIREMENTS.
   The water in the swimming pool shall meet the requirements of the State
Board of Health for safe drinking water.
(2010 Code, § 4-810)
§ 4-811 WIRING AND PLUMBING.
   The wiring and plumbing of all swimming pools, both family and public, must
meet the requirements of the applicable codes of the city.
(2010 Code, § 4-811)
§ 4-812 WALK AREA.
   Both family and public swimming pools shall be provided with an unobstructed
walk area of not less than four feet in width and extending entirely around the
pool. The walk area shall be constructed with impervious material and the
surfaces shall be of such as to be smooth and easily cleaned and of non-slip
construction. The slope of the walk shall have a pitch of at least one-quarter-
inch per foot, designed to prevent back drainage from entering the pool.
(2010 Code, § 4-812)
§ 4-813 FENCES.
   (a)   All swimming pools, both family and public, shall be completely
enclosed by a fence erected along the periphery of the pool walks. All fence
openings or points of entry into the pool or enclosure shall be equipped with
gates. Both the fence and gates at all swimming pools, except at motels, shall
be not less than 60 inches in height above the walk grade level.
   (b)   The fence and gates at all motel swimming pools shall not be less than
48 inches in height above the walk grade level and all fences and gates shall
be constructed of a minimum number nine gauge woven wire mesh, corrosion-
resistant material or material approved by the City Engineer or Building
Inspector. All gates shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching
devices placed at the top of the gate and made inaccessible to small children.
All fence poles shall be decay-resistant or corrosion-resistant and shall be
set in concrete bases, or as otherwise approved by the City Engineer or
Building Inspector.
(2010 Code, § 4-813)
§ 4-814 CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE; COMPLIANCE.
   In the construction, operation and maintenance of all swimming pools, both
family and public, the laws of the state and the rules, regulations and
requirements of the State Board of Health and the Board of Health of the city
shall be observed.
(2010 Code, § 4-814)
§ 4-815 INSPECTIONS.
   The Health Officer shall inspect or cause to be inspected all swimming
pools, both family and public, within the city at such times as he or she may
deem necessary to carry out the intent of this article. The Health Officer, or
his or her duly authorized agent, is authorized to enter upon any premises,
private or public, to take samples of water from such swimming pools at such
times as he or she may deem necessary and to require the owner, proprietor or
operator thereof to comply with the provisions of this article. The Health
Officer shall have the power to abate or cause a suspension for the use of such
pool until such time as the same is, in his or her opinion, no longer a menace
or hazard to health, safety or morals of the residents of the city or other
persons using such swimming pools.
(2010 Code, § 4-815)
§ 4-816 ABOVE-GROUND SWIMMING POOLS.
   The construction, operation and maintenance of above-ground swimming pools
shall be subject to all terms and provisions of this chapter except for the
provisions of §
4-812. In lieu of the walk area required by §
4-812, the owner of an above-ground pool may construct, after approval by the
City Health Officer And/or Building Inspector, a deck of approved material and
of such size and construction as to allow the safe entry into and exit from
such above-ground pool.
(2010 Code, § 4-816)
CHAPTER V: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL REGULATIONS AND LICENSES
      
2.   SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS AND PEDDLERS
      
3.   PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL REGULATIONS AND LICENSES
Section
   
5-101   License required
   
5-102   Application for license
   
5-103   Not assignable or transferable
   
5-104   License period; duration
   
5-105   Exemption of farmers
   
5-106   License fees
   
5-107   Same; when payable; time period
   
5-108   Payment of fees; receipt
   
5-109   Contents of license
   
5-110   Record
   
5-111   Display of license
§ 5-101 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, either as
principal, agent or employee, to conduct, pursue, carry on or operate any
calling, trade, profession or occupation in the city without first paying the
license fee prescribed and procuring such a license from the City Clerk
whenever the procuring of the license is required by the city.
§ 5-102 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Every person, firm or corporation desiring to do business in the city shall
apply to the City Clerk for a license to operate such business, and in the case
of new licenses, shall appear before the governing body before the commencement
of business and issuance of the license. Upon approval by the governing body,
the City Clerk shall issue to the applicant a license that shall be signed by
the City Clerk. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to pay over the amount
so collected on each license issued to the City Treasurer of the city.
§ 5-103 NOT ASSIGNABLE OR TRANSFERABLE.
   No license granted by the city shall be assignable or transferable; nor
shall such license authorize any person to do business or act under it but the
person named therein, nor at more than one place. There shall be no refunds
except as specifically provided.
§ 5-104 LICENSE PERIOD; DURATION.
   Unless otherwise provided, licenses shall commence and endure from January 1
and expire on December 31 of the same year, except that all semi-annual
licenses issued as provided in this chapter shall expire on June 30 or December
31, next following the date of their issuance.
§ 5-105 EXEMPTION OF FARMERS.
   No producer or grower, or his or her agents or employees, selling in the
city, farm or garden products or fruits grown by him or her in the state shall
be required to pay any license fee or occupation tax imposed by any law of this
city, and he or she, or his or her agents or employees, are hereby exempt from
the payment of any such fees or taxes, or the securing of a license.
(K.S.A. 12-1617)
§ 5-106 LICENSE FEES.
   Unless otherwise provided, the annual license fee for each occupation,
business or profession shall be as shown in the following schedule: [Reserved].
§ 5-107 SAME; WHEN PAYABLE; TIME PERIOD.
   (a)   All license fees shall be due and payable before the commencement of a
trade, occupation, business or profession in which license fees are required.
   (b)   No license shall be issued until the fee is paid.
   (c)   Licenses shall be renewed on or before the expiration date of the
current licenses.
   (d)   If the license prescribed is for an annual, quarterly, monthly, weekly
or daily period, the license shall not be issued for any part or fraction of
the year, quarter, month, week or day, respectively.
   (e)   The license for a day shall expire at midnight.
§ 5-108 PAYMENT OF FEES; RECEIPT.
   The City Clerk shall, upon payment of any license fee specified, give a
receipt therefor stating the amount paid, the nature of the licenses issued,
for what time, and to whom issued, and if possible, the exact location where
the business is to be carried on, and the kind of business.
§ 5-109 CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   Unless otherwise provided, all licenses shall be dated on the date of their
issue, and shall state the name of the licensee, the kind of business he or she
desires to engage in and the location thereof, the amount paid, and time the
license shall expire; and the person having such license shall be authorized to
carry on the business therein named.
§ 5-110 RECORD.
   The City Clerk shall keep a record of the name of each person licensed, his
or her address, the date of the license, the purpose in which it is granted,
the amount paid therefor and the time the same shall expire, and within 24
hours after any license has expired, the City Clerk shall notify the Chief of
Police of such expiration, unless the same shall have been renewed.
§ 5-111 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   All persons doing business in a permanent location are required to have
their license conspicuously displayed in their place of business, and all
persons to whom licenses are issued not having a permanent place of business
are required to carry their licenses with them, and any licensee shall present
the license for inspection when requested to do so by any citizen or officer of
the city.
ARTICLE 2: SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS AND PEDDLERS
Section
   
5-201   Definitions
   
5-202   License required
   
5-203   Same; application required
   
5-204   Issuance; county residents
   
5-205   Same; investigation and issuance; non-county resident
   
5-206   Same; investigation fee
   
5-207   License fee; time limits; exemptions
   
5-208   Renewal
   
5-209   Denial, revocation or suspension of license; notice
   
5-210   Appeal to governing body
   
5-211   Regulations
   
5-212   Use of streets and sidewalks
   
5-213   Disturbing the peace
§ 5-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER or SOLICITOR. Any individual, whether a resident of the city or
not, whose business is mainly or principally carried on by traveling either by
foot, automobile, motor truck or any other type of conveyance, from place to
place, from house to house, or from street to street, taking or attempting to
take orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise, personal property of any
nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be furnished or
performed in the future, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes
for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he or she is
collecting advance payments on such sales or not. Such definition shall include
any person, who, for himself, herself or for another person, hires, leases,
uses or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel
room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the city for the
sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by
foot, automotive vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from place to place,
from house to house or from street to street, carrying, conveying or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden
truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale, or
making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling
from place to place, shall sell or offer the same for sale from a wagon,
automotive vehicle, railroad boxcar or other vehicle or conveyance, and further
provided, that one who solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes
deliveries to purchasers as a part of a scheme or design to evade the
provisions of this article shall be deemed a peddler.
   RESIDENCE. Includes every separate living unit occupied for residential
purposes by one or more persons contained within any type of building or
structure.
   SOLICITING. Includes any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services, of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character; or
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication.
   STREET SALESPERSON. Any person engaged in any manner in selling merchandise
of any kind from a vehicle or stand temporarily located on the public streets
or sidewalks of this city.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person,
whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the city
or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods,
wares and merchandise within such city, and who, in furtherance of such
purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor
vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar or boat, public room in hotels, lodging houses,
apartments, shops or any street, alley or other place within the city, for the
exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or
at public auction. Such definition shall not be construed to include any person
who, while occupying such temporary location, does not sell from stock, but
exhibits samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery
only. The person so engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the
provisions of this article merely by reason of associating temporarily with any
local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting such transient
business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer.
§ 5-202 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any of the activities
defined in the preceding sections of this article, within the corporate limits
of the city without then having an unrevoked and unexpired license therefor in
his or her possession and issued by the City Clerk.
   (b)   The governing body may waive the license requirements of this section
for any person, firm or corporation exempt from the payment of a license fee
under §
5-207.
§ 5-203 SAME; APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Before the City Clerk may issue any license required by this article, he or
she shall require a sworn application in writing prepared in duplicate on a
form to be supplied by the City Clerk that shall give the following
information:
   (a)   Name and description of applicant;
   (b)   Permanent home address and full local address of applicant;
   (c)   Identification of applicant including driver’s license number, date of
birth, expiration date of license, and description of applicant;
   (d)   Identification of vehicle used by applicant including license therefor
used by applicant in conducting his or her business;
   (e)   A brief description of the nature of the business to be carried on or
the goods to be sold and the length of time such applicant has been engaged in
the business;
   (f)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing such relationship, including the authority by the
employer authorizing the applicant to represent the employer in conducting
business;
   (g)   The length of time that business is proposed to be carried on;
   (h)   The place where services are to be performed or where the goods or
property proposed to be sold or orders taken for the sale thereof are
manufactured or produced, where such goods or products are located at the time
the application is filed, and the proposed method of delivery;
   (i)   A photograph of the applicant, taken within 90 days prior to the date
of making application which picture shall be at least two inches by two inches
showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinguishing
manner; or in lieu thereof, the fingerprints of the applicant may be taken by
the Chief of Police and filed with the application;
   (j)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has within two years
prior to the date of the application been convicted of any crime, misdemeanor
(other than minor traffic violations), or violation of any municipal law
regulating peddlers, solicitors or canvassers and giving the nature of the
offenses, the punishment assessed therefor, if any, and the city and state
where conviction occurred; and
   (k)   The applicant’s state sales tax number.
§ 5-204 ISSUANCE; COUNTY RESIDENTS.
   (a)   Except as provided in §
5-209, if the applicant is a current resident of the county, upon receipt of an
application for a license and payment of the license fee, the City Clerk shall
issue the license. Such license shall contain the signature and seal of the
issuing officer and shall show the name and address of the licensee, the date
of issuance, and length of time the license shall be operative, and the nature
of the business involved. The City Clerk shall keep a permanent record of all
such licenses issued and submit a copy of such license to the Chief of Police.
The licensee shall carry the license certificate at all times.
   (b)   If the applicant is not a current resident of the county, a license
will not be issued until after investigation and payment of the investigation
fee as provided in §§
5-205 and
5-206.
§ 5-205 SAME; INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE; NON-COUNTY RESIDENT.
   (a)   Upon receipt of the above application from an applicant who is not a
current resident of the county, the City Clerk shall refer the same to the
Chief of Police who shall cause an investigation of the facts stated therein to
be made within not to exceed five days.
   (b)   If, as a result of the investigation, the applicant’s character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory or the facts stated
therein to be untrue, the Chief of Police shall endorse on such application his
or her findings and endorse his or her disapproval of the application and the
reasons for the same and shall return the application to the City Clerk who
then shall notify the applicant that his or her application is disapproved and
that no license will be issued.
   (c)   If however, the investigation of such application discloses that the
character and business responsibility and the facts stated in the application
are satisfactory and true, the Chief of Police shall endorse his or her
findings and approval on the application and return the same to the City Clerk
who shall, upon payment of the license and investigation fees prescribed, issue
a license to the applicant to engage in the business described in the
application. Such license shall contain the signature and seal of the issuing
officer and shall show the name and address of the licensee, the date of
issuance and length of time the license shall be operative, and the nature of
the business involved. The City Clerk shall keep a permanent record of all such
licenses issued and submit a copy of such license to the Chief of Police. The
licensee shall carry the license certificate at all times.
§ 5-206 SAME; INVESTIGATION FEE.
   At the time of filing the application, a fee, as approved by the governing
body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees, shall be paid
to the City Clerk to cover the cost of investigation of the facts stated in the
foregoing application.
§ 5-207 LICENSE FEE; TIME LIMITS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (c) below, the fee for the license
required pursuant to §
5-202 shall be in the amount as set by the governing body per each day, or
portion thereof, that the licensee shall operate within the city limits. In no
event, however, shall fees in excess an amount as set by the governing body be
collected from a licensee during any six-month period of time.
   (b)   Any such license granted upon application as required hereinabove
shall be limited to and effective only on the days set out in the license.
Solicitation or sales by any peddler, solicitor or canvasser shall be conducted
only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (c)   Persons and firms not having a permanently established place of
business in the city, but having a permanently established house-to-house or
wholesale business shall receive a license as required by §
5-202 upon the payment of an amount as set by the governing body for any year,
and may make solicitations or sales only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:
00 p.m., or upon invitation at any hour.
   (d)   No license fee shall be required of:
      (1)   Any person selling products of the farm or orchard actually
produced by the seller;
      (2)   Any businesses, trades or occupations that are part of fairs or
celebrations sponsored by the city or any other governmental subdivision, or
the state, or when part of all of the expenses of the fairs or celebrations are
paid for by the city, any other governmental subdivision, or the state; and
      (3)   Any not-for-profit or charitable organization as determined by the
governing body.
(K.S.A. 12-1617)
§ 5-208 RENEWAL.
   All licenses issued shall be subject to renewal upon a showing of compliance
with §§
5-202 and
5-203 within a six-month-period prior to the renewal date. The City Clerk need
not require an additional application under §
5-203 or an additional investigation and investigation fee under §§
5-205 and
5-206 unless complaints have been received of violations of the conditions in
which any license has heretofore been issued. The City Clerk shall not renew or
extend any license if there is satisfactory evidence of any grounds for the
suspension or revocation of any prior license, and the applicant shall be
required to apply for a license as in the case of an original license.
§ 5-209 DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; NOTICE.
   The City Clerk or Chief of Police may deny any application or may revoke or
suspend for a period of not to exceed 30 days any license issued under this
article, for any of the following causes:
   (a)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
   (b)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business;
   (c)   Any violation of this article;
   (d)   Conducting a business as defined in §
5-201 in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of
the peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of
the city. Notice of the denial, revocation or suspension of a license shall be
given in writing to the applicant or mailed to his or her last known address
and the City Clerk shall set forth the grounds of such denial, revocation or
suspension; and
   (e)   Conviction of the crime of theft, larceny, fraud, embezzlement or any
felony within two years before the application date.
§ 5-210 APPEAL TO GOVERNING BODY.
   (a)   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or City
Clerk in the denial of an application or revocation or suspension of a license
as provided in this article, shall have the right of appeal to the governing
body.
   (b)   Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the City Clerk within 14
days after notice of revocation, suspension or denial of the license has been
given to or mailed to such applicant’s last known address and setting forth the
grounds for appeal.
   (c)   The governing body shall set a time and place for a hearing on such
appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant in the same
manner as provided herein for notice of denial, revocation or suspension.
   (d)   The decision and order of the governing body on such appeal shall be
final and conclusive.
§ 5-211 REGULATIONS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to make false or fraudulent
statements concerning the quality of nature of his or her goods, wares and
merchandise for the purpose of inducing another to purchase the same.
   (b)   Licensees are required to exhibit their license at the request of any
person to whom they attempt to sell their goods, wares and merchandise or take
orders for future delivery of the same.
§ 5-212 USE OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Except when authorized in writing by the City Clerk, no peddler, solicitor
or canvasser or any other person shall have exclusive right to any location in
the public streets for the purpose of selling or soliciting sales, nor shall
any person be permitted a stationary location in the public streets, nor shall
any person be permitted to operate in the sidewalks and streets within the fire
limits of the city or any congested area where his or her operations might
impede or inconvenience the public.
§ 5-213 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   Except when authorized in writing by the City Clerk, no licensee nor any
person in his or her behalf, shall use any sound device, including any loud-
speaking radio or sound-amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys,
parks or other public places of the city or upon any private premises in the
city where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be
capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or
other public places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods,
wares or merchandise that such licensee proposes to sell.
ARTICLE 3: PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
Section
   
5-301   Buying from minors unlawful
   
5-302   Record-keeping
§ 5-301 BUYING FROM MINORS UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any pawnbroker, dealer in secondhand goods, junk dealer
or any other person making a business of buying or selling junk or used
merchandise within the city to buy or acquire from any minor under the age of
18 years any goods, wares or merchandise, unless such minor shall have a
written permit from his or her parent or guardian authorizing the sale or
disposition of such goods or merchandise, and which permit shall be received
and retained on file by the person so dealing with such minor.
(2010 Code, § 5-301)
§ 5-302 RECORD-KEEPING.
   Every pawnbroker, dealer in secondhand goods, junk dealer or other person
dealing in used goods or merchandise within the city shall keep a record of all
goods bought, the date of purchase and the name of the person from whom
purchased. Such record book shall at all times be open to inspection by the
officers or officials of the city and any purchase on hand or in stock shall be
exhibited to such office or official upon request.
(2010 Code, § 5-302)
CHAPTER VI: ELECTIONS
   Article
      
1.   CITY ELECTIONS
ARTICLE 1: CITY ELECTIONS
Section
   
6-101   Conduct of election
   
6-102   Hours of voting
   
6-103   Commencement of terms of office; oath of office
   
6-104   Commission members; election and term
§ 6-101 CONDUCT OF ELECTION.
   The election of city officials shall be conducted in all respects as
provided by the laws of the state governing the holding of city elections.
(K.S.A. 25-2101 et seq.)
§ 6-102 HOURS OF VOTING.
   At all city elections the polls shall be open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 7:00
p.m., unless different hours are set and publicly announced by the County
Election Officer.
(K.S.A. 25-2111, 26-206)
§ 6-103 COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS OF OFFICE; OATH OF OFFICE.
   (a)   The term of office of elected Commission members shall commence with
and include the first regular meeting of the governing body following
certification of the election, and they shall qualify at any time before or at
the beginning of the meeting and as otherwise required by statute.
   (b)   Every person elected or appointed to city office, before entering upon
the duties of such office, shall take and subscribe an oath or affirmation as
specified in K.S.A. 54-106, and amendments thereto, and every such oath or
affirmation shall be filed with the City Clerk.
(2010 Code, § 6-102) (Charter Ord. 20, passed - -; Ord. 2058, passed 10-24-
2019)
§ 6-104 COMMISSION MEMBERS; ELECTION AND TERM.
   (a)   A regular city election shall be held on the first Tuesday in April of
each odd-numbered year.
   (b)   In each regular city election, there shall be elected three Commission
members at large by the city as a whole. The two candidates receiving the
greatest number of votes in the election shall serve four years on the
Commission. The candidate receiving the third greatest number of votes shall
serve two years on the Commission.
   (c)   Whenever a tie occurs in a vote on any of the aforesaid officers, the
result shall be decided by lot by the Board of Canvassers.
   (d)   The Election Officer shall, within three days after the canvass of
returns and determination by the Board of Canvassers of the persons elected,
deliver to each such person a certificate of election signed by him or her with
the seal of the Election Officer.
   (e)   The term of office of elected Commission members shall commence with
and include the first regular meeting of the governing body following
certification of the election, and Commission members-elect shall qualify at
any time before or at the beginning of the meeting and as otherwise required by
statute.
   (f)   If any person elected to the office of Commissioner does not qualify
within the required time, he or she shall be deemed to have refused to accept
the office and a vacancy shall exist. Thereupon, a majority of the Commission,
by voice vote, shall appoint a suitable elector of the city to fill the vacancy
for the term to which the refusing person was elected. In case of a vacancy in
the office of Commissioner occurring by resignation, death or removal from
office or from the city, the Mayor, by and with the consent of a majority of
the remaining Commissioners, shall appoint such suitable elector of the city to
fill the vacancy until the next election for that office.
(2010 Code, § 6-110) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
CHAPTER VII: FIRE
   Article
      
1.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
2.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
3.   FIREWORKS
      
4.   DISASTER ACTION PLAN
      
5.   FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS
      
6.   LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS
      
7.   EXPLOSIVES
ARTICLE 1: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
7-101   City Fire Department established
   
7-102   Membership; fire drill
   
7-103   Supervision of Department
   
7-104   Fire Chief; powers
   
7-105   Same; records
   
7-106   Assistant Chief
   
7-107   Private use of fire equipment
   
7-108   Fire equipment; emergency right-of-way and use
   
7-109   Reserved
   
7-110   Obstruction of fire hydrant
   
7-111   False alarm
   
7-112   Powers of actual members of the Fire Department
   
7-113   Contracts for firefighting services approved
§ 7-101 CITY FIRE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is established a Volunteer Fire Department in the city to consist of a
Chief, an Assistant Chief, Secretary, Treasurer and enough firefighters as
deemed adequate for the needed response, all of whom shall be appointed by the
City Manager. The Chief of the Fire Department shall be under the supervision
of the City Manager. There shall be a total of three companies.
(2010 Code, § 7-101) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 7-102 MEMBERSHIP; FIRE DRILL.
   Members of the Fire Department shall all be volunteers. They shall meet at
least once each month for practice and drill. The Chief of the Fire Department
shall keep a record of attendance of such meetings. Any member who shall fail
to attend six consecutive meetings shall automatically become expelled from
membership.
§ 7-103 SUPERVISION OF DEPARTMENT.
   (a)   The Fire Chief shall oversee, have control over and be responsible for
the care and condition of the fire apparatus and equipment.
   (b)   The Fire Chief shall have the duty to see that all such apparatus and
equipment shall be at all times ready for immediate use.
   (c)   The Fire Chief shall annually submit a written report as to the
condition of such apparatus and equipment to the City Manager before the first
regular meeting of the governing body in October.
(2010 Code, § 7-103) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 7-104 FIRE CHIEF; POWERS.
   Under the direction of the City Manager, the Chief of the Fire Department
shall be responsible for the discipline of members and is given the authority
to suspend or expel any member, with the consent of the City Manager, for the
refusal to obey orders, for misconduct or failure to do his or her duty at a
fire. The Fire Chief shall also have the right to summon any and all persons
present to aid in extinguishing a fire or to aid in removing personal property
from any building on fire or in danger thereof, and in guarding the same.
(2010 Code, § 7-104) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 7-105 SAME; RECORDS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall keep in convenient form a complete
record of all fires. Such information shall include the time and location,
construction of building, owner, occupancy, how extinguished, value of building
and contents, loss on building and contents, insurance on building and
contents, members responding to the alarm, and any other information deemed
advisable.
§ 7-106 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Fire Chief shall perform all the
duties and have all the authority and responsibility of the Chief as conferred
by this chapter.
§ 7-107 PRIVATE USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to take away or use any fire
apparatus or equipment for any private purpose or for any person willfully and
without proper authority to remove, take away, keep or conceal any tool,
appliance, equipment or other article used in any way by the Fire Department.
§ 7-108 FIRE EQUIPMENT; EMERGENCY RIGHT-OF-WAY AND USE.
   (a)   All fire apparatus and equipment is hereby given and granted the
exclusive right-of-way over and through all streets, avenues, alleys and public
thoroughfares in the city while en route to fires or in response to any alarm,
and it shall be unlawful for any person or persons to in any manner obstruct or
hinder the apparatus or equipment.
   (b)   All emergency vehicles of the Fire Department, while proceeding on
official business, shall be operated in strict accordance with the requirements
of the state statutes regarding the operation of emergency vehicles, and each
departmental member assigned to the operation of emergency vehicles shall
familiarize himself or herself with the requirements of the law and govern
himself or herself accordingly. Any operator violating the provisions of the
state law shall be liable for disciplinary action.
§ 7-109 RESERVED.
§ 7-110 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed upon or
about any fire hydrant any rubbish, building material, fence or other
obstruction of any character, or in any manner obstruct, hinder or delay the
Fire Department in the performance of its duties in case of fire. Nor shall any
person fasten to any fire hydrant any guy rope or brace, nor stand any vehicle
within 15 feet of any such hydrant.
§ 7-111 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make or sound or cause to
be made or sounded, or by any other means, any false alarm.
§ 7-112 POWERS OF ACTUAL MEMBERS OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Actual members of the Fire Department are vested with police power to form
fire lines; to prohibit persons from interfering with firefighters in the
discharge of their duties, interfering with apparatus, running over fire hose
and trespassing upon private property; and shall have power to blockade any
public highway or street temporarily while in the discharge of their official
duties; and for the purpose of effectuating this police power shall have the
power to make arrests for violation of any lawful orders made hereunder.
(Ord. 2005, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 7-113 CONTRACTS FOR FIREFIGHTING SERVICES APPROVED.
   The city shall be authorized to enter into contracts for the provision of
firefighting services for the following townships in Kingman County: Hoosier,
White and Ninnescah. Said contracts shall be approved by the governing body and
may be amended as necessary upon approval of the governing body. The rates
charged for firefighting services in these contracts shall be determined by the
governing body and shall be sufficient to pay the city for the reasonable use
of equipment and for the cost of material used on the run and fighting the
fire, to pay the firefighters, and to enable the city to carry a sufficient
amount of insurance to indemnify it for loss or damage to persons or property.
(Ord. 2025, passed 2-9-2017)
ARTICLE 2: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
7-201   International Fire Code incorporated
   
7-202   Same; enforcement
   
7-203   Same; amendments
   
7-204   Open burning
   
7-205   Accumulation of rubbish and trash
   
7-206   Stacking of hay or straw
   
7-207   Keeping of packing materials
   
7-208   Storage of ashes
   
7-209   Filling gasoline tanks of motor vehicles
   
7-210   Fire hazards generally
   
7-211   Same; inspections to discover
   
7-212   Abatement of fire hazards; issuing order
   
7-213   Same; service of order; records
§ 7-201 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE INCORPORATED.
   (a)   The standard code known as the 2015 Edition of the International Fire
Code by the International Code Council is hereby incorporated by reference
herein and made part of this article as authorized and in the manner prescribed
by K.S.A. 12-3009, as amended. One copy of the 2015 International Fire Code
shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Incorporated by Ord. 2023” with
all sections or portions thereof intended to be omitted clearly marked to show
any such omission or showing the sections, articles, chapters, parts, or
portions that are incorporated, as the case may be, and to which shall be
attached a copy of the incorporating ordinance, and filed with the City Clerk
to be open to inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours of
business.
   (b)   Any person violating sections of the 2015 International Fire Code
shall be punished as provided in § 1-116 of this code.
(Ord. 2023, passed 12-22-2016)
§ 7-202 SAME; ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire
Department.
§ 7-203 SAME; AMENDMENTS.
   (a)   Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the code hereby adopted, it
shall be held to mean the City of Kingman.
   (b)   All sections of the Uniform Fire Code relating to fireworks are hereby
deleted in their entirety.
§ 7-204 OPEN BURNING.
   Open fires or open burning within the corporate limits of the city shall be
unlawful, except as set forth herein in this section as follows.
   (a)   The building of open fires, if for cooking or ceremonial purposes, on
public or private lands regularly used for recreation purposes, shall be
allowed without the necessity of a burning permit.
   (b)   Open burning operations shall be allowed with a burning permit
approved by the Code Enforcement Officer, Fire Chief or his or her designee. A
burning permit application shall be required, and the applicant must
demonstrate that such open burning is necessary and in the public interest. If
approved, the burning permit shall be effective for a specified period of time
and such burning permit may require such special conditions as the Code
Enforcement Officer, Fire Chief or his or her designee may deem necessary to
prevent contaminant emissions which are, or tend to be, injurious to human
health, animal or plant life, or property, or capable of unreasonably
interfering with the enjoyment of life or property. Such approval shall be
revocable upon notification from the Code Enforcement Officer, Fire Chief, or
his or her designee. The burn permit fee shall be as approved by the governing
body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees.
(Ord. 1991, passed 7-9-2015)
§ 7-205 ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH AND TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow to accumulate or to keep in any
part of any building or outside of and adjacent to any building or in any
alley, sidewalk, street or premises within 30 feet of any building any rubbish,
trash, waste paper, excelsior, empty boxes, barrels or other combustibles that
shall constitute a fire hazard.
§ 7-206 STACKING OF HAY OR STRAW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, stack or store any hay or
straw within 500 feet of any building located inside the fire limits of the
city.
§ 7-207 KEEPING OF PACKING MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep excelsior or other packing material in any
other than metal or wood metal lined boxes or bins having self-closing or
automatic covers. All refuse and trash from rooms where packing or unpacking is
done shall be removed daily.
§ 7-208 STORAGE OF ASHES.
   It shall be unlawful to store ashes inside of any non-fire-proof building
unless they are stored in a noncombustible container or receptacle, and a
clearance of at least five feet shall be maintained between such container or
receptacle and any combustible materials not placed therein. Ashes shall not be
stored outside of any building in wooden, plastic or paper product receptacles
or dumped in contact with or in close proximity to any combustible materials.
§ 7-209 FILLING GASOLINE TANKS OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The engines of motor vehicles shall be stopped when the gasoline tanks of
such vehicles are being filled with gasoline at service stations or other
places where gasoline is supplied to motor vehicles. The driver or person in
control of such vehicle when the gasoline tank of same is being filled who
refuses, neglects or fails to stop the engine of such vehicle shall likewise be
guilty of a violation of this code.
§ 7-210 FIRE HAZARDS GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful for any person to cause or create anywhere within the city,
or to permit on any premises under his or her control, any situation or
condition that is conducive to or likely to cause or permit the outbreak of
fire or the spreading of fire. Any situation or condition conducive to the
outbreak of or spreading of fire is declared to be a fire hazard. The violation
of or failure to comply with any law pertaining to the storage, handling or use
of inflammable oils, explosives, liquefied petroleum gases or fertilizers and
all wires and other conductors charged with electricity, is declared to be a
fire hazard. The placing of stools, chairs or any other obstruction in the
aisles, hallways, doorway or exit of any theater, public hall, auditorium,
church or other place of indoor public assemblage, or the failure to provide
any such place of public assemblage with sufficient, accessible and
unobstructed fire exits and escapes is also declared to be a fire hazard. The
obstruction of any street, avenue, alley, fire hydrant or any other condition
that might delay the Fire Department in fighting fire is declared to be
unlawful.
§ 7-211 SAME; INSPECTIONS TO DISCOVER.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to inspect or cause to be inspected
by Fire Department officers or members, as often as may be necessary, all
buildings, particularly all mercantile buildings, manufacturing plants,
warehouses, garages, hotels, boarding houses, rooming houses, theaters,
auditoriums and all places of public assemblage, for the purpose of discovering
the violation of any fire preventive law or any fire hazard and ascertaining
and causing to be corrected any conditions liable to cause fires and to see
that all places of public assemblage, hotels and rooming houses have sufficient
and unobstructed facilities for escape therefrom in case of fire.
§ 7-212 ABATEMENT OF FIRE HAZARDS; ISSUING ORDER.
   Whenever any officer or member of the Fire Department shall find or discover
any fire hazard or shall find in any building or upon any premises combustible
or explosive material or dangerous accumulation of rubbish or unnecessary
accumulation of paper, boxes, shavings or any other inflammable material, so
situated as to endanger property by the probability of fire, or shall find or
discover any violation of this chapter or any other law hazardous to public
safety from fires, the Fire Chief shall order the fire hazard or danger from
the fire forthwith abated and remedied and such order shall be complied with
immediately by the owner or occupant of such buildings or premises. If the
hazard or condition ordered abated and remedied is a violation of, or a failure
to comply with any law, the Fire Chief shall report the matter to the City
Attorney and he or she shall, if he or she deems it advisable, prosecute the
offender.
§ 7-213 SAME; SERVICE OF ORDER; RECORDS.
   Any order made under §
7-212 shall be in writing and may be served personally upon the owner or
occupant of the premises or by leaving it with any person in charge of the
premises or if the premises are unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident of
the city, then by mailing a copy to the owner’s last known post office address.
One notice to either the occupant or owner shall be sufficient. The Fire Chief
shall keep a record of and copies of all such orders and notices and shall
follow up such notices at the expiration of the time for compliance therewith
and when complied with make proper entry, and if not complied with, file
complaint with the Municipal Court against the property owner and/or occupant.
ARTICLE 3: FIREWORKS
Section
   
7-301   Fireworks defined
   
7-302   Fireworks prohibited
   
7-303   Same; exceptions; time of day; parks and fairgrounds; authorization
   
7-304   Same; exception; sale of fireworks
   
7-305   Permit for sale of fireworks required; fee; issuance
   
7-306   Permit for public fireworks display required
   
7-307   Approved fireworks; bottle rockets prohibited
   
7-308   Discharge on streets and public property prohibited
   
7-309   Throwing prohibited
   
7-310   Sale of fireworks; where prohibited
   
7-311   Retail display of fireworks
   
7-312   Fire extinguishers required
   
7-313   Restrictions as to gasoline installations
   
7-314   Authority of Fire Chief; authority of Police Department
   
7-315   Banning fireworks
§ 7-301 FIREWORKS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Those items as defined by the rules and regulations of the State
Fire Marshal, and shall include but not be limited to: firecrackers, torpedoes,
sparklers, Roman candles, sky rockets, pin wheels, cap or toy pistols (except
such pistols or any like device designed to discharge paper caps containing not
more than 0.25 grains of explosive mixture), canes, bombs, cannons or other
like devices and all classes of fireworks that may be shot into the air or
propelled over the ground by explosive discharges or any device using blank
cartridges.
§ 7-302 FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Except as provided in §§
7-303 to
7-306; it shall be unlawful for any person to keep, store, display for sale,
fire, discharge or explode any fireworks.
   (b)   Nothing in this article shall be construed as applying to:
      (1)   Toy paper caps containing not more than 0.25 of a grain of
explosive composition per cap;
      (2)   The manufacture, storage, sale or authorized use of signals
necessary for the safe operation of railroads or other classes of public or
private transportation;
      (3)   The military or naval forces of the United States or of this state
while in the performance of official duty;
      (4)   Law enforcement officers while in the performance of official duty;
or
      (5)   The sale or use of blank cartridges for ceremonial, theatrical or
athletic events.
§ 7-303 SAME; EXCEPTIONS; TIME OF DAY; PARKS AND FAIRGROUNDS; AUTHORIZATION.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to have, keep, store, sell, offer for
sale, give away, fire, or discharge any fireworks as defined in §
7-301 within the city, except in the celebration of Independence Day and from
and inclusive of June 27 to July 4, or the following day if Independence Day is
celebrated on July 5 of each year. Notwithstanding the aforesaid exception, it
is unlawful for any person to fire or discharge the fireworks between the hours
of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (b)   Notwithstanding the aforesaid exception, it is unlawful for any person
to fire or discharge fireworks as defined in §
7-301 within any city park or within the Kingman fairgrounds; provided, that
the governing body may authorize a public display of fireworks within a park or
within the fairgrounds by responsible individuals; provided further, that such
display and the fireworks so acquired, kept, handled, located, discharged and
displayed shall not be hazardous to surrounding property or unduly endanger any
person and that such display shall not be located or held within 300 feet of
any building or other inflammable structure outside of the park or fairgrounds.
(2010 Code, § 7-303) (Ord. 2096, passed 9-8-2022)
§ 7-304 SAME; EXCEPTION; SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   Any person who has first obtained a valid permit to sell fireworks within
the city may do so between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight commencing
June 27 and through July 4 of each year.
(2010 Code, § 7-304)
§ 7-305 PERMIT FOR SALE OF FIREWORKS REQUIRED; FEE; ISSUANCE.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, display for sale, offer
to sell or give away any type of fireworks within the city without first
applying for, paying for and obtaining a permit on or before June 27 of the
permit year. Fees for said permit shall be as approved by the governing body
and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees, unless the
organization seeking the permit is recognized by the Internal Revenue Service
as a not-for-profit, 501(c)(3) organization. In such case, no permit fee shall
be charged to an officially recognized 501(c)(3) organization, and proof of
such status shall be provided upon request before issuance of the permit.
   (b)   No permit shall be issued for any location where retail sales are not
permitted under the zoning laws. Prior to issuance of the permit, an inspection
will be made of the applicant’s facility for compliance with this article and
other pertinent laws, and no permit shall be issued for any premises not in
compliance with such laws. Upon qualifying for the permit, the permittee shall
prominently display the same at the establishment or premises where fireworks
are to be sold or displayed for sale. The permit fee shall not be refundable
should the permit be subsequently revoked or cancelled.
(Ord. 1940, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 7-306 PERMIT FOR PUBLIC FIREWORKS DISPLAY REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to give or provide a
fireworks display for the public or for organized groups without first
obtaining a permit to do so by making application at least 30 days in advance
of the desired display. Approval of the permit shall be by the governing body.
No permit shall be approved unless the applicant furnishes a certificate of
public liability insurance for the display in a minimum amount, as set by the
governing body, written by an insurance carrier licensed to do business in the
state, conditioned as being non-cancellable except by giving ten days’ advance
written notice to the City Clerk. In the event of cancellation of the insurance
prior to the display, the permit shall automatically be revoked and void.
      (2)   The application for the permit shall clearly state:
         (A)   The name of the applicant;
         (B)   The group for which the display is planned;
         (C)   The location of the display;
         (D)   The date and time of the display;
         (E)   The nature or kind of fireworks to be used;
         (F)   The name of the person, firm or corporation that will make the
actual discharge of the fireworks; and
         (G)   Anticipated need for police, fire or other municipal services.
   (b)   No permit shall be issued if the location, nature of the fireworks or
other relevant factor is such as to create an undue hazard or risk of harm or
damage to persons or property.
§ 7-307 APPROVED FIREWORKS; BOTTLE ROCKETS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   All fireworks offered for sale and discharged within the city shall be
of a type that has been tested and approved for sale and use within the state
by the State Fire Marshal.
   (b)   Bottle rockets and other similar self-propelled firework or fireworks
devices consisting of a tube and attached guiding stock or rod shall not be
sold or discharged in the city.
§ 7-308 DISCHARGE ON STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge, ignite or fire any
fireworks upon any public street, alley or avenue or in any park or public
place within the city.
§ 7-309 THROWING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, cast or propel fireworks of
any kind in the direction of or into the path of any animal, person or group of
persons, or from, in the direction of, or into any vehicle of any kind.
§ 7-310 SALE OF FIREWORKS; WHERE PROHIBITED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for fireworks to be stored, sold or displayed for
sale in a place of business where paint, oils, varnishes, turpentine or
gasoline or other flammable substances are kept, unless such fireworks are in a
separate and distinct section or department of the premises.
   (b)   Where the Fire Chief deems there is a fire hazard, he or she is hereby
authorized to have such hazard abated.
§ 7-311 RETAIL DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS.
   (a)   All retailers are forbidden to expose fireworks where the sun shines
through glass on the merchandise displayed, except where such fireworks are in
the original package.
   (b)   All fireworks displayed for sale must remain in original packages,
except where an attendant is on constant duty at all times where such fireworks
are on display; provided, that fireworks in open stock may be kept in show
cases or counters out of the reach of the public without an attendant being on
duty.
   (c)   Signs reading “Fireworks for Sale - No Smoking Allowed” shall be
displayed in the section of a store or premises set aside for the sale of
fireworks.
§ 7-312 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS REQUIRED.
   (a)   Two functioning and approved fire extinguishers must be provided and
kept in close proximity to the stock of fireworks in all permanent buildings
where fireworks are stored, sold or displayed for sale.
   (b)   Small stands, temporarily erected to be used as a place for storing
and selling fireworks only, shall have one such fire extinguisher, or in lieu
of the fire extinguisher, a pressurized water hose with nozzle end within five
feet of the fireworks stand.
§ 7-313 RESTRICTIONS AS TO GASOLINE INSTALLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to store, keep, sell, display for sale or discharge any
fireworks within 50 feet of any gasoline pump, gasoline filling station,
gasoline bulk station or any building in which gasoline or volatile liquids are
sold in quantities in excess of one gallon, except in stores where cleaners,
paints and oils are handled in sealed containers only.
§ 7-314 AUTHORITY OF FIRE CHIEF; AUTHORITY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of the Fire Department is authorized to seize and confiscate all
fireworks that may be kept, stored or used in violation of any section of this
article, and all of the rules of the State Fire Marshal. He or she shall
dispose of all such fireworks as may be directed by the governing body. Nothing
in the article shall be construed as limiting the Kingman Police Department’s
authority to enforce all ordinances and resolutions of the city.
(Ord. 2097, passed 9-8-2022)
§ 7-315 BANNING FIREWORKS.
   The person designated by the city shall have the authority and discretion to
ban the discharge of all fireworks within the corporate limits of the city if
the weather conditions make discharge of fireworks in the city hazardous to
persons or property.
ARTICLE 4: DISASTER ACTION PLAN
Section
   
7-401   Purpose
   
7-402   Continuity of government; responsibilities
   
7-403   Post-disaster department responsibilities
   
7-404   Communications and control
   
7-405   Update of plan; annual review
§ 7-401 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to provide prompt and effective response to
the disaster and provide for recovery to normal conditions.
(2010 Code, § 7-401)
§ 7-402 CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (a)   Disaster declaration.
      (1)   Actual declaration of a disaster situation should be made by the
Mayor, which sets disaster procedures into operation. In his or her absence, or
incapacity, the Vice-Mayor, City Manager, City Clerk or Chief of Police shall
be empowered in that order to make the declaration.
      (2)   The Mayor shall call the City Commission to meet as the situation
may dictate.
      (3)   The City Manager, City Clerk and Mayor shall act on situation data
presented to the Emergency Operations Center by the various department heads,
and agencies and inform the County Emergency Management Director.
   (b)   Assumption of responsibilities. Should any department head, elected or
appointed official be incapacitated, the deputy department head or next in line
as dictated by policy, shall assume those responsibilities.
(2010 Code, § 7-402)
§ 7-403 POST-DISASTER DEPARTMENT RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (a)   Mayor and City Commission.
      (1)   The Mayor and the City Commission shall meet as needed during the
disaster to adopt any official actions as may be required for the efficient
response to the disaster;
      (2)   The Mayor shall disseminate information to the public and shall act
as the Public Information Officer during the disaster; and
      (3)   Make requests to the County Commission and Emergency Management
Director for the Official Declaration of Disaster.
   (b)   City Manager.
      (1)   Shall provide information to the Mayor and help determine whether
the Disaster Action Plan should be implemented;
      (2)   Shall consult the Mayor and City Commission as needed for official
actions;
      (3)   Shall have the overall control and supervision of all city
departments;
      (4)   Shall initiate aid for outside resources; and
      (5)   Shall provide the County Emergency Management Director with status
reports as needed.
   (c)   City Clerk.
      (1)   Receives data from field of damage, injuries and the like, to
relate to City Manager and Mayor for decision and action;
      (2)   Safeguard vital records and documents;
      (3)   Assist in providing information to state agencies and volunteer
agencies;
      (4)   Acts as clearinghouse on data such as group shelters, family needs,
food, water and medical and the like; and
      (5)   Coordinate with the City Manager, the purchasing/disbursement
procedures during disaster emergency for equipment and supplies.
   (d)   City Attorney.
      (1)   Assist and direct in legal problems that may arise due to the
disaster situation (i.e., torts and responsible action); and
      (2)   Is legal advisor on items relating to public safety.
   (e)   Fire Department (Fire Chief in charge).
      (1)   Prevention and suppression of fires;
      (2)   Declaration of restricted and danger zones;
      (3)   Cooperate with utilities personnel; and
      (4)   Cooperate with law enforcement in search and rescue.
   (f)   EMS-Ambulance (EMS Director in charge).
      (1)   Rescue and transportation/evacuation of victims;
      (2)   Assign equipment and personnel priority;
      (3)   Coordinate with other medical/EMS/ambulance departments that might
respond to the disaster; and
      (4)   Maintain log of deceased and rescue/evacuees.
   (g)   Electric Power (Superintendent in charge).
      (1)   Determine priority of restoration of power, such as hospital,
nursing homes, Emergency
Operation Center and the like; and
      (2)   Define and mark danger zones in cooperation with law enforcement
personnel to reduce additional injury or death.
   (h)   Law Enforcement (Police Chief in charge).
      (1)   Traffic and crowd control;
      (2)   Assist in search and rescue;
      (3)   Handle communications of Emergency Operations Center, command post
if remote and channel communications between departments; and
      (4)   Provide security for vital facilities and supplies.
   (i)   Street and water (Public Works Director in charge).
      (1)   Responsible for assessment and evaluation of damage of systems such
as water supply, sewer, major highways, streets and bridges, cooperating with
gas and electric personnel, establishing priorities for return to service;
      (2)   Direct assignment of equipment and personnel for both repair of
systems such as water, cleanup and clearing debris;
      (3)   Surveys damage and marks unsafe areas;
      (4)   Determines temporary site for of debts and is responsible for
ultimate removal and disposal of it; and
      (5)   Reports damage and victim data to Emergency Operations Center, City
Manager and City Clerk as quickly as possible.
(2010 Code, § 7-403)
§ 7-404 COMMUNICATIONS AND CONTROL.
   All communication shall clear through the Emergency Operations Center, at
the Law Enforcement Center, for action by either the City Manager, Mayor or the
City Clerk who will coordinate appropriate action.
(2010 Code, § 7-404)
§ 7-405 UPDATE OF PLAN; ANNUAL REVIEW.
   The disaster action plan set out in §§
7-401 and
7-403 shall require annual update and review.
(2010 Code, § 7-405)
ARTICLE 5: FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS
Section
   
7-501   Defined
   
7-502   Classifications
   
7-503   Class I or Class II; storage in buildings
   
7-504   Class III; storage in buildings
   
7-505   Above-ground tanks
   
7-506   Underground tanks
   
7-507   Proximity to open flame
   
7-508   Tank removal
§ 7-501 DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Includes all liquids, other than liquefied petroleum
gases, that have flash points below 200°F, as determined by a closed cup
tester.
(2010 Code, § 7-501)
§ 7-502 CLASSIFICATIONS.
   All such liquids for the purpose of this article, and the fire prevention
ordinances of the city, shall be classified into three classes as follows.
   (a)   Class I. Liquids having a flash point below 25°F closed cup tester and
including acetone, ether, gasoline, naphtha and benzine.
   (b)   Class II. Liquids having a flash point above that for Class I and
below 70°F closed cup tester and including alcohol, amyl acetate and toluol.
   (c)   Class III. Liquids having a flash point above that for Class II and
below 100°F closed cup tester and including kerosene, Stoddard solvent, fuel
oil and turpentine.
(2010 Code, § 7-502)
§ 7-503 CLASS I OR CLASS II; STORAGE IN BUILDINGS.
   No person shall keep or store or cause to be kept or stored, in any building
in the city, any Class I or Class II flammable liquid in quantities exceeding
five gallons except that contained in tanks of automobiles or other self-
propelled vehicles.
(2010 Code, § 7-503)
§ 7-504 CLASS III; STORAGE IN BUILDINGS.
   No person shall keep or store or cause to be kept or stored, in any building
in the city, any Class III flammable liquid in excess of 550 gallons.
(2010 Code, § 7-504)
§ 7-505 ABOVE-GROUND TANKS.
   (a)   The storage of flammable liquids, outside of buildings, in above-
ground tanks other than bulk stations and except as provided in division (b)
below, in the city is prohibited; except that at public filling, or service
stations handling a general line of liquid fuels for sale to customers, any
such fuel may be so stored in a quantity not exceeding 55 gallons; and except
also that person requiring liquid fuel for the operation of tools, machinery or
equipment used by such person in the operation and carrying on of his or her
trade, business or occupation within the city, may maintain such storage for
such use at such place of business in quantity not to exceed 300 gallons;
provided, that such storage tank shall not be located nearer than 25 feet from
any building, nor within 20 feet of a street, alley or public way of the city,
or the property line of adjoining premises.
   (b)   The location of all other above-ground flammable liquid storage tanks
shall be limited as follows.
      (1)   (A)   Places where storage of flammable liquids in excess of 300
gallons is maintained in above-ground tanks, and as defined in regulations of
the State Fire Marshal, are defined as bulk stations, and the location of such
is prohibited in the fire limits of the city and in the residence zone of the
city.
         (B)   The minimum distance of such above-ground tanks to the line of
adjoining property is limited as follows.
 
Capacity of Tank, Gallons Class of Flammable Liquid Distance, Feet
0 to 275                  III                       5
276 to 750                III                       10
0 to 750                  I and II                  20
751 to 12,000             I, II and III             25
12,001 to 30,000          I, II and III             30
30,001 to 50,000          I, II and III             40
 
      (2)   All gas-tight tanks, including conservation-type tanks with
capacities in excess of 50,000 gallons and all tanks for the storage of crude
petroleum shall be located as follows.
[Missing Table Information]
(2010 Code, § 7-505)
§ 7-506 UNDERGROUND TANKS.
   Underground storage tanks shall be so located with respect to existing
building foundations and supports that the loads carried by the latter cannot
be transmitted to the tank. The distance from any part of a tank storing Class
I or II liquids to the nearest wall of any basement, pit or collar, shall be
not less than one foot and from any property line that may be built upon, not
less than three feet.
(2010 Code, § 7-506)
§ 7-507 PROXIMITY TO OPEN FLAME.
   Flammable liquids shall not be drawn or handled in the presence of open
flame or fire, but may be drawn and handled by daylight or when fighting is by
incandescent electric clamps in vapor proof globes.
(2010 Code, § 7-507)
§ 7-508 TANK REMOVAL.
   No person shall remove any underground tank which has contained flammable
liquid in Class I or Class II without notification to the Fire Chief stating
the time and place of such removal and the destination of such tank. All
flammable liquids shall be removed from such tank before moving.
(2010 Code, § 7-508)
ARTICLE 6: LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS
Section
   
7-601   Defined
   
7-602   State Fire Marshal’s rules and regulations
   
7-603   Location of certain type stations; permit required
   
7-604   Gas installations; permit
§ 7-601 DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES. Any material which is composed predominately of
any of the following hydrocarbons or mixtures of them: propane, propylene,
butanes (normal butane or iso-butane) and butylenes.
(2010 Code, § 7-601)
§ 7-602 STATE FIRE MARSHAL’S RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   The design, construction and installation of containers and equipment
for the storage and handling of liquified petroleum gases within the city shall
be governed by and comply with the rules and regulations relating to the
liquefied petroleum gas industry of the state, and promulgated by the State
Fire Marshal Department (effective June 20, 1958), and on file with the State
Revisor of Statutes, and consisting of rules and regulations particularly
identified as follows:
      (1)   22-8-71 to 22-8-89 inclusive;
      (2)   22-8-101 to 22-8-109, inclusive;
      (3)   22-8-201 to 22-8-222, inclusive;
      (4)   22-8-301 to 22-8-318, inclusive;
      (5)   22-8-401 to 22-8-410, inclusive;
      (6)   22-8-501 to 22-8-503, inclusive;
      (7)   22-8-601 to 22-8-612, inclusive;
      (8)   22-8-701 to 22-8-712, inclusive;
      (9)   22-8-801 to 22-8-804, inclusive; and
      (10)   22-8-901 to 22-8-905, inclusive.
   (b)   The rules and regulations are incorporated by reference and shall be a
part of this article as if the same had been set out in full in this article,
all as authorized and prescribed by the statutes of the state. Three copies of
the rules and regulations shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as
Incorporated by the Code of the City of Kingman, 1960", and filed with the City
Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public at all reasonable
hours.
(2010 Code, § 7-602)
§ 7-603 LOCATION OF CERTAIN TYPE STATIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No liquefied petroleum gas service station or bottle filling station shall
be located within the fire limits of the city, nor shall any such installations
be established within the city without first obtaining a permit from the State
Fire Marshal.
(2010 Code, § 7-603)
§ 7-604 GAS INSTALLATIONS; PERMIT.
   No installation using liquified petroleum gas shall be made without first
obtaining a permit therefor from the City Clerk, nor shall any such
installation be put in use without compliance with this article. Such
installations shall be subject to inspection and fees as in other gas
installations.
(2010 Code, § 7-604)
ARTICLE 7: EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
7-701   Storage; generally
   
7-702   Same; gunpowder; permit required
   
7-703   Same; regulations
   
7-704   Transportation of nitroglycerin unlawful; penalty
§ 7-701 STORAGE; GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful to store or keep any dynamite, nitroglycerin, giant powder or
other explosives other than gunpowder in any storeroom, wareroom, building or
on any premises within the city limits.
(2010 Code, § 7-701)
§ 7-702 SAME; GUNPOWDER; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person who sells or stores gunpowder, shall obtain a permit from the
Chief of the Fire Department, who shall inspect the place where same is kept,
and the dealer shall fully disclose to the Chief where same is kept, both in
the day and nighttime.
(2010 Code, § 7-702)
§ 7-703 SAME; REGULATIONS.
   (a)   It is unlawful to store or keep any explosive in excess of one pound
of gunpowder in any storeroom, wareroom, building or on any premises within the
city; provided, that not more than five pounds of gunpowder may be kept in
closed metal canisters in a store or wareroom away from artificial heat or
light; provided further, that not more than 50 pounds of gunpowder may be kept
in a magazine made of fire-proof material or of wood covered with sheet iron
and mounted on wheels, and kept securely locked except when necessarily opened
for use by authorized persons, and not more than 1,000 blasting caps in a
similar but separate magazine.
   (b)   The magazine shall be conspicuously placarded in red letters at least
four inches high “Explosives”, which placard shall be located within the
building, on the floor nearest the street level and within ten feet of the
street entrance.
(2010 Code, § 7-703)
§ 7-704 TRANSPORTATION OF NITROGLYCERIN UNLAWFUL; PENALTY.
   Any person who transports or conveys through or along the streets of the
city, any liquid nitroglycerin shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not
exceeding $100, or be imprisoned not exceeding three months, or be both so
fined and imprisoned.
(2010 Code, § 7-704)
CHAPTER VIII: HEALTH AND WELFARE
   Article
      
1.   BOARD OF HEALTH
      
2.   HEALTH NUISANCES
      
2A.   ENVIRONMENTAL CODE
      
3.   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
      
4.   WEEDS
      
5.   MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
      
6.   RODENT CONTROL
      
7.   INSURANCE PROCEEDS FUND
      
8.   FAIR HOUSING
ARTICLE 1: BOARD OF HEALTH
Section
   
8-101   Board of Health created
   
8-102   City Health Officer; duties
§ 8-101 BOARD OF HEALTH CREATED.
   (a)   Membership. The Mayor together with the Commissioners shall be the
Board of Health and shall prescribe such rules and regulations as may be
necessary from time to time to protect the public health of the city.
   (b)   Chairperson - inspection authority. The Mayor shall be ex officio
Chairperson of the Board of Health and shall be authorized and empowered to
enforce all sanitary laws applicable to the city and for that purpose to enter
into any shop, house, building, cellar, room or other place, whether public or
private, within the city, to see that the health regulations and rules are
carried out.
(2010Code, § 8-101)
§ 8-102 CITY HEALTH OFFICER; DUTIES.
   The City Health Officer shall:
   (a)   Cause health investigations and inspections to be made as required by
the laws of the state and of the city;
   (b)   Make recommendations to the Board respecting the improvement of health
of the inhabitants of the city;
   (c)   Make all health reports required by the State Department of Health and
Environment, Division of Health;
   (d)   Prepare an annual health report of the city for submission to the
governing body; and
   (e)   Perform such other duties as may be required of him or her under the
laws of the state or of the city.
ARTICLE 2: HEALTH NUISANCES
Section
   
8-201   Nuisances unlawful; defined
   
8-202   Public officer
   
8-203   Complaints; inquiry and inspection
   
8-204   Right of entry
   
8-205   Order of violation
   
8-206   Same; contents
   
8-207   Failure to comply; penalty
   
8-208   Abatement
   
8-209   Hearing
   
8-210   Costs assessed
§ 8-201 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL; DEFINED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit any nuisance
within the city as defined, without limitation, as follows:
   (a)   Filth, excrement, lumber, rocks, dirt, cans, paper, trash, metal or
any other offensive or disagreeable thing or substance thrown or left or
deposited upon any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, park, public or private
enclosure, or lot whether vacant or occupied;
   (b)   All dead animals not removed within 24 hours after death;
   (c)   Any place or structure or substance that emits or causes any
offensive, disagreeable or nauseous odors;
   (d)   All stagnant ponds or pools of water;
   (e)   All grass or weeds or other unsightly vegetation not usually
cultivated or grown for domestic use or to be marketed or for ornamental
purposes;
   (f)   Abandoned iceboxes or refrigerators kept on the premises under the
control of any person, or deposited on the sanitary landfill, or any icebox or
refrigerator not in actual use unless the door, opening or lid thereof is
unhinged or unfastened and removed therefrom;
   (g)   All articles or things whatsoever caused, kept, maintained or
permitted by any person to the injury, annoyance or inconvenience of the public
or of any neighborhood; and
   (h)   Any fence, structure, thing or substance placed upon or being upon any
street, sidewalk, alley or public ground so as to obstruct the same, except as
permitted by the laws of the city.
(K.S.A. 21-6204)
§ 8-202 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The person designated by the city shall designate a public officer to be
charged with the administration and enforcement of this article.
§ 8-203 COMPLAINTS; INQUIRY AND INSPECTION.
   The public officer shall make inquiry and inspection of premises upon
receiving a complaint or complaints in writing signed by two or more persons
stating that a nuisance exists and describing the same and where located, or is
informed that a nuisance may exist by the Board of Health, Chief of Police or
the Fire Chief. The public officer may make such inquiry and inspection when he
or she observes conditions that appear to constitute a nuisance. Upon making
any inquiry and inspection, the public officer shall make a written report of
findings.
§ 8-204 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer has the right of access and entry upon private property
at any reasonable time to the extent allowed by law for the purpose of making
inquiry and inspection to determine if a nuisance exists.
§ 8-205 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property, or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of §
8-201, an order stating the violation. The order shall be served on the owner
or agent of such property by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. If the property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident,
then by mailing the order by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
last known address of the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-206 SAME; CONTENTS.
   (a)   The order shall state the condition(s) that is (are) in violation of §
8-201. The order shall also inform the person, corporation, partnership or
association that:
      (1)   He, she or they shall have ten days from the receipt of the order
to abate the condition(s) in violation of §
8-201; provided, however, that the governing body (or its designee named in §
8-205) shall grant one or more extensions of the ten-day-period if the owner or
agent of the property demonstrates that due diligence is being exercised in the
abatement of the conditions in violation of §
8-201; or
      (2)   He, she or they have ten days from the receipt of the order, plus
any additional time granted under division (a)(1) above, to request a hearing
before the governing body or its designated representative of the matter as
provided by §
8-209.
   (b)   Failure to abate the condition(s) or to request a hearing within the
time allowed may result in prosecution as provided by §
8-207 and/or abatement of the condition(s) by the city as provided by §
8-208.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-207 FAILURE TO COMPLY; PENALTY.
   Should the person, corporation, partnership or association fail to comply
with the order to abate the nuisance or request a hearing, the public officer
may file a complaint in the Municipal Court of the city against such person,
corporation, partnership or association and upon conviction of any violation of
provisions of §
8-201, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, or be imprisoned not to exceed
30 days or be both fined and imprisoned. Each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues after notice has been served shall constitute an
additional or separate offense.
§ 8-208 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-207, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in the
following manner. If a person to whom an order has been served pursuant to §
8-205 has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor
requested a hearing before the governing body within the time periods specified
in §
8-206, the public officer may present a resolution to the governing body for
adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of the city to abate
the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage of
the resolution. The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by
the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the
nuisance was located as provided in §
8-210.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in violation
in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
      (2)   Certified mail, return receipt requested; or
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
   (c)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
§ 8-209 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day-period as provided in §
8-206, such request shall be made in writing to the governing body. Failure to
make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the person’s
right to contest the findings of the public officer. The hearing shall be held
by the governing body or its designated representative as soon as possible
after the filing of the request therefore, and the person shall be advised by
the city of the time and place of the hearing at least five days in advance
thereof. At any such hearing, the person may be represented by counsel, and the
person and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed
necessary and proper by the governing body or its designated representative.
The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules of evidence.
Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the governing body or its
designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted by the
governing body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in the
manner provided in §
8-208.
§ 8-210 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to §
8-208, the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by certified
mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or removal
incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is due
within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover the
cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section. The
notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or abatement is not
paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or removal shall be
collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or
shall be assessed as special assessments and charged against the lot or parcel
of land on which the nuisance was located; and the City Clerk, at the time of
certifying other city taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs; and
the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against
such lot or parcel of land; and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer
and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may
pursue collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner
provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full
cost and applicable interest has been paid in full.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
ARTICLE 2A: ENVIRONMENTAL CODE
Section
   
8-2A01   Title
   
8-2A02   Legislative finding of fact
   
8-2A03   Purpose
   
8-2A04   Rules of construction
   
8-2A05   Definitions
   
8-2A06   Public officer
   
8-2A07   Enforcement standards
   
8-2A08   Unlawful acts
   
8-2A09   Order of violation
   
8-2A10   Penalty
   
8-2A11   Abatement
   
8-2A12   Hearing
   
8-2A13   Appeals
   
8-2A14   Costs assessed
   
8-2A15   Construction
§ 8-2A01 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Environmental Code”.
§ 8-2A02 LEGISLATIVE FINDING OF FACT.
   The governing body has found that there exists within the city unsightly and
hazardous conditions due to: dilapidation, deterioration or disrepair of walls,
siding, fences or structure exteriors; accumulations increasing the hazards of
accidents or other calamities; structural defects; uncleanliness; unsightly
stored or parked material, equipment, supplies, machinery, vehicles or parts
thereof. Such conditions are inimical to the general welfare of the community
in that they have a blighting influence on the adjoining properties, the
neighborhood and the city, or are injurious to the health and safety of the
residents of the city. The governing body desires to promote the public health,
safety and welfare by the repair, removal, abatement and regulation of such
conditions in the manner hereafter provided.
§ 8-2A03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to protect, preserve, upgrade and regulate
the environmental quality of industrial, commercial and residential
neighborhoods in this city, by outlawing conditions which are injurious to the
health, safety, welfare or aesthetic characteristics of the neighborhoods and
to provide for the administration and enforcement thereof.
§ 8-2A04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following rules of construction shall
apply.
   (a)   Any part thereof. Whenever the words premises, structure, building or
yard are used, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the
words “or any part thereof”.
   (b)   Gender. Words of gender shall be construed to mean neuter, feminine or
masculine, as may be applicable.
   (c)   Number. Words of number shall be construed to mean singular or plural,
as may be applicable.
   (d)   Tense. Words of tense shall be construed to mean present or future, as
may be applicable.
   (e)   Shall. The word shall is mandatory and not permissive.
§ 8-2A05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that is not currently registered
or tagged pursuant to K.S.A. 8-126 to 8-149 inclusive, as amended; or parked in
violation of the ordinance; or incapable of moving under its own power; or in a
junked or wrecked condition.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A secondary structure detached from the principal
structure but on the same premises, including, but not limited to, garages,
sheds, barns or outbuildings.
   COMMERCIAL or INDUSTRIAL. Used or intended to be used primarily for other
than residential purposes.
   DILAPIDATION, DETERIORATION or DISREPAIR. Any condition characterized by,
but not limited to, holes, breaks, rot, decay, crumbling, cracking, peeling or
flaking paint, rusting or other evidence of physical damage, neglect, lack of
maintenance, excessive use or weathering.
   EXTERIOR. Those parts of a structure that are exposed to the weather or
subject to contact with the elements; including, but not limited to, sidings,
facings, veneers, masonry, roofs, foundations, porches, screens, shutters,
windows, doors or signs.
   GARBAGE. Without limitation, any accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable
waste matter that results from the handling, preparation, cooking, serving,
delivering, storage or use of foodstuffs.
   PERSON. Any individual, individuals, corporation, partnership,
unincorporated association, other business organization, committee, board,
trustee, receiver, agent or other representative who has charge, care, control
or responsibility for maintenance of any premises, regardless of status as
owner, renter, tenant or lessee, whether or not in possession.
   PREMISES. Any lot, plot or parcel of land including the structures thereon.
PREMISES shall also mean any lot, plot or parcel of land without any structures
thereon.
   REFUSE. Garbage and trash.
   RESIDENTIAL. Used or intended to be used primarily for human habitation.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having a location on the ground, including
any appurtenances belonging thereto.
   TRASH. Combustible waste consisting of, but not limited to, papers, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, furniture, bedding, rags, leaves, yard
trimmings or tree branches and non-combustible waste consisting of, but not
limited to, metal, tin, cans, glass, crockery, plastics, mineral matter, ashes,
clinkers, or street rubbish and sweepings.
   WEATHERED. Deterioration caused by exposure to the elements.
   YARD. The area of the premises not occupied by any structure.
§ 8-2A06 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The person designated by the city shall designate a public officer to be
charged with the administration and enforcement of this article.
§ 8-2A07 ENFORCEMENT STANDARDS.
   No person shall be found in violation of this article unless the public
officer, after a reasonable inquiry and inspection of the premises, believes
that conditions exist of a quality and appearance not commensurate with the
character of the neighborhood. Such belief must be supported by evidence of a
level of maintenance significantly below that of the rest of the neighborhood.
Such evidence shall include conditions declared unlawful under §
8-2A08, but shall not include conditions that are not readily visible from any
public place or from any surrounding private property.
§ 8-2A08 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow to exist on any
residential, commercial or industrial premises, conditions that are injurious
to the health, safety or general welfare of the residents of the community or
conditions that are detrimental to adjoining property, the neighborhood or the
city.
   (b)   For the purpose of fair and efficient enforcement and administration,
such unlawful conditions shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   Exterior conditions (yard) shall include, but not be limited to,
the scattering over or the parking, leaving, depositing or accumulation on the
yard of any of the following:
         (A)   Lumber, wire, metal, tires, concrete, masonry products, plastic
products, supplies, equipment, machinery, auto parts, junk or refuse;
         (B)   Abandoned motor vehicles;
         (C)   Furniture, stoves, refrigerators, televisions, sinks, bicycles,
lawn mowers or other such items of personal property; or
         (D)   Nauseous substances, carcasses of dead animals or places where
animals are kept in an offensive manner.
      (2)   Exterior conditions (structure) shall include, but not be limited
to, deteriorated, dilapidated or unsightly:
         (A)   Exteriors of any structure;
         (B)   Exteriors of any accessory structure; or
         (C)   Fences, walls or retaining walls.
§ 8-2A09 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of §
8-2A08 an order stating the violation. The order shall be served on the owner
or agent of such property by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. If the property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident,
then by mailing the order by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
last known address of the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first class mail. The order shall
state:
      (1)   The condition that has caused the violation of this article; and
      (2)   That the person in violation shall have:
         (A)   Ten days from the receipt of the order to alleviate the exterior
conditions (yard) violation; and/or
         (B)   Forty-five days from the receipt of the order to alleviate the
exterior conditions (structure) violation; or
         (C)   Ten days from the receipt of the order, plus any additional time
granted under subsection (c) of this section, to request, as provided in §
8-2A12 a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative on
the matter.
   (c)   Provided, however, that the governing body (or its designee named
herein) shall grant one or more extensions to the time periods stated in
subsections (b)(2)(A) and (b)(2)(B) above, if the owner or agent of the
property demonstrates that due diligence is being exercised in the abatement of
the conditions that have caused the violation of this article; and
   (d)   That failure to alleviate the condition or to request a hearing may
result in prosecution under §
8-2A10 and/or abatement of the condition by the city according to §
8-2A11 with the costs assessed against the property under §
8-2A14.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-2A10 PENALTY.
   The public officer may file a complaint in the Municipal Court against any
person found to be in violation of § 8-2A08, provided however, that such person
shall first have been sent an order of violation as provided in §
8-2A09 and that the person has neither alleviated the conditions causing the
alleged violation nor requested a hearing before the governing body within the
time periods specified in §
8-2A09. Upon such complaint in the Municipal Court, any person found to be in
violation of §
8-2A08 shall upon conviction be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor
more than $100, or by imprisonment, for not more than 30 days, or by both such
fine and imprisonment, for each offense. For the purposes of this article, a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which such
violation is permitted to exist.
§ 8-2A11 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-2A10, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in the
following manner. If a person to whom an order has been served pursuant to § 8-
2A09 has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor
requested a hearing before the governing body within the time periods specified
in §
8-2A09, the public officer may present a resolution to the governing body for
adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of the city to abate
the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage of
the resolution. The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by
the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the
nuisance was located as provided in §
8-2A14.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in violation
in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
      (2)   Certified mail, return receipt requested; or
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
   (c)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24- month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
§ 8-2A12 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-2A09, such request shall be made in writing to the governing body. Failure to
make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the person’s
right to contest the findings of the public officer. The hearing shall be held
by the governing body or its designated representative as soon as possible
after the filing of the request therefor, and the person shall be advised by
the city of the time and place of the hearing at least five days in advance
thereof. At any such hearing, the person may be represented by counsel, and the
person and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed
necessary and proper by the governing body or its designated representative.
The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules of evidence.
Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the governing body or its
designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted by the
governing body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in the
manner provided in §
8-2A11.
§ 8-2A13 APPEALS.
   Any person affected by any determination of the governing body under §§
8-2A11 and
8-2A12 may appeal such determination in the manner provided by K.S.A. 60-2101.
§ 8-2A14 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to §
8-2A11, the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or
removal incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is
due within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover
the cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section.
The notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or abatement is not
paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or removal shall be
collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or
shall be assessed as special assessments and charged against the lot or parcel
of land on which the nuisance was located and the City Clerk, at the time of
certifying other city taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs and
the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against
such lot or parcel of land and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer
and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may
pursue collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner
provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full
cost and applicable interest has been paid in full.
§ 8-2A15 CONSTRUCTION.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers
of the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its
laws nor to prevent or punish violations thereof. The powers conferred by this
article shall be in addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by the
State Constitution, by any other law or by ordinance.
ARTICLE 3: JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
   
8-301   Findings of governing body
   
8-302   Definitions
   
8-303   Nuisances unlawful; defined; exceptions
   
8-304   Public officer
   
8-305   Complaints; inquiry and inspection
   
8-306   Right of entry
   
8-307   Order of violation
   
8-308   Same; contents
   
8-309   Failure to comply; penalty
   
8-310   Abatement
   
8-311   Disposition of vehicle; recovery of vehicle
   
8-312   Hearing
   
8-313   Costs assessed
§ 8-301 FINDINGS OF GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body finds that junked, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative or
abandoned vehicles affect the health, safety and general welfare of citizens of
the city because they:
   (a)   Serve as a breeding ground for flies, mosquitoes, rats and other
insects and rodents;
   (b)   Are a danger to persons, particularly children, because of broken
glass, sharp metal protrusions, insecure mounting on blocks, jacks or other
supports;
   (c)   Are a ready source of fire and explosion;
   (d)   Encourage pilfering and theft;
   (e)   Constitute a blighting influence upon the area in which they are
located; and
   (f)   Constitute a fire hazard because they frequently block access for fire
equipment to adjacent buildings and structures.
§ 8-302 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE. A condition of being junked, wrecked, wholly or partially
dismantled, discarded, abandoned or unable to perform the function or purpose
for which it was originally constructed.
   VEHICLE. Without limitation, any automobile, truck, tractor or motorcycle
which as originally built contained an engine, regardless of whether it
contains an engine at any other time.
§ 8-303 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL; DEFINED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit any motor vehicle
nuisance within the city.
   (a)   (1)   A MOTOR VEHICLE NUISANCE is any motor vehicle that is not
currently registered or tagged pursuant to K.S.A. 8-126 to 8-149 inclusive, as
amended; or parked in violation of city ordinance; or incapable of moving under
its own power; or in a junked, wrecked or inoperable condition.
      (2)   Any one of the following conditions shall raise the presumption
that a vehicle is junked, wrecked or inoperable:
         (A)   Absence of a current registration plate upon the vehicle;
         (B)   Placement of the vehicle or parts thereof upon jacks, blocks or
other supports; or
         (C)   Absence of one or more parts of the vehicle necessary for the
lawful operation of the vehicle upon street or highway.
   (b)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any motor vehicle that is enclosed in a garage or other building;
      (2)   To the parking or storage of a vehicle inoperable for a period of
30 consecutive days or less; or
      (3)   To any person conducting a business enterprise in compliance with
existing zoning regulations or who places such vehicles behind screening of
sufficient size, strength and density to screen such vehicles from the view of
the public and to prohibit ready access to stored vehicles by children,
however, nothing in this division (b)(3) shall be construed to authorize the
maintenance of a public nuisance.
§ 8-304 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The City Manager shall designate the Code Enforcement Officer to be charged
with the administration and enforcement of this article.
§ 8-305 COMPLAINTS; INQUIRY AND INSPECTION.
   The public officer shall make inquiry and inspection of premises upon
receiving a complaint or complaints in writing signed by two or more persons
stating that a nuisance exists and describing the same and where located or is
informed that a nuisance may exist by the Board of Health, Chief of Police or
the Fire Chief. The public officer may make such inquiry and inspection when he
or she observes conditions that appear to constitute a nuisance. Upon making
any inquiry and inspection, the public officer shall make a written report of
findings.
§ 8-306 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer has the right of access and entry upon private property
at any reasonable time for the purpose of making inquiry and inspection to
determine if a nuisance exists.
§ 8-307 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property, or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of § 8-303 an order stating the
violation. The order shall be served on the owner or agent of such property by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service. If the
property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, then by mailing the
order by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of
the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-308 SAME; CONTENTS.
   (a)   The order shall state the condition(s) which is (are) in violation of
§
8-303.
   (b)   The order shall also inform the person, corporation, partnership or
association that:
      (1)   He, she or they shall have ten days from receipt of the order to
abate the condition(s) in violation of §
8-303; or
      (2)   He, she or they have ten days from receipt of the order to request
a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative of the
matter as provided by §
8-312;
   (c)   Failure to abate the condition(s) or to request a hearing within the
time allowed may result in prosecution as provided by §
8-309 and/or abatement of the condition(s) by the city as provided by §
8-310.
§ 8-309 FAILURE TO COMPLY; PENALTY.
   Should the person fail to comply with the order to abate the nuisance or
request a hearing, the public officer may file a complaint in the Municipal
Court of the city against such person and upon conviction of any violation of
provisions of §
8-303, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, or be imprisoned not to exceed
30 days, or be both fined and imprisoned. Each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues after notice has been served shall constitute an
additional or separate offense.
§ 8-310 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-309, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in the
following manner. If a person to whom an order has been sent pursuant to §
8-307 has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation or
requested a hearing before the governing body within the time period specified
in § 8-308, the public officer may present a resolution to the governing body
for adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of the city to
abate the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage
of the resolution.
   (b)   (1)   The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by
the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the
nuisance was located as provided in §
8-313.
      (2)   A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in
violation in one of the following ways:
         (A)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
         (B)   Service by certified mail, return receipt requested; or
         (C)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
      (3)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed
to accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or
order sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
§ 8-311 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE; RECOVERY OF VEHICLE.
   (a)   Disposition of any motor vehicle removed and abated from private
property pursuant to this article shall be as provided by K.S.A. 8-1102, as
amended.
   (b)   Any person attempting to recover a motor vehicle impounded as provided
in this article, shall show proof of valid registration and ownership of the
motor vehicle before the motor vehicle shall be released. In addition, the
person desiring the release of the motor vehicle shall pay all reasonable costs
associated with the impoundment of the motor vehicle, including transportation
and storage fees, prior to the release of the motor vehicle.
§ 8-312 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-308, such request shall be made in writing to the governing body. Failure to
make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the person’s
right to contest the findings of the public officer. The hearing shall be held
by the governing body or its designated representative as soon as possible
after the filing of the request therefor, and the person shall be advised by
the city of the time and place of the hearing at least five days in advance
thereof. At any such hearing, the person may be represented by counsel, and the
person and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed
necessary and proper by the governing body or its designated representative.
The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules of evidence.
Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the governing body or its
designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted by the
governing body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in the
matter provided in §
8-310.
§ 8-313 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to §
8-310, the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by certified
mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or removal
incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is due
within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover the
cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section. The
notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or abatement is not
paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or removal shall be
collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or
shall be assessed as special assessments and charged against the lot or parcel
of land on which the nuisance was located and the City Clerk, at the time of
certifying other city taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs and
the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against
such lot or parcel of land and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer
and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may
pursue collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner
provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full
cost and applicable interest has been paid in full.
ARTICLE 4: WEEDS
Section
   
8-401   Weeds to be removed
   
8-402   Definitions
   
8-403   Public officer; notice to remove
   
8-404   Abatement; assessment of costs
   
8-405   Right of entry
   
8-406   Unlawful interference
   
8-407   Noxious weeds
§ 8-401 WEEDS TO BE REMOVED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent, lessee, tenant or other person
occupying or having charge or control of any premises to permit weeds to remain
upon said premises or any area between the property lines of said premises and
the centerline of any adjacent street or alley, including, but not specifically
limited to, sidewalks, streets, alleys, easements, rights-of-way and all other
areas, public or private. All weeds as hereinafter defined are hereby declared
a nuisance and are subject to abatement as hereinafter provided.
§ 8-402 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS. As used herein, means any of the following:
      (1)   Brush and woody vines shall be classified as weeds;
      (2)   Weeds and grasses that may attain such large growth as to become,
when dry, a fire menace to adjacent improved property;
      (3)   Weeds that bear or may bear seeds of a downy or wingy nature;
      (4)   Weeds that are located in an area that harbors rats, insects,
animals, reptiles or any other creature that either may or does constitute a
menace to health, public safety or welfare; and
      (5)   Weeds and grasses on or about residential property that, because of
its height, has a blighting influence on the neighborhood. Any such weeds and
indigenous grasses shall be presumed to be blighting if they exceed 12 inches
in height.
§ 8-403 PUBLIC OFFICER; NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (a)   The City Manager shall designate a public officer to be charged with
the administration and enforcement of this article. The public officer or
authorized assistant shall give written notice to the owner, occupant or agent
of such property by certified mail, return receipt requested or by personal
service to cut or destroy weeds; provided, however, that if the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, such notice shall be sent by
certified, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the owner.
Such notice shall be given only once per calendar year.
   (b)   The notice to be given hereunder shall state:
      (1)   That the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property is in
violation of the city weed control law;
      (2)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property is
ordered to cut or destroy the weeds within ten days of the receipt of the
notice;
      (3)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property may
request a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative
within five days of the receipt of the notice or, if the owner is unknown or a
nonresident, and there is no resident agent, ten days after notice has been
published by the City Clerk in the official city newspaper;
      (4)   That if the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property
does not cut or destroy the weeds or fails to request a hearing within the
allowed time the city or its authorized agent will cut or destroy the weeds and
assess the cost of the cutting or destroying the weeds, including a reasonable
administrative fee, against the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the
property;
      (5)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property will
be given an opportunity to pay the assessment, and if it is not paid within 30
days of such notice, it will be added to the property tax as a special
assessment;
      (6)   That no further notice will be given during the current calendar
year prior to the removal of weeds from the property; and
      (7)   That the public officer should be contacted if there are questions
regarding the order.
   (c)   If there is a change in the record owner of title to property
subsequent to the giving of notice pursuant to this section, the city may not
recover any costs or levy an assessment for the costs incurred by the cutting
or destruction of weeds on such property unless the new record owner of title
to such property is provided notice as required by this article.
(K.S.A. 12-1617f)
§ 8-404 ABATEMENT; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (a)   If the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property has neither
alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor requested a hearing
within the time periods specified in § 8-403, the public officer or an
authorized assistant shall abate or remove the conditions causing the
violation.
   (b)   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to this section,
the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or removal
incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is due
within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover the
cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section.
   (c)   The notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or
abatement is not paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or
removal shall be collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and
amendments thereto, or shall be assessed as special assessments and charged
against the lot or parcel of land on which the nuisance was located and the
City Clerk, at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify the
unpaid portion of the costs and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the
tax rolls of the county against such lot or parcel of land and it shall be
collected by the County Treasurer and paid to the city as other city taxes are
collected and paid. The city may pursue collection both by levying a special
assessment and in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments
thereto, but only until the full cost and applicable interest has been paid in
full.
(K.S.A. 12-1617f)
§ 8-405 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer and the public officer’s authorized assistants,
employees, contracting agents or other representatives are hereby expressly
authorized to enter upon private property at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of cutting, destroying and/or removing such weeds in a manner not
inconsistent with this article.
§ 8-406 UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or to attempt to
prevent the public officer or the public officer’s authorized representative
from entering upon any such lot or piece of ground or from proceeding with such
cutting and destruction. Such interference shall constitute a code violation.
§ 8-407 NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   (a)   Nothing in this article shall affect or impair the rights of the city
under the provisions of K.S.A. Ch. 2, Art. 13, relating to the control and
eradication of certain noxious weeds.
   (b)   For the purpose of this article, the term noxious weeds shall mean
kudzu (Pueraria lobata), field bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea repens), hoary cress (Cardaria draba), Canada thistle
(Cirsium arvense), quackgrass (Agropyron repens), leafy spurge (Euphorbia
esula), bur ragweed (Ambrosia grayii), pignut (Hoffmannseggia densiflora), musk
(nodding) thistle (Carduus nutans L.), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense) and
sericea lespedeza (Lespedeza cuneata)
(K.S.A. 2-1314)
ARTICLE 5: MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
Section
   
8-501   Title
   
8-502   General
   
8-503   Declaration of policy
   
8-504   Definitions
   
8-505   Duty of occupant or owner of occupied or unoccupied building and its
premises or vacant premises
   
8-506   Regulations for the use and occupancy of dwellings
   
8-507   Maintenance and repair; dwellings
   
8-508   Designation of unfit dwellings
   
8-509   Designation of blighted premises (residential and nonresidential)
   
8-510   Designation of blighted buildings and premises (nonresidential)
   
8-511   Inspection of buildings, structures and premises
   
8-512   Notice of violations; procedures
   
8-513   Public officer; authority
   
8-514   Governing body; authority
   
8-515   Order to correct and/or repair, remove or demolish
   
8-516   Demolition by public officer; procedure and costs
   
8-517   Conflict of laws; effect or partial invalidity
   
8-518   Governing body; appeals
   
8-519   Right of petition
§ 8-501 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Minimum Standard for Housing and
Premises Code”, and will be referred to herein as “this code”.
§ 8-502 GENERAL.
   Buildings used in whole or in part as a home or residence of a single family
or person and every building used in whole or in part as a home or residence of
two or more persons or families living in separate apartments and all premises,
either residential or nonresidential, shall conform to the requirements of this
code.
§ 8-503 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The governing body declares the purpose of this code is to protect, preserve
and promote the physical and mental health of the people; investigate and
control communicable diseases; regulate privately- and publicly-owned
structures or dwellings and all premises for the purpose of sanitation, public
health and general appearance; protect the safety of the people; and promote
the general welfare by legislation that shall be applicable to all dwellings,
structures and premises now in existence or hereafter constructed or developed
and which legislation:
   (a)   Establishes minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities for
light, ventilation and heating, for safety from fire, for the use and location
and amount of space for human occupancy, and for safe and sanitary maintenance;
   (b)   Establishes standards concerning unsightly and blighted buildings and
premises, both residential and nonresidential structures;
   (c)   Determines the responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants;
and
   (d)   Provides for the administration and enforcement thereof.
§ 8-504 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
following definitions shall apply to the enforcement of this code.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partially underground, but having
less than half its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partially or wholly underground, and
having half or more than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
   DWELLING. Any building that is wholly or partially used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided, that temporary
housing hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used, or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   HABITABLE DWELLING. Any structure or part thereof that shall be used as a
home or place of abode by one or more persons.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room designed to be used for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking purposes, excluding bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls and storage
places, or other similar places, not used by persons for extended periods.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of insects, rodents
or other pests.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, owns or has control of a premises
or of a building or structure or part thereof, in which dwelling units or
rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation, who jointly or severally along with
others, shall be in actual possession of, or have charge, care and control of
any structure or dwelling unit or premises within the city as owner, employee
or agent of the owner, or as trustee or guardian of the estate or person of the
title holder, and such person shall be deemed and taken to be the owner or
owner of such property within the true intent and meaning of this code and
shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this article to the same extent
as the record owner and notice to any such person shall be deemed and taken to
be a good and sufficient notice as if such person or persons were actually the
record owner or owner of such property.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, corporation, association or
partnership.
   PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas or fuel pipes; gas or fuel burning equipment; water pipes; garbage disposal
units; waste pipes; water closets; sinks; installed dishwashers; lavatories;
bathtubs; shower baths; installed clothes-washing machines; catch basins;
drains; vents; and any other similar supplied fixtures, together with all
connections to water, sewer, gas or fuel lines.
   PREMISES. Any lot or land area, either residential or nonresidential, not
covered by a structure and which is subject to a city tax in part or in whole.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. The person designated by the city.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of a dwelling containing one or
more rooming units in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   REFUSE. For the purpose of this article, REFUSE shall include garbage and
trash.
      (1)   GARBAGE. Any accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable waste
matter that attends the preparation of, use of, cooking of, delivering of, or
storage of meats, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable.
      (2)   TRASH (COMBUSTIBLE). For the purpose of this article, COMBUSTIBLE
TRASH shall mean waste consisting of papers, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood and
excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture, bedding and leaves,
or any other combustible materials.
      (3)   TRASH (NON-COMBUSTIBLE). For the purpose of this article, NON-
COMBUSTIBLE TRASH shall mean waste consisting of metals, tin cans, glass,
crockery, other mineral refuse and ashes and street rubbish and sweepings,
dirt, sand, concrete scrap or any other non-combustible material.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to
something having a location on the ground.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter that is designed to be transportable and that is not attached to the
ground, house or building or another structure, or to any utilities system on
the same premises for more than 30 consecutive days, except when located in a
mobile home court duly licensed under laws of the city.
   WORDS, MEANINGS. Whenever the words “dwelling”, “dwelling unit”, “rooming
house”, “rooming unit”, “premises” are used in this article, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
§ 8-505 DUTY OF OCCUPANT OR OWNER OF OCCUPIED OR UNOCCUPIED BUILDING AND ITS
PREMISES OR VACANT PREMISES.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the owner of every occupied or unoccupied
dwelling, building and premises, or vacant premises, including all yards, lawns
and courts to keep such property clean and free from any accumulation of filth,
rubbish, garbage or any similar matter as covered by §§ 8-508 and 8-509.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of each occupant of a dwelling unit to keep in
clean condition the portion of the property that he or she occupies and of
which he or she has exclusive control, to comply with the rules and
regulations, and to place all garbage and refuse in proper containers. Where
care of the premises is not the responsibility of the occupant, then the owner
is responsible for violations of this code applicable to the premises.
   (c)   If receptacles are not provided by the owner, then the occupant shall
provide receptacles as may be necessary to contain all garbage and trash.
   (d)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single-dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the unit primarily infested.
   (e)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, whenever
infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a
vermin-proof or reasonable insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner and operator.
   (f)   Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in
any dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two
or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of
the owner.
§ 8-506 REGULATIONS FOR THE USE AND OCCUPANCY OF DWELLINGS.
   (a)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for
occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of living, sleeping,
cooking or eating therein, that does not comply with the following
requirements.
   (b)   The following requirements are hereby declared essential to the health
and safety of the occupants of such dwelling or dwelling unit.
      (1)   Attached garages or non-dwelling areas. All non-dwelling
occupancies shall be separated from the dwelling unit by a fire-resistant wall
and if the dwelling and garage are covered by a common or connecting roof, then
the ceiling also must have a fire resistance rating of not less than one hour
as defined in the Building Code.
      (2)   Basement or cellar. The basement or cellar of any dwelling shall be
reasonably dry and ventilated and shall be kept free from rubbish accumulation.
      (3)   Basement dwelling units. The use of basements or cellars for
dwelling units is prohibited unless they comply with division (b)(18) below
governing ventilation, provided however, if occupied at the time of the passage
of this code and if it complies with all other provisions of this code, the
public officer may approve less than the required windows, if in his or her
opinion, the window area is not detrimental to the occupants.
      (4)   Bathing facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain within a room
which affords privacy to a person in the room, a bathtub or shower in good
working condition and properly connected to an approved water and sewer system.
      (5)   Boarding and rooming houses. No room shall be used for sleeping
purposes unless the ceiling height is at least seven feet and there are at
least 400 cubic feet of air space for each occupant over six years of age. For
sleeping rooms with sloping ceilings, the ceiling height shall be at least
seven feet over at least 50% of the floor area.
         (A)   Bathing facilities shall be provided in the form of a tub or
shower for each eight occupants. Separate facilities shall be provided for each
sex and plainly marked.
         (B)   A flush water closet shall be provided for each six occupants
and shall be separated with the separate access from bathing facilities if more
than four occupants are served by each. Separate facilities shall be provided
for each sex and shall be plainly marked.
      (6)   Drainage. All courts, yards or other areas on the premises of any
dwelling shall be so graded and drained that there is no pooling of the water
thereon. Properly constructed wading and swimming pools and fish ponds are
excepted from this section.
      (7)   Entrances.
         (A)   There shall be for each dwelling unit a normally used separate
access either to a hallway, stairway or street that is safe and in good repair.
         (B)   A secondary exit to the ground shall be available in case of
fire through windows, porch roofs, ladders or any combination that is free of
hazard for egress.
      (8)   Floor area. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square
feet of floor space for the first occupant thereof and at least 100 additional
square feet of floor space for every additional occupant thereof. The floor
space shall be calculated on the basis of total habitable room area, inside
measurements. No floor space shall be included in determining habitable room
area over which the ceiling is less than seven feet above the floor for the
purpose of this division (b)(8).
      (9)   Garbage and trash receptacles. Every dwelling and every dwelling
unit shall be provided with such receptacles, not exceeding 32-gallon capacity,
as may be necessary to contain all garbage and trash and such receptacles shall
at all times be maintained in good repair.
      (10)   Heating. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit shall be so
constructed, insulated and maintained and be provided by owner or occupant with
heating units so that it is capable of reaching an air temperature of 70°F
under ordinary winter conditions. The chimney of the dwelling or dwelling unit
shall be maintained in good order and the owner of the approved heating
equipment shall maintain it in good order and repair.
      (11)   Kitchen sink. In every dwelling unit containing two or more rooms,
there shall be at least one kitchen sink with public water under pressure and
connected to the public sewer, or if that sewer system is not available, to a
sewage disposal system approved by the City Health Department.
      (12)   Lavatory facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain within its
walls a lavatory basin in good working condition and properly connected to an
approved water and sewer system and located in the same room as the required
flush water closet or as near to the room as practicable.
      (13)   Lighting. Every habitable room shall have a ceiling electric
outlet and a duplex outlet in wall or floor, or at least two wall or floor
outlets.
      (14)   Lighting of toilets and bathrooms. Every toilet and every bathroom
in every dwelling shall have at least one electric light in either the ceiling
or on the wall.
      (15)   Plumbing. All plumbing, water closets and other plumbing fixtures
in every dwelling or dwelling unit shall be maintained in good working order.
      (16)   Privies. All pit privies, privy vaults, “dry hopper” sewer-
connected privies and frost-proof closets are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
      (17)   Toilet facilities. There shall be at least one flush water closet
in good working condition for each dwelling unit, which flush water closet
shall be located within the dwelling and in a room that affords privacy.
      (18)   Ventilation. Every habitable room in a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall contain a window or windows openable directly to the outside air and the
total area of such window or windows shall be not less than 5% of the floor
area of such room. An approved system of mechanical ventilation or air
conditioning may be used in lieu of openable windows. Such system shall be
capable of providing not less than four air changes per hour, except that in
toilet compartments such system shall provide a complete air change every five
minutes and be automatically put in operation when the toilet compartment light
is in the “on” position.
      (19)   Water heating facilities. Every dwelling shall have supplied water
heating facilities that are installed in an approved manner and are maintained
and operated in a safe and good working condition and are properly connected
with the hot water lines to the kitchen sink, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
      (20)   Windows and doors. Every window and exterior door shall be
reasonably weather-tight, lockable and rodent-proof and shall be kept in good
working condition and good repair.
§ 8-507 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR; DWELLINGS.
   Every dwelling and every part thereof shall be maintained in good repair by
the owner or agent and be fit for human habitation. The roof shall be
maintained so as not to leak and all rainwater shall be drained therefrom so as
not to cause dampness in the walls or ceilings. All floors, stairways, doors,
porches, windows, skylights, chimneys, toilets, sinks, walls and ceilings shall
be kept in good repair and usable condition.
§ 8-508 DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS.
   The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and placarding of such unfit dwellings or dwelling units shall be carried out
in compliance with the following requirements.
   (a)   Existence of conditions. The public officer may determine, or five
citizens may petition in writing, that any dwelling unit is unfit for human use
or habitation if he, she or they find that conditions exist in such structure
that are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of the
occupants of such buildings or other residents of the neighborhood, or which
shall have a blighting influence on properties in the area.
   (b)   Conditions generally. Such conditions may include the following
without limitation:
      (1)   Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accident or other
calamities.
      (2)   Lack of:
         (A)   Adequate ventilation;
         (B)   Light;
         (C)   Cleanliness; and
         (D)   Sanitary facilities.
      (3)   Dilapidation;
      (4)   Disrepair;
      (5)   Structural defects;
      (6)   Overcrowding;
      (7)   Inadequate ingress and egress;
      (8)   Unsightly appearance that constitute a blight to the adjoining
property, the neighborhood or the city; and
      (9)   Air pollution.
   (c)   Placarding; order to vacate. Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned
as unfit for human habitation, and so designated and placarded by the public
officer, shall be vacated within a reasonable time as so ordered.
   (d)   Notice of violation. Procedures as outlined in §
8-512 are applicable hereto.
   (e)   Compliance required before re-occupancy. No dwelling or dwelling unit
that has been condemned and placarded as unfit for human habitation shall again
be used for human habitation until written approval is secured from, and such
placard is removed by the public officer.
      (1)   The public officer shall remove such placard whenever the defect or
defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been
eliminated.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to let, lease, occupy or permit the
occupancy, whether for a consideration or not, of any dwelling so posted and
any violation of this provision shall constitute a public offense within the
meaning of this code.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface or remove the placard
from any dwelling or dwelling unit that has been condemned as unfit for human
habitation and placarded as such, except the public officer as herein provided,
and any violation of this provision shall constitute a public offense within
the meaning of this code.
§ 8-509 DESIGNATION OF BLIGHTED PREMISES (RESIDENTIAL AND NONRESIDENTIAL).
   The designation of unsightly and blighted premises and elimination thereof
shall be carried out in compliance with the following requirements.
   (a)   Public officer determinations. The public officer may determine, or
five citizens may petition in writing, that if the appearance of a premises is
not commensurate with the character of the properties in the neighborhood or
otherwise constitutes a blight to the adjoining property or the neighborhood or
the city for such reasons as, but not limited to:
      (1)   Dead trees or other unsightly natural growth;
      (2)   Unsightly stored or parked material, equipment, supplies,
machinery, trucks or automobiles or parts thereof; vermin infestation,
inadequate drainage; and
      (3)   Violation of any other law or regulations relating to the use of
land and the use and occupancy of the buildings and improvements.
   (b)   Notice of violation. Procedures as outlined in §
8-512 are applicable hereto.
§ 8-510 DESIGNATION OF BLIGHTED BUILDINGS AND PREMISES (NONRESIDENTIAL).
   (a)   Certain blighted conditions. Certain blighted conditions covered in §§
8-508 and
8-509 concerning buildings and premises that are on the tax roll of the city
are applicable to all nonresidential buildings and premises.
   (b)   Notice of violation. Procedures of notification shall follow those
prescribed in §
8-512.
§ 8-511 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND PREMISES.
   (a)   For the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this
code, the public officer or his or her authorized representative is hereby
authorized to make inspections to determine the condition, use and occupancy of
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and the premises upon which the same
are located. This requirement is applicable to existing dwellings or buildings.
   (b)   The public officer is not limited by the conditions in division (a)
above where new construction or vacant premises are involved and may make such
inspections at any appropriate time.
   (c)   The owner, operator and occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit and
rooming unit shall give the public officer, or his or her authorized
representative, during reasonable hours, free access to such dwelling, dwelling
unit and rooming unit, and its premises, for the purpose of such inspection,
examination and survey after identification by proper credentials.
   (d)   Every occupant of a dwelling shall give the owner thereof, or his or
her authorized agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling, or its
premises, at all reasonable times, for the purpose of making such repairs or
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of this
code or with any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated, or any order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this code.
§ 8-512 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Informal discussion. Whenever the public officer or his or her
authorized representative determines that there has been a violation of any
provision of this code, the public officer will arrange with the alleged
violator for an informal discussion of violations, and whether repair and
correction is justified.
   (b)   Formal hearing. If a satisfactory solution to the violations either by
correction, demolition or removal is not forthcoming, then a legal notice of a
formal hearing will be issued according to the following procedures:
      (1)   Shall be in writing;
      (2)   Shall list the violations alleged to exist or to have been
committed;
      (3)   Shall provide a reasonable time, but not less than 30 days in any
event for the correction of the violations particularized;
      (4)   Shall be addressed to and served upon the owner of the property,
the operator of the dwelling and the occupant of the dwelling unit or the
rooming unit concerned, if the occupant is or may be responsible for violation;
      (5)   If one or more persons whom the notice is addressed cannot be found
or served after diligent effort to do so, service may be made upon such person
or persons by posting a notice in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling
affected by the notice, in which event the public officer or his or her
authorized representative shall include in the record a statement as to why
such posting was necessary; and
      (6)   Delivery shall be by certified mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service. If service is made by certified mail, the public officer
or his or her authorized representative shall include in the record a verified
statement giving details regarding the mailing.
§ 8-513 PUBLIC OFFICER; AUTHORITY.
   For the purpose of protecting the city against unsightly or blighted
premises, also the health, welfare and safety of the inhabitants of dwellings
or dwelling units, the public officer referred heretofore is hereby authorized,
with the consent and prior knowledge of the governing body, to enforce
provisions of this code and of other laws that regulate or set standards
affecting buildings and premises.
§ 8-514 GOVERNING BODY; AUTHORITY.
   The governing body is hereby authorized:
   (a)   To informally review all alleged violations as provided in §
8-512(a) prior to notification prescribed in §
8-512(b);
   (b)   To take action as prescribed in §
8-512(b);
   (c)   To hear appeals if there is opposition to any order, requirement,
decision or determination by the public officer in enforcement of this code as
outlined in §
8-518; and
   (d)   Discretionary authority may be exercised in specific cases where
variance from the terms of the code as:
      (1)   Will not adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare of
inhabitants of the city;
      (2)   Is in harmony with the spirit of this code; and
      (3)   Where literal enforcement of the code will result in unnecessary
hardship.
§ 8-515 ORDER TO CORRECT AND/OR REPAIR, REMOVE OR DEMOLISH.
   At the time of the placarding and order to vacate specified by §
8-508(c) hereof, the public officer shall also issue and cause to be served
upon the owner a notice advising of the option of removal or demolition in lieu
of correction and/or repair following the procedures as outlined in §
8-512.
§ 8-516 DEMOLITION BY PUBLIC OFFICER; PROCEDURE AND COSTS.
   (a)   Failure to comply with the order under §
8-515 for the alteration or improvement of such structure, the public officer,
with the consent and prior knowledge of the governing body, may cause such
condemned structure to be removed or demolished and the premises improved to
eliminate the conditions outlined in §
8-509.
   (b)   The cost of demolition by a public officer shall be a lien upon the
property upon which the cost was incurred and such lien, including as a part
thereof an allowance of his or her costs and necessary attorney’s fees, may be
foreclosed in judicial proceedings in the manner provided or authorized by law
for loans secured by liens on real property or shall be assessed as a special
assessment upon the lot or parcel of land on which the structure was located
and the City Clerk at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify
the unpaid portion of the aforesaid costs and the County Clerk shall extend the
same on the tax rolls against the lot or parcel of land.
   (c)   If the structure is removed or demolished by the public officer, he or
she shall offer for bids and sell the structure or the materials of such
structure. The proceeds of such sale shall be credited against the cost of the
removal or demolition and, if there is any balance remaining, it shall be paid
to the parties entitled thereto after deduction of costs or judicial
proceedings, if any, including the necessary attorney’s fees incurred therein,
as determined by the court, if involved.
§ 8-517 CONFLICT OF LAWS; EFFECT OR PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   (a)   Conflicts between the provisions of this code and with a provision of
any zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinance or code of the city,
existing on the effective date of this article, the provision shall prevail
that establishes the higher standard.
   (b)   Conflicts between this article with a provision of any other ordinance
or code of the city existing on the effective date of this article that
establishes a lower standard, the provisions of this article shall be deemed to
prevail and such other laws or codes are hereby declared to be repealed to the
extent that they may be found in conflict with this code.
§ 8-518 GOVERNING BODY; APPEALS.
   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation considering themselves aggrieved by
the decision of the public officer and who desires to present a formal protest
to the governing body shall in writing, request a hearing before the governing
body within ten days after receiving notice of the decision from the public
officer, as provided in §
8-512(b). Such protest and request for a hearing shall be filed with the office
of the City Clerk.
   (b)   Upon receipt of a protest and request for a hearing, the City Clerk
shall notify in writing the governing body of such appeal.
   (c)   The governing body shall, within 30 days of receipt of protest and
request for a hearing, determine a date for the hearing.
   (d)   Notice of the date for the hearing shall be sent to the appellant at
least ten days before the hearing.
   (e)   Except where an immediate hazard exists as described in §
4-612 of this code, the filing of a protest and request for a hearing before
the governing body as specified in division (a) above shall operate as a stay
of the enforcement of the public officer’s order until such time as the
governing body has reached a decision on the matter.
§ 8-519 RIGHT OF PETITION.
   After exhausting the remedy provided in §
8-518, any person aggrieved by an order issued by the public officer and
approved by the governing body after a hearing on the matter may, within 30
days from the date that the order became final, petition the District Court of
the county in which the property is located to restrain the public officer from
carrying out the provisions of the order.
ARTICLE 6: RODENT CONTROL
Section
   
8-601   Definitions
   
8-602   Building maintenance
   
8-603   Notice to rat-stop; when city to do work
   
8-604   Failure to comply
   
8-605   Replace rat-stoppage
   
8-606   Notice to eradicate rats
   
8-607   Conditions conducive to harborage of rats
   
8-608   Inspections
§ 8-601 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure, whether public or private, that is adapted for
occupancy as a residence; the transaction of business; the rendering of
professional services; amusement; the display, sale or storage of goods, wares
or merchandise; or the performance of work or labor, including office
buildings, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants, workshops
and all other houses, sheds and other structures on the premises used for
business purposes.
   OCCUPANT. The person that has the use of, controls or occupies any business
building or any portion thereof, whether owner or tenant. In the case of vacant
business buildings or any vacant portion of a business building, the owner,
agent or other person having custody of the building shall have the
responsibilities of an OCCUPANT of a building.
   OWNER. The owner of any building or structure, whether individual, firm,
partnership or corporation.
   RAT HARBORAGE. Any condition that provides shelter or protection for rats,
thus favoring their multiplication and continued existence in, under or outside
a structure of any kind.
   RAT-STOPPAGE. A form of rat-proofing to prevent the ingress of rats into
buildings from the exterior or from one building to another, consisting
essentially of the closing of all openings in the exterior walls, ground or
first floors, basements, roofs and foundations, that may be reached by rats
from the ground by climbing or by burrowing, with material or equipment
impervious to rat-gnawing.
§ 8-602 BUILDING MAINTENANCE.
   All buildings and structures located within the present or future boundaries
of the city shall be rat-stopped, freed of rats and maintained in a rat-stopped
and rat-free condition.
§ 8-603 NOTICE TO RAT-STOP; WHEN CITY TO DO WORK.
   Upon receipt of written notice from the governing body, the owner of any
building or structure specified therein shall take immediate measures for the
rat-stoppage of such building or structure. The work shall be completed in the
time specified in the written notice, which shall be within 15 days, or within
the time of any written extension thereof that may have been granted by the
governing body.
§ 8-604 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the owner fails to comply with such written notice or extension, then the
governing body is authorized to take such action as may be necessary to
completely rat-stop the building or structure at the expense of the owner, and
the City Clerk shall submit bills for the expense thereof to the owner of the
building or structure. If the bills are not paid within 60 days, the City Clerk
shall certify the amount due to the City Treasurer and the charge shall be a
lien against the property where the work has been done, and the owner shall be
promptly billed therefor. The expense thereof shall include the cost of labor,
materials, equipment and any other actual expense necessary for rat-stoppage.
§ 8-605 REPLACE RAT-STOPPAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any occupant, owner, contractor, public utility
company, plumber or any other person to remove the rat-stoppage from any
building or structure for any purpose and fail to restore the same in a
satisfactory condition or to make any new openings that are not closed or
sealed against the entrance of rats.
§ 8-606 NOTICE TO ERADICATE RATS.
   Whenever the governing body notifies in writing the owner of any building or
structure theretofore rat-stopped as hereinabove defined, that there is
evidence of rat infestation of the building or structure, the owner shall
immediately institute appropriate measures for freeing the premises so occupied
of all rats. Unless suitable measures for freeing the building or structure of
rats are instituted within five days after the receipt of notice, and unless
continually maintained in a satisfactory manner, the city is hereby authorized
to free the building or structure of rats at the expense of the owner thereof
and the City Clerk shall submit bills for the expense thereof to the owner of
the building or structure and if the same are not paid, the City Clerk shall
certify the amount due from the owner to the City Treasurer, and the owner
shall be promptly billed therefor. The expense thereof shall include the cost
of labor, materials, equipment and any other actual expense necessary for the
eradication measures.
§ 8-607 CONDITIONS CONDUCIVE TO HARBORAGE OF RATS.
   (a)   All food and feed kept within the city for feeding animals shall be
kept and stored in rat-free and rat-proof containers, compartments or rooms
unless kept in a rat-stopped building.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, leave, dump or permit to
accumulate any garbage or trash in any building or premises so that the same
shall afford food and harborage for rats.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate or to permit the
accumulation on any premises or on any open lot any lumber, boxes, barrels,
bricks, stone or similar materials that may be permitted to remain thereon and
that are rat harborages, unless the same shall be placed on open racks that are
elevated not less than 12 inches above the ground, evenly piled or stacked.
   (d)   Whenever conditions inside or under any building or structure provide
such extensive harborage for rats that the Building Inspector deems it
necessary to eliminate such harborage, he or she may require the owner to
install suitable cement floors in basements or to replace wooden first or
ground floors or require the owner to correct such other interior rat harborage
as may be necessary to facilitate the eradication of rats in a reasonable time
and thereby to reduce the cost of such eradication.
§ 8-608 INSPECTIONS.
   The City Manager is empowered to make such inspections and re-inspections of
the interior and exterior of any building or structure as in his or her opinion
may be necessary to determine full compliance with this article.
ARTICLE 7: INSURANCE PROCEEDS FUND
Section
   
8-701   Scope and application
   
8-702   Lien created
   
8-703   Same; encumbrances
   
8-704   Same; pro rata basis
   
8-705   Procedure
   
8-706   Fund created; deposit of monies
   
8-707   Building Inspector; investigation, removal of structure
   
8-708   Removal of structure; excess monies
   
8-709   Same; disposition of funds
   
8-710   Effect upon insurance policies
   
8-711   Insurers; liability
§ 8-701 SCOPE AND APPLICATION.
   The city is hereby authorized to utilize the procedures established by
K.S.A. 40-3901 et seq., whereby no insurance company shall pay a claim of a
named insured for loss or damage to any building or other structure located
within the city, where the amount recoverable for the loss or damage to the
building or other structure under all policies is in excess of 75% of the face
value of the policy covering such building or other insured structure, unless
there is compliance with the procedures set out in this article.
(Ord. 2011, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 8-702 LIEN CREATED.
   The governing body of the city hereby creates a lien in favor of the city on
the proceeds of any insurance policy based upon a covered claim payment made
for damage or loss to a building or other structure located within the city,
where the amount recoverable for all the loss or damage to the building or
other structure under all policies is in excess of 75% of the face value of the
policy(s) covering such building or other insured structure. The lien arises
upon any unpaid tax, special ad valorem levys or any other charge imposed upon
real property by or on behalf of the city which is an encumbrance on real
property, whether or not evidenced by written instrument, or such tax, levy,
assessment, expense or other charge that has remained undischarged for at least
one year prior to the filing of a proof of loss.
(Ord. 2011, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 8-703 SAME; ENCUMBRANCES.
   Prior to final settlement on any claim covered by §
8-702, the insurer or insurers shall contact the County Treasurer to determine
whether any such encumbrances are presently in existence. If the same are found
to exist, the insurer or insurers shall execute and transmit in an amount equal
to that owing under the encumbrances a draft payable to the County Treasurer.
§ 8-704 SAME; PRO RATA BASIS.
   Such transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by all insurance
companies insuring the building or other structure.
§ 8-705 PROCEDURE.
   (a)   When final settlement on a covered claim has been agreed to or arrived
at between the named insured or insureds and the company or companies, and the
final settlement exceeds 75% of the face value of the policy covering any
building or other insured structure, and when all amounts due the holder of a
first real estate mortgage against the building or other structure, pursuant to
the terms of the policy and endorsements thereto, shall have been paid, the
insurance company or companies shall execute a draft payable to the City
Treasurer in an amount equal to the sum of 15% of the covered claim payment,
unless the Chief Building Inspector of the city has issued a certificate to the
insurance company or companies that the insured has removed the damaged
building or other structure, as well as all associated debris, or repaired,
rebuilt or otherwise made the premises safe and secure.
   (b)   Such transfer of funds shall be on a pro rata basis by all companies
insuring the building or other structure. Policy proceeds remaining after the
transfer to the city shall be disbursed in accordance with the policy terms.
   (c)   Upon the transfer of the funds as required by division (a) above, the
insurance company shall provide the city with the name and address of the named
insured or insureds, the total insurance coverage applicable to said building
or other structure, and the amount of the final settlement agreed to or arrived
at between the insurance company or companies and the insured or insureds,
whereupon the Chief Building Inspector shall contact the named insured or
insureds by certified mail, return receipt requested, notifying them that said
insurance proceeds have been received by the city and apprise them of the
procedures to be followed under this article.
§ 8-706 FUND CREATED; DEPOSIT OF MONIES.
   The City Treasurer is hereby authorized and shall create a fund to be known
as the Insurance Proceeds Fund. All monies received by the City Treasurer as
provided for by this article shall be placed in said Fund and deposited in an
interest-bearing account.
§ 8-707 BUILDING INSPECTOR; INVESTIGATION, REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE.
   (a)   Upon receipt of moneys as provided for by this ordinance, the City
Treasurer shall immediately notify the Chief Building Inspector of said
receipt, and transmit all documentation received from the insurance company or
companies to the Chief Building Inspector.
   (b)   Within 30 days of the receipt of said moneys, the Chief Building
Inspector shall determine, after prior investigation, whether the city shall
instigate proceedings under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as
amended.
   (c)   Prior to the expiration of the 30 days established by division (b)
above, the Chief Building Inspector shall notify the City Treasurer whether he
or she intends to initiate proceedings under K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as
amended.
   (d)   If the Chief Building Inspector has determined that proceedings under
K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as amended shall be initiated, he or she will do so
immediately but no later than 45 days after receipt of the moneys by the City
Treasurer.
   (e)   Upon notification to the City Treasurer by the Chief Building
Inspector that no proceedings shall be initiated under K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq.,
as amended, the City Treasurer shall return all such moneys received, plus
accrued interest, to the insured or insureds as identified in the communication
from the insurance company or companies. Such return shall be accomplished
within 45 days of the receipt of the moneys from the insurance company or
companies.
(Ord. 2011, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 8-708 REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE; EXCESS MONIES.
   If the Chief Building Inspector has proceeded under the provisions of K.S.A.
12-1750 et seq., as amended, all monies in excess of that which is ultimately
necessary to comply with the provisions for the removal of the building or
structure, less salvage value, if any, shall be paid to the insured.
§ 8-709 SAME; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   If the Chief Building Inspector, with regard to a building or other
structure damaged, determines that it is necessary to act under K.S.A. 12-1756,
any proceeds received by the City Treasurer under the authority of § 8-705
relating to that building or other structure shall be used to reimburse the
city for any expenses incurred by the city in proceeding under K.S.A. 12-1756.
Upon reimbursement from the insurance proceeds, the Chief Building Inspector
shall immediately effect the release of the lien resulting therefrom. Should
the expenses incurred by the city exceed the insurance proceeds paid over to
the City Treasurer under § 8-705(a), the Chief Building Inspector shall publish
a new lien as authorized by K.S.A. 12-1756, in an amount equal to such excess
expenses incurred.
(Ord. 2011, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 8-710 EFFECT UPON INSURANCE POLICIES.
   This article shall not make the city a party to any insurance contract, nor
is the insurer liable to any party for any amount in excess of the proceeds
otherwise payable under its insurance policy.
§ 8-711 INSURERS; LIABILITY.
   Insurers complying with this article or attempting in good faith to comply
with this article shall be immune from civil and criminal liability and such
action shall not be deemed in violation of K.S.A. 40-2404 and any amendments
thereto, including withholding payment of any insurance proceeds pursuant to
this article, or releasing or disclosing any information pursuant to this
article.
ARTICLE 8: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
8-801   City policy
   
8-802   Definitions
   
8-803   Discriminatory practices designated
   
8-804   Exemptions
   
8-805   Fair Housing Board; complaint procedure
   
8-806   Violations; penalty
§ 8-801 CITY POLICY.
   The governing body of the city declares it to be the public policy of the
city to eliminate discrimination and safeguard the right of any person to sell,
purchase, lease, rent, finance or obtain funding of real property without
regard to race, color, sex, religion, national origin or ancestry.
(2010 Code, § 8-801)
§ 8-802 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person regularly engage in the business of
lending money or guaranteeing loans of housing accommodations or real property.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS.
      (1)   Any building or portion thereof, whether such building or portion
is constructed or is to be constructed, which is used or intended for use as
the residence or sleeping place of one or more persons.
      (2)   HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS does not mean or include:
         (A)   The rental of a dwelling or portion thereof, containing
accommodations for no more than five families, one of which is occupied by the
owner or his or her family at the time of the rental; or
         (B)   The rental of rooms in a one-family dwelling to another person
or persons by the owner or occupant of such accommodation on which he, she or
members of his or her family reside.
   OWNER. Includes the owner, lessee, sublessee, assignee, manager, agent or
other person, firm or corporation having the right to sell, rent or lease any
housing accommodations or real property within the corporate limits of the
city.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, partnerships or other organizations,
corporations, legal representatives, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy and
receivers.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person who, for a fee or other valuable
consideration, sells, purchases, exchanges, rents, negotiates, offers or
attempts to negotiate the sale, purchase, exchange or rental of housing
accommodations or real property of another person.
   REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON OR AGENT. Any person employed by a real estate
broker to perform or to assist in the performance of any or all of the
functions of a real estate broker.
   REAL PROPERTY. All real estate, leaseholds any vacant land offered for sale
or rent.
   UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. Any discrimination or segregation
or separation against any person or group of persons because of race, color,
sex, religion, national origin or ancestry, and shall include only those
unlawful practices and acts as set forth in §
8-803.
(2010 Code, § 8-802)
§ 8-803 DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES DESIGNATED.
   It shall be an unlawful discriminatory housing practice:
   (a)   For the owners, real estate broker, real estate salesperson or
employees or agent thereof:
      (1)   To refuse to sell, rent, assign, lease or sublease or offer for
sale, rental, lease, assignment or sublease, or to refuse to negotiate for the
sale, rental, lease assignment or sublease of any real property or portion
thereof which is in fact listed or available for sale, rent, lease or sublease
to any person who has shown the financial ability to satisfy the terms and
conditions of a sale, rental, assignment, leases or sublease of the property,
or to otherwise deny or withhold any housing accommodation or real property or
any part or portion thereof to or from any person because of the race, color,
sex, religion, national origin or ancestry of such person;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person because of his or her race,
color, sex, religion, national origin or ancestry in the terms, conditions or
privileges of the sale, lease, rental, assignment or sublease of any housing
accommodations or real property or part or portion thereof or in the furnishing
of facilities or services in connection therewith; or
      (3)   To print, publish, circulate, issue, display, post or mail or cause
to be printed, published, circulated, issued, displayed posted or mailed any
statement, advertisement, publication or sign or use any form of application
for the purchase, rental, lease, assignment or sublease of any housing
accommodations or real property or part or portion thereof which expresses,
directly or indirectly, any limitation, specification, or discrimination as to
race, color, sex, religion, national origin or ancestry or any intent to make
any such limitation, specification or discrimination.
   (b)   For any person or financial institution to which application is made
for financial assistance for the purchase, acquisition or construction of any
housing accommodations or real property or part or portion thereof, or any
agent or employee thereof:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person because of the race, sex, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry of such person or of prospective
occupants or tenants of such housing accommodations or real property or part or
portion thereof in the granting, withholding, extending, modifying or renewing
or in the fixing of the rates, terms, conditions or provisions of any such
financial assistance or in the extension of services in connection therewith;
or
      (2)   To use any form of application of such financial assistance or to
make any record or inquiry in connection with applications for such financial
assistance.
(2010 Code, § 8-803)
§ 8-804 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this article shall prohibit a religious organization, association
or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised or
controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association or
society from limiting the sale, rentals or occupancy of dwellings which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons; nor shall anything in this
article prohibit a private club not in fact open to the public which as an
incident to primary purpose or purposes provides lodging which it owns or
operates for other than a commercial purpose from limiting the rental or
occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its
members.
(2010 Code, § 8-804)
§ 8-805 FAIR HOUSING BOARD; COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (a)   The City Commission shall serve as the Fair Housing Board.
   (b)   Every complaint of a violation of this article shall be referred to
the City Commission. The City Commission shall forthwith notify the person
against whom the complaint is made. The identity of the aggrieved person shall
be made known to the person against whom the complaint is made at that time. If
the City Commission, after investigation, finds there is no merit to the
complaint, the same shall be dismissed. If the City Commission finds that there
is merit to the complaint in its opinion, then and in that event the City
Commission will endeavor to eliminate the alleged discriminatory practice by
conference and conciliation.
   (c)   If the City Commission is unable to eliminate the alleged
discriminatory practice by a conference and conciliation, then and in that
event the Fair Housing Board shall forward the complaint to the City Attorney
for handling. The final determination of whether or not to prosecute on the
complaint shall be left to the City Attorney.
(2010 Code, § 8-805)
§ 8-806 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be fined in an
amount not to exceed $500.
   (b)   Any person making false, malicious or unfounded provisions of this
article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
may be fined in an amount not to exceed $500.
(2010 Code, § 8-806)
CHAPTER IX: MUNICIPAL COURT
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
9-101   Municipal Court established
   
9-102   Same; practice and procedure
   
9-103   Time and place of sessions
   
9-104   Municipal Judge; appointment
   
9-105   Same; absence; vacancy; pro tem
   
9-106   Same; powers and duties
   
9-107   Same; salary
   
9-108   Court Clerk
   
9-109   Payment of fine
   
9-110   Same; failure to pay separate violation
   
9-111   Failure to appear
   
9-112   Court costs
   
9-113   Community service
§ 9-101 MUNICIPAL COURT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Municipal Court for the city. The Municipal
Court shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine cases involving violations
of the ordinances of the city.
§ 9-102 SAME; PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE.
   The State Code of Procedure for Municipal Courts, as set forth in K.S.A. 12-
4101 et seq., and all acts amendatory or supplemental thereto, shall govern the
practice and procedure in all Municipal Court cases.
§ 9-103 TIME AND PLACE OF SESSIONS.
   The Municipal Court shall be held in the Municipal Courtroom in the City
Hall building on such days and at such hours as the Municipal Judge designates.
§ 9-104 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; APPOINTMENT.
   The Municipal Court shall be presided over by a Municipal Judge. The City
Manager, subject to the approval of the City Commission, shall appoint the
Judge of the Municipal Court.
§ 9-105 SAME; ABSENCE; VACANCY; PRO TEM.
   (a)   In the event the Municipal Judge is temporarily unable to preside due
to absence, illness or disqualification, the Municipal Judge shall designate an
attorney or other qualified person to act as Judge Pro Tempore. In the event
the Municipal Judge fails to appoint a Judge Pro Tempore, the Judge Pro Tempore
shall be appointed in the same manner as the Municipal Judge is selected. The
Judge Pro Tempore shall receive compensation as shall be provided by ordinance,
payable in the same manner as the compensation of the regular Municipal Judge.
   (b)   In the event a vacancy shall occur in the office of Municipal Judge, a
successor shall be appointed to fill the unexpired term in the same manner as
the Municipal Judge was appointed.
(K.S.A. 12-4107)
§ 9-106 SAME; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Municipal Judge shall have such powers and duties as set forth in the
State Code of Procedure for Municipal Courts (K.S.A. 12-4101 et seq.) and all
acts amendatory or supplemental thereto.
§ 9-107 SAME; SALARY.
   The Municipal Judge shall receive a salary as shall be fixed by ordinance.
§ 9-108 COURT CLERK.
   (a)   There is hereby established the Office of the Clerk of the Municipal
Court of the city, which office shall be filled by appointment by the City
Manager.
   (b)   The duties of the office shall be those prescribed by the Code for
Municipal Courts set forth in K.S.A. Ch. 12, Art. 41, and shall include the
following duties.
      (1)   The Clerk shall issue all processes of the Court; administer oaths;
file and preserve all papers, and docket cases; and set same for trial and
shall perform such further acts as may be necessary to carry out the duties and
responsibilities of the Court. The Clerk shall receive, account for and pay to
the City Treasurer monthly all fines and forfeited bonds paid into the Court.
The Clerk shall make reports to the Judicial Administrator and furnish the
information when requested by him, her or a departmental justice on such forms
furnished by the Judicial Administrator, and approved by the Supreme Court.
      (2)   The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall within ten days after
selection and before entering upon the duties of office, execute to the city
such bond as the governing body may require, which shall be approved by the
governing body, and file in the office of the City Clerk, conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties required of him or her by law, and for the
faithful application and payment of all monies that may come into his or her
hands in the execution of the duties of the office. The city shall pay the cost
of such bond.
      (3)   The monthly salary of the Clerk shall be fixed by ordinance.
(K.S.A. 12-4108)
§ 9-109 PAYMENT OF FINE.
   Where a Municipal Court judgment against any person results in a fine and/or
court costs only, the same shall be satisfied by paying the amount of such fine
and/or court costs to the Municipal Court immediately on the rendition of
judgment, or at such time as the Municipal Judge shall determine.
§ 9-110 SAME; FAILURE TO PAY SEPARATE VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail to pay any lawfully
imposed fine for a violation of any law of the city within the time authorized
by the Court and without lawful excuse having been presented to the Court on or
before the date the fine is due. Such conduct constitutes a violation of this
article, regardless of the full payment of the fine after such time.
§ 9-111 FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person charged with violation of any law
of the city to fail to appear before the Municipal Court when so scheduled to
appear, unless lawful excuse for absence is presented to the Court on or before
the time and date scheduled for appearance.
   (b)   For the purpose of division (a) above, failure to appear shall include
willfully incurring a forfeiture of an appearance bond and failure to surrender
oneself within 30 days following the date of such forfeiture by one who is
charged with a violation of the laws of the city and has been released on bond
for appearance before the Municipal Court for trial or other proceeding prior
to conviction, or willfully incurring a forfeiture of an appearance bond and
failing to surrender oneself within 30 days after his or her conviction of a
violation of the laws of the city has become final by one who has been released
on an appearance bond by any court of this state.
   (c)   Any person who is released upon his or her own recognizance, without
surety, or who fails to appear in response to a summons, notice to appear or
traffic citation duly served upon him or her personally shall be deemed a
person released on bond for appearance within the meaning of division (b)
above.
   (d)   Failure to appear, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by
incarceration for up to 30 days and/or a fine of up to $250.
§ 9-112 COURT COSTS.
   The following costs shall be assessed, where applicable, against persons who
are found guilty, plead guilty, or fail to comply with a traffic citation as
costs for the administration of justice:
   (a)   The sum of $125 shall be assessed as court costs against each person
charged with a violation of any ordinances of the city, unless found not guilty
or imposition of court costs is otherwise prohibited by ordinances of the city.
The $125 in court costs shall include all costs required by state statute.
   (b)   A cost of $50 shall be assessed against each person for whom a
Municipal Court bench warrant is ordered by the Court for failure to appear,
probation violation, or failure to comply.
   (c)   A cost of $50 shall be assessed against each person for whom a
Municipal Court bench warrant is ordered by the Court for failure to pay any
fine, penalties or costs as provided in this section.
   (d)   Each person placed under the supervision of a probation officer shall
pay a probation fee of $90 for each probation.
   (e)   The cost for housing, meals and medical care while incarcerated prior
to and after a conviction for a violation of the ordinances of the city shall
be assessed against each person. Said cost shall be the amount actually charged
by the Kingman County Sheriff and paid by the city.
      (1)   In determining the amount and method of payment of costs for
housing, meals and medical care, the Court shall take into account the
financial resources of the person and the nature of the burden that payment of
such fees will impose.
      (2)   If a person alleges the cost of housing, meals and medical care
would create an undue hardship on the person, he or she may, by motion to the
Municipal Court, request that such costs be waived and/or reduced. If the
Court, in its discretion after evaluating the evidence, determines that such
fees will create an undue hardship, the Court may waive or reduce said fees.
   (f)   A blood draw fee of $35 shall be imposed upon each person convicted of
a crime for which blood was drawn for testing at the laboratory of the Kansas
Bureau of Investigation.
   (g)   In addition to other court costs assessed pursuant to this section,
the sum of $20 shall be assessed as court costs against each accused person who
fails to comply with a traffic citation, as defined in Sec. 201.1. of the
Standard Traffic Ordinance incorporated by §
14-101 of the code.
   (h)   The costs and fees assessed pursuant to this section shall be in
addition to any fine imposed.
   (i)   Post-conviction remedies. Whenever any motions or applications for
post-conviction remedies are filed, the cost for filing such motion or
application shall be $125 and shall be paid by the person filing such motion or
application. The filing fee for an expungement motion shall be $150 and shall
be paid by the person filing the expungement motion.
   (j)   Except as set forth in division (e) above, the assessment and
imposition of court costs pursuant to this section shall be mandatory, and the
Court shall not waive, remit, suspend, parole, or otherwise excuse payment
thereof unless required by ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 1978, passed 6-26-2014; Ord. 2035, passed 12-28-2017; Ord. 2060, passed
11-14-2019; Ord. 2104, passed 3-9-2023; Ord. 2105, passed 3-23-2023)
§ 9-113 COMMUNITY SERVICE.
   The Municipal Judge may impose upon a defendant as a condition of probation
or suspension of sentence the performance of community or public service work
for city governmental agencies, private corporations organized not-for-profit,
or charitable or social service organizations performing services for the
community.
(Ord. 2015, passed 7-25-2016)
CHAPTER X: POLICE
   Article
      
1.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
2.   PROPERTY IN POLICE CUSTODY
      
3.   POLICE FEES
ARTICLE 1: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
10-101   Police Department
   
10-102   Law enforcement personnel; general duties
   
10-103   Rules and regulations
   
10-104   Chief of Police power to suspend or discharge
§ 10-101 POLICE DEPARTMENT
   The regular police force of the city shall consist of the Chief of Police
and any subordinate or special officers.
(2010 Code, § 10-101) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 10-102 LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL; GENERAL DUTIES.
                  
   (a)   The Chief of Police shall have supervision of subordinate or special
officers, under the direction of the City Manager.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and other officers to see
that the laws of the state and all ordinances and resolutions of the city are
properly enforced and obeyed within the police jurisdiction of the city.
   (c)   Officers are to be industrious in bringing to justice all violators of
law and in preventing violations of the law.
   (d)   Whenever an arrest is made, officers shall attend all trials in
Municipal Court, unless excused by the Municipal Judge or the City Attorney.
   (e)   Officers shall promptly serve all process papers, notices or orders as
required by statute or as directed by the City Manager.
   (f)   Officers shall perform such other duties as may be required by the
City Manager or by the ordinances of the city.
(2010 Code, § 10-102) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 10-103 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police shall have power to make such rules and regulations as
may be necessary for the proper and efficient conduct of the Department. Such
rules and regulations shall be approved by the governing body.
(2010 Code, § 10-103) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
§ 10-104 CHIEF OF POLICE POWER TO SUSPEND OR DISCHARGE.
   The Chief of Police may, with the consent of the City Manager, suspend or
discharge any subordinate under his or her direction for neglect of duty or
disobedience of his or her orders.
(2010 Code, § 10-104) (Charter Ord. 23, passed - -)
ARTICLE 2: PROPERTY IN POLICE CUSTODY
Section
   
10-201   Regulations
   
10-202   Disposition
   
10-203   Same; exempt property
   
10-204   Claiming property
   
10-205   Proof of ownership
   
10-206   Auction
§ 10-201 REGULATIONS.
   The Police Department is required to establish regulations detailing the
collection, storage and inventory of property that may come under its control
by any manner.
§ 10-202 DISPOSITION.
   Any property which has been acquired or turned over to the Police Department
and has been classified in accordance with procedures existing in the Police
Department as unclaimed or for which the proper owner cannot be ascertained
shall be kept for a minimum of 90 days. After a period of 90 days, such
property, except as provided in § 10-203, shall be sold at public auction to
the highest bidder and the proceeds after expenses shall be paid to the City
General Fund.
§ 10-203 SAME; EXEMPT PROPERTY.
   The following classes of property shall be considered exceptions to §
10-202 and shall be dealt with in the following manner.
   (a)   Cash money shall be turned over to the City General Fund unless it
shall be determined to have collector’s value, in which case it shall be
auctioned according to the provisions in §
10-202.
   (b)   Except as provided in divisions (c) and (d) below, any weapon or
ammunition, in the discretion of the court having jurisdiction of the property,
shall be:
      (1)   Forfeited to the law enforcement agency seizing the weapon for use
within such agency, for sale to a properly licensed federal firearms dealer,
for trading to a properly licensed federal firearms dealer, for trading to a
properly licensed federal firearms dealer for other new or used firearms or
accessories for use within such agency, or for trading to another law
enforcement agency for that agency’s use;
      (2)   Forfeited to the State Bureau of Investigation for law enforcement,
testing or comparison by the State Bureau of Investigation forensic laboratory;
      (3)   Forfeited to a county regional forensic science center, or other
county forensic laboratory for testing, comparison or other forensic science
purposes; or
      (4)   Forfeited to the State Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism
for use pursuant to the conditions set forth in K.S.A. 32-1047, and amendments
thereto.
   (c)   Except as provided in division (d) below, any weapon which cannot be
forfeited pursuant to division (b) above due to the condition of the weapon,
shall be destroyed.
   (d)   If a weapon is seized from an individual and the individual is not
convicted of the violation for which the weapon was seized, then within 30 days
after the declination or conclusion of prosecution the case against the
individual, including any period of appeal, the law enforcement agency that
seized the weapon shall verify that the weapon is not stolen, and upon such
verification shall notify the person from whom it was seized that the weapon
may be retrieved. Such notification shall include the location where such
weapon may be retrieved.
   (e)   If weapons are sold as authorized by division (b) above, the proceeds
of the sale shall be credited to the Asset Seizure and Forfeiture Fund of the
seizing agency.
   (f)   For purposes of divisions (b), (c) and (d) above, the term WEAPON
means any:
      (1)   Bludgeon, sand club, metal knuckle or throwing star;
      (2)   Dagger, dirk, billy, blackjack, slungshot, dangerous knife,
straight-edged razor, stiletto or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or
instrument of like character;
      (3)   Spring gun; or
      (4)   Firearm.
   (g)   Homemade weapons or weapons of a contraband nature shall be destroyed.
   (h)   Any items determined to be contraband such as explosives, narcotics
and the like shall be destroyed.
   (i)   Items of a pharmaceutical nature, which, while not contraband when
properly dispensed, or which are of an over-the-counter-variety, shall be
destroyed.
   (j)   Foodstuffs, if sealed and undamaged may be turned over to any
appropriate social service agency or destroyed, but shall not be auctioned.
   (k)   Alcohol products such as beer, wine, whiskey and the like shall be
destroyed.
   (l)   Items with a value in excess of $500 may be sold after advertising
said item in a general circulation newspaper on at least two occasions. Such
sales shall be by closed bid.
(K.S.A. 22-2512)
§ 10-204 CLAIMING PROPERTY.
   The Police Department shall be required to make reasonable attempts to
locate the owner of any property in storage, however, the responsibility for
claiming and identifying any such property shall rest solely with the owner.
§ 10-205 PROOF OF OWNERSHIP.
   Claimants to any property in police storage shall be required to present
reasonable proof of ownership and no property shall be released unless such
reasonable proof is presented.
§ 10-206 AUCTION.
   At such time as it has been determined that an auction is necessary to
dispose of unclaimed property, an inventory listing all property to be disposed
of shall be prepared and kept on file in the Police Department. Notice of an
auction shall be published at least twice in a general circulation newspaper
before the date of the auction. The notice shall specify the date, time and
place of the auction and shall also notify prospective buyers or potential
claimants that a list of items to be auctioned is available at the Police
Department and any claims on property must be made before the start of the
auction.
ARTICLE 3: POLICE FEES
Section
   
10-301   Definitions
   
10-302   Initial police responses to parties, gatherings or events
   
10-303   Subsequent police responses to parties, gatherings or events;
liability
   
10-304   Cost; collection
§ 10-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOST. The person who owns or is in possession of the property where the
party, gathering or event takes place, or the person in charge of the premises,
or the person who organized the event. If the HOST is a minor, then the parents
or guardians of that minor will be jointly and severally liable for the fee
incurred for police services.
   PARTY, GATHERING or EVENT. An event involving a group of persons who have
assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or for a social activity.
   POLICE SERVICES FEE. The cost to the city of any special security
assignment, including, but not limited to, salaries of police officers while
responding to or remaining at the party, gathering or event; the pro rata cost
of equipment; the cost of repairing city equipment and property; the cost of
any medical treatment of injured police officers; and the cost of reasonable
attorney’s fees.
   SPECIAL SECURITY ASSIGNMENT. The assignment of police officers, services and
equipment during a second or subsequent response to the party, gathering or
event after the delivery of a written notice to the host that a fee may be
imposed for costs incurred by the city for any subsequent police response.
§ 10-302 INITIAL POLICE RESPONSES TO PARTIES, GATHERINGS OR EVENTS.
   When any police officer responds to any party, gathering or event and that
police officer determines there is a threat to the public peace, health, safety
or general welfare, the police officer shall issue a written notice to the host
or hosts that a subsequent response to that same location or address within 24
hours of the first response shall be deemed a special security assignment
rendered to provide security and order on behalf of the party, gathering or
event and that the host may be liable for a police services fee as defined in
this article.
§ 10-303 SUBSEQUENT POLICE RESPONSES TO PARTIES, GATHERINGS OR EVENTS;
LIABILITY.
   (a)   If, after a written notice is issued pursuant to § 10-302, a
subsequent police response or responses is necessary to the same location or
address within 24 hours of the first response, such response or responses shall
be deemed a special security assignment. Persons previously warned shall be
jointly and severally liable for a police services fee as defined in this
article.
   (b)   The amount of the fee shall be a debt owed to the city by the person
or person warned, and if he or she is a minor, his or her parents or guardians
shall be jointly and severally liable for the debt.
§ 10-304 COST; COLLECTION.
   The Chief of Police shall notify the City Treasurer in writing of the
performance of a special security assignment, of the name and address of the
responsible person or persons, the date and time of the incident, the services
performed, the costs and such other information as may be required. The City
Treasurer shall thereafter cause appropriate billings to be made.
CHAPTER XI: PUBLIC OFFENSES
   Article
      
1.   UNIFORM OFFENSE CODE
      
2.   LOCAL REGULATIONS
      
3.   PARADES
      
4.   EVENT PERMITS
ARTICLE 1: UNIFORM OFFENSE CODE
Section
   
11-101   Incorporating Uniform Public Offense Code
   
11-102   Exceptions
§ 11-101 INCORPORATING UNIFORM PUBLIC OFFENSE CODE.
   (a)   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purposes of
regulating public offenses within the corporate limits of the city that certain
code known as the “Uniform Public Offense Code for Kansas Cities,” 39th edition
published in 2023, prepared and published in book form by the League of Kansas
Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas. One official copy of said Uniform Public
Offense Code for Kansas Cities shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as
Adopted by Ord. 2111” and to which shall be attached a copy of this ordinance,
and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the
public at all reasonable hours. The Police Department, Municipal Judge and all
administrative departments of the city charged with enforcement of this section
shall be supplied, at the cost of the city, such number of official copies of
such Uniform Public Offense Code for Kansas Cities similarly marked, and as may
deemed expedient.
   (b)   The governing body recognizes, accepts, and approves the prosecutorial
discretion to be exercised by the City Attorney in prosecuting certain offenses
set forth in the Uniform Public Offense Code for Kansas Cities and not others.
(Ord. 2111, passed 8-24-2023)
§ 11-102 EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Sections 10.5 and 10.6 of the Uniform Public Offense Code for Kansas
Cities, as adopted by the city and as periodically amended, shall not apply to
authorized agents of the city who are operating under a deer population control
permit for municipalities issued to the city by the State Department for
Wildlife, Parks and Tourism.
   (b)   Authorized agents of the city shall abide by local and state policies
and regulations applicable for the deer population control permit for
municipalities in order to be exempt from §§ 10.5 and 10.6 of the Uniform
Public Offense Code for Kansas Cities.
(Ord. 1999, passed 9-10-2015)
ARTICLE 2: LOCAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-201   Library books
   
11-202   Curfew
   
11-203   Noise nuisances
   
11-204   Loitering
   
11-205   Vagrancy
   
11-206   Sign postings
§ 11-201 LIBRARY BOOKS.
   (a)   Failure to return library books.
      (1)   Generally. It is unlawful for any person to fail to return any
book, newspaper, magazine, pamphlet, manuscript, article; art print,
photograph, record, film or any other property owned by or consigned to the
Kingman Public Library, to whom such material was delivered, after written
notice to return the same within 30 days has been given to such person,
provided, such notice shall be given after the expiration of the time which by
the rules of the Library Board the book or other library material may be kept.
      (2)   Notice of materials to be returned. The notice required in division
(a)(1) above shall be given by the librarian of the Kingman Public Library and
shall be substantially as follows:
         (A)   The notice shall be in writing;
         (B)   Specifically state the violations alleged to exist or to have
been committed;
         (C)   Specify that the person to whom the notice is issued shall have
30 days within which to correct the violations specified; and
         (D)   Be addressed to and served upon the holder of the library card
used to gain possession or use of such material. The notice shall be deemed
properly served upon the holder personally, or if the notice is served upon the
holder personally, or if the notice is sent by certified mail to the most
recent address listed on his or her application for a library card.
      (3)   Evidence of responsibility. In any prosecution charging a violation
of division (a) above, proof that a particular individual was the registered
holder of a particular library card which was issued to secure any book or any
other library property shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption
that the record holder of such library card was the person who utilized the
same to secure a particular book or any other property of the Kingman Public
Library at the point where and at the time when the violation is alleged to
have occurred. The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the
procedure as prescribed by division (a)(2) above has been followed.
(2010 Code, § 11-201)
   (b)   Identification when borrowing materials. It is unlawful for any person
to do any one or more of the following acts:
      (1)   Give a fictitious name or address at the Kingman Public Library in
order to obtain possession or use of any book or other property of the Kingman
Public Library;
      (2)   To use a library card of another person without permission of such
owner to secure possession of any book or other property of the Kingman Public
Library; and
      (3)   To conceal his or her identity or place of employment or residence
in any manner whatsoever in order to secure possession of any book, library
card or any other property of the Kingman Public Library.
(2010 Code, § 11-202)
§ 11-202 CURFEW.
   (a)   Curfew; designated, violation and exception. It is unlawful for any
person under 18 years of age to be in, about or upon any public street, alley,
sidewalk, parking lot, park, playground or other public grounds, public places
and public buildings or other places normally accessible to the general public
for public use, whether on foot or in a vehicle or by any other means, after
the hour of 10:30 p.m. and before the hour of 5:30 a.m. on the nights of Sunday
through Thursday; and after the hour of 12:30 a.m. and before the hour of 5:30
a.m. on the nights of Friday and Saturday; provided, however, that such
prohibition shall not apply to those persons who are accompanied by such
person’s parent or legal guardian or to those persons who are en route, by the
most direct and accessible route, from his or her home to an authorized place
of employment or to those who are en route, by the most direct and accessible
route, from an authorized place of employment, authorized place of
entertainment, or authorized place of attendance to his or her residence;
provided, further, that the term AUTHORIZED, as used in this section, denotes
prior authorization by a parent or legal guardian.
(2010 Code, § 11-203)
   (b)   Violation permitted by parent or guardian. It is unlawful for any
parent or legal guardian of any person under the age of 18 years to suffer,
permit or allow such person to be in, about or upon any public street, alley,
sidewalk, parking lot, park, playground or other public grounds, public places
and public buildings, or other places normally accessible to the general public
for public use, whether on foot or in a vehicle or by any other means, during
the hours of curfew applicable to such person in violation of division (a)
above.
(2010 Code, § 11-204)
   (c)   Authority by governing body to suspend. The governing body of the
city, on specific occasions and in response to written requests submitted not
less than seven calendar days prior to the occasion, shall have the authority
to suspend by official proclamation published in the official city paper the
hours of curfew stated in division (a) above.
(2010 Code, § 11-205)
(Ord. 1804, passed - -)
§ 11-203 NOISE NUISANCES.
   (a)   The playing, using, operating or permitting to be used or operated any
radio, musical instrument, phonograph, juke box, sound-amplifying device or
other sound-producing transmitting or amplifying instrument or device, by
whatever name known or designated, in such manner as to cast, emit or propel
sound upon the public streets, avenues or highways of the city of the purposes
of advertising or attracting the attention of the public to any business,
enterprise, person, building or structure, is declared a public nuisance, and
the same shall be prohibited.
   (b)   The playing, using operating or permitting to be played, used or
operated, any radio, musical instrument, phonograph, jukebox, sound-amplifying
device or other sound-producing, transmitting or amplifying instrument or
device, by whatever name known or designated, in such manner as to cast, emit
or propel sound upon the public streets, avenues or highways of the city, in
pitch, volume or degree greater than is normally acceptable to the human ear or
persons of normal hearing ability in the room, enclosure or near the vicinity
of such instrument or device from which such sound is being produced or
broadcast, is declared a public nuisance, and the same shall be prohibited.
   (c)   It is unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate or
cause to be used or operated within the city any mechanical exhaust device
(designed to aid in the excessive, loud or unusual or explosive) noise from the
vehicle, also known as “engine braking”.
   (d)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not exceeding
$100 or be imprisoned not to exceed 30 days, or be both so fined and
imprisoned.
(Ord. 1948, passed 10-14-2010)
§ 11-204 LOITERING.
   (a)   Any person who shall, after the hour of 8:00 p.m. of any day and
before the hour of 5:00 a.m. of any day, loiter on the public streets, avenues,
alleys, sidewalks, school grounds and/or buildings and other public places
within the city, unless such person is for the time being engaged in some
lawful business demanding his or her presence upon such street, avenue, alley,
sidewalk, school ground and/or building or other public place, or who shall
habitually lurk in public place without being engaged in some lawful business,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (b)   It is unlawful for any person to disrupt the normal activity, disturb
the peace or to remain or loiter at any time on or about the premises or
grounds of any public or private school and/or assembly of students for any
school activities or athletic events conducted by such public or private
school. Any student or any person who is not enrolled in the public or private
school or who has been suspended or dismissed from such public or private
school or persists in staying or remaining on or about the premises or grounds
without any lawful purpose, shall be guilty of the offense of loitering.
(Ord. 1949, passed 10-14-2010)
§ 11-205 VAGRANCY.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to commit vagrancy. Any person,
violating any of the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined in any sum not exceeding $500, or be imprisoned not to exceed 30 days,
or be both so fined and imprisoned.
   (b)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      VAGRANCY.
         (A)   Engaging in an unlawful occupation;
         (B)   Being of the age of 18 years or over and able to work and
without lawful means of support and failing or refusing to seek employment;
         (C)   Loitering in any community without visible means of support;
         (D)   Loitering on the streets or in a place open to the public with
intent to solicit for immoral purposes; or
         (E)   Deriving support in whole or in part from begging.
(Ord. 1950, passed 10-14-2010)
§ 11-206 SIGN POSTINGS.
   (a)   No sign, poster, banner or advertisement of any kind or type shall be
allowed or displayed on the northeast corner of the intersection of Main Street
and Avenue D without the prior expressed, written authorization of the city.
This prohibition shall extend on the north side of Avenue D to the east of said
intersection for 150 feet and on the east side of Main Street to the north of
said intersection for 150 feet.
   (B)   Violations of this section shall be considered a Class C misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1941, passed 7-8-2010)
ARTICLE 3: PARADES
Section
   
11-301   Objects in path of parade
   
11-302   Violation
   
11-303   Permit; issuance   
   
11-304   Standards and requirements
§ 11-301 OBJECTS IN PATH OF PARADE.
   It shall be unlawful for any participant in any parade in the city, at any
time during a parade in the city:
   (a)   To throw, toss, deposit, deposit or in any way, place or permit to be
thrown, tossed, dropped, deposited or placed in or on the path of floats,
vehicles or other units of any kind, whatsoever, or any other object of value
that would be likely to entice children into the path of a float, vehicle or
other units or entries in the parade; or
   (b)   To throw, toss or permit to be thrown or tossed into the crowd of
spectators, assembled along the route of the parade anything or object which
might be reasonably anticipated to cause personal injury if such thing or
object struck a person. Violators of this section may be forthwith removed from
the parade.
(2010 Code, § 11-301) (Ord. 1768, passed - -)
§ 11-302 VIOLATION.
   A person who violates this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
in an amount not to exceed $100.
(2010 Code, § 11-302) (Ord. 1768, passed - -)
§ 11-303 PERMIT; ISSUANCE.
   (a)   No person shall engage in, participate in form or start any parade,
run, walk or other organized activity on the public streets, hereinafter
referred to as such a parade unless a parade permit shall be obtained from the
City Manager. A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an
application with the City Manager on forms provided by the City Clerk at least
two weeks, 14 days, in advance of the date of the proposed parade. The City
Manager may, in his or her discretion, consider any application for a permit to
conduct a parade which is filed less than two weeks prior to the date of such
parade. The application for such permit shall be made in writing.
   (b)   In order that adequate arrangements may be made for the proper
policing of the parade, the application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking such
parade. If he or she is not a resident of the city, then there shall be listed
the name, address and telephone of a local representative who shall be included
along with the name, address and telephone number of the sponsoring
organization and its chief officer;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, or on behalf of, or
by an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters
of the organization and the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who would be
the parade marshal and who will be responsible for its conduct; and
      (4)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point and state the location of any reviewing stand.
(2010 Code, § 11-303) (Ord. 1768, passed - -)
§ 11-304 STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   The City Manager shall authorize a parade permit to be issued, as provided
under this article, when, from consideration of the application and from such
other information as may be provided to the City Manager, he or she finds that
the standards and requirements set forth in the application are complied with
and it would be in the best interests of the city to approve it.
(2010 Code, § 11-304) (Ord. 1768, passed - -)
ARTICLE 4: EVENT PERMITS
Section
   
11-401   Event permits required; when
   
11-402   Event permit application
§ 11-401 EVENT PERMITS REQUIRED; WHEN.
   (a)   An event permit shall be required in the following instances:
      (1)   An event will require the temporary closure of any city street,
alley, sidewalk, or other public passageway, or
      (2)   An event will utilize any city-owned property, including but not
limited to, parks, cemetery, buildings, or airport, or
      (3)   An event will require connections to city utilities, or
      (4)   An event will be held in conjunction with another city-sponsored
event.
   (b)   Event permit applications should be submitted at least 30 days prior
to the event date. Applications not meeting this time deadline are subject to
denial.
(Ord. 2126, passed 4-11-2024)
§ 11-402 EVENT PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (a)   Event permit applications will require applicants to provide
information relevant to the proposed event, including, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   If proposed event is in conjunction with another city-sponsored
event, has the organizer coordinated the event with the city entity responsible
for the city-sponsored event.
      (2)   Plans for refuse collection and clean up after the event.
      (3)   Whether alcohol or cereal malt beverage is proposed to be served.
      (4)   Whether other applicable permits and/or licenses have been obtained
or need to be acquired.
      (5)   Security plans for events with large expected crowds, service of
alcohol, or service of cereal malt beverage.
      (6)   City facilities proposed to be used for event.
      (7)   Acknowledgment that the organizer of proposed event will be
responsible for any damage to city-owned facilities.
      (8)   City staff and/or equipment assistance requested for proposed
event.
      (9)   Specific details on any utility requirements for proposed event.
      (10)   Streets, alleys, sidewalks, or other public passageways to be
closed for proposed event with times listed for closure.
      (11)   Description of proposed event.
      (12)   Dates and location of proposed event.
      (13)   Estimated attendance.
   (b)   Event permit applications will be reviewed by the City Manager and
city staff. The City Manager shall have the authority to approve and deny
applications. If a permit is denied, the applicant may request a review by the
governing body. Such review request must be made within three business days
after the denial. The City Manager shall report approvals and denials to the
governing body.
(Ord. 2126, passed 4-11-2024)
CHAPTER XII: PUBLIC PROPERTY
   Article
      
1.   CITY PARKS
      
2.   WALNUT HILL CEMETERY
      
3.   CITY SWIMMING POOL
      
4.   PARK MILL RACE AND OTHER CITY WATERS
      
5.   MUNICIPAL AIRPORT BOARD
      
6.   CONCEALED CARRY OF HANDGUNS
      
7.   CITY PROGRESS BOARD
      
8.   KINGMAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
ARTICLE 1: CITY PARKS
Section
   
12-101   Park Board Established
   
12-102   Terms of office
   
12-103   Duties of the Board
   
12-104   Recommendation
   
12-105   Meetings
   
12-106   Annual reports
   
12-107   Budget
   
12-108   Gifts; bequests and donations
   
12-109   City laws extended to park
   
12-110   Police jurisdiction over parks
   
12-111   Superintendent of streets and public grounds
   
12-112   Damaging park property
   
12-113   Dangerous weapons not allowed
   
12-114   Vehicle regulations
   
12-115   Hunting
   
12-116   Fires
   
12-117   Camping prohibited
   
12-118   Sanitation
   
12-119   Prohibition against alcoholic beverages and cereal malt beverages
   
12-120   Preservation of natural state
   
12-121   Park hours; designated
   
12-122   Exemptions
   
12-123   Use of outdoor electrical outlets; fee
   
12-124   Deposit
   
12-125   Payment
   
12-126   Sale of solicitation
   
12-127   General regulations
§ 12-101 PARK BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   There is established a Park Board of this city that will consist of seven
members who shall serve without compensation. All Park Board members shall be
residents of this city, except that one at large member may be a nonresident
who is employed within the city limits. One member shall be the Mayor or a City
Commissioner. One member shall be a representative of the USD 331 Recreation
Commission. The other five members shall be members at large. The members of
the Park Board shall elect a Secretary for a term of one year and a Chairperson
for a term of one year.
(2010 Code, § 12-101) (Ord. 2002, passed 10-22-2015)
§ 12-102 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The term of the Mayor or City Commissioner on the Park Board shall be one
year. The term of the USD 331 Recreation Commission representative shall be
three years. Two members at large shall serve two-year terms, and three members
at large shall serve three-year terms as determined by the governing body.
Vacancies on the Park Board shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired
term.
(2010 Code, § 12-102) (Ord. 1986, passed 11-13-2014)
§ 12-103 DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   The Park Board shall make recommendations for the care, improvement and
enhancement of all city parks. It shall make plans and plats of existing and
proposed parks of the city. Its duties shall include planning for planting,
care, maintenance and removal of all trees, plants, shrubs, flowers, grass and
lawns within the boundaries of the parks. Plans and plats shall also include
erecting, building, construction, care, maintenance and disposition of all
buildings, structures, playground and recreational equipment, lanes, roads,
sidewalks, paths and parking within the boundaries of the parks. All
recommendations shall be made subject to the approval of the governing body of
the city.
(2010 Code, § 12-103)
§ 12-104 RECOMMENDATION.
   The governing body of the city may refer all major proposals and
propositions for new construction, reconstruction and improvement of public
parks and recreational facilities, including the acquisition of land for park
purposes, the acquisition of major recreational equipment and facilities to the
Park Board. The Park Board shall make reports and recommendations to the
governing body of all matters referred to it and any further recommendations as
deemed advisable. The governing body of the city shall take action upon the
reports and recommendations received from the Park Board within 30 days after
its receipt. The governing body may extend the time as it deems necessary to
give the matter further attention before action is taken.
(2010 Code, § 12-104)
§ 12-105 MEETINGS.
   The Park Board shall meet at least six times per year. Special meetings may
also be held if necessary, and at such other times as the Board may determine.
A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
(2010 Code, § 12-105)
§ 12-106 ANNUAL REPORTS.
   The Park Board shall make an annual report of all its proceedings and the
condition of the parks of the city to the governing body in the month of
January of each year.
(2010 Code, § 12-106)
§ 12-107 BUDGET.
   On or before the first Monday in June of each year the Park Board shall
submit to the governing body a budget of estimated expenditures for the next
fiscal year. Thereupon, the governing body shall consider the plans,
recommendations and budget and shall make such allowance therefore as it may
deem proper.
(2010 Code, § 12-107)
§ 12-108 GIFTS; BEQUESTS AND DONATIONS.
   The Park Board, by and with the consent of the governing body, may also
solicit or receive any gifts or bequests of money or other personal property or
any donation to be applied, principal or income, for either temporary or
permanent use for playgrounds or recreational purposes.
(2010 Code, § 12-108)
§ 12-109 CITY LAWS EXTENDED TO PARK.
   The laws of the city shall extend to and cover all city parks.
(2010 Code, § 12-109)
§ 12-110 POLICE JURISDICTION OVER PARKS.
   The city shall have police regulations governing any public parks belonging
to the city and the Chief of Police and law enforcement officers of the city
shall have full power to enforce city laws governing city parks and shall
maintain order therein.
(2010 Code, § 12-110)
§ 12-111 SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS AND PUBLIC GROUNDS.
   The Superintendent of Streets and Public Grounds shall have charge of and
supervision over the maintenance, upkeep and care of the city parks and all
public grounds and the supervision of the equipment and employees of the Street
Department and Parks Department of the city. It shall be his or her duty to
place all streets, alleys and public grounds in a safe condition and make such
repairs on the same, from time to time as may be necessary.
(2010 Code, § 12-111)
§ 12-112 DAMAGING PARK PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except duly authorized city employees,
to willfully or wantonly remove, injure, tarnish, deface or destroy any
building, walk, bench, tree or improvement or property of any kind belonging to
any park owned by the city.
(2010 Code, § 12-112)
§ 12-113 DANGEROUS WEAPONS NOT ALLOWED.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) below, it shall be unlawful for any
person to carry or have in his or her possession any firearm or dangerous
weapon or to shoot or discharge the same within the limits of any city parks.
   (b)   The provisions of division (a) above shall not apply to duly
authorized law enforcement officers in the performance of official duty, or to
members of the Kingman Pistol Club and their guests, when at the Kingman Pistol
Range.
(2010 Code, § 12-113)
§ 12-114 VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Motor vehicles, including any vehicle licensed to operate on public
streets, roads and highways and motorbikes, go-carts, snowmobiles and other
motorized off-road vehicles shall not be operated in park areas.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (d) below, it shall be unlawful for any
person to park any motor vehicle in any area not designated for such purpose.
   (c)   Except as provided in division (d) below, it shall be unlawful for any
person to operate any motor vehicle within any city park except upon roads,
drives and parking areas established by the city.
   (d)   Divisions (b) and (c) above shall not apply to authorized city
employees while engaged in the maintenance and care of the park.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful to operate any such vehicle in any park area at a
speed in excess of 20 mph.
(2010 Code, § 12-114)
§ 12-115 HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pursue, catch, trap, maim, kill,
shoot or take any wildlife, either bird or animal, in any manner at any time
while in any city park, except as authorized to control nuisance/problem
animals.
(2010 Code, § 12-115)
§ 12-116 FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or kindle any fire in any city
park, except in the ovens, stoves or grills provided for that purpose by the
city, and such fire must be extinguished by the person, persons or parties
starting such fire, immediately after use thereof.
(2010 Code, § 12-116)
§ 12-117 CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   Overnight camping is hereby prohibited in city parks except where posted.
(2010 Code, § 12-117)
§ 12-118 SANITATION.
   All waste material, paper, trash, rubbish, tin cans, bottles, containers,
garbage and refuse of any kind whatsoever shall be deposited in disposal
containers provided for such purposes. No such waste or contaminating material
shall be discarded otherwise. No sticks, stones, trash or other objects shall
be thrown or discarded in or on any park lands, fountains, pools, drinking
fountains, sanitary facilities or other improvements.
(2010 Code, § 12-118)
§ 12-119 PROHIBITION AGAINST ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to use, consume or have on
the premises of any park or other city property within the city any alcoholic
liquor or cereal malt beverage, except as authorized by the City Commission.
(2010 Code, § 12-119)
§ 12-120 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL STATE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except duly authorized city employees,
to take, injure or disturb any live or dead tree, plant, shrub or flower, or
otherwise interfere with the natural state of city parks.
(2010 Code, § 12-120)
§ 12-121 PARK HOURS; DESIGNATED.
   Except as otherwise provided for in this article, it is unlawful for any
person or persons to be in, on or about any real property owned by the city,
except for the real property known as Champlin Park, during the hours of one
minute past midnight to 6:00 a.m.; and for the real property known as Champlin
Park, during the hours of 8:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. the following day.
(2010 Code, § 12-121)
§ 12-122 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
12-121 shall not apply to:
   (a)   Any street, alley or sidewalk of the city;
   (b)   Any elected or appointed official or employee of the city, or any duly
authorized agent of the city;
   (c)   Any police officer not included within division (b) above; POLICE
OFFICER meaning any person who by virtue of his or her office or public
employment is vested by law with the duty to maintain public order or to make
arrests for crimes, whether that duty extends to all crimes or is limited to
specific crimes;
   (d)   Any nonresident of the city making use of the facilities at Champlin
Park in the city for normal roadside park purposes during the hours of 8:00
p.m. to 9:30 p.m.;
   (e)   Any person or persons in possession of a permit authorizing the holder
of the permit to make use of the facilities at any public park in the city for
fishing or overnight camping purposes, so long as the holder of the permit
does, while in the public park, exclusively engage in such permitted activity,
and further, that no overnight camping permit shall be granted to any resident
of the city, or to any other person or persons not in the possession and making
use of a trailer, camper or other similar type vehicular equipment specifically
constructed and used for camping purposes. Such a permit as provided in this
article shall be obtained from any law enforcement officer of the city. The
person or persons to whom a permit has been issued shall, upon request of any
law enforcement officer of the city, immediately present to the requesting
officer such permit, otherwise the person or persons shall be deemed to be in
violation of this article; or
   (f)   Any person or persons engaged in any duly organized and/or sponsored
activity of the City Recreation Commission, or of any other organization or
association that has received approval of the Mayor for its activity prior to
the commencement thereof, either through actual participation in the activity
or by way of audience participation therein so long as they are so engaged;
however, this exception shall be deemed to expire, insofar as those engaged in
audience participation therein are concerned, 30 minutes after the termination
of the principal activity.
(2010 Code, § 12-122)
§ 12-123 USE OF OUTDOOR ELECTRICAL OUTLETS; FEE.
   (a)   Any person or persons making use of the outdoor electrical outlets
located in the parks of the city for a period of six days or less within any
month shall pay a fee of $6, plus tax per outlet for every 24-hour period or
portion thereof.
   (b)   Any person or persons making use of the outdoor electrical outlets
located in the parks of the city for a period of seven days or more within any
month shall pay fee of $10, plus tax per outlet for every 24-hour period or
portion thereof. In no event shall any person or person use the parks of the
city for camping for more than 30 consecutive days unless written permission is
given by the City Commission.
   (c)   Any club, organization, convention or harvest-related laborer may
apply to the city for an exemption from the provisions of division (b) above.
In the event the city determines that an exemption should be granted, the city
shall, in its sole discretion, determine the appropriate daily fee to be paid
by the club, organization, convention or harvest-related laborer.
(2010 Code, § 12-123)
§ 12-124 DEPOSIT.
   Any person or persons desiring to use an outdoor electrical outlet located
in the parks of the city shall pay a $25 deposit fee in advance for each
electrical outlet to be used. Any person or persons shall pay the deposit at
the place or places designated by the City Commission. Failure to return the
outdoor electrical outlet key on the day of departure will result in forfeiture
of the posted deposit. The posted deposit can also be retained if damage is
done to the outdoor electrical outlet or if trash or debris is left at the
camping space.
(2010 Code, § 12-124) (Ord. 2057, passed 10-24-2019)
§ 12-125 PAYMENT.
   The fees set forth in §
12-123 shall be payable at the place or places designated by the City
Commission. All of the fees shall be paid on the day of departure during the
regular business hours of the place or places designated by the City Commission
to collect such fees.
(2010 Code, § 12-125) (Ord. 2057, passed 10-24-2019)
§ 12-126 SALE OF SOLICITATION.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in any business or commercial
activity for the sale of any article, commodity or service, or to solicit money
or funds in any manner for any purpose or thing in any of the public parks or
recreation facilities under the ownership, jurisdiction or control of the city;
provided, that any group or persons lawfully using the public parks or
recreation facilities under the ownership, jurisdiction or control of the city
may solicit among the persons constituting the group, and to those persons
only, for contributions or gratuities.
   (b)   This section shall not apply to contractees and concessionaires of the
city, county, county fair or local chamber of commerce.
(2010 Code, § 12-126)
§ 12-127 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   The city may post such rules and regulations, as are approved by the
governing body, pertaining to the use of the city parks in a conspicuous place
in each city park. Violations of these posted rules shall constitute a
violation of this code of ordinances.
(2010 Code, § 12-127)
ARTICLE 2: WALNUT HILL CEMETERY
Section
   
12-201   Plat and survey
   
12-202   Sexton; duties
   
12-203   Care and supervision; authority of governing body
   
12-204   Lots; cost; apportionment
   
12-205   Certificate of ownership
   
12-206   Transfer of ownership
   
12-207   Burial permit; required
   
12-208   Cost; apportionment; work permit fee
   
12-209   Burial of poor
   
12-210   Erection of fences
   
12-211   Unlawful desecrations
§ 12-201 PLAT AND SURVEY.
   The survey and plat of the City Cemetery known and designated as the Walnut
Hill Cemetery, as made and prepared by one W. B. Libby under the authority of
the City Council, May, 1891, and as the same now appears of record in the
office of the Register of Deeds in the city, shall be and constitute the legal
and established survey and plat of the Cemetery.
(2010 Code, § 12-201)
§ 12-202 SEXTON; DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Sexton of the Cemetery to have general
supervision of the City Cemetery under the direction of the Public Works
Director and to perform such other duties as may be required by him or her by
the governing body or the ordinances of the city.
(2010 Code, § 12-202)
§ 12-203 CARE AND SUPERVISION; AUTHORITY OF GOVERNING BODY.
   The care and control of the Walnut Hill Cemetery shall be under the
supervision and management of the City Manager, who shall have full power and
authority to make all rules and regulations necessary and proper in respect
thereof. No improvements upon or about any lot in the Cemetery shall be made or
permitted without the consent of the governing body and Cemetery Board.
(2010 Code, § 12-203)
§ 12-204 LOTS; COST; APPORTIONMENT.
   (a)   There shall be paid for each burial space sold the sum as approved by
the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees.
Of the proceeds collected, the amount of $25 shall be paid into the Cemetery
Capital Improvement Fund.
   (b)   No individual shall be permitted to acquire or own at any one time
more than one lot in the Cemetery, except that religious and benevolent
societies and orders may own at any one time any number of lots or blocks in
solid tracts in the Cemetery as may be agreed upon and designated by the
governing body; provided, that in case any lots or blocks in the Cemetery,
shall be sold to any religious or benevolent society or order in greater tracts
than one block, the same may be sold at such price as may be agreed upon and
designated by the governing body. No lot or lots in the Cemetery shall be used
or occupied until the price thereof and the endowment fund sum are paid in
full, and the purchaser shall have secured from the City Clerk a certificate of
ownership therefor.
(2010 Code, § 12-204) (Ord. 1863, passed - - ; Ord. 2124, passed 2-22-2024)
§ 12-205 CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP.
   Upon the payment of the price for any lot or lots as provided for in this
article by any person or society, the City Clerk shall issue to the purchaser a
certificate of ownership under the seal of the city, which shall convey to the
purchaser the lot or lots named therein for purposes of interment only;
provided, that the ownership of any lot or lots in the Cemetery shall not
entitle the owner to have interred therein other than the members of his or her
family and his or her immediate relatives unless special permission therefore
is secured from the governing body; provided further, that this restriction
shall not apply to lots owned by religious or benevolent societies or orders.
(2010 Code, § 12-205)
§ 12-206 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   No owner of any lot or lots shall sell and transfer any lot or part of a lot
so held and owned by him or her in the Cemetery without the permission of the
governing body and without having the same transferred on the records of the
City Clerk, and the City Clerk shall collect for each of such transfers the sum
as approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman
Schedule of Fees.
(2010 Code, § 12-206)
§ 12-207 BURIAL PERMIT; REQUIRED.
   No lot owner or other person shall inter any body in the Cemetery without
first procuring from the City Clerk a burial permit which shall be in writing,
signed by the City Clerk, and shall state the name, age, sex and color of the
deceased; the disease or ailment which caused death and the block and lot or
range in which the interment is to be made, which permit shall be presented to
the Sexton of the Cemetery and the grave shall be dug by or under the direction
and supervision of the Sexton.
(2010 Code, § 12-207)
§ 12-208 COST; APPORTIONMENT; WORK PERMIT FEE.
   (a)   Generally. For each burial permit issued as provided in §
12-207, the City Clerk shall charge for and collect from the person applying
therefor the sum as approved by the governing body and listed in the latest
City of Kingman Schedule of Fees. (No burials on Sunday, federally-recognized
holidays, or city-designated holidays.). Of the proceeds collected, $50 shall
be paid into the Endowment Fund, $25 shall be paid into the Cemetery Capital
Improvement Fund, with the balance going into the City General Cemetery Fund.
The charges provided in this section include the expense of digging and
refilling the grave for the body to be buried under said permit.
   (b)   Work permit fee. There shall be a fee as approved by the governing
body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees charged for a
work permit to set a stone in the Cemetery in the city.
(2010 Code, § 12-208) (Ord. 1862, passed - - ; Ord. 2103, passed 3-9-2023; Ord.
2125, passed 2-22-2024)
§ 12-209 BURIAL OF POOR.
   So much of the Cemetery, as is enclosed and contained within Blocks No. 6,
7, 20 and 29 of the recorded plat thereof and being laid off in ranges, shall
be and the same is reserved for the burial of the poor, and burial permits
therein shall be granted upon such condition and at such prices as the
governing body may determine.
(2010 Code, § 12-209)
§ 12-210 ERECTION OF FENCES.
   It is unlawful for any person to erect, cause to be erected or to maintain
any fence, post, wall or enclosure, in, upon or around any lot owned by him or
her or under his or her care or control, or to erect the same in any street,
avenue or alley or upon the lot of any other person in the Cemetery; provided,
that the corners or boundary line of any lot may be marked by a cement wall or
by metal or stone pots, which pots or wall shall have a perfectly smooth and
level top and shall be set with such top or upper surface on a level with the
surface of the surrounding ground in the Cemetery and shall in all cases be
built under the supervision and subject to the approval of the Sexton of the
Cemetery and the governing body. The Sexton is authorized to remove any such
fence or enclosure so placed or erected on any lot in violation of this
section.
(2010 Code, § 12-210)
§ 12-211 UNLAWFUL DESECRATIONS.
    It is unlawful for any person or persons to:
   (a)   Mark the face or destroy any marks, tombstones, monuments, vaults or
other property in the Cemetery;
   (b)   To dig or destroy any sod, lawn, tree or shrub in the Cemetery;
   (c)   Leave or deposit therein any trash, rubbish, filth or other substance
that may in any way interfere with the care or maintenance and appearance of
the Cemetery;
   (d)   Drive any carriage or motor vehicle anywhere over the Cemetery or
across the same except upon the streets thereof, and the regular roads laid out
therein;
   (e)   Trespass upon the Cemetery grounds to dig any grave or inter any body
in the Cemetery without first procuring a burial permit as provided in this
article;
   (f)   Open any grave and remove or attempt to remove therefrom any body
without first obtaining written consent of the governing body; or
   (g)   Allow any cattle, horses, swine or other animals owned by him or her
or under his or her control or care or in his or her possession to stray or go
upon the Cemetery grounds.
(2010 Code, § 12-211)
ARTICLE 3: CITY SWIMMING POOL
Section
   
12-301   City swimming pool; defined
   
12-302   Rules and regulations
   
12-303   Conditions for use
   
12-304   Unlawful acts
§ 12-301 CITY SWIMMING POOL; DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this article and the provisions contained in this
article, the swimming pool located in the city park on the east side of Main
Street and south of the Ninnescah River and the buildings, structures,
enclosures and facilities surrounding the swimming pool and the approaches
thereto, together with all facilities used in connection therewith, together
with any other swimming pool or swimming pools that may be established by the
city, whether located in the park or elsewhere, including the buildings,
structures, enclosures and facilities surrounding the swimming pool and the
approaches thereto, together with all facilities used in connection therewith,
is included within the term CITY SWIMMING POOL.
(2010 Code, § 12-301)
§ 12-302 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The ownership, management, control, preservation and operation of the
facilities known as city swimming pool shall be under the control of the
governing body of the city, and such agents, servants, employees and managers
as may be designated from time to time by the governing body; and the governing
body may, from time to time, prescribe rules and regulations for the use,
operation and management of the facilities known as city swimming pool. It
shall be the duty of all persons coming upon the premises so designated as city
swimming pool, or in using the same, to conform to and abide by any and all
such rules and regulations so established.
(2010 Code, § 12-302)
§ 12-303 CONDITIONS FOR USE.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to enter upon the premises
designated as the city swimming pool, or to avail himself, herself or
themselves of the privilege of the facilities, except in accordance with the
rules and regulations established for the use of the facilities, or to enter
upon the premises or to use the facilities at any time, or in any manner,
except during the hours when the duly constituted agents of the city are
present and in charge of the operations of the city swimming pool facilities.
(2010 Code, § 12-303)
§ 12-304 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person or person to trespass upon, injure, damage or
destroy any property constituting a part of the facilities designated as the
city swimming pool, or to place any article or substance of filth in, upon or
about the city swimming pool.
(2010 Code, § 12-304)
ARTICLE 4: PARK MILL RACE AND OTHER CITY WATERS
Section
   
12-401   Definitions
   
12-402   Interference with dam
   
12-403   Interfering with certain property
   
12-404   Boating restrictions
   
12-405   Swimming and bathing unlawful
   
12-406   Fishing methods
   
12-407   Use of minnows and small fish restricted
§ 12-401 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK RACE. The old Grosvenor mill race as now existing, including the dam in
the Ninnescah River where the water is diverted into the race and the entire
course of the race through the city to and inclusive of the waste gate and tail
race back into the Ninnescah River.
   RIVERSIDE PARK LAKES. Any and all artificial lakes and ponds now in the
Riverside Park or that may be hereafter constructed or built within Riverside
Park excepting the swimming pool and other pools built for the purpose of
bathing and swimming.
(2010 Code, § 12-401)
§ 12-402 INTERFERENCE WITH DAM.
   It is unlawful for any person, except duly authorized agents or employees of
the city, to in any way interfere with or molest the same in the Ninnescah
River, the race or the waste gate dam at the east end of the race, or in any
way interfere with the flow of water over the dam or through the waste gate, or
to in any way interfere with or molest boards or other contrivances for the
regulation or control of the water in the park race, or in any way interfere
with or molest any boards or other contrivances for the regulation or control
of the waste in Riverside Park lakes or any other ponds or lakes as defined in
this article that may be hereafter constructed in Riverside Park.
(2010 Code, § 12-402)
§ 12-403 INTERFERING WITH CERTAIN PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to interfere with or in any way
molest any property belonging to the city or others, upon or adjacent to the
park race and the Riverside Park lakes or any other ponds or lakes that may be
hereafter constructed herein.
(2010 Code, § 12-403)
§ 12-404 BOATING RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to use or operate or cause to be
used or operated any boat, canoe, raft or other floating objects in or upon the
park (mill) race and Riverside Park lakes or any other ponds or lakes as herein
defined that may be hereafter construed in Riverside Park.
(2010 Code, § 12-404)
§ 12-405 SWIMMING AND BATHING UNLAWFUL.
   It is declared to be unlawful to use the park race or Riverside Park lakes,
or any other lakes or ponds as defined in this article that may be hereafter
constructed in the Riverside Park, for swimming and bathing.
(2010 Code, § 12-405)
§ 12-406 FISHING METHODS.
   Fishing methods at park race and Riverside Park lakes or any other ponds or
lakes as defined in §
12-401 shall be limited to the use of not more than two fishing rods or poles
with not more than two hooks attached to any line, or a fly rod with not more
than two flies attached, or a casting rod with not more than one artificial
bait or lure attached, and it is unlawful to catch or take, or attempt to catch
or take any fish from the lakes and ponds except by the methods limited in this
section; provided, that it is unlawful to have and use a minnow seine not more
than four feet wide and 20 feet long for the taking of minnows for bait
purposes only.
(2010 Code, § 12-406)
§ 12-407 USE OF MINNOWS AND SMALL FISH RESTRICTED.
   The taking, transporting or removing of minnows or small species of fish
from the park race and Riverside Park lakes or any other ponds and lakes that
may be hereafter constructed in the city for any purpose whatsoever, other than
the use of the minnows and small fish for the exclusive personal baiting
purposes of the person taking the minnows and small fish, is declared unlawful
and entirely prohibited.
(2010 Code, § 12-407)
ARTICLE 5: MUNICIPAL AIRPORT BOARD
Section
   
12-501   Establishment
   
12-502   Duties of the Board
   
12-503   Recommendation
   
12-504   Meetings
   
12-505   Annual reports
   
12-506   Budget
§ 12-501 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The city acknowledges and ratifies the acts of the City Municipal Airport
Board as such Board has existed de facto but not formally created. There is
hereby established the City Municipal Airport Board which shall consist of five
members serving staggered three-year terms of whom four shall be residents of
the city, and one such member shall reside outside of the city. Members are
appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Commission at its first
regular meeting in December of each year and shall take office at the next
regular meeting of the City Municipal Airport Board. Vacancies are filled by
appointment for the expired term.
(2010 Code, § 12-501) (Ord. 1772, passed - -)
§ 12-502 DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   The City Municipal Airport Board shall make recommendations for the care,
improvement and enhancement of the City Municipal Airport. The Board shall
advise the City Commission on any affairs relating to the City Municipal
Airport and the activities thereof. All recommendations of the City Municipal
Airport Board shall be made subject to approval of the governing body of the
city.
(2010 Code, § 12-502) (Ord. 1772, passed - -)
§ 12-503 RECOMMENDATION.
   The governing body of the city may refer all proposals and propositions
relating to the City Municipal Airport to the City Municipal Airport Board. The
Board shall make reports and recommendations to the governing body of all
matters referred to it and any further recommendations as deemed advisable. The
governing body of the city shall take action upon the reports and
recommendations received from the City Municipal Airport Board within 30 days
after their receipt. The governing body may extend the time as it deems
necessary to give the matter further attention before action is taken.
(2010 Code, § 12-503) (Ord. 1772, passed - -)
§ 12-504 MEETINGS.
   When a regular meeting of the Board is held, it shall be on the second
Tuesday of each quarter or other date as designated by the Airport Board. When
the date of a regular meeting conflicts with a legal holiday, the Airport Board
may designate the date for the next regular meeting unless such meeting dates
have otherwise been adopted as a schedule for the year. All meetings shall be
held in an appropriate location and time as called by the Airport Board. Any
such meeting shall be given public notice for the convenience of the persons
having business before the Airport Board. There may also be called special
meetings as needed and as set forth in the by-laws of the City Municipal
Airport Board.
(2010 Code, § 12-504) (Ord. 1772, passed - -)
§ 12-505 ANNUAL REPORTS.
   The City Municipal Airport Board shall make an annual report of all its
proceedings and the condition of the City Municipal Airport to the governing
body in the month of January of each year.
(2010 Code, § 12-505) (Ord. 1772, passed - -)
§ 12-506 BUDGET.
   On or before the first Monday in June of each year, the City Municipal
Airport Board shall submit any requests for budgeted items to the governing
body of the city for its consideration.
(2010 Code, § 12-506) (Ord. 1772, passed - -)
ARTICLE 6: CONCEALED CARRY OF HANDGUNS
Section
   
12-601   Concealed carry; where prohibited
   
12-602   Concealed carry; where prohibited by employers
   
12-603   Concealed carry; when impaired
   
12-604   Violations; penalty
§ 12-601 CONCEALED CARRY; WHERE PROHIBITED.
   No license issued pursuant to Ch. 32 of the 2006 Session Laws of the state
shall authorize the licensee to carry a concealed weapon into:
   (a)   Any place where an activity declared a common nuisance by K.S.A. 22-
3901, and amendments thereto, is maintained;
   (b)   Any police, sheriff or highway patrol station;
   (c)   Any detention facility, prison or jail;
   (d)   Any courthouse;
   (e)   Any courtroom, except that nothing in this section would preclude a
judge from carrying a concealed weapon or determining who will carry a
concealed weapon in the judge’s courtroom;
   (f)   Any polling place on the day an election is held;
   (g)   Any meeting of the governing body of a county, city or other political
or taxing subdivision of the state, or any committee or subcommittee thereof;
   (h)   Any state office building;
   (i)   Any athletic event not related to or involving firearms which is
sponsored by a private or public elementary or secondary school or any private
or public institute of post-secondary education;
   (j)   Any professional athletic event not related to or involving firearms;
   (k)   Any portion of a drinking establishment as defined by K.S.A. 41-2601,
and amendments thereto, except that this division (k) shall not apply to a
restaurant as defined by K.S.A. 41 -2601, and amendments thereto;
   (l)   Any elementary or secondary school building or structure used for
student instruction or attendance;
   (m)   Any community college, college or university facility;
   (n)   Any place where the carrying of firearms is prohibited by federal or
state law;
   (o)   Any child exchange and visitation center provided for in K.S.A. 75-
720, and amendments thereto;
   (p)   Any community mental health center organized pursuant to K.S.A. 19-
4001 et seq., and amendments thereto; mental health clinic organized pursuant
to K.S.A. 65-211 et seq., and amendments thereto; psychiatric hospital licensed
under K.S.A. 75-3307b, and amendments thereto;
   (q)   Any property marked City Hall;
   (r)   Any public library operated by the state or by a political subdivision
of the state;
   (s)   Any day care home or group day care home, as defined in K.A.R. 28-4-
113, or any preschool or childcare center, as defined in K.A.R. 28-4-420;
   (t)   Any church or temple; or
   (u)   All city-owned buildings and facilities which are properly marked.
(2010 Code, § 12-601) (Ord. 1909, passed - -)
§ 12-602 CONCEALED CARRY; WHERE PROHIBITED BY EMPLOYERS.
   Nothing in Ch. 32 of the 2006 Session Laws of the state shall be construed
to prevent:
   (a)   Any public or private employer from restricting or prohibiting in any
manner persons licensed under the act from carrying a concealed weapon while on
the premises of the employer’s business or while engaged in the duties of the
person’s employment by the employer;
   (b)   Any entity owning or operating business premises open to the public
from restricting or prohibiting in any manner persons licensed under the act
from carrying a concealed weapon while on such premises; provided, that the
premises are posted in a manner reasonable likely to come to the attention of
persons entering the premises, as premises where carrying a concealed weapon is
prohibited; or
   (c)   A property owner from restricting or prohibiting in any manner persons
licensed under the article from carrying a concealed weapon while on such
property; provided, that the premises are posted, in a manner reasonably likely
to come of the attention of persons entering the property where carrying a
concealed weapon is prohibited.
(2010 Code, § 12-602) (Ord. 1909, passed - -)
§ 12-603 CONCEALED CARRY; WHEN IMPAIRED.
   It is a violation for a person licensed pursuant to Ch. 32 of the 2006
Session Laws of the state to carry a concealed weapon while under the influence
of alcohol or drugs or both.
(2010 Code, § 12-603) (Ord. 1909, passed - -)
§ 12-604 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this article shall be punished in
accordance with
Ch. I of this code of ordinances.
(2010 Code, § 12-604) (Ord. 1909, passed - -)
ARTICLE 7: CITY PROGRESS BOARD
Section
   
12-701   Establishment
   
12-702   Duties of the Board
   
12-703   Meetings
   
12-704   Gifts, bequests, donations and fundraising
§ 12-701 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (a)   Generally. There is established a Progress Kingman Board of this city,
which will consist of five members serving three-year terms who are appointed
by the Mayor with the consent of the governing body. Four of the members must
be residents of this city. One of the members shall reside outside the city.
The members of the Progress Kingman Board shall elect a Secretary for the term
of one year and a Chairperson for a term of one year. The members shall also
create by-laws and policies for the operation of the Progress Kingman Board,
and such by-laws and policies shall be approved by the governing body.
   (b)   Terms. Terms of members shall be staggered with three of the first
members serving a full three-year term, and the remaining first members serving
two-year terms. Vacancies shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired
term.
(Ord. 1985, passed 9-25-2014)
§ 12-702 DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   (a)   The Progress Kingman Board shall present recommendations, develop
plans and initiate projects concerning the progress, development,
beautification, improvement and enhancement of the city.
   (b)   Upon approval of such recommendations, plans and projects by the
governing body, the Progress Kingman Board will plan, coordinate and implement
its activities to fulfill and carry out its duties.
   (c)   The Progress Kingman Board shall make recommendations and reports to
the governing body of all matters referred to it by the governing body and any
further recommendations deemed advisable.
   (d)   The Chairperson of the Progress Kingman Board shall make reports to
the governing body each January and June to give updates on the progress and
work of the Board.
   (e)   The Progress Kingman Board shall submit on or before the first Monday
of June of each year to the governing body a budget of estimated expenditures
for the next fiscal year.
(Ord. 1985, passed 9-25-2014)
§ 12-703 MEETINGS.
   The Progress Kingman Board shall meet at least six times per year. Special
meetings may also be held, if necessary, at such other times as the Board may
determine. A majority of Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
(Ord. 1985, passed 9-25-2014)
§ 12-704 GIFTS, BEQUESTS, DONATIONS AND FUNDRAISING.
   (a)   The Progress Kingman Board, by and with the consent of the governing
body, may solicit or receive any gifts or bequests of money or other personal
property or any donation to be applied, principal or income, to assist the
Board in carrying out its duties.
   (b)   The Progress Kingman Board can also host fundraising events to enhance
funding for its projects, subject to approval from the governing body.
   (c)   All monies or property received from any source by the Progress
Kingman Board or generated through activities of the Progress Kingman Board
shall be accounted and submitted to the City Clerk as soon as is practicable
after receipt.
(Ord. 1985, passed 9-25-2014)
ARTICLE 8: KINGMAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Section
   
12-801   Kingman Economic Development Advisory Committee; formation
   
12-802   Operation
§ 12-801 KINGMAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE; FORMATION.
   There is established a Kingman Economic Development Advisory Committee of
this city, which will consist of five members. The governing body of the city
shall select the five members, each holding a three-year term. In the first
round of appointments, two of the members selected by the city shall have a
two-year term. Vacancies shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired term.
(Ord. 2063, passed 1-9-2020; Ord. 2120, passed 1-25-2024)
§ 12-802 OPERATION.
   (a)   The Kingman Economic Development Advisory Committee shall serve as a
sounding board for ideas, support, and consultation for the Kingman Economic
Development Director.
   (b)   The Kingman Economic Development Advisory Committee shall not have any
supervisory authority over the Kingman Economic Development Director.
   (c)   The Kingman Economic Development Director shall serve as Chairperson
and the Committee shall select a secretary from its members.
(Ord. 2063, passed 1-9-2020; Ord. 2121, passed 1-25-2024)
CHAPTER XIII: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   Article
      
1.   SIDEWALKS
      
2.   STREETS
      
2A.   USE RESTRICTIONS FOR CERTAIN STREETS
      
3.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
4.   SNOW AND ICE
      
5.   STREET NAMES AND HOUSE NUMBERS
ARTICLE 1: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
13-101   Permit required
   
13-102   Sidewalk grade
   
13-103   Same; specifications
   
13-104   Same; petition
   
13-105   Same; condemnation, reconstruction
   
13-106   Notice; publication
   
13-107   Right of abutting owner
   
13-108   Repairs by owner or city
   
13-109   Performance, statutory bond
   
13-110   Obstructing sidewalks
   
13-111   Same; exception
§ 13-101 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, reconstruct or repair any sidewalk within
the city until the plans first have been approved by the governing body and a
permit issued for such work by the City Clerk.
§ 13-102 SIDEWALK GRADE.
   Hereafter, all sidewalks constructed or reconstructed in the city shall be
constructed on the established grade. When the governing body shall order a
sidewalk constructed as hereafter provided, the city shall pay the cost of
bringing the street to grade for the sidewalk. Where no grade has been
established, the owner of abutting property may construct a sidewalk on the
natural grade. If the grade has been established, the City Clerk shall furnish
the property owner with the official grade by reference to a stated distance
above or below the street grade.
(K.S.A. 12-1801, 12-1807)
§ 13-103 SAME; SPECIFICATIONS.
   Hereafter, all sidewalks shall be of single-course construction and shall be
constructed and laid in accordance with standard plans and specifications
hereby adopted by reference and filed in the office of the City Clerk as
provided by K.S.A. 12-1802. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to construct, reconstruct or repair any sidewalk except as provided
by this article.
§ 13-104 SAME; PETITION.
   When a petition signed by no fewer than ten citizens owning real estate in
the city requesting construction of a sidewalk is filed with the City Clerk,
the governing body may in its discretion, by a resolution, order such sidewalk
constructed as herein provided.
(K.S.A. 12-1803)
§ 13-105 SAME; CONDEMNATION, RECONSTRUCTION.
   When any sidewalk, in the opinion of the governing body, becomes inadequate
or unsafe for travel thereon, the governing body may adopt a resolution
condemning such sidewalk and providing for the construction of a new sidewalk
in the place of the sidewalk condemned.
(K.S.A. 12-1804)
§ 13-106 NOTICE; PUBLICATION.
   The resolution providing for the construction or reconstruction of a
sidewalk, as the case may be, shall give the owner of the abutting property not
less than 30 days nor more than 60 days after its publication one time in the
official city paper in which to construct or cause to be constructed or
reconstructed the sidewalk at his or her own expense. If the sidewalk is not
constructed by the property owner within the time specified, the governing body
shall cause the work to be done by contract.
(K.S.A. 12-1805)
§ 13-107 RIGHT OF ABUTTING OWNER.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prohibit the owner of property
abutting on a street, who desires to construct or reconstruct a sidewalk at his
or her own expense and in accordance with official plans and specifications for
the purpose and which meet such other requirements as would have to be met if
the sidewalk were constructed or reconstructed by the city, to construct or
reconstruct a sidewalk without any petition or a condemning resolution by the
governing body. If such property owner desires the sidewalk to be constructed
and reconstructed by the city and an assessment levied as provided by law in
other cases, he or she shall file a request with the governing body. The
governing body, in its discretion, may provide for the construction or
reconstruction of the sidewalk requested in the same manner as in other cases
where citizens or taxpayers petition the governing body.
(K.S.A. 12-1806)
§ 13-108 REPAIRS BY OWNER OR CITY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of the abutting property to keep the
sidewalk in repair, but the city may, after giving five days’ notice to the
owner or his or her agent, if known, of the necessity for making repairs or
without notice if the lot or piece of land is unoccupied, make all necessary
repairs at any time. The same shall be done and the cost thereof assessed
against the lot or piece of land abutting on the sidewalk so repaired as may be
provided by law.
(K.S.A. 12-1808)
§ 13-109 PERFORMANCE, STATUTORY BOND.
   In any case where the reconstruction or construction of a sidewalk is
required to be done by contract as provided in §
13-106 hereof, the governing body may require the contractor to give a bond for
the faithful performance of the contract and for the construction of the
sidewalk in accordance with the plans and specifications, ordinances of the
city or laws of the state and for all contracts exceeding $1,000 entered into
by the city for any such purpose, a statutory lien bond required by K.S.A. 60-
1111 shall be furnished.
§ 13-110 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS.
   (a)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to build or construct
any step or other obstruction, whether temporary or permanent, or to store,
leave or allow to be left any implements, tools, merchandise, goods,
containers, benches, display or show cases, on any sidewalks or other public
ways in the city or to obstruct the same longer than is necessary for loading
or unloading any such article or object.
   (b)   Exception. Businesses serving food and/or beverages may obtain a
special use permit approved by the governing body to allow for the placement of
tables and chairs in front of the building; provided, that the following is
provided and approved:
      (1)   Written plan detailing the layout of the table and chairs (must be
“period” design if left out overnight and approved by the Downtown
Redevelopment Board), rails or barriers (if deemed necessary);
      (2)   Allow six feet minimum unobstructed sidewalk;
      (3)   Five-hundred thousand dollar liability insurance with the city
listed as additional insured;
      (4)   Conform with zoning regulations; and
      (5)   Twenty-five dollar annual fee, valid from January 1 to December 31
each year.
(2010 Code, § 13-110) (Ord. 1908, passed - -)
§ 13-111 SAME; EXCEPTION.
   The governing body may authorize the granting of temporary permits in
connection with a building or moving permit for limited times only to the owner
of property abutting on any sidewalk to use or encumber such sidewalk or public
way of the city during the construction of any building or improvement thereon.
No permit shall be issued for such purpose until plans for warning and
safeguarding the public during such use of sidewalks shall have been submitted
by the owner or his or her contractor and approved by the governing body.
ARTICLE 2: STREETS
Section
   
13-201   Excavation permit
   
13-202   Reserved
   
13-203   Same; filed
   
13-204   Same; barricades
   
13-205   Same; unlawful acts
   
13-206   Cutting curbs; pavement
   
13-207   Altering drainage
   
13-208   Unfinished pavement
   
13-209   Using streets
   
13-210   Dangerous objects in
   
13-211   Petroleum products in streets
   
13-212   Discharging water on streets
   
13-213   Burning in streets
   
13-214   Throwing in streets
   
13-215   Hauling loose material
§ 13-201 EXCAVATION PERMIT.
   No person, other than authorized city employees, shall dig or excavate any
hole, ditch, trench or tunnel in or under any street, alley, sidewalk, park or
other public property or public easement through private property without first
having secured a permit for such excavation. Application shall be made to the
City Clerk.
§ 13-202 RESERVED.
§ 13-203 SAME; FILED.
   If the application is approved by the city, the City Clerk shall issue a
permit upon payment of a fee of $5. Each permit issued under the provisions of
this section shall cover only one specified excavation.
§ 13-204 SAME; BARRICADES.
   Any person to whom an excavation permit is issued shall enclose all
excavations that he or she make with sufficient barricades and danger signs at
all times, and shall maintain sufficient warning lights or flares at nighttime.
The holder of an excavation permit shall take all necessary precautions to
guard the public against all accidents from the beginning of the work to the
completion of the same.
§ 13-205 SAME; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except those having authority from the
city or any officer thereof to throw down, interfere with or remove any
barriers, barricades or lights placed in any street to guard and warn the
traveling public of any construction work thereon or adjacent thereto.
§ 13-206 CUTTING CURBS; PAVEMENT.
   (a)   No person shall cut any curb, gutter, pavement, blacktop or sidewalk,
or excavate any street, alley or other public grounds of the city for any
purpose without first obtaining a permit authorizing the same from the City
Clerk.
   (b)   Once the work for which the excavation was made has been completed,
the city shall restore the pavement, blacktop, sidewalk or other surfacing at
the expense of the person from whom the excavation was made.
   (c)   In lieu of the city replacing pavement, it may elect to authorize
utility companies or contractors to resurface streets or sidewalks with like
materials, subject to approval of the Street Superintendent.
§ 13-207 ALTERING DRAINAGE.
   No person shall change or alter any gutter, storm sewer, drain or drainage
structure that has been constructed or is being lawfully maintained or
controlled by the city, unless such change or alteration has been authorized or
directed by the governing body.
§ 13-208 UNFINISHED PAVEMENT.
   No person shall walk upon, drive or ride over or across any pavement,
sidewalk or incomplete grading that has not been opened for traffic.
§ 13-209 USING STREETS.
   (a)   No person shall occupy any portion of any street, alley or sidewalk
for the purpose of temporarily storing building materials without first
obtaining a permit for such temporary use from the governing body.
   (b)   No person may use any portion of any sidewalk or street right-of-way
for the purpose of displaying or offering for sale wares, goods, merchandise or
other items. Nothing in this article, however, shall be construed as
prohibiting the city governing body from temporarily waiving the prohibition of
this division (b) in connection with community promotions or community-wide
celebrations when such waiver is considered to be in the best interest of the
city.
§ 13-210 DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw or cause to be placed or
thrown in or on any street, alley, sidewalk or other public grounds of the
city, any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, wire or other dangerous objects that
might wound any person or animal, or cut or puncture any pneumatic tire while
passing over the same.
§ 13-211 PETROLEUM PRODUCTS IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit or throw
any waste oil, fuel oil, kerosene, gasoline or other products of petroleum or
any acids into or upon any street or public grounds of the city, or willfully
to permit the same to be spilled, dripped or otherwise to come into contact
with the surface of any street, alley or sidewalk within the city.
§ 13-212 DISCHARGING WATER ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to throw or
discharge water into any ditch, street, avenue or alley in the city or to cause
any water to stand or form pools or to flow in a stream thereon. This section
shall not apply to persons cleaning or flushing such streets, avenues or alleys
under the authority of the governing body, nor to members of the Fire
Department.
§ 13-213 BURNING IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, or cause to be made, any fire
upon any of the streets, alleys or street intersections within the city.
§ 13-214 THROWING IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to throw or bat any ball, stone or other hard substance
into, on or across any street or alley or at or against any building or
vehicle.
§ 13-215 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful to haul over the streets or alleys of this city any
loose material of any kind except in a vehicle so constructed or maintained as
to prevent the splashing or spilling of any of the substances therein contained
upon the streets or alleys.
ARTICLE 2A: USE RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN STREETS
Section
   
13-2A01   Encroachment defined
   
13-2A02   Encroachments prohibited on U.S. Highway 54
   
13-2A03   Use restrictions on U.S. Highway 54
   
13-2A04   Encroachments prohibited on portion of South Main Street
   
13-2A05   Use restrictions on portion of South Main Streets
§ 13-2A01 ENCROACHMENT DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENCROACHMENT. Includes any sign, awning, canopy, marquee, billboard or other
advertising device, merchandise stand or display, building or other structure,
or other use for private purposes of any character which exists in or rests
upon or projects above the right-of-way.
(2010 Code, § 13-301)
§ 13-2A02 ENCROACHMENTS PROHIBITED ON U.S. HIGHWAY 54.
   (a)   All existing encroachments upon or above the right-of-way of that
portion of U.S. Highway 54, also known as Avenue D and Wichita Street, of the
city, extending from the west corporate limits of the city to the east
corporate limits thereof, shall be removed therefrom within 20 days following
the effective date of Ord. 1258.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to erect, install or construct signs, posters,
billboards, roadside stands or any other private installation which would
encroach on or above that portion of U.S. Highway 54 described in division (a)
above.
(2010 Code, § 13-302)
§ 13-2A03 USE RESTRICTIONS ON U.S. HIGHWAY 54.
   It is unlawful to use that portion of U.S. Highway 54, also known as Avenue
D and Wichita Street of the city, extending from the west corporate limits of
the city to the east corporate limits thereof, for any private purpose or
purposes whatsoever, except as provided by the laws of the state.
(2010 Code, § 13-303)
§ 13-2A04 ENCROACHMENTS PROHIBITED ON PORTION OF SOUTH MAIN STREET.
   (a)   All existing signs, posters, billboards, roadside stands or other
private installations encroaching on or above that portion of South Main Street
beginning at the intersection of Main Street and Eighth Street, thence north on
Main Street to a point 150 feet south of Sherman Street, shall be removed
therefrom within ten days.
   (b)   It is unlawful to erect, install or construct signs, posters,
billboard, roadside stands or other private installations which would encroach
on or above that portion of South Main Street as described in division (a)
above.
(2010 Code, § 13-304)
§ 13-2A05 USE RESTRICTIONS ON PORTION OF SOUTH MAIN STREETS.
   It is unlawful to use that portion of South Main Street beginning at the
intersection of Main Street and Eighth Street; thence north on Main Street to a
point 150 feet south of Sherman Street, except as provided by the laws of the
state.
(2010 Code, § 13-305)
ARTICLE 3: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
13-301   Public tree care
   
13-302   Diseased trees; determination
   
13-303   Same; notice served
   
13-304   Same; failure of owner; duty of city
   
13-305   Same; prevent spread of disease
   
13-306   Dangerous, dead or diseased trees on private property
   
13-307   Trees on public property; cost borne by city
   
13-308   Costs on tax rolls
   
13-309   Injuring trees and shrubs
   
13-310   Fire hydrants, plantings adjacent to
§ 13-301 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure safety when servicing
city utilities or to preserve the symmetry and beauty of public grounds. The
city may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof that
is in an unsafe condition or, by reason of its nature, is injurious to sewers,
electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public improvements or is
affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
§ 13-302 DISEASED TREES; DETERMINATION.
   Whenever any competent city authority or competent state or federal
authority shall file with the governing body a statement in writing based upon
a laboratory test or other supporting evidence that trees or tree materials or
shrubs located upon private property within the city are infected or infested
with or harbor any tree or plant disease or insect or larvae, the uncontrolled
presence of which may constitute a hazard to or result in the damage or
extinction of other trees or shrubs in the community, describing the same and
where located, the governing body shall direct the City Clerk to forthwith
issue notice requiring the owner or agent of the owner of the premises to treat
or to remove any such designated tree, tree material or shrub within a time
specified in the notice.
§ 13-303 SAME; NOTICE SERVED.
   Notice shall be served by a police officer by delivering a copy thereof to
the owner and the person in possession of such property, or if the same be
unoccupied or the owner a nonresident of the city, then the City Clerk shall
notify the owner by mailing a notice by certified mail to his or her last known
address.
§ 13-304 SAME; FAILURE OF OWNER; DUTY OF CITY.
   If the owner or agent shall fail to comply with the requirements of the
notice within the time specified in the notice, then the City Manager or his or
her designee shall proceed to have the designated tree, tree material or shrub,
treated or removed and report the cost thereof to the City Clerk. In lieu of
city employees performing any such work, the governing body may contract with
any competent person, company or corporation for the performance of such work.
§ 13-305 SAME; PREVENT SPREAD OF DISEASE.
   No tree, tree materials or shrubs as mentioned herein that have been cut
down, either by the property owner or by the city, shall be permitted to remain
on the premises, but shall be immediately treated, removed and burned or
immediately burned upon the premises, if safe to do so, so as to prevent the
spread of the tree disease.
§ 13-306 DANGEROUS, DEAD OR DISEASED TREES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (a)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of 14 feet above the surface of the street
or right-of-way. The owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees
or broken or decayed limbs that constitute a menace to the safety of the
public. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic-control device
or sign.
   (b)   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dangerous,
dead or diseased trees on private property within the city, when such trees
constitute a hazard to life and property. The city will notify in writing the
owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their own expense
within 60 days after the date of service of notice. The owners, within 30 days
of the notice, may request a hearing covering the ordered removal. In the event
of failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have the
authority to remove the trees and charge the cost of removal on the owner’s
property tax notice.
§ 13-307 TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; COST BORNE BY CITY.
   The city shall have the authority to treat or to remove any tree as defined
in §
13-301, or to remove any dead tree as mentioned herein, which is located within
the limits of any public right-of-way within the city. The adjacent property
owners shall not be responsible for the cost of treatment or removal of any
such trees within the public right-of-way and this expense shall be borne by
the city at large.
§ 13-308 COSTS ON TAX ROLLS.
   The City Clerk shall, at the time of certifying other city taxes to the
County Clerk, certify the unpaid costs for treatment or removal performed under
the authority of §§
13-304 to
13-306 and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax roll of the county
against the lot or parcel of ground. The cost of such work shall be paid from
the General Fund or other proper fund of the city, and such fund shall be
reimbursed when payments therefor are received or when such assessments are
collected and received by the city.
§ 13-309 INJURING TREES AND SHRUBS.
   No person shall willfully break, cut, take away, destroy, injure, mutilate
or attempt to willfully break, cut, take away, destroy, injure or mutilate any
tree, shrub, vine, flower or landscaping standing, growing or being upon the
premises in the possession of another, or growing on any public ground, street,
sidewalk, promenade or park in the city.
§ 13-310 FIRE HYDRANTS, PLANTINGS ADJACENT TO.
   No person shall plant, or cause to be planted, nor allow to grow upon
property owned by him or her any shrubs, trees or planting of any kind within
ten feet of any fire hydrant in the city, in order that every fire hydrant
shall be in full view day or night to fire apparatus approaching from any
direction.
ARTICLE 4: SNOW AND ICE
Section
   
13-401   Snow and ice to be removed
   
13-402   Same: exception; alternate remedy
   
13-403   Same; penalty
   
13-404   Removal may be made by city
   
13-405   Costs on tax rolls
§ 13-401 SNOW AND ICE TO BE REMOVED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or the occupant of any lots
abutting upon any sidewalks to fail to cause to be removed from such sidewalks
all snow and ice within 12 hours from the time that the snow fall or ice storm
ceases. If the snow falls or ice accumulates upon the sidewalks in the
nighttime, removal of same must be made within 12 hours after sunrise on the
following day.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place snow removed from private
property upon any public street, alley or sidewalk.
§ 13-402 SAME: EXCEPTION; ALTERNATE REMEDY.
   Where there shall be ice or compacted snow on any such sidewalk of such a
character as to make it practically impossible to remove the same, the
sprinkling of ashes, sand or other noncorrosive chemicals on the accumulation
of ice or snow in such a manner as to make such sidewalk reasonably safe for
pedestrian travel shall be deemed a sufficient compliance with the provisions
of this article until the ice or snow can be removed.
§ 13-403 SAME; PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §
13-401 shall, upon conviction, be fined $25.
§ 13-404 REMOVAL MAY BE MADE BY CITY.
   If any owner or occupant of any lot or lots shall refuse or neglect to clean
or remove from the sidewalk abutting the lot or lots all snow and ice within
the time specified, the city may cause such snow and ice to be removed from
sidewalks and the cost thereof shall be assessed against such abutting lot or
lots, and the City Clerk shall certify the same to the County Clerk for
collection as provided by law.
§ 13-405 COSTS ON TAX ROLLS.
   The City Clerk shall, at the time of certifying other city taxes to the
County Clerk, certify the unpaid costs for removal of snow or ice performed
under the authority of §
13-404 and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax roll of the county
against the lot or parcel of ground. The cost of such work shall be paid from
the General Fund or other proper fund of the city, and such fund shall be
reimbursed when payments therefor are received or when such assessments are
collected and received by the city.
ARTICLE 5: STREET NAMES AND HOUSE NUMBERS
Section
   
13-501   Street naming; signs
   
13-502   Numbering buildings
   
13-503   Exception to numbering system
   
13-504   Numbers; required, height
   
13-505   Posting; destruction unlawful
§ 13-501 STREET NAMING; SIGNS.
   Wherever any street crosses another street, the name of each street in plain
large letters shall be posted close to one of the corners in a conspicuous
place at a height which may be readily seen, with printed or painted street
signs placed on posts located just inside the curb line at one of the corners,
the surface with names upon them to be at right angles and point so as to
indicate the street it names.
(2010 Code, § 13-401)
§ 13-502 NUMBERING BUILDINGS.
    All houses fronting on public streets shall be numbered as follows.
   (a)   Odd numbers shall be given to houses upon the west side and south side
of streets and even numbers to those on the east and north sides of the same.
   (b)   On streets and avenues running north and south in the city, the
numbering shall commence with number 100 at the northeast corner of each and
every street intersection commencing with Sherman Street, and shall increase
north and south at the rate of 100 numbers for each block or space between two
streets.
   (c)   On streets running east and west in the city, the numbering shall
commence with the number 100 at the northeast or the northwest corner of each
and every street at its intersection with Main Street, and increase east and
west from Main Street at the rate of 100 numbers for each block or space
between two streets.
(2010 Code, § 13-402)
§ 13-503 EXCEPTION TO NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   The 9-1-1 Coordinator is authorized to establish such exceptions to the
numbering system described in this article as may be made necessary by the
irregular routing of any street or avenue of the city.
(2010 Code, § 13-403)
§ 13-504 NUMBERS; REQUIRED, HEIGHT.
    The owner or occupant of each and every house or building is required to
place on his or her house or building in a conspicuous place, the house number
not less than two inches high.
(2010 Code, § 13-404)
§ 13-505 POSTING; DESTRUCTION UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to fail to post numbers on any house or
building in accordance herewith after ten days’ written notice given to the
person by the City Clerk; and it is also unlawful to remove, injure, destroy,
tear down or carry away any number placed on any building or house or the names
of any streets after they have been put up.
(2010 Code, § 13-405)
CHAPTER XIV: TRAFFIC
   Article
      
1.   STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
      
2.   LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
3.   PARKING
      
4.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
      
5.   ENFORCEMENT - APPEARANCE BONDS
ARTICLE 1: STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
Section
   
14-101   Incorporating Standard Traffic Ordinance
   
14-102   Additions to Standard Traffic Ordinance
   
14-103   Traffic infractions and traffic offenses
   
14-104   Penalty for scheduled fines
§ 14-101 INCORPORATING STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE.
   (a)   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of
regulating traffic within the corporate limits of the city that certain
standard traffic ordinance known as the “Standard Traffic Ordinance for Kansas
Cities,” 50th edition published in 2023, prepared and published in book form by
the League of Kansas Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas. No fewer than one copy of
said Standard Traffic Ordinance shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as
Adopted by Ord. 2110” and to which shall be attached a copy of this ordinance,
and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the
public at all reasonable hours. The Police Department, Municipal Judge, and all
administrative departments of the city charged with enforcement of the
ordinance shall be supplied, at the cost of the city, such number of official
copies of such Standard Traffic Ordinance for Kansas Cities similarly marked,
as may be deemed expedient.
   (b)   Traffic infractions and traffic offenses.
      (1)   An ordinance traffic infraction is a violation of any section of
this ordinance that prescribes or requires the same behavior as that prescribed
or required by a statutory provision that is classified as a traffic infraction
in K.S.A. 8-2118.
      (2)   All traffic violations which are included within this ordinance,
and which are not ordinance traffic infractions, as defined in subsection (a)
of this section, shall be considered traffic offenses.
(Ord. 2110, passed 8-24-2023)
§ 14-102 ADDITIONS TO STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE.
   In addition to those violations set forth in the Standard Traffic Ordinance
for Kansas Cities, it is hereby declared a traffic infraction for a driver of a
motor vehicle to commit any of the following acts in the city.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for a driver of a motor vehicle or motorcycle to
execute a U-turn on any street as hereafter defined.
   (b)   A U-TURN shall be defined as making a U-turn in order to park on the
opposite side of any street marked with a centerline.
(2010 Code, § 14-102) (Ord. 1917, passed - - )
§ 14-103 TRAFFIC INFRACTIONS AND TRAFFIC OFFENSES.
   (a)   An ordinance traffic infraction is a violation of any section of this
section that prescribes or requires the same behavior as that prescribed or
required by a statutory provision that is classified as a traffic infraction in
K.S.A. 8-2118.
   (b)   All traffic violations which are included within this section, and
which are not ordinance traffic infractions, as defined in division (a) above,
shall be considered traffic offenses.
(2010 Code, § 14-103) (Ord. 1932, passed - - ; Ord. 2110, passed 8-24-2023)
§ 14-104 PENALTY FOR SCHEDULED FINES.
   The fine for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or any other
traffic offense for which the Municipal Judge establishes a fine in a fine
schedule shall not be less than $25, nor more than $500, except for speeding
which shall not be less than $45, nor more than $500. A person tried and
convicted for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or other traffic
offense for which a fine has been established in a schedule of fines shall pay
a fine fixed by the court not to exceed $500.
(2010 Code, § 14-105) (Ord. 2016, passed 8-25-2016)
ARTICLE 2: LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
14-201   Traffic-control devices and markings
   
14-202   Through highways
   
14-203   Through streets
   
14-204   Main trafficway established
   
14-205   Stop intersection designated
   
14-206   Stop intersections
   
14-207   Yield intersections
   
14-208   U-turns
   
14-209   Size, weight and load
   
14-210   Certain thoroughfare as one-way streets
   
14-211   Certain alley as one-way
   
14-212   Speed limitation
   
14-213   Speed limitations; school zones
   
14-214   School zones
   
14-215   Special speed limitation; Elm Street
   
14-216   Speed limit; specified alleys
   
14-217   Speed limitations; parks
   
14-218   Drag racing; definitions
   
14-219   Prohibitions
   
14-220   Parking prohibited
   
14-220A   Parking prohibited during certain hours in city parking lot located
at West “B” Avenue and Cedar Street
   
14-221   Operation and micro utility trucks
   
14-222   Valid driver’s license required; penalty
   
14-223   Definition
   
14-224   Penalty
   
14-225   Insurance required; penalty
   
14-226   Registration and license, fee, application; inspection; penalty
   
14-227   Operation of golf carts
   
14-228   Authorized vehicles only on West First Avenue in the west end of
fairgrounds
Operation of Utility Task Vehicles (UTV) on the Streets
   
14-234   Definition
   
14-235   Operation of a UTV in city limits
   
14-236   Operator requirements; owner duties; penalty
   
14-237   Registration fee; fee; application; inspection; penalty
   
14-238   Penalty
   
14-239   Exemptions
§ 14-201 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND MARKINGS.
   (a)   The Standard Traffic Ordinance, as adopted, is hereby modified by
adding thereto the following.
   (b)   The governing body may, by resolution, establish and fix the location
of such traffic-control devices as may be deemed necessary to guide and warn
traffic under the provisions of this chapter, other traffic ordinances and the
state laws. The city shall place and maintain such traffic-control signs,
signals and devices when and as may be required by the authority of the
governing body to make effective the provisions of this chapter and other
ordinances for the regulation of traffic. Any official traffic-control device
placed pursuant to this section shall be marked and labeled on a map of the
city for the purpose of displaying all such traffic-control devices and shall
be filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the
public at all reasonable hours of business.
§ 14-202 THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   In accordance with K.S.A. 8-2002(a)(6), the governing body has found and
determined that for the public good, convenience and protection, the following
are established:
   (a)   Sherman Street, at its intersection with Cedar Street, as a through
highway, and the erection of a stop sign at the northwest corner of the
intersection of Sherman Street and Cedar Street in the city so as to cause
southbound traffic on Cedar Street to stop before entering Sherman Street;
   (b)   Cedar Street, at its intersection with Avenue “E” as a through
highway, and the erection of two stop signs, one at the southwest corner and
the other at the northeast corner of the intersection of Cedar Street and
Avenue “E” in the city so as to cause eastbound and westbound traffic on Avenue
“E” to stop before entering Cedar Street;
   (c)   Spruce Street, at its intersection with Copeland Street as a through
highway, and there is to be established and erected at the intersection two
stop signs, one at the southwest corner and the other at the northeast corner
of the intersection of Spruce Street and Copeland Street in the city so as to
cause eastbound and westbound traffic on Copeland Street to stop before
entering Spruce Street;
   (d)   Those portions of Sherman Street, Avenues “A”, “B”, “C” and “E” in the
city at their intersections with Elm Street in the city as through highways and
stop signs erected, one such sign to be erected at the northwest corner of the
intersection of Sherman Street and Elm Street, two such signs to be erected at
each of the intersections of Avenues “A”, “B” and “C” and Elm Street locating
such signs at each intersection at the respective southeast and northwest
corners thereof and one such sign to be erected at the southeast corner of the
intersection of Avenue “E” and Elm Street;
   (e)   Sherman Street and Avenues “A”, “B”, “C” and “E” at their
intersections with Elm Street as through highways, and there is to be
established and erected at the intersections stop signs as set forth in this
division (e) so as to cause northbound traffic on Elm Street to stop before
entering Avenues “A”, “B”, “C” and “E” and so as to cause southbound traffic on
Elm Street to stop before entering Sherman Street, Avenues “A”, “B” and “C”;
   (f)   The portion of Broadway Street in the city at its intersection with
Avenues “E”, “F”, “G” and “H”, and Washington, Wallace, Star and Anadale
Streets in the city as a through highway, and stop signs erected, one such sign
to be erected at each southwest corner of the intersections of Broadway Street
and Avenues “E”, “F”, “G” and “H” and Washington Street, and one such sign to
be erected at each northeast corner of the intersections of Broadway and
Avenues “E”, “F”, “G” and “H” and Washington, Wallace, Star and Anadale
Streets, all in such a manner that eastbound traffic on Avenues “E”, “F”, “G”
and “H” and Washington Street and westbound traffic on Avenues “E”, “F”, “G”
and “H” and Washington, Wallace, Star and Anadale Streets is caused to stop
before entering Broadway Street; and
   (g)   Broadway Street at its intersections with Avenues “E”, “F”, “G” and
“H” and Washington, Wallace, Star and Anadale Streets as a through highway, and
there is to be established and erected at the intersections stop signs one at
each southwest corner of the intersections of Broadway and Avenues “E”, “F”,
“G” and “H” and Washington Street, and one at each northeast corner of the
intersections of Broadway Street and Avenues “E”, “F”, “G” and “H” and
Washington Street to stop before entering Broadway Street and westbound traffic
on Avenues “E”, “F”, “G” and “H” and Washington, Wallace, Star and Anadale
Streets to come to a stop before entering Broadway Street.
(2010 Code, § 14-202)
§ 14-203 THROUGH STREETS.
   (a)   In accordance with the provisions of K.S.A. 8-2002(a)(6), and when
signs are erected giving notice thereof, drivers of vehicles shall stop or
yield as the sign directs at every intersection before entering any of the
following streets or parts of streets, which are designated through streets;
provided, that if at any such intersection there shall be maintained stop and
go lights, the signals and indications thus displayed shall be observed and the
vehicle permitted to proceed as such light signals so indicates:
      (1)   Main Street from north city limits to south city limits;
      (2)   Avenue “D” from east city limits to west city limits, including
U.S. Highway 54 extension;
      (3)   Spruce Street, north from Sherman Street to Avenue “D”; and
      (4)   Cedar Street, north from Sherman Street to Avenue “D”.
   (b)   Automatic stop and go lights shall be maintained at the intersection
of Avenue “D” and Main Street and at the intersection of Main Street and Avenue
“A”.
(2010 Code, § 14-203)
§ 14-204 MAIN TRAFFICWAY ESTABLISHED.
   (a)   Pursuant to K.S.A. 12-685, U.S. Highway 54 through the city, from its
east city limit to its west city limit, is designated and established as a main
trafficway, the primary function of which is the movement of through traffic on
U.S. Highway 54 through the city.
   (b)   Main Street, located in the city is hereby designated a main
trafficway.
(2010 Code, § 14-204) (Ord. 1828, passed - -)
§ 14-205 STOP INTERSECTION DESIGNATED.
   (a)   The governing body does designate and establish the intersection of
Broadway Street and Copeland Street as a stop intersection; and further, does
direct and designate the establishment and erection of stop signs at the
intersection so as to cause all traffic from all directions approaching the
intersection to stop before entering the same.
(2010 Code, § 14-205)
   (b)   The intersections of Third Street and Brown Street and Fourth Street
and Brown Street shall be designated and established as stop intersections.
Stop signs shall be erected at both intersections so as to cause all traffic
approaching said intersections from the east and west to stop before entering
such intersections.
   (c)   The intersection of Washington Street and Pine Street shall be
designated and established as a stop intersection. Stop signs shall be erected
at said intersection to cause all traffic approaching said intersection from
all directions to stop before entering such intersection.
   (d)   The intersection of Sugar Street and Grant Avenue shall be designated
and established as a stop intersection. A stop sign shall be erected at said
intersection to cause all traffic approaching said intersection from the west
to stop before entering such intersection.
(Ord. 1967, passed 2-14-2013, Ord. 2006, passed 4-28-2016, Ord. 2042, passed 2-
14-2019)
§ 14-206 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections are designated stop intersections; and when stop
signs are erected at one or more entrances, as stated, the drivers of the
vehicles shall bring the vehicles to a full stop before entering such
intersection, and then proceed with caution.
“E” and Pine stop signs north south and west
“G” and Pine stop signs north and south
Broadway and “A” stop signs east and west
Broadway and Annadale stop sign west
Broadway and “B” stop signs east and west
Broadway and “C” stop signs east and west
Broadway and Copeland four-way stop
Broadway and “D” stop signs north and south
Broadway and “F” stop signs east and west
Broadway and “H” stop signs east and west
Broadway and Hickory Lane stop sign east
Broadway and Sherman stop sign south
Broadway and Wallace stop sign west
Broadway and Washington stop signs east and west
Brown and 4th stop signs north and south
Cedar and “A” stop signs east and west
Cedar and “B” stop signs east and west
Cedar and “C” stop signs east and west
Cedar and “D” stop signs north and south
Cedar and “E” stop signs east and west
Cedar and “F” stop signs east and west
Cedar and “G” stop signs east and west
Cedar and “H” stop signs east and west
Cedar and Sherman stop sign south
Cedar and Washington stop signs east and west
Chariton and 4th stop sign south
Chariton and “D” stop signs north and south
Chariton and “E” Avenue stop signs east and west
Chariton and “F” Avenue stop signs east and west
Chariton and “G” Avenue stop signs north and south
Coronado and “A” Avenue stop sign south
Coronado and “D” Avenue stop signs north and south
Coronado and “G” Avenue stop signs north and south
Defonte and “D” Avenue stop signs north and south
Douglas and “D” stop signs north and south
Douglas and “E” Avenue four-way stop
East side alley - Main and “A” stop signs north and south
East side alley - Main and “B” stop signs north and south
East side alley - Main and “D” stop sign north
East side alley - Main and “C” stop signs north and south
East side alley - Main and Sherman stop sign south
Edwards and 4th stop signs north and south
Elm and “B” stop signs north and south
Elm and “C” stop signs north and south
Elm and Copeland stop signs north
Elm and “D” stop signs north and south
Elm and “E” stop signs east and west
Elm and Sherman stop sign south
Elm and Washington stop signs north and south
“F” Avenue and Pine Street stop signs east and west
FabPro Way and “A” Avenue stop signs north and south
FabPro Way and “C” Avenue stop signs east and west
FabPro Way and “D” Avenue stop signs north and south
Filley and 4th stop sign south
Hinton and 4th stop sign south
Kansas and Eleanor stop sign north
Kansas and Koch Industrial Avenue stop sign south
Kansas and Sidney stop sign north
Kansas and Walnut stop sign north
Kansas Avenue and Country Club Lane stop sign north
Kingman High School stop signs south and east
LaSalle and “D” Avenue stop sign northbound
Lincoln and “D” stop signs north and south
Main and “A” Stop Light
Main and Annadale stop signs east and west
Main and “C” stop signs east and west
Main and Copeland stop signs east and west
Main and “D” Stop Light
Main and Delaware stop sign east
Main and “E” Avenue stop sign east
Main and “F” Avenue stop signs east and west
Main and “G” Avenue stop signs east and west
Main and Grant stop signs east and west
Main and “H” Avenue stop signs east and west
Main and Kansas stop sign east
Main and Logan stop sign west
Main and Richill stop sign west
Main and Sherman stop signs east and west
Main and Star stop signs east and west
Main and Wallace stop sign east
Main and Washington stop signs east and west
Marquette and “C” Avenue stop signs east and west
Marquette and U.S. 54 stop signs north and south
Ninnescah and “D” stop sign north
Northwest corner of Whetzel Street and Kelly Avenue to stop vehicles traveling
south before entering Kelly Avenue
Pine and “D” stop signs north and south
Pine and Sherman stop signs north and south
Raff and 4th stop signs north and south
Raff and 6th stop signs north and south
Sherman and Spruce stop signs west and south
South Main and Don Lock Dr. stop signs east and west
South Main and 3rd stop signs east and west
South Main and 4th stop signs east and west
South Main and 5th stop sign east
South Main and 6th stop signs east and west
South Main and 7th stop signs east and west
South Main and 8th stop sign west
South Main and 9th stop sign east
Southeast corner of Golf Street and Kelly Avenue to stop vehicles traveling
north before entering Kelly Avenue
Southeast corner of Whetzel Street and Kansas Avenue to stop vehicles traveling
north before entering on Kansas Avenue
Spruce and “A” stop signs east and west
Spruce and “B” stop signs east and west
Spruce and “C” stop signs east and west
Spruce and Copeland stop signs east and west
Spruce and “D” stop light
Spruce and “F” stop signs east and west
Spruce and “G” stop signs east and west
Spruce and Grant stop signs east and west
Spruce and “H” stop signs east and west
Spruce and Logan stop signs east and west
Spruce and Richill stop signs east and west
Spruce and Sherman stop signs south and west
Spruce and Star stop sign east
Spruce and Washington stop signs east and west
Starlite Drive and Annadale stop sign north
Sugar and Copeland stop sign north
Sugar and “D” stop signs north and south
Sugar and Washington stop sign east
Sunflower and “A” stop sign south
Thompson and U.S. 54 stop signs north and south
U.S. 54 and Brown’s Welding stop sign southbound
U.S. 54 and Medical Arts Drive stop sign south
Walnut and Annadale stop sign south
Walnut and Wallace stop signs north and south
Washington and Pine stop signs east and west
West side alley - Main and “A” stop signs north and south
West side alley - Main and “B’ stop signs north and south
West side alley - Main and “C” stop signs north and south
West side alley - Main and “D” Avenue stop sign north
West side alley - Main and Sherman stop sign south
 
(2010 Code, § 14-206) (Ord. 1796, passed - - ; Ord. 1860, passed - - ; Ord.
2116, passed 10-26-2023; Ord. 2123, passed 2-8-2024)
§ 14-207 YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections not on through streets are designated as yield
intersections; and when signs are erected at one or more entrances, as stated,
the drivers of the vehicles shall yield before entering the intersection.
Avenue “G” and Marquette Street intersection
Chariton and “A” yield signs north and south
Chariton and “B” Yield Signs North and South
Coronado and “C” Avenue yield signs north and south
Coronado and “F” Avenue yield signs north and south
Douglas and “A” yield signs north and south
Douglas and “F” Avenue yield sign east
Elm and “H” yield signs east and west
Grove and 8th yield signs north and south
Grant and Pine yield signs north and south
Northeast corner of Washington Avenue and Sugar Street to stop vehicles from
traveling west before entering Sugar Street
Pine and “A” yield signs north and south
Poplar and 8th yield sign south
Veach and Logan yield signs east and west
 
(2010 Code, § 14-207) (Ord. 1796, passed - - ; Ord. 1842, passed - - ; Ord.
1877, passed - - ; Ord. 2118, passed 10-26-2023; Ord. 2122, passed 2-8-2024)
§ 14-208 U-TURNS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not make a U-turn, i.e., turn such vehicle
so as to proceed in the opposite direction, upon any street except at an
intersection with another street not an ally; nor shall any such U-turn be made
at the following intersections:
   (a)   At all intersection of Main Street with intersecting streets;
   (b)   At all intersections of Avenue “D” with any other street, avenue or
highway;
   (c)   At all intersections of Spruce Street with all streets, avenues and
highways from Sherman Street to and including Avenue “E”;
   (d)   At all intersections of Cedar Street with and including all streets,
avenues and highways from Sherman Street to Avenue “D”; and
   (e)   At all four-way stop intersections.
(2010 Code, § 14-208)
§ 14-209 SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved, on any highway in the city,
any vehicle or vehicles of a size or weight exceeding the limitations stated in
the statutes of the state, and the maximum size and weight of vehicles therein
specified shall be lawful throughout such city, and the governing body shall
have no power or authority to alter the limitations, except as express
authority may be granted in the state statutes.
   (b)   The provisions of this section governing size, weight and load shall
not apply to fire apparatus, road machinery or to implements of husbandly
temporarily moved upon a highway.
(2010 Code, § 14-209)
§ 14-210 CERTAIN THOROUGHFARE AS ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The governing body has found and determined that for the public good,
convenience and protection that portion of the oval or main thoroughfare in and
through the city park, lying east of Main Street and south of the South Fork of
the Ninnescah River in the city from the northwest corner of what is now known
and designated as Ball Field No. 2 of the city, to the northeast corner of Ball
Field No. 1, should be is designated a one-way thoroughfare so that vehicular
traffic on the thoroughfare enters that portion at the northwest corner of Ball
Field No. 2 and exits therefrom at the northeast corner of Ball Field No. 1.
Signs should be placed along the thoroughfare so as to cause vehicular traffic
to travel in such designated manner.
(2010 Code, § 14-210) (Ord. 1801, passed - - )
§ 14-211 CERTAIN ALLEY AS ONE-WAY.
   (a)   The governing body has found and determined that for the public good,
convenience and protection that portion of the north-south alley in the block
bounded on the north by Avenue “D”, on the east by Main Street, on the south by
Avenue “C” and on the west by Cedar Street, in the city at its intersection
with the south line of the east-west alley in the west half of the block, south
to its intersection with Avenue “C” should be designated a one-way alley
providing for southbound traffic only along that portion of the alley and
appropriate signs should be placed so as to adequately define the limits of and
provide for the regulation of vehicular traffic along that portion of the alley
in accordance herewith.
   (b)   In accordance with division (a) above, that portion of the alley set
forth in division (a) above is designated and established as a one-way alley
for southbound vehicular traffic only; and there is to be established at that
portion of the alley sufficient and adequate signs to identify the one-way
alley and regulate traffic thereon.
(2010 Code, § 14-211)
§ 14-212 SPEED LIMITATION.
   (a)   The governing body, having determined upon the basis of an engineering
and traffic investigation that the speed limit permitted under state law and §
33 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, other than is reasonable or safe under
the conditions found to exist upon all or such portion of the following
streets, hereby determines and declares that the reasonable and safe speed
limit for all or such portion of the streets are as hereafter indicated. The
Chief of Police is hereby directed to erect appropriate signs giving notice of
such speed along such streets.
   (b)   Those streets being connecting links in the state highway system, the
Secretary of Transportation has approved in writing the speed limits herein
established:
      (1)   On Spruce Street and Cedar Street from Sherman Street to Avenue
“D”: 30 mph;
      (2)   When traveling either east or west on Avenue “D”, except where stop
signs are maintained, and except as limited and otherwise provided by §
14-218, the following maximum speed limits are hereby established: beginning at
the extreme west corporate limits of the city and extending thence east to a
point 190 feet east of the east curb of Ninnescah Street : 40 mph; thence east
to a point 246 feet east of the east curb of Cedar Street: 30 mph; thence east
to a point 28 feet east of the east curb of FabPro Way: 30 mph; thence east to
the east city limit: 40 mph;
      (3)   When traveling either north or south on Main Street and South Main
Street, the same constituting the main artery of travel from the north to the
south corporate limits of the city, the following maximum speed limits are
established:
         (A)   Beginning at the extreme south city limits of the city, thence
north a distance of 0.525 of a mile to a point approximately 0.035 of a mile
north of the intersection of South Main and Eighth Street: 50 mph;
         (B)   From the point 0.035 of a mile north of the intersection of
South Main Street and Eighth Street, thence north to a point 210 feet south of
Third Street: 40 mph;
         (C)   From a point 210 feet south of Third Street, thence north to the
south end of the bridge across the Ninnescah River: 30 mph; and
         (D)   From the point at the south end of the bridge across the
Ninnescah River north to the junction of Main Street and Avenue “D”: 20 mph.
(2010 Code, § 14-212) (Ord. 1858, passed - - )
§ 14-213 SPEED LIMITATIONS; SCHOOL ZONES.
   (a)   The governing body, having determined upon the basis of an engineering
and traffic investigation that the maximum speed limit permitted under state
law and § 33 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance is greater than is reasonable
and safe under the conditions found to exist at certain intersections and along
the streets and highways approaching the intersections being in the vicinity of
the schools in the city, determines and declares that a reasonable and safe
speed limit for the school zones designated in division (b) is 20 miles per
hour during the portion of the year from August 1 of each year to June 1 of the
following year, and no person shall operate or drive any vehicle in excess of
the speed limit along or upon the portions of the streets and highways during
such periods of time during the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 9:00 a.m., 11:00 a.m.
and 1:00 p.m., and 3:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. This section shall not apply on days
school is not in session.
   (b)   For the purpose of regulating motor vehicle traffic set forth in
division (a) the following streets and roadways are hereby designated as school
zones:
      (1)   Spruce Street between Avenue “C” and Avenue “G”;
      (2)   Pine Street between Avenue “C” and Avenue “E”;
      (3)   Main Street between Avenue “D” and Avenue “F”;
      (4)   Avenue “E” between Cedar Street and Chariton Avenue;
      (5)   Avenue “F” between Main Street and Pine Street;
      (6)   Sugar Street between Avenue “C” and Avenue “F”;
      (7)   Douglas Street between Avenue “C” and Avenue “F”;
      (8)   Avenue “E” between Lincoln Street and Sugar Street;
      (9)   Avenue “D” between Lincoln Street and a point 208 feet west of the
western most edge of Sugar Street; and
      (10)   Avenue “D” between Cedar Street and Pine Street;
(2010 Code, § 14-213) (Ord. 2039, passed 7-26-2018)
§ 14-214 SCHOOL ZONES.
   It shall be the duty of all drivers and operators of motor vehicles to
observe all school zones as indicated by signs provided for that purpose, and
while within such zone to slacken speed, and to be particularly observant of
children upon or about to enter upon such street.
(2010 Code, § 14-214)
§ 14-215 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATION; ELM STREET.
   The governing body has determined, upon an engineering and traffic
investigation, that the speed limit permitted under state law and in § 33 of
the Standard Traffic Ordinance is greater than is reasonable and safe under the
conditions found to exist upon the following street, the same being a drainage
street of concave type, and it is determined and declared that the reasonable
and safe speed limit on the street is 20 mph and when appropriate signs are
erected giving notice of such speed limit, no person shall drive a vehicle in
excess of 20 mph on the following named street: Elm Street from Sherman Street
to Avenue “D”, west.
(2010 Code, § 14-215)
§ 14-216 SPEED LIMIT; SPECIFIED ALLEYS.
   The governing body has determined upon an engineering and traffic
investigation, that the speed limit permitted under state law and in § 33 of
the Standard Traffic Ordinance is greater than is reasonable and safe under the
conditions found to exist upon the following designated alleys, and when are
erected giving notice thereof, no person shall drive a vehicle in excess of 15
mph in the alleys extending north and south from Sherman Street to Avenue “D”
in the blocks bounded on the west by Cedar Street and on the east by Spruce
Street.
(2010 Code, § 14-216)
§ 14-217 SPEED LIMITATIONS; PARKS.
   The governing body has determined, upon an engineering and traffic
investigation, that the speed limit permitted under state law and in § 33 of
the Standard Traffic Ordinance is greater than is reasonable and safe under the
conditions found to exist in any park under the jurisdiction of the city, and
when signs are erected giving notice thereof no person shall drive a vehicle in
excess of 20 mph in any park under the jurisdiction of the city.
(2010 Code, § 14-217)
§ 14-218 DRAG RACING; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRAG RACING. Includes the operation of two or more vehicles from a point
side by side, accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to outdistance each
other, or the operation of one or more vehicles over a common selected course,
from the same point to the same point, for the purpose of comparing the
relative speeds or power of acceleration of such vehicle or vehicles within a
certain distance or time limit.
   RACING. Includes the use of one or more vehicles in an attempt to out gain,
distance or prevent another vehicle from passing, to arrive at a given
destination ahead of another vehicle or vehicles or to test the physical
stamina or endurance of drivers over long distance driving routes.
(2010 Code, § 14-218)
§ 14-219 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall drive any vehicle on a highway or elsewhere throughout the
city in any race, speed competition or contest, drag race or acceleration
contest, test of physical endurance, personal or public exhibition of speed or
acceleration, or for the purpose of making a speed record, or for the purpose
of making or leaving tire marks on the surface of the roadway or elsewhere, and
no person shall in any manner participate in any such race, competition,
contest, test or exhibition of speed or acceleration, or the making or leaving
of tire marks.
(2010 Code, § 14-219)
§ 14-220 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Parking is prohibited at all times on the following streets:
   (a)   Chariton Street, from Sherman Avenue to Avenue “D”;
   (b)   The east side of Pine Street from Sherman Avenue to “F” Avenue; and
   (c)   At any location upon a street, highway, or city-owned property where
official city signs prohibit parking.
(2010 Code, § 14-220) (Ord. 1800, passed - - ; Ord. 1827, passed - - ; Ord.
2107, passed 4-13-2023)
Cross-reference:
   Parking, see
Ch. XIV, Art. 3
§ 14-220A PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS IN CITY PARKING LOT LOCATED
AT WEST “B” AVENUE AND CEDAR STREET.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in the parking lot located at the
corner of West “B” Avenue and Cedar Street in Kingman, Kansas, during the
period after 3:00 a.m. and before 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2079, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 14-221 OPERATION AND MICRO UTILITY TRUCKS.
   (a)   Micro utility trucks may be operated upon the public highways, streets
and roads and alleys within the corporate limits of the city.
   (b)   No micro utility truck shall be operated on any public highway,
street, road or alley, unless such truck complies with the equipment
requirements under K.S.A. Ch. 8, Art. 17, and amendments thereto. No micro
utility truck shall be operated on any interstate highway, federal highway or
state highway; provided, however, that the provisions of this division (b)
shall not prohibit a micro utility truck from crossing a federal or state
highway.
   (c)   Every person operating a micro utility truck on the public highways,
streets, roads and alleys of the city shall be subject to all of the duties
applicable to a driver of a vehicle imposed by law.
(2010 Code, § 14-221) (Ord. 1933, passed - -)
§ 14-222 VALID DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED; PENALTY.
   No person shall operate a micro utility truck on any public highway, street,
road or alley within the corporate limits of the city unless such person has a
valid driver’s license. Violation of this section is punishable by a fine of
not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than six months or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
(2010 Code, § 14-222) (Ord. 1933, passed - -)
§ 14-223 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MICRO UTILITY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle which is not less than 48 inches in
width, has an overall length, including bumper, of not more than 160 inches,
has an unladen weight, including fuel and fluids, of more than 1,500 pounds,
can exceed 40 mph as originally manufactured and is manufactured with a metal
cab. MICRO UTILITY TRUCK does not include a worksite utility vehicle.
(2010 Code, § 14-223) (Ord. 1933, passed - -)
§ 14-224 PENALTY.
   Unless specifically provided for herein, a violation of this article shall
be deemed an ordinance traffic infraction. Upon an entry of a plea of guilty or
no contest or upon being convicted of such violation, the penalty imposed shall
be in accordance with § 201, 2018 Standard Traffic Ordinance, and amendments
thereto.
(2010 Code, § 14-224) (Ord. 1933, passed - -)
§ 14-225 INSURANCE REQUIRED; PENALTY.
   (a)   Every owner of a micro-utility truck shall provide liability coverage
in accordance with § 200 of the 2018 Standard Traffic Ordinance, and amendments
thereto, and the State Automobile Injury Reparations Act, K.S.A. 40-3101 et
seq., and amendments thereto.
   (b)   All provisions of § 200 of the 2018 Standard Traffic Ordinance and
amendments thereto, including penalty provisions, shall be applicable to all
owners and operators of micro utility trucks.
(2010 Code, § 14-225) (Ord. 1933, passed - -)
§ 14-226 REGISTRATION AND LICENSE, FEE, APPLICATION; INSPECTION; PENALTY.
   (a)   Before operating any micro utility truck on any public highway,
street, road or alley within the corporate limits of the city and each calendar
year thereafter, the vehicle shall be registered with the city and a license
shall be obtained and placed on the micro utility truck. The license fee shall
be $25 per calendar year, payable in advance to the Police Chief or other
person designated by the city. The full amount of the license fee shall be
required regardless of the time of year that the application is made.
   (b)   Application for registration of a micro utility truck shall be made by
the owner or owner’s agent, in the office of the Police Chief or other person
designated by the city. The application shall be made upon forms provided by
the city and each application shall contain the name of the owner, the owner’s
residence address or bona fide place of business, a brief description of the
vehicle to be registered (including make, model and serial number, if
applicable). Proof of insurance, as required in §
14-225 shall be furnished at the time of application for registration.
   (c)   Prior to the issuance of the registration and license, each applicant
for a micro utility truck license shall first present such vehicle for an
official inspection. If, upon inspection and completion of the registration
application, such vehicle is found to be in safe mechanical condition, and upon
establishing proof of insurance and payment of the fees herein provided, a
license shall be issued to the owner who shall attach it to the vehicle. The
license shall be displayed in such a manner as to be clearly visible from the
rear of the vehicle. The license number on the application will be recorded and
then filed in the Police Department.
   (d)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously remove,
destroy, mutilate or alter such license during the time in which the same is
operative.
   (e)   (1)   The license issued hereunder is not transferrable. In the event
of sale or other transfer of ownership of any vehicle license under the
provisions of this section, the existing license and the right to use the
numbered license shall expire, and the license shall be removed by the owner.
It is unlawful for any person other than the person to whom the license was
originally issued to have the same in his possession. In the event a license is
lost or destroyed, the Police Chief or other person designated by the city,
upon proper showing by the licensee and the payment of a fee of $10, shall
issue a new license in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
         (A)   Operate, or the owner thereof knowingly to permit the operation,
upon public street, road, highway or alley within the corporate limits of the
city any micro utility truck, as defined herein, which is not registered and
which does not have attached thereto and displayed thereon the license assigned
thereto by the city the current registration year;
         (B)   Display, cause or permit to be displayed or to have possession,
any registration receipt, registration license or registration decal knowing
the same to be fictions or have been canceled, revoked, suspended or altered. A
violation of this division (e)(2) shall constitute an unclassified misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not less than $100 and forfeiture of the item. A
mandatory court appearance shall be required of any person violating this
division (e)(2);
         (C)   Lend to or knowingly permit the use by one not entitled thereto
any registration receipt, registration license plate or registration decal
issued to the person so fending or permitting the use thereof;
         (D)   Remove, conceal, alter, mark or deface the license number plate,
plates or decals or any other mark of identification upon any micro utility
truck. Licenses shall be kept clean and placed as required by law so as to be
plainly visible and legible; or
         (E)   Carry or display a registered number plate or plates or
registration decal upon any micro utility truck not lawfully issued for such
vehicle.
(2010 Code, § 14-226) (Ord. 1933, passed - -)
§ 14-227 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   (a)   Operation of golf carts.
      (1)   Golf carts may be operated upon the public highways, streets, roads
and alleys within the corporate limits of the city; provided, however, that no
golf cart may be operated upon any public highway, street, road and alley with
a posted speed limit in excess of 30 mph. No golf cart shall be operated on any
interstate highway, federal highway or state highway; provided, however, that
the provisions of this division (a) shall not prohibit a golf cart from
crossing a federal or state highway or a street or highway with a posted speed
limit greater than 30 mph.
      (2)   No golf cart shall be operated on any public highway, street, road
or alley between sunset and sunrise.
      (3)   Every person operating a golf cart on the public highways, streets,
roads and alleys of the city shall be subject to all of the duties applicable
to a driver of a vehicle imposed by law.
   (b)   Valid driver’s license required; penalty. No person shall operate a
golf cart on any public highway, street, road or alley within the corporate
limits of the city unless such person has a valid driver’s license. Violation
of this section is punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by
imprisonment for not more than six months or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
   (c)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      GOLF CART. A motor vehicle that has not less than three wheels in contact
with the ground, an unladen weight of not more than 1,800 pounds, is designed
to be operated at not more than 25 mph, and is designed to carry not more than
four persons, including the driver.
   (d)   Penalty. Unless specifically provided otherwise herein, a violation of
this section shall be deemed an ordinance traffic infraction. Upon an entry of
a plea of guilty or no contest or upon being convicted of such violation, the
penalty imposed shall be in accordance with § 201, 2018 Standard Traffic
Ordinance, and amendments thereto, or such other similar provision as the city
may then have in effect.
   (e)   Display of slow-moving vehicle emblem.
      (1)   It shall be illegal to operate a golf cart on any public highway,
street, road or alley within the corporate limits of the city unless such
vehicle displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem on the rear of the vehicle.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM has the
same meaning as contained in K.S.A. 8-1717, and amendments thereto.
      (3)   The slow-moving vehicle emblem shall be mounted and displayed in
compliance with K.S.A. 8-1717, and amendments thereto.
   (f)   Insurance required; penalty.
      (1)   Every owner of a golf cart shall provide liability coverage in
accordance with § 200 of the 2018 Standard Traffic Ordinance, and amendments
thereto, and the State Automobile Injury Reparations Act, K.S.A. 40-3101 et
seq., and amendments thereto.
      (2)   All provisions of § 200 of the 2018 Standard Traffic Ordinance, and
amendments thereto, including penalty provisions, shall be applicable to all
owners and operators of golf carts.
   (g)   Registration and license; fee; application; inspection; penalty.
      (1)   Before operating any golf cart on any public highway, street, road
or alley within the corporate limits of the city and each calendar year
thereafter, the vehicle shall be registered with the city and a license shall
be obtained and placed on the golf cart. The license fee shall be $25 per
calendar year, payable in advance to the Police Chief or other person
designated by the city. The full amount of the license fee shall be required
regardless of the time of year that the application is made.
      (2)   Application for registration of a golf cart shall be made by the
owner, or owner’s agent, in the office of the Police Chief or other person
designated by the city. The application shall be made upon forms provided by
the city and each application shall contain the name of the owner, the owner’s
residence address or bona fide place of business, a brief description of the
vehicle to be registered (including make, model and serial number, if
applicable). Proof of insurance, as required in division (f) above shall be
furnished at the time of application for registration.
      (3)   Prior to the issuance of the registration and license, each
applicant for a golf cart license shall first present such vehicle for an
official inspection. If, upon inspection and completion of the registration
application, such vehicle is found to be in safe mechanical condition, and upon
establishing proof of insurance and payment of the fees herein provided, a
license shall be issued to the owner who shall attach it to the vehicle. The
license shall be displayed in such a manner as to be clearly visible from the
rear of the vehicle. The license number on the application will be accounted
for and then filed in the Police Department.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously removed,
destroy, mutilate or alter such licenses during the time in which the same is
operative.
      (5)   The license issued hereunder is not transferable. In the event of
sale or other transfer of ownership of any vehicle licensed under the
provisions of this section, the existing license and the right to use the
numbered license shall expire, and the license shall be removed by the owner.
It is unlawful for any person other than the person to whom the license was
originally issued to have the same in his possession.
      (6)   In the event a license is lost or destroyed, the Police Chief or
other person designated by the city, upon proper showing by the licensee and
the payment of a fee of $10, shall issue a new license in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
         (A)   Operate, or for the owner thereof knowingly to permit the
operation, upon a public street, road, highway or alley within the corporate
limits of the city any golf cart, as defined herein, which is not registered
and which does not have attached thereto and displayed thereon the license
assigned thereto by the city for the current registration year;
         (B)   Display, cause or permit to be displayed, or to have in
possession, any registration receipt, registration license or registration
decal knowing the same to be fictitious or to have been canceled, revoked,
suspended or altered. A violation of this division (g)(7) shall constitute an
unclassified misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than $100 and
forfeiture of the item. A mandatory court appearance shall be required of any
person violating this division (g)(7);
         (C)   Lend to or knowingly permit the use by one not entitled thereto
any registration receipt, registration license plate or registration decal
issued to the person so lending or permitting the use thereof;
         (D)   Remove, conceal, alter, mark or deface the license number plate,
plates or decals, or any other mark of identification upon any golf cart.
Licenses shall be kept clean and placed as required by law so as to be plainly
visible and legible;
         (E)   Carry or display a registered number plate or plates or
registration decal upon any golf cart not lawfully issued for such vehicle; or
         (F)   Any person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of
this division (g) shall, unless otherwise provided for herein, for the first
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than $100; for a second
such conviction within one year thereafter, such person shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $250; upon a third or subsequent conviction within one
year after the first conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $500.
   (H)   Repealer of Standard Traffic Ordinance. Section 114.4 of the 2018
Standard Traffic Ordinance, as adopted by Ord. 1885 is hereby repealed.
(Ord. 1972, passed 12-26-2013)
§ 14-228 AUTHORIZED VEHICLES ONLY ON WEST FIRST AVENUE IN THE WEST END OF
FAIRGROUNDS.
   (a)   Motor vehicles, including any vehicle licensed to operate on public
streets, roads, and highways, as well as motorbikes, go-karts, snowmobiles, and
other motorized off-road vehicles shall not be operated on West First Avenue in
the west end of the fairgrounds where signs are posted.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (c) below, it shall be unlawful for any
person to park or stand any motor vehicle on West First Avenue in the west end
of the fairgrounds where signs are posted, or in any area not designated for
such purpose.
   (c)   Division (b) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   Authorized city employees or agents while engaged in the
maintenance and care of the property; or
      (2)   An authorized emergency vehicle responding to a call; or
      (3)   A police patrol.
(Ord. 2108, passed 6-8-2023)
OPERATION OF UTILITY TASK VEHICLES (UTV) ON THE STREETS
§ 14-234 DEFINITION.
   As used in §§
14-234 through
14-239, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them in this section, except when the context required otherwise.
   MULTIPURPOSE OFF-HIGHWAY UTILITY VEHICLE, or UTV. Any vehicle designed for
off-highway use which has: a width no less than 48 inches; an overall length,
including the bumper, of not more than 160 inches; four or more wheels; low-
pressure tires; side by side seating; a steering wheel; non-straddle seating;
manufacturer provided foot controls for throttle and braking, excluding any
modifications for use by handicapped persons; occupant restraints; and,
rollover protective structures, excluding lower speed work-site vehicles which
may have been manufactured without such rollover protection.
(Ord. 2050, passed 7-25-2019)
§ 14-235 OPERATION OF A UTV IN CITY LIMITS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or for the owner
thereof knowingly to permit the operation, any UTV, upon any street or alley
within the city limits or upon any city-owned or leased property within or
without the city limits except provided for in this subchapter.
   (b)   A UTV, may be operated upon the public highways, street, roads and
alleys within the corporate limits of the city as provided:
      (1)   No UTV may be operated upon any public highway, street, road and
alley with a posted speed limit in excess of 30 miles per hour. No UTV shall be
operated on any interstate highway, federal highway, or state highway;
provided, however, that the provisions of this division (b) shall not prohibit
a UTV from crossing a federal or state highway or a street or highway with a
posted speed limit greater than 30 miles per hour.
      (2)   No UTV shall be operated upon any public highway, street, road or
alley between sunset and sunrise unless such vehicle is equipped with the
lights and reflectors as required for motor vehicles under K.S.A. Chapter 8,
Article 17, and amendments thereto.
   (c)   In addition to any equipment required by 49 C.F.R. § 571.500, or by
this subchapter, a UTV operating upon any public highway, street, road or alley
shall be equipped with at least one rear view mirror.
   (d)   A UTV capable of speeds in excess of 25 miles per hour is defined by
the state as a MOTOR VEHICLE and is required to meet equipment and operating
standards of K.S.A. Chapter 8, Article 17, and amendments thereto.
   (e)   All UTVs shall comply with noise and muffler requirements as set forth
in K.S.A. 8-1739, and amendments thereto.
(Ord. 2050, passed 7-25-2019)
§ 14-236 OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS; OWNER DUTIES; PENALTY
   (a)   All persons are required to wear seatbelts in a UTV if originally
equipped by the manufacturer.
   (b)   Every person operating a UTV on the public highways, streets, roads
and alleys of the city shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to a
driver of a vehicle imposed by law.
   (c)   No person shall operate a UTV on any public highway, street, road or
alley within the corporate limits of the city unless such person has a valid
driver’s license. Violation of this section is punishable by a fine of not more
than $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than six months or by both such
fine and imprisonment.
   (d)   All provisions of the most current adopted Standard Traffic Ordinance
with regards to liability insurance for motor vehicles, and amendments thereto,
including penalty provisions, shall be applicable to all owners and operators
of a UTV.
   (e)   In addition to the requirements set forth in this section, every
person operating a UTV on the public highways, streets, roads and alleys of the
city shall be at least 18 years old.
(Ord. 2050, passed 7-25-2019)
§ 14-237 REGISTRATION FEE; FEE; APPLICATION; INSPECTION; PENALTY
   (a)   Before operating any UTV on any public highway, street, road or alley
within the corporate limits of the city, the UTV shall be registered with the
city and display a valid registration decal or tag affixed and displayed in
such a manner as to be clearly visible from the rear of the vehicle.
   (b)   Application for registration of a UTV shall be made by the owner, or
owner’s agent, in the office of the Police Department. All applications shall
be made upon forms provided by the city and each application shall contain the
name of the owner, the owner’s residence address, or bona fide place of
business, a brief description of the UTV to be registered (including make,
model, and serial number).
   (c)   An initial registration fee and any registration renewal for a UTV
shall be established by the annual fee resolution but shall not be less than
$25.
   (d)   Proof of insurance, as required in this article, shall be furnished at
the time of application for registration or any renewal of the registration.
   (e)   The registration decal or tag issued hereunder is not transferrable.
In the event of sale or other transfer of ownership of a UTV licensed under the
provision of this section, the existing registration decal or tag and the right
to use the numbered decal or tag shall expire, and the decal or tag shall be
removed by the owner. It is unlawful for any person other than the person to
whom the license was originally issued to have the same in his or her
possession.
   (f)   In the event a registration decal or tag is lost, stolen or destroyed,
it is the responsibility of the owner and must be re-registered with a full
initial registration fee before the UTV may be operated on a public road.
   (g)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously remove,
destroy, mutilate or alter such registration decal or tag during the time in
which the same is operative.
   (h)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Operate, or for the owner thereof knowingly to permit the
operation, upon a public highway, street, road or alley within the corporate
limits of the city a UTV which is not registered, and which does not have
attached thereto and displayed thereon the registration decal or tag assigned
thereto by the city;
      (2)   Display, cause or permit to be displayed, or to have in possession,
any registration receipt, registration license or registration decal knowing
the same to be fictitious or to have been canceled, revoked, suspended or
altered. A violation of this division (h)(2) shall constitute an unclassified
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than $100 and forfeiture of the
item. A mandatory court appearance shall be required of any person violating
this division (h)(2);
      (3)   Lend to or knowingly permit the use by one not entitled thereto any
registration receipt, registration license plate or registration decal issued
to the person so lending or permitting the use thereof;
      (4)   Remove, conceal, alter, mark or deface the license number plate,
plates or decals or any mark of identification upon any UTV. Licenses shall be
kept clean and placed as required by law so as to be plainly visible and
legible;
      (5)   Carry or display a registered number plate or plates or
registration decal upon any UTV not lawfully issued for such vehicle; and
      (6)   Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this
section, shall for the first conviction thereof be punished by a fine of not
less than $250.
(Ord. 2050, passed 7-25-2019)
§ 14-238 PENALTY
   Unless specifically provided for herein, a violation of §§
14-234 through
14-239 shall be deemed an ordinance traffic infraction. Upon an entry of a plea
of guilty or no contest or upon being convicted of such violation, the penalty
imposed shall be in accordance with Article 20 of the Standard Traffic
Ordinance as currently adopted by the city, and amendments thereto, or such
other similar provision as the city may then have in effect.
(Ord. 2050, passed 7-25-2019)
§ 14-239 EXEMPTIONS
   UTVs which are owned, leased or operated by the city or other governmental
entities that are being operated for the purpose of maintaining roads, rights-
of-way or for other specific purpose as required in this performance of a job
other than general transportation, are exempt from the restrictions of this
article, except for insurance and operator requirements in §
14-236.
(Ord. 2050, passed 7-25-2019)
ARTICLE 3: PARKING
Section
   
14-301   Prohibited on certain streets
   
14-302   Forty-eight hour parking on streets
   
14-303   Parking next to church or church building
   
14-304   Parking in parks
   
14-305   Angle parking
   
14-306   Parking of trucks and other vehicles in residential districts
prohibited
   
14-307   Parking of vehicles having transported livestock; removal of obnoxious
odors required
   
14-308   Tank truck parking
   
14-309   Parking limited on Pine Street during school year
   
14-310   Two-hour parking limit; during school
   
14-311   Fifteen-minute parking zone
   
14-312   Application of articles as exclusive
   
14-313   Handicapped parking
   
14-314   Prohibited; trailer parking
   
14-315   Prohibited parking for holiday lighting display
   
14-316   Residential parking
   
14-317   Prohibited parking on North Koch Industrial Road
   
14-318   Parking prohibited in front of Kingman Theater
   
14-319   Parking lot for truck tractors and semitrailer trucks
§ 14-301 PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall, at any time
park, a vehicle upon any of the following described streets: Avenue “D” and on
U.S. Highway 54 from Marquette Street to the east city limits.
(2010 Code, § 14-501)
§ 14-302 FORTY-EIGHT HOUR PARKING ON STREETS.
   It is unlawful to park, locate or leave standing any vehicle, no matter how
propelled, or any article or thing constituting an obstruction at any place in
any street, avenue, alley, public way or in an part or on other city property
within the city for a period of time exceeding 48 hours. In the event any such
vehicle or article shall be so parked or left standing in excess of the period
of time, the city, by its Street Department or other agency, may remove the
vehicle or article and place the same in storage or upon city property or
property under the control of the city; and retain possession of and control
over the same and charge a reasonable amount as compensation for such removal,
storage and safe thereof, if sale becomes necessary; and withhold surrender of
such vehicle or article until and unless such charges are paid, and in the
event such charges are not paid and possession restored to the owner, or person
entitled thereto, for a period of six months, the city shall be authorized to
sell the vehicle or other article under the provisions of K.S.A. § 58-208 or
amendment thereto. In the event such vehicle or article shall be moved
temporarily, but shall be reparked or again left in a prohibited location as
provided for in this section, the period of time during which the same was
moved shall not be excluded from the period of 48 hours.
(2010 Code, § 14-502)
§ 14-303 PARKING NEXT TO CHURCH OR CHURCH BUILDING.
   It is unlawful to park, or leave standing, any tool or piece of machinery or
equipment, or vehicle of any type, other than licensed passenger vehicles, on
the side of the street adjoining and next to any property occupied by a church
or other church building in the city. Any property or vehicle so unlawfully
parked or left standing as prohibited in this section may be removed and placed
in storage under authority of the Police Department of the city, and upon being
released to the owner or the person in charge thereof, such owner or person in
charges shall pay the costs and expenses of such removal and storage.
(2010 Code, § 14-503)
§ 14-304 PARKING IN PARKS.
   All parking of motor and other vehicles in and about Riverside Park and all
other parks and public grounds of the city shall be under the supervision of
the police officer or officers in charge thereof, and all person operating or
having the management of motor and other vehicles in or about any park or
public grounds of the city or at any public assemblage in the city shall
observe and obey the reasonable rules and regulations of the police officer or
officers in charge thereof.
(2010 Code, § 14-504)
§ 14-305 ANGLE PARKING.
   Angle parking at the angle indicated on the curb, sidewalk or pavement or by
signs is permitted on the following streets:
   (a)   Main Street, north, from Sherman Street to Avenue “D”; and
   (b)   Avenue “A” from Spruce Street to Cedar Street.
(2010 Code, § 14-505)
§ 14-306 PARKING OF TRUCKS AND OTHER VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park or no owner shall allow to remain parked a truck with a
state licensing rating of one and one-half tons or more or a bus, truck camper,
trailer camper, boat, tractor, combine, semi-trailer or truck-tractor on the
streets and highways within the residential district.
(2010 Code, § 14-506)
§ 14-307 PARKING OF VEHICLES HAVING TRANSPORTED LIVESTOCK; REMOVAL OF OBNOXIOUS
ODORS REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to park or leave standing in any street,
avenue, alley, park or public way within the residence area of the city any
vehicle used for the transportation of livestock that has not been thoroughly
cleaned to remove therefrom obnoxious odors.
(2010 Code, § 14-507)
§ 14-308 TANK TRUCK PARKING.
   It is unlawful for any person to park or leave standing at any place within
the residence district or zone of the city, unattended by a person competent
and authorized to move such vehicle, any truck used for the transportation of
petroleum or liquid or gaseous type or class of product made from petroleum or
natural gas, except upon private property and less than 50 feet from any
residence.
(2010 Code, § 14-508)
§ 14-309 PARKING LIMITED ON PINE STREET DURING SCHOOL YEAR.
   No vehicle shall be parked at any time on the west side of Pine Street from
Avenue “D” to Avenue “E”, and no vehicle shall be parked from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00
p.m. on Monday to Friday, inclusive, of each week, during the period of the
year that school is in progress, on the east side of Pine Street from Avenue
“D” to Avenue “E”, and on both sides of Pine Street from Avenue “E” to Avenue
“F”.
(2010 Code, § 14-509)
§ 14-310 TWO-HOUR PARKING LIMIT; DURING SCHOOL.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
for a longer period than two hours between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m
of any day that school is in session, upon any of the streets or parts of
streets as follows:
   (a)   North side of Avenue “E”, east from Main Street to alley between Main
Street and Spruce Street; and
   (b)   North side of Avenue “E”, east from Spruce Street to Pine Street.
(2010 Code, § 14-510)
§ 14-311 FIFTEEN-MINUTE PARKING ZONE.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
for a longer period than 15 minutes between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m. of any day except holidays and Sunday on the following street.
(2010 Code, § 14-511)
§ 14-312 APPLICATION OF ARTICLES AS EXCLUSIVE.
   If this article is in conflict with any other ordinance or ordinances of the
city, this article shall be deemed to control and regulate such parking of such
vehicles.
(2010 Code, § 14-512)
§ 14-313 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   No person, other than a handicapped person driving a vehicle, or such other
person as may be driving a vehicle in which a handicapped person is a
passenger, shall park a vehicle in a parking space on Main Street between
Sherman Street and Avenue “D” where signs are erected indicating that such
parking space is restricted to or for handicapped persons only.
(2010 Code, § 14-513)
§ 14-314 PROHIBITED; TRAILER PARKING.
   It is unlawful to park or leave standing any fifth wheel trailer at any time
at any place in any street, avenue, alley or public way of the city unless
securely attached to a fifth wheel of a truck tractor cab designed and equipped
to pull the trailer.
(2010 Code, § 14-514)
§ 14-315 PROHIBITED PARKING FOR HOLIDAY LIGHTING DISPLAY.
   It shall be unlawful to park, locate or leave standing any vehicle, no
matter how propelled, on the south side of Sherman Avenue between Main Street
and Spruce Street from December 1 through December 31 of every year. In the
event any such vehicle shall be so parked or left standing during said time
period, the city, by its departments may move the vehicle and place the same in
storage or upon city property or property under the control of the city; retain
possession of and control over the same; and charge a reasonable amount against
the owner of said vehicle for such removal, storage and sale thereof, if sale
becomes necessary.
(2010 Code, § 14-515)
§ 14-316 RESIDENTIAL PARKING.
   The following restrictions shall apply in all residential districts of the
city.
   (a)   No more than 40% of the front yard of any residential lot shall be
paved.
   (b)   All motor vehicles, except those prohibited in division (d) below,
must be parked on a driveway or parking area paved with concrete, asphalt,
asphalt millings will slurry seal or other material approved by the Building
Inspector. Exceptions to this standard will be granted to vehicles with
appropriate placards for handicapped parking.
   (c)   All recreational vehicles, boats and trailers of any type must be
parked in a building, under a carport, on a side yard or on a rear yard.
Recreational vehicles, boats and trailers of any type shall not be parked in a
front yard between the front of the principal structure and the front lot line.
Parking areas for recreational vehicles, boats and trailers of any type are not
required to have a hard surface; provided, however, that a recreational
vehicle, boat or trailer of any type must be parked on a dust-free, rust-free
surface including, without being limited to, any such areas covered with grass,
ground cover, water-permeable grass pavers, concrete, asphalt or other similar
ground cover approved by the Building Inspector. Parking, driving or storage of
recreational vehicles, boats and trailers of any type on exposed dirt shall be
prohibited. Drive areas to and from the parking space for a recreational
vehicle, boat or trailer of any type shall be rust-free.
   (d)   No person shall park and no owner shall allow remain parked on any
area of a residential lot a truck with a state licensing rating of one and one-
half tons or more, a bus, combine or semi-trailer. A semi-truck tractor may be
parked on a driveway only for no more than 48 hours at a time.
   (e)   Violations of this section shall be punished according to the general
penalty in §
1-116.
(Ord. 1983, passed 9-11-2014)
§ 14-317 PROHIBITED PARKING ON NORTH KOCH INDUSTRIAL ROAD.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful to park
any vehicle on North Koch Industrial Road between Hoover Avenue and Kansas
Avenue, Monday through Friday, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2024, passed 1-12-2017)
§ 14-318 PARKING PROHIBITED IN FRONT OF KINGMAN THEATRE.
   When the curb is painted yellow giving notice thereof, parking is prohibited
at all times on the west side of Main Street in front of the Kingman Theatre
located at 237 N. Main Street, Kingman, KS 67068.
(Ord. 2062, passed 12-12-2019)
§ 14-319 PARKING LOT FOR TRUCK TRACTORS AND SEMITRAILER TRUCKS.
   The following provisions shall apply to the city-owned parking lot located
on Main Street south of East Fourth Street.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle of the trailer type so designed and used in
conjunction with a motor vehicle that some part of its own weight and that of
its own load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
      SEMITRAILER TRUCK. A truck tractor connected to a semitrailer.
      TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for
drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a
part of the weight of the vehicle or load so drawn.
   (b)   Parking restricted. Parking shall be restricted to only truck tractors
and semitrailer trucks with valid permits. Semitrailers shall not be parked
separately from a truck tractor.
   (c)   Permit required. No person shall park, stand, or stop a truck tractor
or semitrailer truck in the parking lot without first obtaining a parking
permit from the city clerk. Permits shall be valid for either one month, or six
months, depending on which option the applicant selects. The fee for obtaining
a parking permit shall be set by the governing body and listed in the latest
city Schedule of Fees. For one month permits, the permit fee shall be
nonrefundable. For six month permits, in the event the permit holder no longer
needs the permit prior to the expiration of the permit, and as long as there is
at least one full month remaining until the permit expires, the holder shall be
eligible to receive a prorated refund for the number of full months remaining
on the permit. For example, if two and one-half months remain on the permit,
the holder will be entitled to a refund of the average cost per month
multiplied by two, and not two and one-hafl. To request a prorated refund, the
holder shall make the request to the City Clerk and shall surrender the permit
to the Clerk to be eligible for the refund. Permits shall only be available to
residents of the city.
   (d)   Application for permit. 
      (1)   Any person desiring to obtain a permit for his or her vehicle shall
make application to the City Clerk. The application form shall be provided by
the City Clerk. The application shall set forth the name and address of the
applicant, the make, the vehicle identification number (VIN), and type of
vehicle the permit will be used for. Before a permit may be issued the
applicant must provide proof of:
         (A)   Residency within the city;
         (B)   A valid driver’s license that has not been suspended or revoked;
         (C)   Current and valid vehicle insurance for the vehicle to be
permitted;
         (D)   Current and valid registration for the vehicle to be permitted.
      (2)   Failure to provide the information set forth above shall result in
a denial of the application.
   (e)   Parking where stalls. Where parking stalls or spaces are marked or
designated on the parking lot surface, vehicles shall be parked or stopped
within such stalls or spaces.
   (f)   Storage prohibited. The parking stalls or spaces shall be used for
short-term parking only and shall not be used for storing truck tractors,
semitrailers, or semitrailer trucks.
   (g)   Hazardous materials. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
corporation or other entity to park or stand any vehicle, truck tractor,
semitrailer, or semitrailer truck carrying any hazardous material within the
parking lot.
   (h)   Parking of vehicles having transported livestock; removal of obnoxious
odors required. It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other
entity to park or leave standing in the parking lot any vehicle used for the
transportation of livestock that has not been thoroughly cleaned to remove
therefrom obnoxious odors.
   (i)   Violations; penalty. Any person violating the provisions of this
section shall, upon conviction, be fined $100.
   (j)   Citation on illegally parked vehicles. Whenever any motor vehicle
without a driver is found parked, standing or stopped in violation of
provisions of this section, the officer finding such vehicle shall take its
registration number and may take any other information displayed on the vehicle
which may identify its user, and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a
traffic citation.
   (k)   Failure to comply with traffic citation attached to parked vehicle. If
a violator of the restrictions on parking, standing, or stopping set forth in
this section does not appear in response to a traffic citation affixed to such
motor vehicle on the court date set forth on the citation, the clerk of the
court, shall send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the traffic
citation was affixed a letter informing the owner of the violation and warning
that in the event such letter is disregarded for a period of five days a
warrant of arrest will be issued.
   (l)   Presumption in reference to illegal parking. In any prosecution
charging a violation of any law or regulation governing the stopping, standing
or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described in the
citation was in violation of any such law or regulation, together with proof
that the defendant named in the complaint was at the time of the violation the
registered owner of such vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner of such vehicle was the person who parked
or placed such vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such
violation occurred. The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the
procedure as prescribed in divisions (e) and (f) above has been followed.
(Ord. 2109, passed 7-27-2023)
ARTICLE 4: HAZARDOUS MATERIAL
Section
   
14-401   Hazardous material defined
   
14-402   Same; exceptions
   
14-403   Transportation of hazardous materials
   
14-404   Hazardous materials routes
   
14-405   Parking of vehicles or trailers carrying hazardous materials
   
14-406   Removal of illegally parked trailers
§ 14-401 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL DEFINED.
   As used in this article, the term HAZARDOUS MATERIAL shall mean any material
or combination of materials that, because of its quantity, concentration or
physical, chemical, biological or infectious characteristics, poses a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health or safety or the
environment if released into the workplace or environment or when improperly
treated, stored, transported or disposed of or otherwise managed.
§ 14-402 SAME; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to any container that shall
have a capacity of 150 gallons or less that shall be used for the purpose of
supplying fuel for the vehicle on which it is mounted. These provisions shall
also not apply to vehicles, trailers, containers or tanks containing anhydrous
ammonia or other material primarily used by farmers for fertilizer purposes
when such vehicles, trailers, containers or tanks are parked or housed upon
property designated for the placement of such vehicle, trailer, container or
tank by any farmers cooperative, elevator company or farm supply store located
within the city limits.
§ 14-403 TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   Except as provided in §
14-404, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity
to transport any hazardous material upon any street, avenue, highway, road,
alley or any other public right-of-way in the city.
§ 14-404 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ROUTES.
   The provisions of §
14-403 shall apply to all streets, avenues, highways, roadways, alleys or other
public rights-of-way within the city, except those specified within this
section where transportation of hazardous materials shall be allowed.
Transportation of hazardous materials shall be allowed upon the streets,
avenues, highways or roadways as determined by the city.
§ 14-405 PARKING OF VEHICLES OR TRAILERS CARRYING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (a)   Except as provided in divisions (b) and (c) below, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to park any vehicle,
trailer or semi-trailer carrying any hazardous material within any city zoning
districts as defined in Chapter XVI of this code.
   (b)   Division (a) above shall not apply to vehicles, trailers or semi-
trailers parked for continuous periods of time not to exceed one hour where
such vehicles, trailers or semi-trailers are parked along those routes
specified in §
14-404 of this code.
   (c)   Division (a) above shall not apply to any vehicle, trailer or semi-
trailer carrying any hazardous material where such vehicle, trailer or semi-
trailer is not parked within 500 feet of any structure used for human
habitation.
§ 14-406 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED TRAILERS.
   If any vehicle, trailer or a semi-trailer is found parked in violation of
the provisions of this article, the Fire Chief or Assistant Chief or any law
enforcement officer may require the owner, operator or lessee of the trailer to
move it within two hours. If such removal is not accomplished on the order of
any such officer, it may be accomplished by any such officer, by any reasonable
means, if the continued presence of the trailer or semi-trailer at its parked
location constitutes, adds to or prevents correction of a situation threatening
imminent injury or damage to persons or property.
ARTICLE 5: ENFORCEMENT - APPEARANCE BONDS
Section
   
14-501   Bonds; generally
   
14-502   Non-warrant arrest bonding practice
§ 14-501 BONDS; GENERALLY.
   (a)   A person having the right to post bond for appearance shall, in order
to do so, execute in writing a promise to appear at the Municipal Court at a
stated time and place. Such appearance bond shall be in an amount as determined
by the Municipal Judge. Unless the Judge makes a specific finding otherwise,
every bond for a person charged with an offense that would be a person offense
pursuant to state law shall have a condition of release prohibiting the person
from having contact with the alleged victim of such offense for a period of at
least 72 hours. Such bond may be secured by any one of the following methods,
and when so secured, such person shall be released from custody.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in §
14-502, the methods of securing the appearance of an accused person are as
follows:
         (A)   Payment of cash, except that the Municipal Judge may permit
negotiable securities or a personal check in lieu of cash;
         (B)   The execution of an appearance bond by a responsible individual
residing within the state, as surety with the approval of the Municipal Judge;
         (C)   A guaranteed arrest bond certificate issued by either a surety
company authorized to transact such business within the state, or an automobile
club authorized to transact business in this state by the Commissioner of
Insurance, except that such “guaranteed arrest bond certificate” must be signed
by the person to whom it is issued and must contain a printed statement that
the surety guarantees the appearance of such person and, in the event of
failure of such person to appear in court at the time of trial, will pay any
fine or forfeiture imposed upon such person not to exceed an amount to be
stated on such certificate;
         (D)   In lieu of giving security in the manner provided by divisions
(B)(1)(A), (B)(1)(B) and (B)(1)(C) above, if the arrest is for the violation of
a city ordinance relating to the operation of a motor vehicle the accused
person may deposit with the arresting law enforcement officer or the Clerk of
the Municipal Court a valid Kansas driver’s license in exchange for a receipt
therefor issued by the law enforcement officer or the Clerk of the Municipal
Court, the form of which shall be approved by the division of vehicles of the
State Department of Revenue. Such receipt shall be recognized as a valid
temporary Kansas driver’s license authorizing the operation of a motor vehicle
by the accused person to the date of the hearing stated on the receipt. Such
driver’s license and written copy of the notice to appear shall be delivered by
the law enforcement officer to the Municipal Court as soon as reasonably
possible. If the hearing on any such charge is continued for any reason, the
Municipal Judge may note on the receipt the date to which such hearing has been
continued, and such receipt shall be recognized as a valid temporary Kansas
driver’s license until such date, but in no event shall such receipt be
recognized as a valid Kansas driver’s license for a period longer than 30 days
from the date for the original hearing. Any person who deposited a driver’s
license to secure such person’s appearance, in lieu of giving a bond as
provided in divisions (B)(1)(A), (B)(1)(B) and (B)(1)(C) above, shall have such
driver’s license returned upon the giving of the required bond pursuant to
divisions (B)(1)(A), (B)(1)(B) and (B)(1)(C) above or upon final determination
of the charge.
      (2)   In the event the accused person deposits a valid Kansas driver’s
license with the Municipal Court and fails to appear in court on the date set
for appearance, or any continuance thereof, and in any event within 30 days
from the date set for the original hearing, the Municipal Judge shall forward
the driver’s license of such person to the Division of Vehicles with an
appropriate explanation attached thereto. Upon receipt of the driver’s license
of such person the Division of Vehicles shall suspend such person’s privilege
to operate a motor vehicle in this state until such person appears before the
Municipal Court, or the Municipal Court makes a final disposition thereof, and
notice of such disposition is given by the Municipal Court to the Division, or
for a period not exceeding six months from the date such person’s driver’s
license is received by the division, whichever is earlier.
      (3)   Any person who applies for a replacement or new driver’s license
prior to the return of such person’s original license, when such license has
been deposited in lieu of the giving of a bond as provided in this section,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as set forth in K.S.A. 8-2116, and
amendments thereto.
(2010 Code, § 14-601) (Ord. 2026, passed 3-9-2017)
§ 14-502 NON-WARRANT ARREST BONDING PRACTICE.
   (a)   All individuals arrested without a warrant in the city for violation
of municipal ordinances of the city shall be released as soon as practical
after booking on “own recognizance bonds” (OR bonds) without further conditions
of release, except as set forth herein. These individuals arrested without a
warrant shall not be required to post any type of monetary bond.
   (b)   The exceptions to this policy for non-warrant arrests are as follows.
      (1)   Individuals who are under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs may
be held at the Kingman County Law Enforcement Center up to a maximum of six
hours from the time of the offense in order to allow the person to become sober
enough to no longer endanger himself or herself or others and be able to
understand the obligations he or she has to the Municipal Court upon release on
OR bond.
      (2)   Individuals who are charged with domestic violence crime or any
other crime that involves an offense against a person shall have a condition of
his or her release on the OR bond that the individual shall have no contact
with the alleged victim of the offense. This condition shall remain in effect
until termination or until waived or modified by the Municipal Court Judge.
      (3)   Individuals arrested for domestic assault, intentional assault or
threatening conduct, or assault may be held in the Kingman County Law
Enforcement Center for up to 48 hours to be brought before the Municipal Court
Judge for potential imposition of conditions for release (other than the
posting of a money bond) or for a determination that the release must be denied
to prevent danger to a victim, the community, or any other person under
applicable constitutional standards.
      (4)   If the Municipal Court Judge does impose conditions of release,
those individuals who violate conditions of release shall be subject to such
actions as determined by the Municipal Court Judge pursuant to applicable law.
(2010 Code, § 14-602) (Ord. 2026, passed 3-9-2017)
CHAPTER XV: UTILITIES
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   WATER
      
3.   ELECTRICITY
      
4.   SEWERS
      
5.   SOLID WASTE
      
6.   WATER CONSERVATION
      
7.   UTILITY CONNECTIONS; NEW BUILDING REQUIREMENTS
      
8.   SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUNDWATER UTILITY
      
9.   STANDARDS FOR WIRELESS FACILITIES IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
10.   UTILITY POLE ATTACHMENTS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
15-101   Definition
   
15-102   Delinquent accounts
   
15-103   Utility billing; notice; disconnection of service; timing
   
15-103A   Emergency utility payment extension
   
15-104   Utility hearing
   
15-105   Utility deposit
   
15-106   Delinquent accounts; refusal of service; termination of service; lien
against property
   
15-107   Landlord liability
   
15-108   Petty Cash Fund
   
15-109   Same; deposits
   
15-110   Same; vouchers
   
15-111   Initiation of utility services
§ 15-101 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UTILITY SERVICES. Includes water, electrical, sewer, solid waste (refuse)
and other utility services provided by the city.
§ 15-102 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, water, electric, sewer, solid waste (refuse) or
other utility service shall be terminated for nonpayment of service fees or
charges in accordance with §§
15-103 and
15-104.
§ 15-103 UTILITY BILLING; NOTICE; DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE; TIMING.
   (a)   Any specific date set forth in this section that falls on a Saturday,
Sunday, or legal holiday on which City Hall is closed shall be moved to the
next business day after such occurrence.
   (b)   Utility bills shall be sent on or before the last day of each month.
Utility bills shall be due on or before the tenth day of the month. Bills are
considered delinquent after this due day.
   (c)   If a utility bill remains delinquent, on or about the twentieth day of
the month, a delinquency notice shall be issued and mailed to the responsible
party at the last known address on the account. The delinquency notice shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   The delinquent amount due.
      (2)   Notice that service will be scheduled for termination if the amount
due is not paid in full on or before the first day of the following month..
      (3)   Notice that the customer has the right to a hearing before the
governing body to request an extension and/or alternative payment plan at the
second regularly scheduled monthly meeting of the governing body, which is
normally the fourth Thursday of the month, subject to changes due to holidays.
If the customer fails to abide by the extension or alternative payment plan,
service will be disconnected without notice.
      (4)   Notice that if the customer fails to appear before the governing
body as set forth in division (c)(3) above, or if the customer does appear, but
is denied an extension and/or alternative payment plan, a disconnect notice
will be delivered to the customer on the first day of the following month
notifying the customer that service will be disconnected on the third day of
the month.
      (5)   Notice that if the customer receives a disconnect notice, the
customer will be charged a disconnect notice fee in the amount established by
resolution of the governing body, plus taxes. This fee, plus taxes, shall be
charged the moment the disconnect notice leaves City Hall, regardless of
whether the customer brings the account current before the disconnect notice is
delivered to the customer’s property.
   (e)   Disconnect notices shall be delivered on the first day of the month to
locations with delinquent utility accounts. In common city staff vernacular,
these disconnect notices are known as “door knockers.” In the event the first
day of the month falls on a Friday, the disconnect notice/door knocker will be
delivered on the next business day. The basic information to be contained on
the disconnect notice/door knocker is as follows:
      (1)   Date of disconnection for non-payment.
      (2)   Notice of the fee charged for issuance of the disconnect notice.
      (3)   Notice that accounts with disconnected service will have a
reconnection fee assessed.
      (4)   Notice that payments to restore disconnected service must be in the
form of cash, credit/debit card, or money order.
      (5)   Notice that all delinquent amounts owed by the customer must be
paid to restore utility services.
      (6)   Notice that utility service disconnections will follow any local
rule concerning cold weather as established by ordinance.
   (f)   Unless other sections herein direct otherwise, delinquent accounts
will have utility services disconnected two days after the delivery of a
disconnect notice. The time of day for the actual disconnections will be in the
discretion of the City Manager based upon departmental needs and staffing.
   (g)   Once utility services have been disconnected, all past due amounts
owing on the account must be paid in order for services to be reconnected. A
reconnection fee established by governing body resolution shall be assessed for
each utility service to be reconnected and included in the amounts owing for
reconnection. Payments to restore services must be made by cash, money order,
or credit/debit card. The only type of check that will be accepted is a valid
bank cashier’s check.
   (h)   If a customer has more than one utility account for which the customer
is responsible, all of the customer’s accounts will be disconnected for any
delinquent account of that customer according to the provisions set forth
herein. Likewise, all accounts must be current before utility services are
reconnected to any of the customer’s accounts.
   (i)   If a customer seeks to restore service due to a disconnection for non-
payment after regular City Hall office hours, only cash payments will be
accepted in the exact amount due for services to be reconnected. Customers
seeking to make these cash payments must do so through the Police Department by
calling the non-emergency number to meet with an officer to pay. Payments made
online after hours to reconnect services will not be processed until the
following business day, so services will not be reconnected until that time.
   (j)   Service disconnections for non-payment will not be conducted on
Fridays unless there is an emergency situation as determined by the City
Manager. These nonpayment disconnections will be postponed until the next
regular business day.
   (k)   For delinquent accounts scheduled for disconnection, the city shall
not disconnect services if the temperature on the disconnection date is
forecasted to drop below 35 degrees Fahrenheit. If the delinquency is not
resolved, the disconnection will commence on the first day thereafter
forecasted not to drop below 35 degrees Fahrenheit. The website of the National
Weather Service in Wichita, Kansas, will be used to determine forecasted
temperatures.
   (l)   If a payment is returned to the city as insufficient, whether check,
ACH transfer, credit/debit card or otherwise, a fee established by governing
body resolution will be assessed to the customer for such insufficiency. The
customer will have five business days to pay the insufficiency with cash or
money order only. If not timely paid, utility services will be disconnected
after the fifth day, unless precluded by another section. If a customer has two
insufficient payments returned in a 12-month period starting with the first
insufficient payment, the customer will only be allowed to pay through cash or
money order for the following 12-month period.
   (m)   Utility services cannot be terminated on any account unless an
individual responsible for payment on the account makes such request. Utility
services cannot be transferred to another party unless this other party agrees
with such transfer by notifying the city before the transfer. Until the city
receives notification of service termination or transfer, the responsible party
continues to be responsible for all charges on the account. In situations where
more than one responsible party is on an account, the parties will have the
option to sign a statement indicating if one of the responsible parties moves
from the service location and requests to be removed from the account that the
other responsible party(s) agrees that the removed party’s obligation ends for
services used after this removal date.
(Ord. 2032, passed 11-9-2017; Ord. 2106, passed 4-13-2023; Ord. 2113, passed
10-26-2023)
§ 15-103A EMERGENCY UTILITY PAYMENT EXTENSION.
   The City Manager shall have the discretion to allow utilities to remain in
service or reconnected when a customer has a past due balance if the following
conditions are met:
   (a)   The customer must make a reasonable payment on his or her past due
bill and agree to attend the next, regularly scheduled utility hearing.
   (b)   At the utility hearing, the customer will work out a formal payment
arrangement.
   (c)   If the customer does not appear at the utility hearing, there will be
no other extension given and regular disconnect policies shall apply.
   (d)   If a customer fails to complete an emergency utility payment extension
by not attending the utility hearing, the customer will not be allowed to use
this emergency payment option for the next six months, starting with the month
after the failed extension.
   (e)   The governing body finds that a “reasonable” payment will be at least
25% of the past due bill.
(Ord. 2068, passed 7-11-2020; Ord. 2117, passed 10-26-2023)
§ 15-104 UTILITY HEARING.
   (a)   The governing body shall select one of its members to conduct utility
hearings. The assigned member of the governing body shall have the authority to
make payment arrangements and grant extensions related to past due utility
bills on behalf of the governing body.
   (b)   The City Manager and City Clerk shall assist the assigned member of
the governing body in conducting utility hearings.
   (c)   Utility hearings shall be conducted on the date of the second monthly
meeting of the governing body, which is usually on the fourth Thursday of the
month, and at other dates and times determined by the assigned member of the
governing body.
   (d)   If an agreement cannot be reached with the assigned member of the
governing body and a customer, the customer must appear before the entire
governing body for a hearing.
   (e)   If a customer fails to abide by the agreements made at the utility
hearing, service will be disconnected without notice.
   (f)   Utility hearings shall follow policies enacted by the governing body.
(Ord. 2034, passed 12-28-2017)
§ 15-105 UTILITY DEPOSIT.
   (a)   Each new customer making application for utility service shall submit
a cash deposit to the city to serve as a guaranty for payment of services
thereafter furnished to the property to be connected to utility services. In
the discretion of the City Clerk, the deposit required of the customer may be
waived after a review of the customer’s previous utility payment history
conducted in advance of the initiation of services.
   (b)   Cash deposits for the indicated utility services shall be as approved
by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of
Fees.
   (c)   The City Clerk is authorized, in his or her discretion, to refuse any
customer, whether owner of the premises or not, utility service until a cash
deposit has been made to the city if said customer has previously had services
disconnected or discontinued.
   (d)   The deposit so made shall be kept by the City Clerk in a separate
account and deposited in a fund designated as the Meter Deposit Fund. Interest
shall be payable at the rate determined by the State Corporation Commission
yearly and credited to the customer’s account January 1 of each calendar year.
   (e)   On the second interest payment date following the deposit required
above, the City Clerk shall refund the deposit of any depositor wherein such
utility service is being furnished and has not been delinquent in payment of
any utility service charge during the past year. Interest due and accrued shall
not draw interest.
   (f)   Upon the discontinuance of any service at the request of the
depositor, the deposit shall be refunded upon surrender of the original receipt
therefore together with the accrued interest thereon, less any amount due and
owing the city for services furnished prior thereto or it may be credited
towards the payment of the final bill rendered to the customer.
   (g)   Any security deposit not refunded within three years after
discontinuance of service shall be deposited in the Utility Fund of the city
upon compliance with the provisions of K.S.A. 12-822, as amended.
   (h)   If a prospective utility customer is unwilling to provide his or her
Social Security number on the application for electric or water service, the
deposit required shall be the equivalent of two months of utility service as
determined by averaging the service bills at the location for the previous 12
months that service was available at the location to be served. If the service
is a new connection to the location and historical data is not available, the
cash deposits shall be $150 for water service and $300 for electric service.
The provisions of this division (h) take priority over division (b) above when
Social Security numbers are not provided by the prospective customer.
(Ord. 1951, passed 6-23-2011; Ord. 1990, passed 5-28-2015)
§ 15-106 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; REFUSAL OF SERVICE; TERMINATION OF SERVICE; LIEN
AGAINST PROPERTY.
   (a)   In the event that any person, except the United States or the state,
shall fail to pay the fees or charges for such utility services(s), utility
service shall be terminated as provided in §§
15-102 to
15-104. The governing body may refuse the delivery of utility service(s), as
permitted by law, until such time as the fees and charges are paid in full.
   (b)   In the event that any person, except the United States or the state,
residing, occupying, using or operating on property to which utility service(s)
furnished by the city is not paid, the unpaid fees or charges shall constitute
a lien upon the property to which the utilities are furnished. The amount of
the unpaid fees or charges shall be certified by the governing body to the
County Clerk of the county in which the property is located, to be placed upon
the tax roll for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in the
same manner as other taxes are collected by law.
   (c)   The lien, described in division (b) above, shall not attach to
property for unpaid utility fees or charges when the utility service(s) have
been contracted for by a tenant and not by the landlord or owner of the
property to which the utility service is provided.
   (d)   If at the time of application for utility service the applicant has an
outstanding balance or unpaid fees or charges for utility services provided by
the city, the application shall not be accepted until all fees or charges are
paid in full.
§ 15-107 LANDLORD LIABILITY.
   (a)   Owners of premises served by utility service under this article shall
be liable for payment of the costs of any utility service account delinquency
arising from service provides to such premises, regardless of whether the
utility service was furnished upon the application and request of the owner or
lessee of the premises. This provision shall also apply when the premises are
leased by or through an agent or other representative of the owner.
   (b)   In the event that a delinquency arises involving leased premises, in
addition to the tenant, the owner or owner’s agent shall be notified in writing
of the delinquency of the lessee by first-class regular mail within ten days
after the billing to the lessee becomes delinquent. Notice shall be sufficient
if mailed to the last known address of the owner or owner’s agent known to city
personnel responsible for said mailing, after reasonable inquiry.
   (c)   If utility service is furnished to a leased premises on the
application or request of the lessor of the premises, then all billings for
utilities furnished to such leased premises shall be made directly to the
lessor, and the lessor shall be fully liable for the cost of service finished.
   (d)   The city may collect the amount of the unpaid bill for utility
services by any lawful means; provided, however, that in no event may the city
place a lien, as provided in §
15-106(b), on real estate of the lessor.
§ 15-108 PETTY CASH FUND.
   A Petty Cash Fund in the amount of $1,000 is established for the use of the
City Utilities Department, for the purpose of paying postage, freight,
temporary labor and other emergency expenses, including refund of deposits made
to secure payment of accounts.
§ 15-109 SAME; DEPOSITS.
   The Petty Cash Fund shall be deposited in the regular depository bank of the
city and paid out on the order of the City Clerk by check which shall state
clearly the purpose for which issued.
§ 15-110 SAME; VOUCHERS.
   (a)   Whenever the Petty Cash Fund becomes low or depleted, the City Clerk
shall prepare vouchers covering expenses as have been paid from the Petty Cash
Fund and shall submit such vouchers together with the paid checks to the
governing body for review and allowance of the amounts from the regular funds
of the utilities.
   (b)   Warrants issued therefor shall be payable to the Petty Cash Fund and
shall be deposited therein to restore said Petty Cash Fund to its original
amount.
§ 15-111 INITIATION OF UTILITY SERVICES.
   In order to initiate utility services from the city, the following
information must be provided by each applicant.
   (a)   Utility service accounts shall only be authorized for actual owners or
tenants (renters/lessees) of a premises.
   (b)   The applicant must fully complete an application for utility service.
For residential service, the applicant must list all persons residing at the
premises over the age of 18 years of age. Non-residential applicants must list
the person(s) or entity responsible for payment and such person(s) or
authorized signer for the entity must sign the application.
   (c)   Each applicant must provide his or her Social Security number (subject
to §
15-105(h)) with verification, which could include, but not be limited to, a
Social Security card, income tax return, or W2 form. Applications for non-
residential service must also provide the employer identification number, if
applicable, for the entity obtaining utility services.
   (d)   Each applicant must present a valid, government-issued, picture
identification, which includes a driver’s license, passport, or identification
card.
   (e)   Each applicant must present accurate contact information and his or
her signature.
   (f)   For residential service, applicants renting or leasing property must
provide a copy of his or her rental/lease agreement that must list all persons
residing at the premises.
   (g)   If an applicant has a prior debt owed to the city for utility
services, this debt must be paid in full before new service shall be initiated.
   (h)   Applicants must provide deposits as required by ordinance.
   (i)   Division (c) above shall not apply for utility service applications
from a limited liability company or corporation of any type. Instead, limited
liability companies and corporations must provide a valid certificate of good
standing from the Kansas Secretary of State. Limited liability companies and
corporations shall have a continuing duty to provide a current certificate of
good standing when requested. Should the applicant limited liability company or
corporation change ownership after utility services are initiated, it shall
provide an updated certificate of good standing to the city for the changed,
responsible entity.
(Ord. 2031, passed 11-9-2017; Ord. 2114, passed 10-26-2023)
ARTICLE 2: WATER
Section
   
15-201   Superintendent of Water and Sewage
   
15-202   Regulations
   
15-203   Service not guaranteed
   
15-204   Service connections required
   
15-205   Application for service
   
15-206   City to make connections
   
15-207   Service line charges
   
15-208   Curb cocks
   
15-209   Check valves
   
15-210   Unauthorized service
   
15-211   Meters
   
15-212   Same; testing
   
15-213   Tampering with meter
   
15-214   Leaks prohibited; timely repairs; allowances
   
15-215   Disconnection, reconnection charge
   
15-216   Utility deposit
   
15-217   Interrupt service
   
15-218   Prohibited acts
   
15-219   Wasting water
   
15-220   Right of access
   
15-221   Rates
   
15-222   Payment of bills
   
15-223   Delinquent accounts; notice; hearing; finding; liability
   
15-224   Use during fire
   
15-225   Cross-connections prohibited
   
15-226   Same; protective backflow devices required
   
15-227   Same; inspection
   
15-228   Same; protection from contaminants
   
15-229   Same; connections to boilers
   
15-230   Same; prohibited connections
   
15-231   Same; refrigeration unit condensers and cooling jackets
   
15-232   Same; protective devices required
   
15-233   Installation
   
15-234   Same; maintenance and repair
   
15-235   Same; removal of devices unlawful
   
15-236   Same; inspection
   
15-237   Same; protection from contaminants
   
15-238   Service lines; material and size
   
15-239   Service to nonresidents; necessary facilities; compliance to
regulations
   
15-240   Noncompliance with regulations; termination of service
   
15-241   Well water; permitted use
   
15-242   Same; use, registration and permit required
   
15-243   Same; permit, application, contents and fee
   
15-244   Same; inspection
   
15-245   Same; violation as nuisance, penalty
§ 15-201 SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER AND SEWAGE.
   The general management, care, control and supervision of the city water
system shall be in the Superintendent of Water and Sewage, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the governing body.
§ 15-202 REGULATIONS.
   The furnishing of water to customers by the city through its waterworks
system shall be governed by the regulations set out in this article.
§ 15-203 SERVICE NOT GUARANTEED.
   The city does not guarantee the delivery of water through any of its mains
and connecting services at any time except only when its mains, pumping
machinery and power service connection are in good working order, and the
supply of water is sufficient for the usual demand of its consumers.
§ 15-204 SERVICE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (a)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose, situated within the city
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located near public water mains, is hereby required at his
or her own expense to make connection to such public water main.
   (b)   Before any connection is made to the city’s water system, an
application must be made in writing to the City Clerk by the owner of the
premises, or his or her authorized representative, for a permit to make such
connection.
§ 15-205 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a connection with the
municipal water system shall apply in writing to the City Clerk, on a form
furnished by the city for that purpose, for a permit to make the connection.
   (b)   The application shall:
      (1)   Contain an exact description including street address of the
property to be served;
      (2)   State the size of tap required;
      (3)   State the size and kind of service pipe to be used;
      (4)   State the full name of the owner of the premises to be served;
      (5)   State the purpose in which the water is to be used;
      (6)   State any other pertinent information required by the City Clerk;
and
      (7)   Be signed by the owner or occupant of the premises to be served, or
his or her authorized agent.
   (c)   Each application for a connection permit shall be accompanied by
payment of fees and/or costs specified in §
15-207.
§ 15-206 CITY TO MAKE CONNECTIONS.
   All taps shall be given, street excavations made, corporation cocks
inserted, pipes installed from main to curb, and the curb cock installed in a
meter box to which the service pipe is to be connected only by city employees.
§ 15-207 SERVICE LINE CHARGES.
   (a)   For the installation of water service lines and equipment from the
established street main to the meter location, the customer shall pay the city
as approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman
Schedule of Fees.
   (b)   If, at the customer’s request, a larger line is installed than the
corresponding meter, as provided in division (a) above or any deviation that
will entail a greater expense, the customer shall pay such additional cost: to
upgrade one size from five-eighths-inch or three-quarter-inch line to a one-
inch line, the sum of $150.
   (c)   If the private service lines provided for in this article are of
greater length than 150 of private service, then in addition to the foregoing
charges, the customer shall pay an additional rate as follows:
      (1)   For a one-inch line, the sum of $1.50 per foot, for every foot
beyond 150 feet of private service;
      (2)   For a one-and-one-half-inch line, the sum of $2.25 per foot, for
every foot beyond 150 feet of private service; and
      (3)   For a two-inch line, the sum of $3.25 per foot, for every foot
beyond 150 feet of private service.
(2010 Code, § 2-207) (Ord. 1868, passed - -)
§ 15-208 CURB COCKS.
   There shall be a curb cock in every service line attached to the city main,
the same to be placed within the meter box. Curb cocks shall be supplied with
strong and suitable “T” handles.
§ 15-209 CHECK VALVES.
   Check valves are required on all connections to steam boilers or on any
other connection deemed necessary by the Water Superintendent. Safety and
relief valves shall be placed on all boilers or other steam apparatus connected
with the water system where the steam pressure may be raised in excess of 40
pounds per square inch.
§ 15-210 UNAUTHORIZED SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, other than duly
authorized city officials or employees, to turn water on or off at the water
meter or curb cock shut off, with a key or in any other manner, without first
obtaining written permission from the Mayor or the governing body.
§ 15-211 METERS.
   (a)   All water furnished to customers shall be metered.
   (b)   Meters shall be located between the sidewalk or property line and
curbing when the main is in the street and on private property within three
feet of the alley line when the main is in the alley. In the business district,
the meters may be installed in the basement at a location specified by the
city.
   (c)   The city’s responsibility stops at the property line.
§ 15-212 SAME; TESTING.
   Meters shall be tested before being set and at any other time thereafter
when they appear to be measuring incorrectly. If a test is requested by the
customer and the meter is found to be accurate within 2%, the meter will be
deemed correct and a charge as approved by the governing body and listed in the
latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees will be made to the customer.
§ 15-213 TAMPERING WITH METER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break the seal of any meter, to alter
the register or mechanism of any meter, or to make any outlet or connection in
any manner so that water supplied by the city may be used or wasted without
being metered. It shall be unlawful for any person except an authorized
employee of the Water Department to turn any curb cock on or off.
§ 15-214 LEAKS PROHIBITED; TIMELY REPAIRS; ALLOWANCES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for water supplied by the water utility to be
used or lost in a reckless, careless, or negligent manner through leaks or
otherwise. If the city identifies or becomes aware of a leak that must be
repaired by the property owner, the repairs must be done in a timely manner.
The City Manager has the discretion to disconnect the water service if the
repair is not done within a timely manner. If a water leak is substantial, the
City Manager shall have the discretion to immediately disconnect the water
service to protect the water system.
   (b)   In the instance of legitimate plumbmg leaks, the customer has the
option of applying for a leak credit to be applied to the account. Such leak
credits can only be used one time per calendar year. To calculate the leak
credit, the following procedure will be used:
      (1)   The last 12-month average usage by the customer will be subtracted
from the highest usage month when the leak occurred.
      (2)   The resulting amount will be divided by two.
      (3)   The last 12-month average usage by the customer will be added back
to the total.
      (4)   The resulting amount is what will be billed to the customer for
water usage that month. The balance of the original charges will be applied as
a credit to the account.
      (5)   The customer must supply documentation showing that repairs were
completed before any leak allowance can be calculated.
(Ord. 2115, passed 10-26-2023)
§ 15-215 DISCONNECTION, RECONNECTION CHARGE.
   (a)   Whenever the city receives a request for termination of water service
or temporary cessation of water service, no matter the duration of the
cessation or the reason for the cessation, a service disconnection fee as
approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman
Schedule of Fees, plus any water usage, shall be charged. This disconnection
fee and any water usage prior to disconnection shall be added to the customer’s
next or final bill, whichever is applicable, or billed to the individual who
requested the disconnection of services. Any sendee disconnected for nonpayment
of a delinquent bill shall be reconnected only upon payment of the delinquent
bill, interest penalty thereon, and a reconnection charge as approved by the
governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees.
   (b)   Whenever the city receives a request to reconnect water service after
a termination of service or to reconnect water service after a temporary
cessation of service, a service reconnection fee as approved by the governing
body and listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees shall be charged
and added to the customer’s next bill or billed to the individual who requested
the reconnection of water service. This reconnection fee shall be charged no
matter the duration of the reconnection of service or the reason for the
reconnection of service.
   (c)   In the instances of temporary cessations and temporary reconnections
of water service, the City Clerk is authorized to require the disconnection and
reconnection fees to be paid in advance before water service is disconnected or
reconnected with usage to be billed in the regular course of water billing to
the party requesting the action.
   (d)   The provisions of this section shall not be applicable upon
presentation of a valid plumbing permit issued by the city.
(Ord. 1997, passed 8-13-2015)
§ 15-216 UTILITY DEPOSIT.
   At the time of making application for water service, the property owner or
customer shall make a cash deposit in the amount and manner specified in §
15-105 to secure payment of accrued bills or bills due on discontinuance of
service.
§ 15-217 INTERRUPT SERVICE.
   The city reserves the right to interrupt water service for the purpose of
making repairs or extensions to water lines or equipment.
§ 15-218 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be a violation of this article for any unauthorized person to:
   (a)   Perform any work upon the pipes or appurtenances of the city’s
waterworks system beyond a private property line unless such person is employed
by the city;
   (b)   Make any connections with any extension of the supply pipes of any
consumer without written permission to do so having been first obtained from
the governing body; and
   (c)   Remove, handle or otherwise molest or disturb any meter, meter lid,
cutoff or any other appurtenances to the water system of the city.
§ 15-219 WASTING WATER.
   (a)   (1)   Water users shall prevent unnecessary waste of water and shall
keep sprinklers, hydrants, faucets and all apparatus, including the service
line leading from the property to the meter, in good condition at their
expense.
      (2)   Wasting water may include but is not limited to:
         (A)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface
drain;
         (B)   Failing to repair an irrigation system’s malfunction; or
         (C)   Failing to repair a controllable water leak due to defective
plumbing.
   (b)   It shall be a violation of this article and unlawful for any owner,
occupant or manager of real property served by the city water utility to waste
water or to permit the willful waste of water to occur.
   (c)   In the event of a violation of this section, the Superintendent of
Water, or such other person as may be designated by the city, shall give
written notice of the violation and opportunity for hearing in accordance with
§ 15-608.
   (d)   The penalties for violating this section shall be the same as those
set forth in §
15-608.
§ 15-220 RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   Authorized employees of the city may enter upon any premises at reasonable
hours for the purpose of reading the meter or servicing or inspecting meters or
water lines.
§ 15-221 RATES.
   (a)   Generally. Charges for water furnished each property shall be as
approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman
Schedule of Fees.
   (b)   Nonresident; additional charge. All nonresident water utility users
shall pay for such service and water supplied at the same rates as are charged
users within the city and in addition thereto, the sum of $8 per month. Water
utility users shall, at all times and in all respects, be governed and abide by
and be subject to all the ordinances, rules and regulations of the city as the
same apply to residents of and properties within the city.
   (c)   Master meter connections. Any non-rural water district customers,
nonresident customers and resident customers receiving water through a master
meter connection shall be charged $15 per customer as the base rate for each
customer so being served by the master meter. Nonresident customers shall be
charged an additional $8 surcharge as referred to in division (b) above. This
section does not apply to trailer parks and apartment complexes being served
within the city limits.
   (d)   Nonresident; additional hook-ups. There shall be no further
nonresident hook-ups except those controlled by an established rural water
district, to the city water system, without approval from the City Commission.
Such nonresident hook-ups, if made without approval, shall be subject to
immediate termination of the water service to which the connection is made.
(2010 Code, § 2-221) (Ord. 1925, passed - -)
§ 15-222 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   All water bills for the previous month’s water service shall be paid on or
before the fifth day of the month following the service.
§ 15-223 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; NOTICE; HEARING; FINDING; LIABILITY.
   Water service shall be terminated for nonpayment of service fees or charges
as provided in §§
15-102 through
15-104.
§ 15-224 USE DURING FIRE.
   No person owning or occupying premises connected to the municipal water
system shall use or allow to be used during a fire any water from the water
system except for the purpose of extinguishing the fire. Upon the sounding of a
fire alarm, it shall be the duty of every such person to see that all water
services are tightly closed and that no water is used except in extraordinary
cases of emergency during the fire.
§ 15-225 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall establish or permit to be established, or maintain or permit
to be maintained, any cross-connection whereby a private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the city
may enter the supply and distributing system of the city unless specifically
approved by the State Department of Health and Environment and the governing
body.
§ 15-226 SAME; PROTECTIVE BACKFLOW DEVICES REQUIRED.
   Approved devices to protect against backflow or backsiphonage shall be
installed at all fixtures and equipment where backflow and/or backsiphonage may
occur and where there is a hazard to the potable water supply in that polluted
water or other contaminating materials may enter into the public water supply.
Any situation in which a heavy withdrawal of water, such as a sudden break in
the main or water being used from a fire hydrant, may cause a negative pressure
to develop that could lead to backsiphonage of polluted water into the system
shall be improper and must be protected by approved backflow preventive valves
and systems as determined by the Superintendent.
§ 15-227 SAME; INSPECTION.
   The City Utility Superintendent or other designee of the governing body
shall have the right of entry into any building or premises in the city as
frequently as necessary in his or her judgment to ensure that plumbing has been
installed in accordance with the laws of the city so as to prevent the
possibility of pollution of the city’s water supply.
§ 15-228 SAME; PROTECTION FROM CONTAMINANTS.
   Under the city’s constitutional home rule authority and K.S.A. 65-163a, the
city, by its Utility Superintendent, may refuse to deliver water through pipes
and mains to any premises where a condition exists that might lead to the
contamination of the public water supply system and it may continue to refuse
the delivery of water to the premises until that condition is remedied. In
addition, the City Utility Superintendent may terminate water service to any
property where the cross-connections or backsiphonage condition creates, in the
judgment of the Superintendent, an emergency danger of contamination to the
public water supply.
§ 15-229 SAME; CONNECTIONS TO BOILERS.
   Potable water connections to boiler feed water systems in which boiler water
conditioning chemicals are or can be introduced shall be made through an air
gap or through a reduced pressure zone principle backflow preventer located in
the potable water line before the point where such chemicals may be introduced.
(2010 Code, § 15-229)
§ 15-230 SAME; PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   Connection to the public potable water supply system for the following is
prohibited unless properly protected by the appropriate backflow prevention
device:
   (a)   Bidets;
   (b)   Operating, dissecting, embalming and mortuary tables or similar
equipment in such installations the hose used for water supply shall terminate
at least 12 inches away from every point of the table or attachments;
   (c)   Pumps for non-potable substances. Priming only through an air gap;
   (d)   Building drains, sewers or vent systems;
   (e)   Commercial buildings or industrial plants manufacturing or otherwise
using polluting or contaminating substances; and
   (d)   Any fixture of similar hazard.
(2010 Code, § 230)
§ 15-231 SAME; REFRIGERATION UNIT CONDENSERS AND COOLING JACKETS.
   Except when potable water provided for a refrigeration condenser or cooling
jacket is entirely outside the piping or tank containing a toxic refrigerant,
then inlet connection shall be provided with an approved backflow preventer.
Heat exchangers used to heat water for potable use shall be of the double wall
type.
(2010 Code, § 231)
§ 15-232 SAME; PROTECTIVE DEVICES REQUIRED.
   (a)   The type of protective device required under this article shall be
determined by the degree of hazard which exists as follows.
      (1)   Premises having auxiliary water supply shall protect the public
system by either an approved air gap or an approved reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention assembly.
      (2)   Premises having water or substances which would be nonhazardous to
the health and well- being of the consumers shall protect the public system
with no less than an approved double check valve assembly.
      (3)   Premises where material dangerous to health is handled in a manner
which creates an actual or potential hazard shall protect the public system by
an approved air gap or an approved reduced pressure principal backflow
prevention assembly.
      (4)   Premises where cross-connections are uncontrolled shall protect the
public water supply by installing an approved air gap or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device at the service connection.
      (5)   Premises where because of the security requirements or other
prohibitions it is impossible to complete an inplant cross-connection
inspection, the public system shall be protected by an approved air gap or an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly.
   (b)   Premises which may fall into one or more of the above-mentioned
categories may be, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Beverage bottling plants;
      (2)   Buildings; hotels, apartments, public or private buildings, or
other structures having actual or potential cross connections;
      (3)   Car wash facilities;
      (4)   Chemical manufacturing, handling or processing plants;
      (5)   Chemically contaminated water;
      (6)   Dairies and cold storage facilities;
      (7)   Film or photography processing laboratories;
      (8)   Fire systems;
      (9)   Hospitals, medical centers, morgues, mortuaries, autopsy
facilities, clinics, or nursing and convalescent homes;
      (10)   Irrigation systems;
      (11)   Laundries;
      (12)   Metal cleaning, processing or fabricating plants;
      (13)   Oil and gas production, storage or transmission facilities;
      (14)   Packing or food processing plants;
      (15)   Paper and paper products plants;
      (16)   Power plants;
      (17)   Radioactive materials plants or handling facilities;
      (18)   Restricted or classified facilities;
      (19)   Rubber plants;
      (20)   Sand, gravel or asphalt plants;
      (21)   Schools or colleges;
      (22)   Sewage and storm drainage facilities and reclaimed water systems;
      (23)   Solar heating systems;
      (24)   Temporary service; fire hydrants, air valves, blow-offs and other
outlets; and
      (25)   Water from marinas.
(2010 Code, § 232)
§ 15-233 INSTALLATION.
   (a)   Generally. Approved devices shall be installed at all fixtures and
equipment where backflow or back-siphonage may occur and where a minimum air
gap between the potable water outlet and the fixture or equipment flood-level
rim cannot be maintained. Backflow and back-siphonage devices of all types
shall be in an accessible location. Installation in pits or any other location
not properly drained shall be prohibited and dual check valves are not required
to be installed in the meter box. Additionally, the installation of strainers
shall be required and located immediately upstream of the backflow device.
   (b)   Connections not subject to back pressure. Where a water connection is
not subject to back pressure, a vacuum breaker shall be installed on the
discharge side of the last valve on the line serving the fixture or equipment.
A list of some conditions requiring protective devices of this kind are given
in the following table titled Cross Connections Where Protective Devices are
Required and Critical Level (C-L) Settings for Vacuum Breakers.
Cross Connections Where Protective Devices Are Required and Critical Level (C-
L) Settings for Vacuum Breakers
Fixtures or Equipment Method of Installation
Cross Connections Where Protective Devices Are Required and Critical Level (C-L)
Settings for Vacuum Breakers
Fixtures
or         Method of Installation
Equipment
Aspirators
and        C-L at least six inches of above flood level of receptacle served
ejectors
Dental     On models without built in vacuum breakers C-L at least six inches above
units      flood level rim of bowl
Commercial
dish       C-L at least six inches above flood level of machine. Installed on both
washing    hot and cold water supply lines
machine
Garbage
can        C-L at least six inches above flood level of machine; installed on both
cleaning   hot and cold water supply lines
machines
Hose       C-L at least six inches above flood level of machine; installed on both
outlets    hot and cold water supply lines.
Commercial C-L at least six inches above flood level of machine; installed on both
laundry    hot and cold water supply lines
machines
Lawn       C-L at least six inches above highest sprinkler head or discharge outlet
sprinklers
Steam      C-L at least six inches above flood level rim
tables
Tanks and  C-L at least six inches above flood level rim or line
vats
Through    C-L at least 30 inches above perforated flush pipe
urinals
Flush      Equipment with approved ball cock, installed according to manufacturer’s
tanks      instructions
Hose bibs  C-L at least six inches above flood level of receptacle served
 
   (c)   Connections subject to back pressure. Where a potable water connection
is made to a line, fixture, tank, vat, pump or other equipment with a hazard of
backflow or back-siphonage where the water connection is subject to back-
pressure, and an air gap cannot be installed, the Utility Superintendent may
require the use of an approved reduced pressure principal backflow preventer. A
partial list of such connections is shown in the following table Partial List
of Cross Connections Subject to Back Pressure.
 
Partial List of Cross Connection Subject to Back Pressure
Chemical lines                 Pumps
Dock water outlets             Steam lines
Individual water supplies      Swimming pools
Industrial process water lines Pressure tanks
Tanks and vats-bottom inlets   Hose bibs
 
   (d)   Barometric loop. Water connections where an actual or potential back-
siphonage hazard exists may in lieu of devices specified above be provided with
a barometric loop. Barometric loops shall precede the point of connection.
   (e)   Vacuum breakers. Atmospheric vacuum breakers shall be installed with
the critical level at least six inches above the floor rim of the fixture they
serve and on the discharge side of the last control valve to the fixture. No
shutoff valve or faucet shall be installed beyond the atmospheric vacuum
breaker. Pressure vacuum breakers shall be installed with the critical level at
least 12 inches above the flood rim but may have control valves downstream from
the vacuum breaker. For closed equipment or vessels such as pressure
sterilizers the top of the vessel shall be considered the flood level rim and a
check valve shall be installed on the discharge side of the pressure vacuum
breaker. However, lawn sprinkler systems will be installed with a pressure
vacuum breaker only.
(2010 Code, §15-233)
§ 15-234 SAME; MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   (a)   It shall be the responsibility of building and premise owners to
maintain all backflow preventers and vacuum breakers within the building or on
the premises in good working order and to make sure no piping or other
arrangements have been installed for the purpose of bypassing the backflow
devices. Testing and repair of these devices should be made by qualified
technicians. Qualified technicians are those technicians who have completed a
State Department of Health and Environment approved training course and have
passed a written examination such as the American Backflow Prevention
Association device testers examination. The Water Department shall certify the
device testers after ascertaining the technician meets the above
qualifications. The Water Department will also assure the proper installation
of all backflow preventers and will set appropriate testing and overhaul
schedule for such devices. Testing intervals shall not exceed one year and
overhaul intervals shall not exceed five years.
   (b)   Certified tester/repair technicians. All certified tester/repair
technicians shall be re-certified at no less than three year intervals. Persons
certified as tester/repair technicians at the time of the adoption of this
article shall continue to be certified for a period of not more than three
years as determined by the Water Department.
(2010 Code, § 15-234)
§ 15-235 SAME; REMOVAL OF DEVICES UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly and willfully remove any
protection devices installed by the city.
(2010 Code, § 15-235)
§ 15-236 SAME; INSPECTION.
   The city’s Building Inspector or other designee of the City Manager shall
have the right of entry into any building or premises in the city as frequently
as necessary in his or her judgment in order to ensure that plumbing has been
installed in accordance with the laws of the city so as to prevent the
possibility of pollution of the water supply of the city.
(2010 Code, § 15-236)
§ 15-237 SAME; PROTECTION FROM CONTAMINANTS.
   Pursuant to the city’s constitutional home rule authority and K.S.A. 65-
163a, the city by its Building Inspector may refuse to deliver water through
pipes and mains to any premises where a condition exists which might lead to
the contamination of the public water supply system and it may continue to
refuse the delivery of water to the premises until that condition is remedied.
In addition, the city’s Building Inspector may terminate water service to any
property where the cross connections or back-siphonage condition creates, in
the judgment of the Building Inspector, an emergency danger of contamination to
the public water supply.
(2010 Code, § 15-237)
§ 15-238 SERVICE LINES; MATERIAL AND SIZE.
   All water service lines installed or replaced shall be of approved material,
and any such lines now installed that are of iron shall be replaced with copper
lines or AWWA approved materials, as and when the city shall find necessary to
see fit to do so. All such service lines, and the meter and equipment
therefore, installed or replaced shall be one inch lines, and the meter and
equipment therefore shall be five-eights inch by three-fourths inch size,
unless such line or meter being replaced shall be of larger size, or the
customer shall desire a larger line and equipment, in which event the customer
shall pay the city the difference in cost.
(2010 Code, § 15-238)
§ 15-239 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS; NECESSARY FACILITIES; COMPLIANCE TO
REGULATIONS.
   Users outside the corporate limits of the city shall provide all facilities
needed for being so supplied with such service, and shall construct, operate
and maintain the same in accordance with the ordinances, rules and regulations
as apply to residents within the city and be subject to the same inspection and
supervision as are residents of the city.
(2010 Code, § 15-239)
§ 15-240 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS; TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   In the event any consumer of water from the municipal water system fails to
comply with all the ordinances, rules and regulations of the city with respect
to being a consumer of such utility, the service to such consumer may be
suspended or terminated by the governing body until satisfactory evidence of
compliance shall be furnished.
(2010 Code, § 15-240)
§ 15-241 WELL WATER; PERMITTED USE.
   It is the purpose of the city, in the protection and preservation of the
health of the inhabitants of the city and the general public, to furnish
through the municipal water system of the city a water supply that is free of
infectious, contaminous and deleterious substances and materials, and it is
therefore unlawful for any person either as owner, agent, or employee, to
provide a source of water supply, or to use, or to permit the use of, water
from any source whatever within the city other than from the municipal water
supply of the city, except that water wells and the use of water therefrom may
be permitted under the following conditions:
   (a)   In any portion of the city not reached by distributing water lines of
the municipal water system;
   (b)   The entire supply of which is used in an air conditioning device, and
access to the water therefrom for drinking, bathing, food or drink preparation,
or other domestic or personal use is rendered and maintained impossible;
   (c)   Located in the industrial district or zone of the city, the entire
supply of which is used in manufacturing, or in composition with other
substances or materials to produce a commercial product, no part of which
results in a food or drink product, and access to the water therefrom for
drinking, bathing, food or drink preparation, or their domestic or personal use
is rendered and maintained impossible; and
   (d)   The entire supply of which is devoted to irrigation, located in the
zoning districts of the city only, the output from such wells connected only
with irrigation facilities and equipment, and no connection whatever with
plumbing facilities or equipment, and access to the water therefrom for
drinking, bathing, food or drink preparation, or other domestic or personal use
rendered and maintained impossible.
(2010 Code, § 15-241)
§ 15-242 SAME; USE, REGISTRATION AND PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No water well now in use in the city shall continue to be used after 60 days
from the effective date of the ordinance codified in this article, unless
application is made for the registration thereof, and securing permit
therefore, nor shall any water well hereafter be constructed within the city
without application having first been made therefore, and permit issued for the
construction and use of such well, and no such presently existing well shall be
registered, nor permit for new well issued except that the following conditions
and requirements be met:
   (a)   Such well shall meet any requirement set out in §
15-243 of this article;
   (b)   The city be first afforded the opportunity to extend the water mains
to the vicinity of the property sought to be served; and
   (c)   The city shall have the right to require that a test and analysis be
made of the water, if the purpose of the application is for the production of
water for domestic use, to assure that such water is free of all infectious,
contaminous or deleterious substances or material that would affect its use for
domestic purposes. If such test is demanded, that same shall be made, and it
shall be determined that the water is free of such contamination and is fit and
proper for domestic use.
(2010 Code, § 15-242)
§ 15-243 SAME; PERMIT, APPLICATION, CONTENTS AND FEE.
   Before any such water well now existing shall be used after 60 days from the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this article, or new well shall be
constructed or the water therefrom used as may be permitted by the provisions
of this article, such well shall either be registered or permit therefore
obtained upon application therefore in writing, accompanied by a fee in the sum
of $5, which shall disclose the following information:
   (a)   The proposed location of the well;
   (b)   The property to be served thereby;
   (c)   The purpose in detail, that is, the use to which the water to be
produced shall be put; and
   (d)   The design of construction to assure that the water to be produced
will be put to the use authorized, and will not be accessible for use for any
of the prohibited uses as set out in this article.
(2010 Code, § 15-243)
§ 15-244 SAME; INSPECTION.
   The city by its duly authorized agents or employees shall have free access
at all reasonable times to go upon the premises and to take samples and to
inspect the well and use facilities and appliances, and the use to which the
water from such well is being put, and to cause the same to be tested and
analyzed; and if such water, or the facilities are found not in compliance with
the requirements therefore, after reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing
to be had, to cause such changes to be made as are necessary to meet the
requirements of this article and the public health of the city; or to cancel
the permit for the use and maintenance of such well.
(2010 Code, § 15-244)
§ 15-245 SAME; VIOLATION AS NUISANCE, PENALTY.
   Any water well use or maintained for domestic use contrary to the provisions
of this article constitutes a common nuisance, and each day that the same is so
maintained and used shall constitute a separate offense, and any person, either
as owner, proprietor, operator, agent or employee, who shall so maintain or use
the well, or permit the use thereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2010 Code, § 15-245)
ARTICLE 3: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
15-301   National Electric Code adopted by reference
   
15-302   Classification, use and rates
   
15-303   Energy costs adjustment
   
15-304   Interconnection standards for installation and parallel operation of
customer-owned renewable electric generation facilities
   
15-305   Disconnection; reconnection charge
   
15-306   Electric utility capital improvement surcharge
§ 15-301 NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (a)   Adoption. The 2008 National Electric Code is approved and adopted by
the governing body of the city, and the same is incorporated by reference as if
fully set out herein.
   (B)   Official copies. Not less that three copies of the 2008 Edition of the
National Electric Code in book form shall be filed with the City Clerk to be
opened for inspection and available to the public at all reasonable business
hours.
(Ord. 1934, passed 11-12-2009)
§ 15-302 CLASSIFICATION, USE AND RATES
   The classification for each customer will be reviewed and categorized
January of each calendar year. New customers and changes in account operations
made by an existing customer shall result in classification or reclassification
when the service begins or as a result of the service changes. Consumers of
electric current from the generating and distribution facilities of the city
shall be classified as follows:
   (a)   Residential. The use of electricity at the home solely for domestic
purposes.
   (b)   Commercial/school.
      (1)   The use of electricity in the operation of strictly commercial
enterprises, utilizing commercial lighting and power at standard utility
service voltages, single-phase and/or three-phase. Where more than one meter
per customer is employed, a separate bill for each meter kWh use shall be
calculated.
      (2)   The use of electricity at private, public or parochial schools in
which there are an average of 50 pupils per day during the course of the school
year when the school is in session.
   (c)   Large general service. This classification is applicable to large
users of electric lighting and power at standard utility service voltages.
Customers billed on this rate schedule shall have a metered monthly continuous
use exceeding 10,000 kWh for ten of 12 months of the preceding calendar year
and/or a metered demand exceeding 60 kW for two consecutive months of the
preceding calendar year. All billing on this rate schedule shall be through a
single metering point. The total bill shall be the combination of the energy
and demand charges. KW demand shall be billed at the maximum demand registered
over a 15-minute interval during the billing cycle. Demand meters shall be
reset each billing cycle.
   (d)   Large power. This classification is applicable to large users of
electric lighting and power at standard utility service voltages. Customers
billed on this rate schedule shall have a metered monthly continuous use
exceeding 150,000 kWh for ten of 12 months of the preceding calendar year or a
projected usage for a new customer, and a metered demand exceeding 300 kW for
two consecutive months of the preceding calendar year. All billing on this rate
schedule shall be through a single metering point. The total bill shall be the
combination of the energy and demand charges. KW demand shall be billed at the
maximum demand registered over a 15-minute interval during the billing cycle.
Demand meters shall be reset each billing cycle.
   (e)   Large power average billing. Average billing for large power consumers
shall be computed as follows. Billing year shall be current calendar year
January through December. The current months of January through May shall be
based on the average of the previous July through November. The current months
of July through November shall be based on the average of the current months of
January through May. The current months of June and December shall be
adjustment months whereby the actual usage and charges shall be compared to the
billed average for the period and correcting adjustments made.
   (f)   Rate structure. The above classification shall apply to each location
or place of use of the customer. The monthly rates for electric lights, heat
and power as to the respective above classifications shall be as follows.
 
Residential
   Meter charge: $14.25 per month
   Energy charge: All kWh per month at $ 0.1393 per kWh
Residential Renewable Parallel Generation
   Meter charge: $14.25 per month
   Energy charge: All kWh consumed per month at $0.1393 per kWh
   Compensation to customer for energy supplied to city from parallel generation
service:
      After a customer enters into a contract with the city for parallel generation
service which complies with the city’s Interconnection Standards for Installation and
Parallel Operation of Customer-owned Renewable Electric Generation Facilities 25 kWAC
or less for Residential Service and 200 kW AC or less for Commercial Service as
adopted by separate ordinance, and as may be amended from time to time, the city
shall compensate the customer for excess energy supplied to the city by such
customer.
      In the case of renewable generators with a capacity of 200 kilowatts or less,
such compensation shall be 150% of the city’s monthly system average cost of energy
per kilowatt hour.
      The city may credit such compensation to the customer’s account or pay such
compensation to the customer at least annually or when the total compensation due
equals $25 or more.
      In the event there are renewable generators interconnected by one or more
customers with a total capacity of 4% of the city’s peak power requirements, the city
shall not purchase excess generation from any renewable generators interconnected
after said 4% limitation is met.
Commercial/School
   Meter charge: $32.25 per month
   Energy charge: All kWh per month at $0.1386 per kWh
Commercial/School Renewable Parallel Generation Rate Schedule
   Meter charge: $32.25 per month
   Energy charge: All kWh consumed per month at $0.1386 per kWh
   Compensation to customer for energy supplied to city from parallel generation
service:
      After a customer enters into a contract with the city for parallel generation
service which complies with the city’s Interconnection Standards for Installation and
Parallel Operation of Customer-owned Renewable Electric Generation Facilities 25 kWAC
or less for Residential Service and 200 kW AC or less for Commercial Service as
adopted by separate ordinance, and as may be amended from time to time, the city
shall compensate the customer for excess energy supplied to the city by such
customer.
      In the case of renewable generators with a capacity of 200 kilowatts or less,
such compensation shall be 150% of the city’s monthly system average cost of energy
per kilowatt hour.
      The city may credit such compensation to the customer’s account or pay such
compensation to the customer at least annually or when the total compensation due
equals $25 or more.
      In the event there are renewable generators interconnected by one or more
customers with a total capacity of 4% of the city’s peak power requirements, the city
shall not purchase excess generation from any renewable generators interconnected
after said 4% limitation is met.
Large General Service rate Schedule
   Demand charge: All kW per month, at $7.00 per kW;
      With a minimum demand charge of $300 per month;
      Power factor penalty at $4.49 per additional kW, per division (g) below
   Energy charge: First 20,000 kWh per month at $ 0.1277 per kWh;
      Excess of 20,000 kWh per month at $ 0.1177 per kWh;
      Minimum bill: $300
Large General Service Renewable Parallel Generation Rate Schedule
   Demand charge: All kW per month at $7.00 per kW;
      With a minimum demand charge of $300 per month;
      Power Factor penalty at $4.49 per additional kW, per division (g) below
   Energy charge: First 20,000 kWh per month at $.1277 (12.77 cents) per kWh;
      Excess of 20,000 kWh per month at $.1177 (11.77 cents) per kWh;
      Minimum Bill: $300
   Compensation to customer for energy supplied to city from parallel generation
service:
      After a customer enters into a contract with the city for parallel generation
service which complies with the city’s Interconnection Standards for Installation and
Parallel Operation of Customer-owned Renewable Electric Generation Facilities 25 kWAC
or less for Residential Service and 200 kWAC or less for Commercial Service as
adopted by separate ordinance, and as may be amended from time to time, the city
shall compensate the customer for excess energy supplied to the city by such
customer.
      In the case of renewable generators with a capacity of 200 kilowatts or less,
such compensation shall be 150% of the city’s monthly system average cost of energy
per kilowatt hour.
      The city may credit such compensation to the customer’s account or pay such
compensation to the customer at least annually or when the total compensation due
equals $25 or more.
      In the event there are renewable generators interconnected by one or more
customers with a total capacity of 4% of the city’s peak power requirements, the city
shall not purchase excess generation from any renewable generators interconnected
after said 4% limitation is met.
Large Power Customer
   Demand charge: All kW per month at $7.00 per kW;
      With a minimum demand charge of $300 per month;
      Power Factor penalty at $4.49 per additional kW, per division (g) below
   Energy charge: First 20,000 kWh per month at $0.1189 per kWh;
      Next 980,000 kWh per month, at $0.1089 per kWh;
      Excess over 1,000,000 kWh per month at the current base cost specified in
division (b) plus or minus the monthly computed energy charge adjustment factor plus
one cent per kWh
   Minimum bill: $300
 
   (g)   Power factor. This rate is based on the large general service and
large power customer maintaining at all times a power factor of 90% lagging, or
higher, as determined by the measurement by utility equipment at the time of
reading. If the power factor is found to be less than 90% lagging, the demand
as recorded by the utilities meter will be increased by three-fourths of 1% for
every 1% that the power factor is less than 90%. Charge shall be at the power
factor penalty rate.
   (h)   City service. Meter charge of $5 per month and energy charge of
$0.1430 (14.30 cents) per kWh for all kWh per month.
   (i)   Primary service discount. The rate provision of the net monthly bill
will be discounted three percent if all service is delivered and metered at a
city standard available primary voltage, and the customer owns and maintains
all necessary transformation equipment and substations. All customer supplied
equipment shall be approved by the utility.
   (j)   Parallel generation charges.
      (1)    Any residential customer of the city's electric utility that
installs an energy producing system or renewable generator with a capacity of
25 kilowatts or less, or any commercial customer of the city's electric utility
that installs an energy producing system or renewable generator with a capacity
of 200 kilowatts or less may, upon request of such customer, enter into a
contract with the city for parallel generation whereby such customer may attach
or connect to the city's delivery and metering system an apparatus or device
for the purpose of feeding excess electrical power which is generated by such
customer's energy producing system into the city's electrical system and
realize compensation therefore. Such contract shall comply with the
requirements of K.S.A. 66-1,184 et seq., as amended. The cost of any equipment
required to be installed for such attachment or metering and installation shall
be the sole responsibility of the customer and such equipment shall not cause
damage to the city’s electric system or equipment or present an undue hazard to
city personnel.
      (2)   In addition to all other electric charges, any customer that has
entered into a contract with the city pursuant to this subsection shall pay a
monthly parallel generation charge calculated as average monthly renewable
energy times unrecovered energy revenue less a voided demand times the capacity
demand rate (i.e., (Average Monthly Renewable Energy x Unrecovered Energy
Revenue) -(Avoided Demand x Capacity Demand Rate)).
      (3)   The monthly parallel generation charge shall be calculated and
fixed annually, unique to each renewable customer generator size.
      (4)   The following definitions shall apply to this section:
         ANNUAL ELECTRIC SALES. The total amount of electricity in kWh sold by
the city in the previous fiscal year.
         ANNUAL ENERGY PRODUCTION. The annual energy production of the
customer’s energy producing system according to the National Renewable Energy
Laboratory.
         ANNUAL ENERGY RATE. The annual energy rate of the KPP as reported on
the corresponding monthly invoice.
         AVERAGE MONTHLY RENEWABLE ENERGY. Annual Energy Production/12.
         AVERAGE REVENUE PER KWH. Revenue from energy charges/annual electric
sales.
         AVOIDED DEMAND. Ten percent of the kW-DC size of the customer solar
cell.
         CAPACITY DEMAND RATE. The capacity demand rate of the KPP as reported
on the
corresponding monthly invoice.
         KPP. The Kansas Power Pool (“KPP”), a Municipal Energy Agency.
         MISCELLANEOUS ENERGY COSTS. Any generation fuel costs incurred by the
city and not recovered from the KPP.
         REVENUE FROM CUSTOMER CHARGES. The total revenue of the city from all
electricity customer charges in the prior fiscal year.
         REVENUE FROM DEMAND CHARGES. The total revenue of the city from all
electricity demand charges in the prior fiscal year.
         REVENUE FROM ELECTRIC OPERATIONS. The total revenue of the city from
all electric operations in the prior fiscal year.
         REVENUE FROM ENERGY CHARGES. Revenue from electric operations -revenue
from customer charges -revenue from demand charges.
         UNRECOVERED ENERGY REVENUE. Average revenue per kWh-annual energy rate
- (miscellaneous energy costs/annual electric sales).
   (k)   Non-resident residential, commercial/school, large general service and
large power. The rate for each respective classification for each such non-
resident user shall be the regular electric rate for such user.
   (l)   Standard utility voltages. Standard utility voltages shall be defined
as follows:
      (1)   Primary voltages 4160/2400 or 12470/7200 where available; and
      (2)   Secondary voltage shall be 240/120 for single-phase customers.
Secondary voltages for three-phase customers shall be that which is in place
for existing transformer banks or voltages available through accepted primary
and secondary transformer connections for new transformer banks.
(Ord. 2056, passed 10-10-2019; Ord. 2085, passed 10-28-2021; Ord. 2086, passed
10-28-21; Ord. 2087, passed 1-13-2022)
§ 15-303 ENERGY COSTS ADJUSTMENT
   (a)   Energy adjustment clause. Effective with billings subsequent to
November 1, 2015, to all consumers of electrical current and electrical energy,
the city will compute the actual costs of energy purchase and of production for
each kilowatt hour. The NKWH is defined to reflect the calendar month system
requirements as determined by the customer billing software. The base energy
cost per net kilowatt hour (NKWH) in accordance with the foregoing rates is the
rate as billed by Kansas Power Pool, the city’s power provider. All costs and
KWH usage are concurrent. (For example, the power we generate in July and costs
associated with that generation are concurrent). The difference in energy cost
per NKWH and the base cost per NKWH shall be calculated on the formula below
to, account for distribution losses and energy furnished free by the municipal
electric utility to the city. Energy costs shall be determined from the cost of
natural gas, diesel oil, lubricating oil and/or energy purchased. The
additional cost of production of each kilowatt hour shall be computed as herein
set forth and added to the monthly bill of all consumers. There will only be a
credit given when the formula results in a negative adjustment for three
consecutive months; however, no monthly bill shall be reduced below the monthly
minimum bill.
   (b)   Electric rates, energy adjustment clause. The following provisions
apply to electric rates, energy adjustment clause:
      (1)   Rates and charges for electric service for the current month
provided by the city shall be increased or decreased by 0.001 cent, or major
fraction thereof, increase or decrease in the aggregate cost of energy per kWh
as computed by the following formula:
      (F + P + Nl)/0.01S - the rate as billed by the Kansas Power Pool=
Adjustment
Where:
 
F  = Actual dollar cost of fossil fuel burned during the current month to
     supply electric energy to customers
P  = Actual Total cost of purchased power and energy during the current month
     to supply electric energy to customers
N1 = Actual net dollar cost of interchange received less interchange sales
     during the current month
     Actual kWh delivered to retail and wholesale customers during current
S  = month.
     The current month is defined as the calendar month during which energy is
     being used by wholesale and retail customers
 
      (2)   The adjustment computed under division (b)(1) above will be
increased or decreased by the amount (to the nearest 0.001 cent per kWh) by
which the total amount billed to customers under the energy adjustment in the
previous month was greater or less than the actual cost of energy experienced
during that month. No credits will be given unless the formula results in a
negative adjustment for three consecutive months. The actual cost of energy
will be calculated using the formula in subsection (b)(1) with components
defined as in division (b)(1) above, except that the fuel cost (F) will be
reduced by any specified refunds received.
(Ord. 2056, passed 10-10-2019)
§ 15-304 INTERCONNECTION STANDARDS FOR INSTALLATION AND PARALLEL OPERATION OF
CUSTOMER-OWNED RENEWABLE ELECTRIC GENERATION FACILITIES.
   There is hereby adopted Interconnection Standards for Installation and
Parallel Operation of Customer-Owned Renewable Electric Generation Facilities
25 kW AC or Less for Residential Service and 200 kW AC or Less for Commercial
Service. One copy of said adopted Interconnection Standards for Installation
and Parallel Operation of Customer-Owned Renewable Electric Generation
Facilities 25 kW AC or Less for Residential Services and 200 kW AC or Less for
Commercial Service shall be marked “Official Copy as adopted by Ord. 2088,” and
to which shall be attached a copy of that ordinance and filed with the City
Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public at all reasonable
hours.
(Ord. 2055, passed 9-12-2019; Ord. 2088, passed 1-13-2022)
§ 15-305 DISCONNECTION; RECONNECTION CHARGE.
   (a)   Whenever the city receives a request for termination of electricity
service or temporary cessation of electricity service, no matter the duration
of the cessation or the reason for the cessation, a service disconnection fee
of $30, plus any electricity usage, shall be charged. This disconnection fee
and any electricity usage prior to disconnection shall be added to the
customer’s next or final bill, whichever is applicable, or billed to the
individual who requested the disconnection of services. Any service
disconnected for nonpayment of a delinquent bill shall be reconnected only upon
payment of the delinquent bill, interest penalty thereon, and a reconnection
charge of $50.
   (b)   Unless in connection with an acquired electrical wiring permit issued
by the city with proof of such permit, whenever the city receives a request to
reconnect electricity service after a termination of service or to reconnect
electricity service after a temporary cessation of service, a service
reconnection fee of $30 shall be charged and added to the customer’s next bill
or billed to the individual who requested the reconnection of electricity
service. This reconnection fee shall be charged no matter the duration of the
reconnection of service or the reason for the reconnection of service.
   (c)   In the instances of temporary cessations and temporary reconnections
of electricity service not in connection with an electrical wiring permit, the
City Clerk is authorized to require the disconnection and reconnection fees to
be paid in advance before electricity service is disconnected or reconnected
with usage to be billed in the regular course of electricity billing to the
party requesting the action.
(Ord. 1996, passed 8-13-2015)
§ 15-306 ELECTRIC UTILITY CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT SURCHARGE.
   (a)   There shall be a $.01 per kWh surcharge assessed for each non-contract
kWh used each month for all rate classifications.
   (b)   The surcharge shall be used for capital improvements and debt service
for the electric utility.
   (c)   The non-contract electric rates established by ordinance shall be
increased by $.01 per kWh to implement the surcharge. The collected funds will
be dedicated to either the electric utility surplus fund or electric utility
principal and interest fund as required by the budgets adopted by the governing
body.
   (d)   This surcharge shall take effect for usage starting on September 1,
2023.
(Ord. 2112, passed 8-24-2023)
ARTICLE 4: SEWERS
Section
   
15-401   Definitions
   
15-402   Sewer connection required
   
15-403   Permit; connection fee
   
15-404   Permit; application, fee and tap charges
   
15-405   Costs
   
15-406   Sewer connection
   
15-407   Sewer for each building
   
15-408(1)   Same; specifications
   
15-408(2)   Same; specifications; size and slope of building sewer
   
15-408(3)   Same; specifications; elevation
   
15-408(4)   Same; specifications; lift
   
15-408(5)   Same; specifications; cesspool, septic tank or vault
   
15-408(6)   Same; specifications; excavations
   
15-408(7)   Same; specifications; joints
   
15-409   Sewer excavations: damages
   
15-410   Failure to connect
   
15-411   Privy unlawful
   
15-412   Private sewer system
   
15-413   Same; permit
   
15-414   Same; inspection
   
15-415   Same; discharge
   
15-416   Same; additional requirements
   
15-417   Disposal of sewage
   
15-418   Damage to sewers
   
15-419   Natural outlet
   
15-420   Standards
   
15-421   Old building sewers
   
15-422   Mud, grease traps
   
15-423   Roof, foundation drains
   
15-424   Same; exception
   
15-425   Prohibited discharges
   
15-426   Bills
   
15-427   Delinquent accounts; lien against property; other remedies
   
15-428   Sewer service charge
   
15-429   Type; capacities; location and layout
   
15-430   Reserved
   
15-431   Reserved
   
15-432   Bills
   
15-433   Delinquent accounts; lien against property
   
15-434   Sewer service charge; rates; payment required
   
15-435   Same; rates; bases
   
15-436   Same; rates; minimum charge
   
15-437   Same; surcharge for extra strength waste
   
15-438   Same; wastes requiring additional treatment
   
15-439   Same; rates; applicability
   
15-440   Same; billing period
   
15-441   Same; delinquent penalty
   
15-442   Same; review of charges
   
15-443   Same; notice of charges
§ 15-401 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system that receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWERS. Sewers receiving both surface runoff and sewage are not
permitted.
   INDIVIDUAL DOMESTIC. Any single-family residence, commercial business,
office, institution, school, church or public entity having an individual
direct or indirect connection to the wastewater facilities of the city and on
individual city or private water service meter, or connection to any such water
service.
   INDUSTRIAL. Any industrial business engaged in the manufacturing or
processing of one or more products, and in which wastewaters are produced from
such manufacturing or processing and said wastewaters are discharged directly
or indirectly to the wastewater facilities of the city.
   MULTI-DOMESTIC. Any multi-family residence, apartment or mobile home and any
commercial business, office, institution, school, church or public entity
having a direct or indirect connection to the wastewater facilities of the city
and not having an individual water service meter but is served with city or
private metered water by the owner of the property on which it is located.
   NORMAL WASTEWATER. The strength of normal wastewater shall be considered
within the following ranges:
      (1)   A five day biochemical oxygen demand of 300 milligrams per liter or
less;
      (2)   A suspended solid concentration of 350 milligrams or less; and
      (3)   Hydrogen ion concentration of 5.0 to 9.0.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer that carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the city or his or her authorized
deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   USER. Any person as defined in § 1-102, including an institution,
governmental agency or political subdivision producing wastewater requiring
processing and treatment to remove pollutants and having premises connected to
the wastewater facilities.
   WASTEWATER. Sewage, the combination of liquids and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial and industrial buildings, institutions, governmental
agencies, together with any ground, surface or stormwater that may be present.
§ 15-402 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purpose, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby required
at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this article, within 90 days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within 140 feet of the
property line.
§ 15-403 PERMIT; CONNECTION FEE.
   (a)   No person shall uncover, make any connections with, or opening into,
use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (b)   There shall be charged a fee, as approved by the governing body and
listed in the latest City of Kingman Schedule of Fees, payable at the time of
making application for the permit.
§ 15-404 PERMIT; APPLICATION, FEE AND TAP CHARGES.
   There shall be one class of building sewer permit for residential and
commercial service. The owner or his or her agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specification or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee as
approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City of Kingman
Schedule of Fees for a residential or commercial building sewer permit shall be
paid to the City Clerk at the time the application is filed. A tap (connection)
charge as approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City of
Kingman Schedule of Fees shall be charged for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit and shall be paid to the City Clerk.
(2010 Code, § 15-404) (Ord. 1865, passed - -)
§ 15-405 COSTS.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be paid by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
§ 15-406 SEWER CONNECTION.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at
the “Y” branch if such branch is available at a suitable location. Where no
properly located “Y” branch is available, the connection shall be made in the
manner approved by the Utility Superintendent and at a location designated by
the Superintendent.
§ 15-407 SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be feasiblely constructed to the
rear building. In such case, the building sewer from the front building may be
extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
§ 15-408(1) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS.
   The building sewer shall be constructed of cast iron pipe, ASTM
specifications A74-42, or approved equal; vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM
specifications C13-44T, or approved equal; or an approved plastic pipe. Any
plastic pipe to be installed on any building sewer shall not be approved by the
city until the owner has furnished descriptive literature and typical sample
section of the plastic pipe proposed for installation, to the city for
inspection and review. All joints on all pipe installed shall be tight and
water- proof. Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet of
a water service pipe or city water main shall be constructed of approved cast
iron soil pipe with approved joints. No building sewer shall be installed
within three feet of existing gas lines. If installed in filled or unstable
ground, the building sewer shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe, except
that non-metallic material may be accepted if laid on a suitable concrete bed
or cradle as approved by the city.
§ 15-408(2) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; SIZE AND SLOPE OF BUILDING SEWER.
   The size and slope of the building sewer to be installed shall be subject to
the approval of the City Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter of the
pipe be less than four inches. The slope at which a six inch pipe is to be laid
shall be not less than one-eighth inch per foot and for four inch pipe, not
less than one-fourth inch per foot. Any grades for the pipe, which are proposed
for installation at grades less than these specified, shall be approved by the
City Inspector prior to placement.
§ 15-408(3) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to
or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be weakened. The
depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The building sewer
shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible.
Changes in direction shall be made only with approved curved pipe and fittings,
including cleanout fittings.
§ 15-408(4) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; LIFT.
   At buildings in which the building drain is too low to permit gravity flow
to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall be lifted by
approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer. The use of any
pumping equipment for which cross-connections with a public water supply system
are needed, is prohibited. The total costs of pumping equipment and pumping
equipment operational costs shall be those of the owner.
§ 15-408(5) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; CESSPOOL, SEPTIC TANK OR VAULT.
   No building sewer shall be laid across a cesspool, septic tank or vault
until the cesspool, septic tank or vault has been well cleaned and filled with
an approved earth or sand fill, then thoroughly tamped and water settled. Cast
iron pipe may be used across cesspools or septic tanks, if proper bedding and
support for the sewer pipe is acquired.
§ 15-408(6) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavation required for the installation of the building sewer shall be
open trench work unless otherwise approved by the city. Pipe laying and
backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specifications C12-19,
except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected and
approved.
§ 15-408(7) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; JOINTS.
   (a)   All joints in the building sewers shall be made water-tight. If
recommended by the City Inspector, a water pressure test shall be made on the
completed sewer to ensure a compliance with this requirement, requiring that
the building sewer withstand an internal water pressure of five psi, without
leakage.
   (b)   Cast iron pipe with lead joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or
hemp and filled with molten lead, federal specifications QQ-L-156, not less
than one inch deep. Lead shall be run in one pour and caulked and packed tight.
No paint, varnish or other coatings shall be permitted on the jointing material
until after the joint has been tested and approved.
   (c)   All joints in vitrified clay pipe shall be the polyurethane-
compression type joints, approved by the City Inspector.
   (d)   Joints for all plastic pipe used in building sewers shall be the slip
type joints or solvent weld type, approved by the city.
   (e)   Joints between any two different types of pipes shall be made with
lead, asphaltic jointing materials or concrete, as approved by the city. All
joints shall be water-tight and constructed to ensure minimum root penetration
and to the satisfaction of the city.
§ 15-409 SEWER EXCAVATIONS: DAMAGES.
   All excavations for buildings sewers shall be adequately guarded with
barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, curb
and gutters, sidewalks, parkways and other public property removed or damaged
during the installation of the building sewer shall be repaired or replaced in
a manner acceptable to the city and at the total expense of the owner. It is
further agreed that any parties involved in any excavating or installation work
for sewer installations as above set out, will hold the city harmless from any
and all damages to persons or property resulting from or growing out of any
opening or excavation or any negligent act or from any operation made within
the city.
§ 15-410 FAILURE TO CONNECT.
   (a)   If any person as defined in §
1-102 shall fail to connect any dwelling or building with the sewer system
after being noticed, the city may cause such buildings to be connected with the
sewer system as authorized by K.S.A. 12-631.
   (b)   The cost and expense, including inspection fees, shall be assessed
against the property. Until such assessments shall have been collected and paid
to the city, the cost of making such connection may be paid from the General
Fund or through the issuance of no fund warrants.
§ 15-411 PRIVY UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
except as provided in this article.
§ 15-412 PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
15-402, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of §§
15-411 to
15-416.
§ 15-413 SAME; PERMIT.
   Before commencing construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Utility Superintendent.
The application shall be accompanied by any plans, specifications or other
information deemed necessary by the Utility Superintendent. A permit and
inspection fee, as approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City
of Kingman Schedule of Fees, shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed.
§ 15-414 SAME; INSPECTION.
   The Utility Superintendent or his or her authorized representative shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and the applicant
shall notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection or
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
§ 15-415 SAME; DISCHARGE.
   (a)   The type, capacities, location and layout of the private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations and requirements of the
Water Pollution Control Section of the State Department of Health and
Environment. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than one acre. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any public sewer or natural outlet.
   (b)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
15-402, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this article, and any septic tank, cesspool and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable and acceptable
materials.
§ 15-416 SAME; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this article shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the City or County Health
Officer.
§ 15-417 DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or discharge from any source
whatsoever any sewage or human excrement upon any public or private grounds
within the city, or to permit the contents of any privy, vault or septic tank
to be deposited or discharged upon the surface of any grounds. Any unauthorized
or unapproved privy vault, septic tank or other means or places for the
disposal of sewage, excrement and polluted water may be abated as a public
nuisance upon the order of the City or County Board of Health in accordance
with the laws of the state.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e, 12-1617g)
§ 15-418 DAMAGE TO SEWERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to maliciously, willfully
or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any
sewer, structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the municipal
sewer system.
§ 15-419 NATURAL OUTLET.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sanitary sewage, industrial
wastes or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with the provisions of this article.
§ 15-420 STANDARDS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials, excavation, placing of pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city.
§ 15-421 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Utility Superintendent, to meet
all requirements of this article.
§ 15-422 MUD, GREASE TRAPS.
   All garages, filling stations, milk plants or other commercial or industrial
plants connected to the public sewer shall construct and maintain proper and
sufficient interceptors or traps to prevent the discharge of any sand, mud,
sediment, litter, waste or any substance harmful to the effective operation and
maintenance of the city sewer system, into the building sewer.
§ 15-423 ROOF, FOUNDATION DRAINS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to connect downspouts from any roof area, drains
from any building foundation, paved areas, yards or open courts, or to
discharge liquid wastes from any air conditioning unit or cooling device having
a capacity in excess of one ton per hour or one horsepower into any city
sanitary sewer.
   (b)   All discharges prohibited in division (a) above may be discharged into
the public gutter or storm drains or open drainage ditches provided such
discharge does not create a nuisance. No such liquids may be discharged into
any unpaved street or alley.
§ 15-424 SAME; EXCEPTION.
   Discharges from air conditioning units in excess of one ton per hour or one
horsepower may be permitted into a building sewer upon approval of the Utility
Superintendent where there is a finding that such cooling water cannot be
recirculated and that such waste water does not overload the capacity of the
sewer or interfere with the effective operation of the sewage disposal works of
the city.
§ 15-425 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge any of the following waters or wastes to any
public sewer:
   (a)   Liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
   (b)   Water or waste that may contain more than 100 parts per million, by
weight, of fat, oil or grease;
   (c)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive
liquid, solid or gas;
   (d)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded;
   (e)   Ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
   (f)   Waters or wastes having a ph lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
   (g)   Waters or wastes containing a toxic poisonous substance in sufficient
quantity to injury or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of
the sewage treatment plant;
   (h)   Water or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials
at the sewage treatment plant; and
   (i)   Noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a public
nuisance.
§ 15-426 BILLS.
   (a)   Bills shall be rendered monthly as provided in §
15-222 and shall be collected as a combined utility bill.
   (b)   Any person at the time of beginning or terminating service who
receives service for a period of less than 17 consecutive days shall be billed
at no less than one-half of the regular minimum monthly rate. For service of 17
consecutive days or more the charge shall be not less than full regular minimum
monthly rate.
§ 15-427 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY; OTHER REMEDIES.
   (a)   In the event any person, except the United States and the state, shall
fail to pay the user charges when due, water service shall be terminated as
provided in §§
15-102 to
15-104.
   (b)   All other remedies regarding delinquent accounts, and exceptions
thereto, contained in §
15-106 shall apply to sewer service fees, charges and services.
§ 15-428 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE.
   The monthly charge for sewer service shall be as set by the governing body.
§ 15-429 TYPE; CAPACITIES; LOCATION AND LAYOUT.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department of Health
and Environment in its current bulletin entitled, Minimum Standards for Design
and Construction of On-Site Wastewater Systems. When a public water supply is
used, no permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than one acre. Similarly, in the case of a private water supply, the
minimum lot size shall be three acres. An on-site private water well shall
comply with all the recommendations of the State Department of Health &
Environment in their current Manual entitled, A Manual of Recommended Standards
for Locating, Constructing, and Equipping Water Wells for Rural Homes. No
septic tank or cesspool system shall be permitted to discharge to any natural
outlet. No wastewater lagoon is permitted.
(2010 Code, § 15-406) (Ord. 1831, passed - -)
§ 15-430 RESERVED.
§ 15-431 RESERVED.
§ 15-432 BILLS.
   (a)   Bills shall be rendered monthly as provided in §
15-222 and shall be collected as a combined utility bill.
   (b)   Any person at the time of beginning or terminating service who
receives service for a period of less than 17 consecutive days shall be billed
at no less than one-half of the regular minimum monthly rate. For service of 17
consecutive days or more the charge shall be not less than full regular minimum
monthly rate.
(2010 Code, § 15-432)
§ 15-433 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY.
   (a)   In the event any person, except the United States and the state or any
political subdivision thereof, shall fail to pay the user charges when due,
water service shall be terminated as provided in §§
15-102 through
15-104.
   (b)   In lieu of terminating water service, the governing body may elect to
assess such delinquent charges as a lien upon the real estate serviced as
provided in §
15-106, and the City Clerk shall certify such delinquent charges to the County
Clerk to be placed on the tax roll and collected in like manner as other taxes
are collected.
(2010 Code, § 15-433)
§ 15-434 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE; RATES; PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   Each user shall pay for the services provided by the city based on his or
her use of the treatment works as determined by water meter(s) acceptable to
the city.
(2010 Code, § 15-434)
§ 15-435 SAME; RATES; BASES.
   (a)   For residential contributors, monthly user charges will be based on
the average monthly water usage during the months of January, February and
March of each year. If a residential contributor has not established a January,
February and March average, his or her monthly user charge shall be the median
charge of all other residential contributors.
   (b)   For commercial and industrial contributors, user charges shall be
based on water metered during the current month. If a commercial or industrial
contributor has a consumptive use of water, or in some manner uses water which
is not returned to the wastewater collection system, the user charge for that
contributor may be based on a wastewater meter(s) or separate water meter(s)
installed and maintained at the contributors’ expense, and in a manner
acceptable to the city. The meter(s) shall be open and available for inspection
and reading by an authorized city representative.
(2010 Code, § 15-435)
§ 15-436 SAME; RATES; MINIMUM CHARGE.
   (a)   Effective April 1,2008, the minimum charge per month shall be $19,
which will include the first 2,000 gallons of usage. The usage charge for each
1,000 gallons, as determined by this article, after the first 2,000 gallons per
month shall be $5.50.
   (b)   Effective April 1, 2009, the minimum charge per month shall be $22,
which will include the first 2,000 gallons of usage. The usage charge for each
1,000 gallons, as determined by this article, after the first 2,000 gallons per
month shall be $6.
   (c)   Effective April 1, 2010, the minimum charge per month shall be $25,
which will include the first 2,000 gallons of usage. The usage charge for each
1,000 gallons, as determined by this article, after the first 2,000 gallons per
month shall be $6.50.
(2010 Code, § 15-436) (Ord. 1919, passed - -)
§ 15-437 SAME; SURCHARGE FOR EXTRA STRENGTH WASTE.
   For contributors who contribute wastewater, the strength of which is greater
than a normal wastewater as defined in § 15-401, a surcharge in addition to the
normal user charge will be collected. The surcharge for operation and
maintenance including replacement and debt service is:
   (a)   $0.137 per pound BOD: 79.1% to operation, maintenance and replacement
fund and 20.9% to sewer bond fund.
   (b)   $0.474 per pound SS: 79.1% to operation, maintenance and replacement
fund and 20.9% to sewer bond fund.
(2010 Code, § 15-437)
§ 15-438 SAME; WASTES REQUIRING ADDITIONAL TREATMENT.
   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the city’s treatment
works, or any user which discharges any substance which singly or by
interaction with other substances causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance or replacement of the treatment works, shall pay for
such increased costs. The charge to each such user shall be as determined by
the responsible plant operating personnel and approved by the governing body.
(2010 Code, § 15-438)
§ 15-439 SAME; RATES; APPLICABILITY.
   The user charge rates established in this article apply to all users,
regardless of their location, of the city’s treatment works.
(2010 Code, § 15-439)
§ 15-440 SAME; BILLING PERIOD.
   All users shall be billed monthly. Billings for any particular month shall
be made within 30 days after the end of that month. Payments are due when the
billings are made. Any payment not received within 30 days after the billing is
made shall be delinquent.
(2010 Code, § 15-440)
§ 15-441 SAME; DELINQUENT PENALTY.
   A late penalty of 10% of the user charge bill may be added to each
delinquent bill for each 30 days of delinquency. When any bill is 30 days in
default, rendition of water and/or sewer service to such premises shall be
discontinued until such bill is paid following due notice an opportunity for
hearing. (2010 Code, § 15-441)
§ 15-442 SAME; REVIEW OF CHARGES.
   The city shall review the user charge system annually and revise user charge
rates as necessary to ensure that the system generates adequate revenues to pay
the costs of operation and maintenance including replacement and that the
system continues to provide for the proportional distribution of operation and
maintenance including replacement costs among users and user classes.
(2010 Code, § 15-442)
§ 15-443 SAME; NOTICE OF CHARGES.
   The city will notify each user at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate being charged for operation, maintenance including
replacement of the treatment works.
(2010 Code, § 15-443)
ARTICLE 5: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
15-501   Definitions
   
15-502   Collection
   
15-503   Contracts
   
15-504   Duty of owner, occupant
   
15-505   Containers
   
15-506   Bulk containers
   
15-507   Enter private premises
   
15-508   Ownership of solid waste
   
15-509   Wrapping garbage
   
15-510   Heavy, bulky waste
   
15-511   Hazardous materials
   
15-512   Prohibited practices
   
15-513   Objectionable waste
   
15-514   Unauthorized disposal
   
15-515   Private collectors; license required
   
15-516   Same; application
   
15-517   Same; fee
   
15-518   Same; number to be displayed
   
15-519   Closed vehicle
   
15-520   Rules and regulations
   
15-521   Failure to secure license
   
15-522   Charges
   
15-523   Same; fee schedule
   
15-524   Billing
   
15-525   Same; delinquent account
§ 15-501 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL WASTE. All refuse emanating from establishments engaged in
business including, but not limited to, stores, markets, office buildings,
restaurants, shopping centers, theaters, hospitals, governments and nursing
homes.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any enclosure, building, or portion thereof occupied by one
or more persons for and as living quarters.
   GARBAGE. Waste resulting from the handling, processing, storage, packaging,
preparation, sale, cooking and serving of meat, produce and other foods and
shall include unclean containers.
   MULTI-FAMILY UNIT. Any structure containing more than four individual
dwelling units.
   REFUSE. All garbage and/or rubbish or trash.
   RESIDENTIAL. Any structure containing four or fewer individual dwelling
units, rooming houses having no more than four persons in addition to the
family of the owner or operator, and mobile homes.
   RUBBISH or TRASH. All nonputrescible materials such as paper, tin cans,
bottles, glass, crockery, rags, ashes, lawn and tree trimmings, stumps, boxes,
wood, street sweepings and mineral refuse. RUBBISH or TRASH shall not include
earth and waste from building operations or wastes from industrial processes or
manufacturing operations.
   SINGLE-DWELLING UNIT. An enclosure, building, or portion thereof occupied by
one family as living quarters.
   SOLID WASTE. All non-liquid garbage, rubbish or trash.
§ 15-502 COLLECTION.
   All solid waste accumulated within the city shall be collected, conveyed and
disposed of by the city or by contractors specifically authorized to collect
and dispose of solid waste.
§ 15-503 CONTRACTS.
   The city shall have the right to enter into a contract with any responsible
person for collection and disposal of solid waste.
§ 15-504 DUTY OF OWNER, OCCUPANT.
   The owner or occupant of every dwelling unit or commercial enterprise shall
provide at his or her own expense a suitable container for the storage of solid
waste as provided in this article. No owner or occupant shall permit to
accumulate quantities of refuse or other waste materials within or close to any
structure within the city unless the same is stored in approved containers and
in such a manner as not to create a health or fire hazard.
§ 15-505 CONTAINERS.
   Residential containers shall have a capacity of not more than 30 gallons.
They shall be of galvanized metal or other non-rusting material of substantial
construction. Each container shall have a tight-fitting lid and shall be leak-
proof and fly-tight. All containers shall have handles of suitable construction
to permit lifting. Plastic bags manufactured for garbage and refuse disposal
may be substituted for residential containers. Plastic bags, when used, shall
be securely closed. All garbage shall be drained of all liquids before being
placed in bags or containers.
§ 15-506 BULK CONTAINERS.
   On premises where excessive amounts of refuse accumulate or where cans or
bags are impractical, bulk containers for the storage of refuse may be used.
Containers shall have a capacity and shall be equipped with appurtenances for
attaching mechanical lifting devices that are compatible with the collection
equipment being used. Containers shall be constructed of durable rust- and
corrosion-resistant material that is easy to clean. All containers shall be
equipped with tight-fitting lids or doors to prevent entrance of insects or
rodents. Doors and lids shall be constructed and maintained so they can be
easily opened. Containers shall be water-tight, leak-proof and weather-proof
construction.
§ 15-507 ENTER PRIVATE PREMISES.
   Solid waste collectors, employed by the city or operating under contract
with the city, are hereby authorized to enter in and upon private property for
the purpose of collecting solid waste therefrom as required by this article.
§ 15-508 OWNERSHIP OF SOLID WASTE.
   Ownership of solid waste when placed in containers by the occupants or
owners of premises upon which refuse accumulates, shall be vested in the city
and thereafter shall be subject to the exclusive control of the city, its
employees or contractors. No person shall meddle with refuse containers or in
anyway pilfer or scatter contents thereof in any alley or street within the
city.
§ 15-509 WRAPPING GARBAGE.
   All garbage shall be drained of all excess liquid and wrapped in paper or
other disposable container before being placed in solid waste containers.
§ 15-510 HEAVY, BULKY WASTE.
   Heavy accumulations such as brush, tree limbs, broken concrete, sand or
gravel, automobile frames, dead trees and other bulky, heavy materials shall be
disposed of at the expense of the owner or person controlling same.
§ 15-511 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (a)   No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer
for collection any hazardous garbage, refuse or waste.
   (b)   Hazardous material shall include:
      (1)   Explosive materials;
      (2)   Rags or other waste soaked in volatile and flammable materials;
      (3)   Chemicals;
      (4)   Poisons;
      (5)   Radio-active materials;
      (6)   Highly combustible materials;
      (7)   Soiled dressings, clothing, bedding and/or other wastes,
contaminated by infection or contagious disease; and
      (8)   Any other materials that may present a special hazard to collection
or disposal personnel, equipment, or to the public.
§ 15-512 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (a)   Deposit solid waste in any container other than that owned or leased
by him or her or under his or her control without written consent of the owner
and/or with the intent of avoiding payment of the refuse service charge;
   (b)   Interfere in any manner with employees of the city or its contractors
in the collection of solid waste;
   (c)   Burn solid waste except in an approved incinerator and unless a
variance has been granted and a written permit obtained from the city or the
appropriate air pollution control agency; and
   (d)   Bury refuse at any place within the city except that lawn and garden
trimmings may be composted.
§ 15-513 OBJECTIONABLE WASTE.
   Manure from cow lots, stables, poultry yards, pigeon lofts and other animal
or fowl pens, and waste oils from garages or filling stations shall be removed
and disposed of at the expense of the person controlling the same and in a
manner consistent with this article.
§ 15-514 UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL.
   No person shall haul or cause to be hauled any garbage, refuse or other
waste material of any kind to any place, site or area within or without the
limits of the city unless such site is a sanitary landfill, transfer point or
disposal facility approved by the State Department of Health and Environment.
§ 15-515 PRIVATE COLLECTORS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an employee of the city
specifically authorized for that purpose, to collect or transport any solid
waste within the city, without securing a license from the city.
   (b)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent a person from hauling or
disposing of his or her own solid waste providing it is done in such a manner
as not to endanger the public health or safety or not to become an annoyance to
the inhabitants of the city, and not to litter the streets and alleys of the
city.
§ 15-516 SAME; APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to collect or transport solid waste within the city
shall make application for a license to the City Clerk. The application shall
set forth the name and address of the applicant, the make, and type of vehicle
to be operated for collecting and transporting solid waste. The application
shall be accompanied by a certificate of inspection and approval of said
vehicle by the County Health Officer issued not more than 15 days prior to the
date of application.
§ 15-517 SAME; FEE.
   No license shall be issued unless the applicant shall pay to the City Clerk
the sum, as approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City of
Kingman Schedule of Fees, per annum for each vehicle used in the collection and
transportation of solid waste. The permit shall be effective only for the
calendar year and shall expire on December 1 of the calendar year in which said
permit is issued.
§ 15-518 SAME; NUMBER TO BE DISPLAYED.
   The City Clerk shall issue a license receipt together with a number, which
shall be painted on each vehicle. Said number shall be conspicuously placed
upon the vehicle in a place and position to be clearly visible and in a
condition to be clearly legible. The number shall be used only on the vehicle
for which it is issued.
§ 15-519 CLOSED VEHICLE.
   Any vehicle used by any person for the collection and transportation of
solid waste shall be maintained in a good mechanical condition. The vehicle
shall be equipped with an enclosed covered body to prevent the contents leaking
or escaping therefrom. Only tree trimmings or brush may be transported in open-
bodied vehicles, provided, the material is securely tied in place to prevent
scattering along the streets and alleys.
§ 15-520 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The collection and transportation of trash and waste materials shall be at
all times under the general supervision of the Mayor or his or her duly
authorized agent, who shall have the authority by and with the consent of the
governing body to make additional rules and regulations not inconsistent with
the terms and provisions of this article requiring that the collection and
transportation of trash and waste materials shall be conducted in such manner
as not to endanger the public health, or to become an annoyance to the
inhabitants of the city, and providing for a proper fee to be charged to the
customer.
§ 15-521 FAILURE TO SECURE LICENSE.
   Any person who shall conduct or operate within the city limits any vehicle
for the purpose of collecting and transporting solid waste without first
obtaining a license as required by this article or who shall violate the terms
and provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this
code and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in §
1-116.
§ 15-522 CHARGES.
   The city shall establish and collect a service charge to defray the cost and
maintenance of the collection and disposition of solid waste within the city.
§ 15-523 SAME; FEE SCHEDULE.
   The service charge set forth in §
15-522 shall be as approved by the governing body and listed in the latest City
of Kingman Schedule of Fees.
§ 15-524 BILLING.
   Solid waste charges shall be billed monthly and shall be included on water
or utility bills. No payment shall be accepted on utility bills except for the
full amount billed for all services. Delinquent solid waste bills shall carry
the due dates, grace periods and penalties as water bills.
§ 15-525 SAME; DELINQUENT ACCOUNT.
   In the event the owner or occupant of any property shall fail to pay the
solid waste bills within 60 days following the date upon which it becomes due,
the City Clerk shall annually certify such unpaid bills to the County Clerk as
a lien upon the property. The lien shall be collected subject to the same
regulations and penalties as other property taxes are collected.
(K.S.A. 65-3410)
ARTICLE 6: WATER CONSERVATION
Section
   
15-601   Purpose
   
15-602   Definitions
   
15-603   Declaration of a water emergency
   
15-604   Voluntary conservation measures
   
15-605   Mandatory conservation measures
   
15-606   Emergency water rates
   
15-607   Regulations
   
15-608   Violations, disconnections and penalties
   
15-609   Emergency termination
§ 15-601 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to provide for the declaration of a water
supply emergency and the implementation of voluntary and mandatory water
conservation measures throughout the city in the event such an emergency is
declared.
§ 15-602 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLASSES OF WATER. The following classes of water uses are established:
      (1)   CLASS 1. Water used for outdoor watering, either public or private,
for gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses, playing fields,
swimming pools or other recreational area; or the washing of motor vehicles,
boats, trailers or the exterior of any building or structure.
      (2)   CLASS 2. Water used for any commercial or industrial, including
agricultural, purposes; except water actually necessary to maintain the health
and personal hygiene of bona fide employees while such employees are engaged in
the performance of their duties at their place of employment.
      (3)   CLASS 3. Domestic usage, other than that which would be included in
either Classes 1 or 2.
      (4)   CLASS 4. Water necessary only to sustain human life and the lives
of domestic pets and maintain standards of hygiene and sanitation.
   CUSTOMER. The customer of record using water for any purpose from the city’s
water distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or, in
the case of coin sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface
drain; or
      (2)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
   WATER. Water available to the city for treatment by virtue of its water
rights or any treated water introduced by the city into its water distribution
system, including water offered for sale at any coin- operated site.
§ 15-603 DECLARATION OF A WATER EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds that an emergency exists by
reason of a shortage of water supply needed for essential uses, it shall be
empowered to declare by resolution that a water supply emergency exists and
that it will encourage voluntary water conservation or impose mandatory
restrictions on water use during the period of the emergency. Such an emergency
shall be deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution of the governing
body to have ended. The resolutions declaring the existence and end of a water
supply emergency shall be effective upon their publication in the official city
newspaper.
§ 15-604 VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
15-603, the Mayor is authorized to call on all water consumers to employ
voluntary water conservation measures to limit or eliminate non-essential water
uses including, but not limited to, limitations on the following uses:
   (a)   Sprinkling of water on lawns, shrubs or trees (including golf
courses);
   (b)   Washing of automobiles;
   (c)   Use of water in swimming pools, fountains and evaporative air
conditioning systems; and
   (d)   Waste of water.
§ 15-605 MANDATORY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
15-603, the Mayor is also authorized to implement certain mandatory water
conservation measures, including, but not limited to, the following:
   (a)   Suspension of new connections to the city’s water distribution system,
except connections of fire hydrants and those made pursuant to agreements
entered into by the city before the effective date of the declaration of the
emergency;
   (b)   Restrictions on the uses of water in one or more classes of water use,
wholly or in part;
   (c)   Restrictions on the sales of water at coin-operated facilities or
sites;
   (d)   The imposition of water rationing based on any reasonable formula
including, but not limited to, the percentage of normal use and per capita or
per consumer restrictions;
   (e)   Complete or partial bans on the waste of water; and
   (f)   Any combination of the foregoing measures.
§ 15-606 EMERGENCY WATER RATES.
   (a)   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
15-603, the governing body of the city shall have the power to adopt emergency
water rates by ordinance designed to conserve water supplies.
   (b)   Such emergency rates may provide for, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Higher charges for increasing usage per unit of the use (increasing
block rates);
      (2)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
rate); or
      (3)   Extra charges in excess of a specified level of water use (excess
demand surcharge).
§ 15-607 REGULATIONS.
   During the effective period of any water supply emergency as provided for in
§
15-603, the Mayor is empowered to promulgate such regulations as may be
necessary to carry out the provisions of this article, any water supply
emergency resolution or emergency water rate ordinance. Such regulations shall
be subject to the approval of the governing body at its next regular or special
meeting.
§ 15-608 VIOLATIONS, DISCONNECTIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   If the Mayor, Water Superintendent or other city official or officials
charged with implementation and enforcement of this article or a water supply
emergency resolution or ordinance learn of any violation of any water use
restrictions imposed pursuant to §§
15-605 or
15-607, a written notice of the violation shall be affixed to the property
where the violation occurred and the customer of record and any other person
known to the city who is responsible for the violation or its correction shall
be provided with either actual or mailed notice. The notice shall describe the
violation and order that it be corrected, cured or abated immediately or within
such specified time as the city determines is reasonable under the
circumstances. If the order is not complied with, the city may terminate water
service to the customer subject to the following procedures.
      (1)   The city shall give the customer notice by mail or actual notice
that water service will be discontinued within a specified time due to the
violation and that the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the
termination by requesting a hearing scheduled before the city governing body or
a city official designated as a Hearing Officer by the governing body.
      (2)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered.
      (3)   The governing body or Hearing Official shall make findings of fact
and order whether service should continue or be terminated.
   (b)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water service
terminated pursuant to division (a) above. In the event of subsequent
violations, the reconnection fee shall be $200 for the second violation and
$300 for any additional violations.
   (c)   Violation of this article shall be a municipal offense and may be
prosecuted in Municipal Court. Any person so charged and found guilty in
Municipal Court of violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of
a municipal offense. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
The penalty for an initial violation shall be a mandatory fine of $100. In
addition, such customer may be required by the Court to serve a definite term
of confinement in the city or county jail which shall be fixed by the Court and
which shall not exceed 30 days. The penalty for a second or subsequent
conviction shall be a mandatory fine of $200. In addition, such customer shall
serve a definite term of confinement in the city or county jail which shall be
fixed by the Court and which shall not exceed 30 days.
§ 15-609 EMERGENCY TERMINATION.
   Nothing in this article shall limit the ability of any properly authorized
city official from terminating the supply of water to any or all service
connections as required to protect the health and safety of the public.
ARTICLE 7: UTILITY CONNECTIONS; NEW BUILDING REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
15-701   Definitions
   
15-702   New connections; certificate required
   
15-703   Same; standards
   
15-704   Same; certificate, contents
   
15-705   Right of entry; refusal
   
15-706   Service termination; authorized when; notice
   
15-707   Same; appeal
§ 15-701 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHRAE. The American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning
Engineers, Inc., of New York, New York.
   BTUs. British thermal units.
   CITY. The City of Kingman, Kansas.
   CITY UTILITY. The electric system owned and operated by the city.
   EER or ENERGY EFFICIENCY RATIO. The ratio of net cooling capacity in BTUs/
hour to total electric input in watts.
   HEATED FINISHED LIVING SPACE, HEAT AREAS and HEATED SPACE. The space within
a structure which is provided with a positive heat supply having a connected
output capacity in excess of ten BTUs/hour per square foot.
   NEW COMMERCIAL BUILDING. Any building used to provide, at wholesale or
retail, storage, services, supplies, goods or products to the public, other
than a building used for the purpose of manufacturing raw material into a
finished product; provided, however, that this definition shall not apply to
any such building the foundation for which has been completed by August 1,
1978; provided further, that in case of a structure which is heated and/or
cooled in only a portion thereof, then this definition shall apply only to the
heated and/or cooled portion of such structure.
   NEW RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. All new hotels, motels, apartment houses, lodging
houses, private homes and other residential dwellings, including buildings of
mixed occupancy, construction of which commences on or after the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this article; provided, however, that this
definition shall not be construed to apply to mobile homes, nor to any such new
residential dwelling, the foundation for which has been completed by August 1,
1978; and provided further, that in case of a structure which is heated and/or
cooled in only a portion thereof, then this definition shall apply only to the
heated and/or cooled portion of such structure.
   OWNER. A person, as defined below, holding legal title to the residential
dwelling or commercial building;
   PERSON. Any individual, individuals, corporation, partnership,
unincorporated association or other business organization, committee, board,
trustee, receiver or agent.
   SHALL AND WILL. The terms included are mandatory for performance.
(2010 Code, § 15-701)
§ 15-702 NEW CONNECTIONS; CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (a)   Before connection or attachment of city utility service to a new
residential dwellings or new commercial building, the city utility shall
require a certificate from the owner that the structure for which service is
requested meets all of the applicable standards set forth in §
15-703. If an architect or a contractor, or both, was employed in the design
and construction of such new structure, then the certificate required from the
owner under this section shall include written supporting statements from such
architect and/or contractor that the structure meets all of the applicable
standards set forth in §
15-703.
   (b)   Compliance with the requirements for certification set forth in
division (a) above is required as a condition precedent to the installation and
to the maintenance of permanent utility service. Failure to attain or maintain
such certification or failure of the certified structure at any time to meet or
exceed the standards set forth in the certificate for such structure will
subject the owner to termination of utility service as provided in §§
15-705 and
15-707.
(2010 Code, § 15-702)
§ 15-703 SAME; STANDARDS.
   The following heating and cooling standards for new residential dwellings
and new commercial buildings which utilize city utility services are
established imposed.
   (a)   A new residential dwelling shall be equipped with storm windows and
storm doors or other satisfactory window and door thermal treatment.
   (b)   Total heat loss, based on the ASHRAE Handbook of Fundamentals, or a
new residential dwelling shall not exceed 35 BTUs per square foot per hour of
floor area of heated finished living space, at a design temperature
differential of 80°F with a maximum of one and one-half air changes per hour.
   (c)   New commercial buildings must be constructed so that heat transmission
loss from heated areas, based on the ASHRAE Handbook of Fundamentals, does not
exceed 35 BTUs per square foot per hour of floor area based on a design
temperature differential of 80°F.
   (d)   From August 1, 1978, through October 31, 1979, all installed air
conditioning systems in all new commercial buildings new residential dwelling
shall have an energy efficiency ratio of 7.0 BTUs or more of cooling capacity
per watt hours input. On and after November 1, 1979, all such air conditioning
systems shall have an energy efficiency ratio of 8.0 BTUs or more of cooling
capacity per watt hours of input.
   (e)   From August 1, 1978, through October 31, 1979, all heat pump systems
installed in all new commercial buildings and in all new residential dwellings
shall have an energy efficiency ratio of 6.7 BTUs or more of cooling capacity
per watt hours of input. On and after November 1, 1979, all such heat pump
systems shall have an energy efficiency ratio of 7.5 BTUs or more of cooling
capacity per watt hours of input.
(2010 Code, § 15-703)
§ 15-704 SAME; CERTIFICATE, CONTENTS.
   (a)   The certificates of qualification required under §
15-702 shall be submitted in writing, signed by the owner, and shall include
the following facts, data and information:
      (1)   Date of the certification;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner;
      (3)   Address of the new utility service and connection;
      (4)   Type of utility service applied for;
      (5)   The type and kind of construction of the new structure and whether
the same is residential or commercial as defined in this article;
      (6)   The square feet of heated space within the new structure;
      (7)   A complete description of the heating and/or cooling systems and/or
storm windows and storm doors installed or to be installed in the new
structure, including make, model, size, serial number (if applicable) and all
other data and specifications available from the manufacturer and dealer for
the equipment installed;
      (8)   A specific statement that the new structure and/or the equipment
installed, or to be installed, meets or exceeds each of the individual and
separate standards set forth in §
15-703 which shall be applicable thereto; and
      (9)   Any and all other facts and data which may from time to time
hereafter be made necessary and required by state statutes or by order of the
State Corporation Commission or by the city.
   (b)   Supporting statements of an architect and/or a contractor as required
under §
15-702 shall be in writing, signed by the architect or contractor. Such
supporting statements shall be in such form and shall contain such information
as the architect or contractor involved shall consider necessary or
appropriate, subject, however, to the condition that such supporting statements
must specifically certify that the structure described in the statement meets
or exceeds each of the standards imposed under §
15-703 which are applicable thereto.
   (c)   All certificates of qualification and supporting statements shall be
executed and submitted in duplicate. The original copy thereof shall constitute
the city’s official permanent copy, and the same shall be filed in the office
of the City Clerk and shall be maintained as a part of the city’s permanent
records. The duplicate copy shall be filed with the city utility and shall be
kept and maintained as a part of its records for its future use and reference.
(2010 Code, § 15-704)
§ 15-705 RIGHT OF ENTRY; REFUSAL.
   The employees, officers, agents, contractors and all other authorized
representatives of the city and the city utility shall have the authority,
during all reasonable hours, to enter, in accordance with existing laws, in and
upon all buildings, structures and premises which are the subject of this
article for the purpose of examination, inspection and investigation to
determine the accuracy and correctness of any of the facts and representations
set forth and contained in the certificate of qualification and/or the
supporting statements for the structure and premises entered and inspected.
Failure or refusal by the owner or the occupants of any structure and premises
for which a certificate of qualifications has been filed to authorize and
permit such entry and inspection shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
fact that the representations made and the facts set forth in the certificate
of qualification for the structure are incorrect and unsupported by the
conditions existing in such structure and, therefore, that the structure does
not qualify for certification.
(2010 Code, § 15-705)
§ 15-706 SERVICE TERMINATION; AUTHORIZED WHEN; NOTICE.
   The governing body of the city is authorized and empowered to order the
termination and discontinuance of utility service to any structure for which a
certificate of qualification has been filed if, after a hearing, the governing
body finds and determines that the structure for which a certain certificate of
qualification has been filed does not, in fact, meet all of the applicable
standards established and imposed under § 15-703 for such structure. Notice in
writing of the time, place and purpose of such hearing and of the specific
standards allegedly being violated shall be served upon the owner and the
persons in possession of the alleged nonconforming structure at least five days
prior to the date for hearing. Service of such notice shall be completed by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or such service may be completed in
the manner prescribed for service of summons in K.S.A. 60-304.
(2010 Code, § 15-706)
§ 15-707 SAME; APPEAL.
   Any order entered by the governing body for the interruption and termination
of utility service for failure to comply with any standard imposed in this
article may be appealed by the owner to the County District Court, and, if so
appealed, the District Court shall proceed to hear such appeal in the same
manner as though such court had original jurisdiction of the matter. Appeal
from any such order shall be taken and perfected in the manner required for the
taking and perfection of an appeal from a final judgment under the Code of
Civil Procedure for Limited Actions and more particularly, K.S.A. 61-2102. In
the event of any such appeal, the order of the governing body from which the
appeal is taken shall be stayed and suspended during the pendency of such
appeal.
(2010 Code, § 15-707)
ARTICLE 8: SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUNDWATER UTILITY
Section
   
15-801   Intent
   
15-802   Connection to sources of surface runoff or groundwater; disconnection
order
   
15-803   Procedure
§ 15-801 INTENT.
   Excessive inflow and infiltration of stormwater from any source, private or
public into the sanitary sewer system is a hazard to the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the city because such infiltration and inflow
overloads the capacity of both the sanitary sewer lines and the treatment
facilities. It is therefor necessary for the city to adopt a uniform system of
rules and regulations and standards to eliminate sources and prevent inflow and
infiltration from entering the public sanitary sewer system from private
property.
(2010 Code, § 15-801) (Ord. 1843, passed - -)
§ 15-802 CONNECTION TO SOURCES OF SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUNDWATER; DISCONNECTION
ORDER.
   No person shall make connection of roof down spouts, exterior or interior
foundation drains, (including sump pumps), area drains or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public wastewater collection
system.
   (a)   The Superintendent of Public Utilities or designated representative
may issue an order directing the owner to disconnect a private infiltration or
inflow source from the sanitary sewer system. The order may state a deadline
for compliance, but such deadline shall not be sooner than 30 days no longer
than one year after issuance of the order. Within ten days after receipt of the
order, the owner may, in writing, request a review hearing before the
Superintendent of Public Utilities. The filing of such written request shall
act as a stay order until after the hearing. After such hearing, the
Superintendent of Public Works may affirm, set aside or modify such order.
   (b)   In lieu of disconnecting a private infiltration or inflow source from
the sanitary sewer system, the owner may stay connected, but pay for his, her
or its own external meter and installation thereof and then be charged for
usage through the meter as he, she or it would normally be charged at the
current wastewater rate.
   (c)   The Superintendent of Public Utilities may terminate sanitary sewer
service by disconnecting water service to any premises the owner of which
failed, or refused to comply with an order to disconnect an inflow and/or
infiltration source from the sanitary sewer system within the time allotted.
   (d)   The city may abate and temporarily or permanently enjoin the
continuing connection of a private infiltration or inflow source as a nuisance,
in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(2010 Code, § 15-802) (Ord. 1843, passed - -)
§ 15-803 PROCEDURE.
   Upon verification by the city that a prohibited private sector infiltration
of inflow connection exists, the city shall issue a disconnect order to the
landowner subject to the conditions set out above. The disconnection work shall
be performed under a permit issued by the city. After the landowner completes
the disconnect order, the city shall reinspect the premises to verify
compliance with the disconnect order and verify abatement of illegal
connections.
(2010 Code, § 15-803) (Ord. 1843, passed - -)
ARTICLE 9: STANDARDS FOR WIRELESS FACILITIES IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
15-901   Purpose and intent
   
15-902   Definitions
   
15-903   Applicability
   
15-904   Authorization from the city required
   
15-905   Shot clocks
   
15-906   Pre-application conference
   
15-907   Application procedures
   
15-908   Application contents
   
15-909   Application fee
   
15-910   General design and construction standards
   
15-911   Design and construction standards in aesthetic corridors
   
15-912   Wireless facility inspections
   
15-913   Removal of abandoned facilities
   
15-914   Invalidity of a part
§ 15-901 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (a)   The purpose of this article is to establish reasonable and uniform
standards and procedures for wireless facilities deployment, modification and
removal within public rights-of-way in the city.
   (b)   This article is intended to provide for the public health, safety and
welfare; ensure the appropriate use of public rights-of-way; and balance the
benefits of robust wireless service with the value our community places on
maintaining the aesthetic character of the city.
   (c)   This article is intended to comply with all applicable federal and
state regulations, including the following.
      (1)   Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 et seq.;
      (2)   Title VI, subtitle D, § 6409 of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job
Creation Act of 2012;
      (3)   Sections 253 and 332 of the Communications Act (47 U.S.C. § 253 and
47 U.S.C. § 332);
      (4)   FCC Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order FCC 18-133; and
      (5)   K.S.A. 66-2019 et seq.
(Ord. 2040, passed 1-24-2019)
§ 15-902 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a
different intention, the following definitions apply to terms used in this
article. Undefined words have the meanings assigned to them in 47 U.S.C. § 153
as amended, or their ordinary meanings. In the event that any definition in
this section conflicts with any federal or state-mandated definition, the
federal or state-mandated definition will control.
   ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT. Any equipment serving or being used in conjunction with
a wireless facility or wireless support structure, including, but not limited
to, utility or transmission equipment, power supplies, generators, batteries,
cables, equipment buildings, cabinets and storage sheds, shelters or similar
structures.
   AESTHETIC CORRIDOR. Any public right-of-way within the city in which
existing utilities are all underground, including but not limited to the street
right-of-way on Main Street, from Sherman north to U.S. Highway 54.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio signals used to provide wireless services.
   BASE STATION. A station that includes a structure that currently supports or
houses an antenna, transceiver, coaxial cables, power cables or other
associated equipment at a specific site that is authorized to communicate with
mobile stations, generally consisting of radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial
cables, power supplies and other associated electronics. (See FCC 47 C. F. R. §
1.40001(b)(1)).
   COLLOCATION. The practice of attaching antennas or other transmission
equipment from more than one wireless service provider to an eligible support
structure, for the purpose of transmitting or receiving radio frequency signals
for communication purposes.
   DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM (DAS). A network that distributes radio frequency
signals and consists of:
      (1)   Remote communications or antenna nodes deployed throughout a
desired coverage area, each including at least one antenna for transmission and
reception;
      (2)   A high capacity signal transport medium that is connected to a
central communications hub site; and
      (3)   Radio transceivers located at the hub’s site to process or control
the communications signals transmitted and received through the antennas to
provide wireless or mobile service within a geographic area or structure.
   FACILITY. Any utility lines, conduits, wires, fiber optic wires, cables,
pipes, pipelines, towers, wireless or cellular facilities, including small
wireless facilities, antennas, vaults or appliances, or related facilities or
appurtenances thereto.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, firm, corporation, association, utility or entity
which enters upon the public right-of-way in the city, or in any manner
establishes a physical presence on, upon, in or over the right-of-way for the
purpose of installing, constructing, maintaining or operating any utility
facility.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above real property that has
been designated for use as, or is used for, a public roadway, highway, street,
sidewalk, alley or similar purpose. For the purposes of this article, the term
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include the following:
      (1)   Federal interstate highways or other areas which are not within the
legal jurisdiction, or within the legal maintenance responsibility, of the
city;
      (2)   Easements obtained by utilities, or private easements in platted
subdivisions or tracts; and
      (3)   The airwaves above a right-of-way with regard to wireless
communications or other nonwire telecommunications or broadcast service.
   SHOT CLOCK. Time limits established by the FCC, within which a state or
local government is required to process an application to deploy a wireless
infrastructure facility. (See FCC Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order
FCC 18-133.)
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. Any small wireless facility as defined under §§ 253
and 332 of the Communications Act (47 U.S.C. § 253; 47 U.S.C. § 332). Also
known as a SMALL CELL FACILITY.
      (1)   A SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY typically consists of a small cell
antenna and an associated equipment box.
      (2)   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES are typically used in urban areas with
high demand for wireless services. They are often mounted on either dedicated
poles or existing utility poles in the public right-of-way, where they have
access to both fiber optic cables and electric power. Sometimes multiple SMALL
WIRELESS FACILITIES are clustered on or around one support structure.
      (3)   According to the 2018 FCC Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and
Order FCC 18-133, a SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY must satisfy the following
conditions:
         (A)   Each antenna must be three cubic feet or less in volume;
         (B)   All associated equipment must be 28 cubic feet or less in
volume;
         (C)   Maximum height. A SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY must meet at least one
of the following height restrictions.
            (i)   Must be mounted on a structure which is 50 feet or less in
height;
            (ii)   Must be mounted on a structure which is no more than 10%
taller than adjacent structures; and
            (iii)   When mounted on an existing structure, must not extend the
height of that structure by more than ten feet or by more than 10%, whichever
is greater.
   SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION. A proposed modification to an existing wireless
support structure or base station that will substantially change the physical
dimensions of the wireless support structure or base station under the
objective standard for substantial change, as established by the FCC in 47
C.F.R. § 1.40001.
   TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT. Equipment that facilitates transmission for a
wireless service licensed or authorized by the federal communications
commission including, but not limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial
or fiber optic cable and regular and backup power supply. TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT includes equipment associated with wireless services including, but
not limited to, private, broadcast and public safety services such as wireless
local area network services, and services utilizing a set of specifications
developed by the institute of electrical and electronics engineers for
interface between a wireless client and a base station or between two wireless
clients, as well as unlicensed wireless services and fixed wireless services,
such as microwave backhaul.
   WIRELESS FACILITIES are equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including
but not limited to:
      (1)   Equipment associated with wireless services such as private,
broadcast and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services
and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul;
      (2)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular
and backup power supplies and comparable equipment, regardless of technological
configuration; and
      (3)   WIRELESS FACILITY does not mean any wired connections from a
wireless support structure or base station to a hub or switching location.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person that builds or installs
transmission equipment, wireless facilities or wireless support structures, but
that is not a wireless services provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. “Personal wireless services” and “personal wireless
service facilities” as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C), including
commercial mobile services as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(d), provided to
personal mobile communication devices through wireless facilities or any fixed
or mobile wireless services provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A provider of wireless services.
   UTILITY POLE. A structure owned or operated by a public utility as defined
in K.S.A. 66-104, and amendments thereto, a municipality as defined in K.S.A.
75-6102, and amendments thereto, or an electric cooperative as defined in
K.S.A. 2016 Supp. 17-4652, and amendments thereto, that is designed
specifically for and used to carry lines, cables or wires for
telecommunications, cable, electricity or to provide lighting.
(Ord. 2040, passed 1-24-2019)
§ 15-903 APPLICABILITY.
   With the exception of amateur radio facilities and wireless facilities owned
and operated by the city for public purposes, this article applies to all
existing wireless facilities within the city’s public rights-of-way, and to all
applications to deploy, operate, modify, reconstruct, or relocate wireless
facilities within the city’s public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 2040, passed 1-24-2019)
§ 15-904 AUTHORIZATION FROM THE CITY REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person, firm, corporation, association, utility, or entity must
enter upon city right-of-way, or in any manner establish a physical presence
on, upon, in or over city right-of-way, for the purpose of installing,
constructing, maintaining or operating facilities without the express written
permission of the city.
   (b)   The city’s permission may be given by a franchise granted under the
provisions of state law, or by other agreement, as determined by the governing
body to best protect the public interest in the right-of-way, and subject to
the provisions of the city code.
(Ord. 2040, passed 1-24-2019)
§ 15-905 SHOT CLOCKS.
   Shot clocks are time limits established by the FCC, within which a state or
local government is required to process an application to deploy a wireless
infrastructure facility.
   (a)   Shot clock start. A shot clock begins running (tolling) on the day the
application is submitted, except if an application is submitted on a holiday,
the shot clock starts running on the next business day.
   (b)   Shot clock applicability.
      (1)   Shot clocks apply to all authorizations necessary for the
deployment of personal wireless service, including:
         (A)   License or franchise agreements to access public rights-of way;
         (B)   Required pre-application procedures, public notices and
meetings;
         (C)   Site plan review and approval procedures; and
         (D)   Building permits, electric permits and road closure permits.
      (2)   Shot clocks apply to applications submitted in batches. Section 332
of the Communications Act, being 47 U.S.C. § 332, prohibits localities from
refusing to accept batched applications.
   (c)   Shot clocks for small wireless facilities, as determined by the F.C.C.
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order, F.C.C. 18-133 of 2018:
      (1)   To review a small wireless facility application for completeness,
and notify the applicant of missing information in order to reset the shot
clock: ten calendar days. See 47 C.F.R. §1.6003(d)(1).
      (2)   To act on an application to collocate a small wireless facility on
an existing structure (does not have to be a telecommunications structure): 60
calendar days. See 47 C.F.R. §1.6003(c)(1)(I).
      (3)   To act on an application for a small wireless facility using a new
structure: 90 calendar days. See 47 C.F.R. §1.6003(c)(1)(iii).
(Ord. 2040, passed 1-24-2019)
§ 15-906 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   A pre-application conference between the applicant and designated city staff
is required before filing an application for modification or replacement of an
existing wireless facility, or construction of a new wireless facility.
   (a)   The pre-application conference may be waived by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (b)   The purpose of the pre-application conference is to ensure the
applicant understands all requirements, to address issues that will expedite
the review and approval process, and to establish a tentative time-line.
   (c)   The pre-application conference does not toll applicable shot-clocks
under federal or state law.
(Ord. 2040, passed 1-24-2019)
§ 15-907 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Approval deadlines. If the Zoning Administrator does not issue a final
decision on a wireless facility application within the shot clock time limits
specified in §
15-905 above, then the applicant may provide notice to the Zoning Administrator
that the time period has lapsed, and the application is then deemed to be
approved. See K.S.A. 66-2019.
   (b)   Incomplete applications. If the application is materially incomplete,
the Zoning Administrator must notify the applicant that more documents or
information are required within 30 calendar days after the application was
submitted.
      (1)   The notification must identify the missing documents or
information, and also specify the rule or regulation that requires their
submission.
      (2)   The shot clock will restart at zero on the day the applicant
provides a supplemental application containing the required information.
         (A)   If the supplemental application does not provide the missing
documents or information identified in the original notice, the Zoning
Administrator must notify the applicant within ten days after the supplemental
application was submitted.
         (B)   The shot clock will be paused on the day the notice of an
incomplete supplemental application is provided to the applicant, and will
resume on the day the applicant provides a completed supplemental application
containing the required information.
   (C) Consolidated application for small wireless and das facilities. An
applicant may file a single consolidated application for a small wireless
network of up to 25 individual small wireless facilities of a substantially
similar design in both appearance and function. See K.S.A. 66-2019(g).
   (D)   Zoning Administrator approval. The Zoning Administrator may approve
applications for small wireless facilities in the public right-of-way.
      (1)   A final decision on an application for a new antenna or a new small
wireless or DAS facility on an existing base station must be issued within 60
calendar days after a complete application is filed.
      (2)   A final decision on an application for a new antenna on an existing
base station, which substantially changes the physical dimensions of the base
station, must be issued within 90 calendar days after a complete application is
filed.
   (E)   Denial of application. If an application is denied, the Zoning
Administrator will notify the applicant in writing of the reasons for the
denial. Within 30 days of the notice, a party aggrieved by the city’s denial of
an application may bring an action for review in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2040, passed 1-24-2019)
§ 15-908 APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   The applicant must include the following information in an application for a
permit for any small wireless facility in the public right-of-way in the city:
   (a)   A site plan;
   (b)   Elevation drawings of the proposed wireless facility. Show all base
stations, antennas, transmission equipment, accessory equipment, cabinets,
lighting and other improvements related to the facility, including information
on specific colors and materials;
   (c)   Digital before-and-after photo simulations of the site, demonstrating
the visual impact of the proposed wireless facility on the surrounding
environment. The Zoning Administrator may require photo simulations from any
specific vantage point;
   (d)   An engineer’s report from a licensed engineer registered in the state
which:
      (1)   Describes the wireless facility’s height and design, including a
cross section and elevation;
      (2)   Describes the wireless facility’s structural capacity, and its
ability to safely accommodate antennas and other equipment; and
      (3)   Includes the engineer’s seal and license number.
   (e)   An application for Zoning Administrator approval of antenna placement
on roofs, walls, and existing wireless infrastructure must include a final site
and building plan.
(Ord. 2040, passed 1-24-2019)
§ 15-909 APPLICATION FEE.
   The application must include payment of the application fee, to be paid by
the applicant to the City Clerk. The fee, as determined in a fee schedule
approved by a resolution of the governing body, must not exceed statutory
maximums as required by K.S.A. 66-2019(c).
   (a)   The fee must reflect the actual costs of processing the application.
   (b)   Total charges and fees assessed by the city must not exceed:
      (1)   $500 for a collocation application which is not a substantial
modification, for a small wireless application, or DAS facility application; or
      (2)   $2,000 for an application for a new wireless support structure, or
for a collocation application that is a substantial modification of a wireless
support structure.
(Ord. 2040, passed 1-24-2019)
§ 15-910 GENERAL DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (a)   Compliance.
      (1)   The installation, construction, operation, maintenance and repair
of facilities in the right-of-way must be in accordance with applicable health,
safety and construction codes, including structural standards and wind loading
requirements, as well as F.C.C. guidelines for wireless infrastructure, and any
city standards that may be approved by the governing body.
      (2)   Compliance must be certified by a licensed engineer registered in
the state.
   (b)   Damage and interference. Facilities must not damage or interfere with
the use or operation of previously installed facilities, or obstruct or hinder
other utilities serving residents and businesses in the city.
      (1)   Avoid interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways, poles and other public ways and places.
      (2)   Avoid creating visual and physical obstructions, or other
conditions which may be hazardous to vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
      (3)   Avoid damage to drainage structures, or interference with drainage
ways.
      (4)   Avoid environmental damage, including damage to trees and
shrubbery.
   (c)   Property owners. Facilities must be installed and located with due
regard for minimizing interference with the rights and convenience of property
owners, including the city.
      (1)   With the exception of public electric and communications service
and connection lines, no part of any wireless facility or its associated
equipment must at any time extend over a property line.
      (2)   Preserve the character of historic structures and neighborhoods,
including, but not limited to, structures listed on the National or State
Register of Historic Places.
   (d)   Facility wiring.
      (1)   All low energy conductors extending horizontally above the ground
between a wireless facility or antenna and an accessory facility, or between
wireless infrastructure, must either be buried underground, or be at least
eight feet above the ground at all points.
      (2)   Facility wiring should not cross over, under, or through private
property.
   (e)   Utilities. With the exception of emergency power systems, all
utilities for a wireless facility site must be installed underground and in
compliance with applicable codes. See K.S.A. 66-2019(f)(19).
   (f)   Equipment cabinets. No more than two equipment cabinets are permitted
per wireless facility.
(Ord. 2040, passed 1-24-2019)
§ 15-911 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS IN AESTHETIC CORRIDORS.
   (a)   Within the city’s designated aesthetic corridors, antennas for small
wireless facilities may be installed, maintained and operated in the public
right-of-way only so long as they meet the following requirements:
      (1)   They must be installed only on existing lightpoles or traffic
signal poles, or on a similar replacement pole. Any wire or fiber connecting
such an antenna and the ground or facilities buried underground must be inside
the pole or firmly attached along the outside of the pole. No wires or fiber
must be attached from pole to pole above ground;
      (2)   They must conform with the following aesthetic standards:
         (A)   Their width must not exceed the diameter of the pole at its
base, except for necessary above-ground service boxes essential to their
operation;
         (B)   As nearly as possible, they must match the color of the poles to
which they are attached.
   (b)   Within the city’s designated aesthetic corridors, all other small
wireless facilities and their appurtenances, except for antennas, must be
installed and constructed underground.
(Ord. 2040, passed 1-24-2019)
§ 15-912 WIRELESS FACILITY INSPECTIONS.
   (a)   Wireless facilities must meet operational standards established by the
F.C.C. and other applicable federal regulatory agencies.
      (1)   If standards are revised, the wireless facility must be brought
into compliance within six months of the effective date of the revised
standards.
      (2)   Failure to comply with federal standards constitutes grounds for
removal of the facility at the owner or provider’s expense.
   (b)   All wireless facilities may be inspected by the Zoning Administrator
or his or her designee, to determine compliance with original construction
standards.
      (1)   Deviation from original construction standards constitutes a code
violation.
      (2)   If the city inspection determines that the wireless facility does
not comply with city building codes, and constitutes a danger to persons or
property, the Zoning Administrator will notify the wireless facility owner or
property owner in writing.
         (A)   The wireless facility owner or property owner must bring the
wireless facility into compliance within 30 days following written notice; or
         (B)   The city may order the removal of the wireless facility, or have
the wireless facility removed at the owner or property owner’s expense.
(Ord. 2040, passed 1-24-2019)
§ 15-913 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   Any wireless facility that is not operated for 12 continuous months will be
considered abandoned and a nuisance.
   (a)   The Zoning Administrator will provide written notice to the wireless
facility owner or the landowner, that the wireless facility must be removed
within 90 days of receipt of the notice.
   (b)   The wireless facility owner may be allowed to demonstrate whether the
wireless facility has been in operation during the time period in question. The
burden of proof is on the owner.
   (c)   If the wireless facility is not removed within 90 days after receipt
of the notice, the city may have the wireless facility removed at the wireless
facility owner or landowner’s expense.
(Ord. 2040, passed 1-24-2019)
§ 15-914 INVALIDITY OF A PART.
   Any provision of this article which is declared to be unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid must not affect the validity and authority of any other
sections of this article.
(Ord. 2040, passed 1-24-2019)
ARTICLE 10: UTILITY POLE ATTACHMENTS
Section
   15-1001   Pole attachments
   15-1002   Pole attachment fee rates
   15-1003   Payment and affidavit
   15-1004   Agreement required
   15-1005   Penalty for violation
§ 15-1001 POLE ATTACHMENTS.
   No person or entity, other than the city or a department thereof, shall
attach or maintain any fixture to or place or maintain any facilities or wires
on any city facilities, including any utility pole or other fixture or facility
of the city, within city rights-of-way or easements without: (1) a valid and
unexpired pole attachment license agreement approved by the governing body
after the date hereof and executed by such applicable person or entity, and (2)
payment of a pole attachment fee as set forth in §
15-1002, or as may be hereinafter approved as alternative lawful compensation
in a pole attachment license agreement approved by the governing body after the
date hereof, or such other amount as may be established hereinafter by the
governing body by resolution or ordinance. Failure to hold and maintain a
current and valid pole attachment license agreement with the city shall not
excuse payment of the pole attachment fee at the rate required herein and plus
additional penalties. Where a pole attachment license agreement expires, and in
addition to any penalties or other requirements, the licensee during any
holdover period shall pay monthly one-twelfth of the rate set forth in §
15-1002 until a valid agreement is obtained or the attachments are removed. The
licensee shall indemnify and be responsible to pay all costs incurred by the
city in any way due or arising from any such attachment or violation of any
provision hereof or of any pole attachment license agreement including, but not
limited to, attorneys’ fees, except as may be otherwise expressly provided by
agreement.
(Ord. 2101, passed 1-26-2023)
§ 15-1002 POLE ATTACHMENT FEE RATES.
   (a)   The pole attachment fee rate shall be in the amount as approved by the
governing body and listed in the latest city Schedule of Fees, and shall be on
a per attachment, per pole, per year basis and shall take effect on February 2,
2023.
   (b)   The pole attachment fee rate shall apply to all existing and future
pole attachments, regardless of the terms of any existing pole attachment
license agreement. Each attachment of any of a licensee’s facilities in direct
contact with or otherwise supported by a pole or other city facilities shall be
considered a separate pole attachment. An “attachment” shall include, but not
be limited to, each line, wire, conduit, or other approved equipment physically
connected directly or indirectly to the applicable pole or other city facility.
(Ord. 2101, passed 1-26-2023)
§ 15-1003 PAYMENT AND AFFIDAVIT.
   The annual pole attachment fee rate shall be prorated and due at the time of
permit issuance for the year that the city grants a permit for the placement of
such attachment(s) and must be paid prior to commencement of work, and
thereafter will be payable on or before the thirtieth day of January each year.
Any amount unpaid after such date shall accrue interest payable to the city at
the rate of 9% per annum, compounded monthly. Each payment shall be accompanied
by an affidavit of the number of attachments to city owned poles, fixtures, or
facilities which exist as of January 1 that year and computation of the fee
based on the number of attachments as of that date.
(Ord. 2101, passed 1-26-2023)
§ 15-1004 AGREEMENT REQUIRED.
   No pole attachment shall be authorized except by authorized pole attachment
license agreement, which shall include such provisions as necessary to protect
the public interest and provide for payment of the required compensation
consistent with this section. An application may be required containing such
information as may be necessary to determine the appropriateness of the
attachment and may contain a fee requirement in an amount sufficient to
reimburse the city its costs or such other reasonable basis as permitted by
law. A franchise or public ways use permit agreement shall not be deemed to
authorize pole attachments unless hereinafter expressly so provided therein.
Unless otherwise authorized by law, no pole attachment license agreement shall
be granted to any person or entity unless such person has a valid franchise or
public ways use permit agreement with the city, whether separately granted or
expressly incorporated in the pole attachment license agreement. A pole
attachment agreement shall be reviewed and approved, denied, or conditioned as
the public interest dictates subject to all applicable law. Nothing herein
shall be interpreted as a waiver of any rights in a duly authorized and lawful
existing agreement with the city.
(Ord. 2101, passed 1-26-2023)
§ 15-1005 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person or entity violating any provision of this section shall be
punished as provided in §
1-116 of this code in addition to being subject to all other remedies contained
herein or contained in a franchise agreement executed by the person or entity.
Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense under this code.
(Ord. 2101, passed 1-26-2023)
CHAPTER XVI: ZONING AND PLANNING
   Article
      
1.   CITY PLANNING COMMISSION/BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
      
2.   ZONING REGULATIONS
      
3.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
4.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE 1: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION/BOARD OF
ZONING APPEALS
Section
   
16-101   Commission re-establishment
   
16-102   Membership, terms, interest and compensation
   
16-103   Meetings, officers and records
   
16-104   Powers and duties
   
16-105   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
16-106   Budget
   
16-107   Comprehensive plan
§ 16-101 COMMISSION RE-ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby re-established the City Planning Commission, which is
composed of seven members of which five members shall be residents of the city
and two members shall reside outside the city, but within the designated
planning area of the city that is within at least three miles of the corporate
limits of the city. The Planning Commission was originally created by Ord. 719,
which was passed an approved on June 14, 1990.
§ 16-102 MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, INTEREST AND COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Planning Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the consent of the governing body at the first regular meeting of the governing
body in May of each year and take office at the next regular meeting of the
Commission. All members shall be appointed for staggered terms of three years
each. The appointments shall be so made that the terms of office of the members
residing outside of the corporate limits of the city do not expire within the
same year. By the re-establishment of the Commission, all current members
continue to serve their present terms of office. In case of death, incapacity,
resignation or disqualification of any member, appointment to such a vacancy on
the Commission shall be made of the unexpired term of the member leaving the
membership. Should any member have a conflict of interest, either directly or
indirectly, in any matter coming before the Commission, he or she shall be
disqualified to discuss or vote on the matter. The governing body may adopt
rules and regulations providing for removal of members of the Commission.
Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for expenses actually incurred in the performance of their duties as
deemed desirable by the governing body.
§ 16-103 MEETINGS, OFFICERS AND RECORDS.
   The members of the Planning Commission shall meet at such time and place as
may be fixed in the Commission’s bylaws. The Commission shall elect one member
as Chairperson and one member as Vice-Chairperson who shall serve one year and
until their successors have been elected. A Secretary shall also be elected who
may or may not be a member of the Commission. Special meetings may be called at
any time by the Chairperson or in the Chairperson’s absence by the Vice-
Chairperson. The Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of business
and hearing procedures. All actions by the Commission shall be taken by a
majority vote of the entire membership of the Commission; except that, a
majority of the members present and voting at the hearing shall be required to
recommend approval or denial of an amendment to the zoning regulations, a
rezoning amendment or a special use permit. A proper record of all the
proceedings of the Commission shall be kept. The Commission, from time to time,
may establish subcommittees, advisory committees or technical committees to
advise or assist in the activities of the Commission.
§ 16-104 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The governing body and Planning Commission shall have all the rights, powers
and duties as authorized in K.S.A. 12-741 et seq., and amendments thereto,
which are hereby incorporated by reference as part of this section and shall be
given full force and effect as if the same had been fully set forth. The
Commission is hereby authorized to make or cause to be made, adopted and
maintained a Comprehensive Plan for the city and any unincorporated territory
lying outside of the city but within the county in which the city is located,
which in the opinion of the Commission forms the total community of which the
city is a part. The Commission shall also cause to be prepared, adopted and
maintained zoning and subdivision regulations on all land within the
jurisdiction designated by the governing body. The Comprehensive Plan and
zoning and subdivision regulations are subject to final approval of the
governing body by ordinance. Periodically, the governing body may request the
Commission to undertake other assignments related to planning and land use
regulations.
§ 16-105 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The Planning Commission is hereby designated to also serve as the city’s
Board of Zoning Appeals with all the powers and duties as provided for in
K.S.A. 12-759. The Board shall adopt rules in the form of bylaws for its
operation which shall include hearing procedures. Such bylaws shall be subject
to the approval of the governing body. Public records shall be kept of all
official actions of the Board which shall be maintained separately from those
of the Commission. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing
evidence presented, findings of fact, decisions and the vote upon each question
or appeal. A majority of the members of the Board present and voting at the
hearing shall be required to decide any appeal. Subject to subsequent approval
of the governing body, the Board shall establish a scale of reasonable fees to
be paid in advance by the appealing party. The present membership of the Board
of Zoning Appeals shall be disbanded effective March 2, 1993.
§ 16-106 BUDGET.
   The governing body shall approve a budget for the Planning Commission and
make such allowances to the Commission as it deems proper, including funds for
the employment of such employees or consultants as the governing body may
authorize and provide, and shall add the same to the general budget. Prior to
the time that monies are available under the budget, the governing body may
appropriate monies for such purposes from the General Fund. The governing body
may enter into such contracts as it deems necessary and may receive and expend
funds and monies from the state or federal government or from any other
resource for such purposes.
§ 16-107 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (a)   Generally. The Comprehensive Development Plan for the Kingman Area,
Kansas: 2018-2038, as adopted by the City Planning Commission, is approved as
the official comprehensive plan for the city. The Kingman Park System Master
Plan 2018-2038 is approved as an element of the Comprehensive Plan.
   (b)   Distribution. As required by K. S. A. 12-747(c), an attested copy of
both plan documents will be sent to all other taxing subdivisions in the
planning area which request a copy.
   (c)   Annual reviews.
      (1)   At least once a year, the Park Board must review or reconsider the
Park System Master Plan, and report any recommended changes to the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   At least once a year, the Planning Commission must review or
reconsider the Comprehensive Plan and the Park System Master Plan.
   (d)   Amendments, extensions or additions. The Planning Commission may
propose amendments, extensions or additions to the Comprehensive Plan or the
Park System Master Plan as it deems appropriate. As required by K.S.A. 12-747
(d), any amendments, extensions or additions must be adopted in the same manner
as the original comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 2054, passed 9-12-2019)
ARTICLE 2: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
16-201   Zoning regulations incorporated
§ 16-201 ZONING REGULATIONS INCORPORATED.
   (a)   Adoption. Zoning regulations are hereby approved and adopted by the
governing body of the city, as prepared and published in book form as model
regulations by the City Planning Commission with the technical assistance of
the City Manager and the City Zoning Administrator under the date of October 8,
2009, and entitled Zoning Regulations of the City of Kingman, Kansas and its
Zoning Jurisdiction outside the city limits, and the same are hereby
incorporated by reference as fully as if set out herein except for the
following modification by deleting §
1-103 and adding the replacement wording as follows: “Jurisdiction: these
regulations shall apply to all buildings, structures and land within the
corporate limits of the city, as presently exist or are hereafter established
by annexation”.
   (b)   Official map. There is further herein incorporated by reference and
adopted an official zoning map delineating the boundaries of zoning districts
and the classification of such districts, which map shall be marked “Official
copy of zoning district map incorporated into zoning regulations by adoption of
Ord. 1937 by the Governing Body of the City of Kingman on March 25, 2010”, and
filed with the Zoning Administrator to be open for inspection and available to
the public at all reasonable business hours.
   (c)   Public hearing. The advertised public hearing required by state law
was duly held on October 5, 2009 by the City Planning Commission, and a
discussion of said zoning regulations and map was had at the hearing; and the
zoning regulations and map in model code form herein adopted are a true and
correct copy of those regulations as adopted by the Planning Commission except
for the modification in division (a) above to the zoning jurisdiction.
   (d)   Jurisdiction. From the effective date of this section, the zoning
regulations and official zoning map herein incorporated by reference shall
govern all use of the land and the location of buildings and other structures
placed within the city.
   (e)   Official copies. Not less than three copies of the zoning regulations
in book form marked “Official Copy as incorporated by Ord. 1930”, and to which
there shall be a published copy of this section attached, shall be filed with
the City Clerk to be open for inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable business hours. Ord. 1938 amended the regulations by adding § 28A
(communication towers) to the zoning regulations.
(2010 Code, § 16-201) (Ord. 1930, passed - -; Ord. 1938, passed 3-25-2010; Ord.
1942, passed 7-2-2010; Ord. 1955, passed 9-8-2011; Ord. 1960, passed 4-26-2012;
Ord. 1961, passed 7-12-2012; Ord. 1962, passed 7-26-2012; Ord. 1965, passed 9-
13-2012; Ord. 1968, passed 4-11-2013)
ARTICLE 3: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
16-301   Subdivision regulations incorporated
§ 16-301 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS INCORPORATED.
   (a)   Adoption. Subdivision regulations are hereby approved and adopted by
the governing body of the city, as prepared and published as model regulations
in book form by the Kingman City Planning Commission with the technical
assistance of Foster Design Associates LLC, Landscape Architecture & Planning,
in association with Foster & Associates, Planning Consultants, both of Wichita,
Kansas, and the City Subdivision Administrator under the date of July 14, 2016,
and entitled Subdivision Regulations of the City of Kingman, Kansas, and the
same are hereby incorporated by reference as fully as if set out herein.
   (b)   Public hearing. The advertised public hearing required by state law
was duly held on June 27, 2016, by the City Planning Commission, and a
discussion of said subdivision regulations was had at the hearing; and the
subdivision regulations in model code form herein adopted are a true and
correct copy of those regulations as adopted by the Planning Commission.
   (c)   Jurisdiction. From the effective date of this section, the subdivision
regulations herein incorporated by reference shall govern the subdivision of
land and the vacation of rights-of-way, easements and other public reservations
located within the city.
   (d)   Official copies. Not less than three copies of the subdivision
regulations in book form marked “Official Copy as incorporated by Ord. 2012”
and to which there shall be a published copy of this section attached, shall be
filed with the City Clerk to be open for inspection and available to the public
at all reasonable business hours.
(2010 Code, § 16-301) (Ord. 1930, passed - -; Ord. 2012, passed 7-14-2016)
ARTICLE 4: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
16-401   Statutory authorization, findings of fact and purposes
   
16-402   General provisions
   
16-403   Administration
   
16-404   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   
16-405   Floodplain management variance procedures
   
16-406   Penalties for violation
   
16-407   Amendments
   
16-408   Definitions
§ 16-401 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSES.
   (a)   Statutory authorization.
      (1)   Approval of draft regulations by Kansas chief engineer prior to
adoption. The following floodplain management regulations, as written, were
approved in draft form by the Chief Engineer of the Division of Water Resources
of the State Department of Agriculture on April 30, 2014.
      (2)   State statutory authorization. The state has in K.S.A. 12-741 et
seq., and specifically in K.S.A. 12-766, delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt floodplain management regulations designed to
protect the health, safety and general welfare.
   (b)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The special flood
hazard areas of Kingman, Kansas, are subject to inundation that results in loss
of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and
governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection
and relief, and impairment of the tax base; all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused
by:
         (A)   The cumulative effect of development in any delineated
floodplain causing increases in flood heights and velocities; and
         (B)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods, hazardous to others, inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected
from flood damages.
      (3)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. The Flood Insurance Study
(FIS) that is the basis of this article uses a standard engineering method of
analyzing flood hazards, which consist of a series of interrelated steps:
         (A)   Selection of a base flood that is based upon engineering
calculations, which permit a consideration of such flood factors as its
expected frequency of occurrence, the area inundated, and the depth of
inundation. The base flood selected for this chapter of the city code is
representative of large floods, which are characteristic of what can be
expected to occur on the particular streams subject to this chapter. The base
flood is the flood that is estimated to have a 1% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any one-year as delineated on the Federal Insurance Administrator’s
FIS, and illustrative materials dated June 18, 1980 as amended, and any future
revisions thereto;
         (B)   Calculation of water surface profiles that are based on a
standard hydraulic engineering analysis of the capacity of the stream channel
and overbank areas to convey the regulatory flood;
         (C)   Computation of a floodway required to convey this flood without
increasing flood heights more than one foot at any point;
         (D)   Delineation of floodway encroachment lines within which no
development is permitted that would cause any increase in flood height; and
         (E)   Delineation of floodway fringe, i.e., that area outside the
floodway encroachment lines, but still subject to inundation by the base flood.
   (c)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this article to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare; to minimize those losses described
in §
16-401(b)(1); to establish or maintain the community’s eligibility for
participation in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) as defined in 44
C.F.R. § 59.22(a)(3); and to meet the requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(d) and
K.A.R. 5-44-4 by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities that
serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction; and
      (3)   Protect individuals from buying lands that are unsuited for the
intended development purposes due to the flood hazard.
(Ord. 1977, passed 6-12-2014)
§ 16-402 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Lands to which chapter applies. This article shall apply to all lands
within the city identified as numbered and unnumbered A Zones, AE, AO and AH
Zones, on the Index Map dated June 18, 1980 of the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) as amended and any future revisions thereto. In all areas covered by
this chapter, no development shall be permitted except through the issuance of
a floodplain development permit, granted by the City Commission, or its duly
designated representative under such safeguards and restrictions as the City
Commission or the designated representative may reasonably impose for the
promotion and maintenance of the general welfare, health of the inhabitants of
the community, and as specifically noted in §
16-404.
   (b)   Compliance. No development located within the special flood hazard
areas of this community shall be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
   (c)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
article to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this article imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this article shall prevail. All other articles inconsistent with
this article are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   (d)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this article shall be held to be minimum requirements, shall be
liberally construed in favor of the governing body, and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
   (e)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this article is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur on rare occasions or the flood heights may be increased by human-made or
natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings restricted by debris. This
chapter does not imply that areas outside the floodway and flood fringe or land
uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage.
This chapter shall not create a liability on the part of, any officer or
employee thereof, for any flood damages that may result from reliance on this
article or any administrative decision lawfully made there under.
(Ord. 1977, passed 6-12-2014)
§ 16-403 ADMINISTRATION.
   (a)   Floodplain development permit. A floodplain development permit shall
be required for all proposed construction or other development, including the
placement of manufactured homes, in the areas described in § 16-402(a). No
person, firm, corporation or unit of government shall initiate any development
or substantial improvement or cause the same to be done without first obtaining
a separate floodplain development permit for each structure or other
development.
   (b)   Designation of Floodplain Administrator. The Zoning Administrator is
hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this article.
   (c)   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator. Duties of the
Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Review of all applications for floodplain development permits to
assure that sites are reasonably safe from flooding and that the floodplain
development permit requirements of this article have been satisfied;
      (2)   Review of all applications for floodplain development permits for
proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been obtained
from federal, state or local governmental agencies from which prior approval is
required by federal, state or local law;
      (3)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine
whether such proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (4)   Issue floodplain development permits for all approved applications;
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the Division of Water Resources,
State Department of Agriculture, prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA);
      (6)   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity is not diminished and shall
be maintained within the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse;
      (7)   Verify and maintain a record of the actual elevation (in relation
to mean sea level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or
substantially improved structures;
      (8)   Verify and maintain a record of the actual elevation (in relation
to mean sea level) that the new or substantially improved non-residential
structures have been floodproofed; and
      (9)   When floodproofing techniques are utilized for a particular non-
residential structure, the Floodplain Administrator shall require certification
from a registered professional engineer or architect.
   (d)   Application for floodplain development permit. To obtain a floodplain
development permit, the applicant shall first file an application in writing on
a form furnished for that purpose. Every floodplain development permit
application shall:
      (1)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by lot,
block and tract, house and street address, or similar description that will
readily identify and specifically locate the proposed structure or work;
      (2)   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the floodplain
development permit;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended;
      (4)   Indicate the assessed value of the structure and the fair market
value of the improvement;
      (5)   Specify whether development is located in designated flood fringe
or floodway;
      (6)   Identify the existing base flood elevation and the elevation of the
proposed development;
      (7)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Floodplain Administrator;
      (8)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction; and
      (9)   Be signed by the permittee or his authorized agent who may be
required to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
(Ord. 1977, passed 6-12-2014)
§ 16-404 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (a)   General standards.
      (1)   No permit for floodplain development shall be granted for new
construction, substantial improvements, and other improvements, including the
placement of manufactured homes, within any numbered or unnumbered A zones, AE,
AO, and AH zones, unless the conditions of this section are satisfied.
      (2)   All areas identified as unnumbered A zones on the FIRM are subject
to inundation of the 100-year flood; however, the base flood elevation is not
provided. Development within unnumbered A zones is subject to all provisions of
this chapter. If Flood Insurance Study data is not available, the community
shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation or
floodway data currently available from federal, state or other sources.
      (3)   Until a floodway is designated, no new construction, substantial
improvements or other development, including fill, shall be permitted within
any unnumbered or numbered A zones, or AE zones on the FIRM, unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point
within the community.
      (4)   All new construction, subdivision proposals, substantial
improvements, prefabricated structures, placement of manufactured homes and
other developments shall require:
         (A)   Design or adequate anchorage to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         (B)   Construction with materials resistant to flood damage;
         (C)   Utilization of methods and practices that minimize flood
damages;
         (D)   All electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air-conditioning
equipment and other service facilities be designed and/or located so as to
prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding;
         (E)   New or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage
systems be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters, and on-site
waste disposal systems be located so as to avoid impairment or contamination
from them during flooding; and
         (F)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development,
including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, located within special flood
hazard areas are required to assure that:
            (i)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage;
            (ii)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
            (iii)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to
flood hazards; and
            (iv)   All proposals for development, including proposals for
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, of five acres or 50 lots, whichever
is lesser, include within such proposals base flood elevation data.
      (5)   Storage, material and equipment.
         (A)   The storage or processing of materials within the special flood
hazard area that are in time of flooding buoyant, flammable, explosive or could
be injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited.
         (B)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods, if firmly anchored to prevent flotation, or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood
warning.
      (6)   Nonconforming use: a structure, or the use of a structure or
premises that was lawful before the passage or amendment of the chapter, but
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be
continued subject to the following conditions:
         (A)   If such structure, use or utility service is discontinued for 12
consecutive months, any future use of the building shall conform to this
chapter;
         (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the pre-damaged market value of the structure. This limitation does not include
the cost of any alteration to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary, building, safety codes, regulations or the cost of any alteration of
a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places, the State
Inventory of Historic Places or local inventory of historic places upon
determination.
   (b)   Specific standards. In all areas identified as numbered and unnumbered
A zones, AE, and AH Zones, where base flood elevation data have been provided,
as set forth in division (a)(2) above, the following provisions are required:
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structures, including manufactured homes, shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum of one foot above
base flood elevation. The elevation of the lowest floor shall be certified by a
licensed land surveyor or professional engineer;
      (2)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structures,
including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation or, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be dry floodproofed to a minimum of
one foot above the base flood elevation. A registered professional engineer or
architect shall certify that the standards of this division (b)(2) are
satisfied. The elevation of the lowest floor shall be certified by a licensed
land surveyor or professional engineer. Such certification shall be provided to
the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
16-403(c)(7) through (c)(9); and
      (3)   Required. Require, for all new construction and substantial
improvements, that fully enclosed areas below lowest floor used solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement and that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum criteria:
         (A)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided; and
         (B)   The bottom of all opening shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (c)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   All manufactured homes to be placed within all unnumbered and
numbered A zones, AE and AH zones, on the community’s FIRM shall be required to
be installed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage. For the
purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored
to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   Require manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within unnumbered or numbered A zones, AE and AH zones, on the
community’s FIRM on sites:
         (A)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (B)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (C)   In an expansion to and existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (D)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation and be securely attached to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement. The elevation of the lowest
floor shall be certified by a licensed land surveyor or professional engineer.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
all unnumbered and numbered A zones, AE and AH zones, on the community’s FIRM,
that are not subject to the provisions of division (c)(2)above, be elevated so
that either:
         (A)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is a minimum of one
foot above the base flood level; or
         (B)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely attached to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
The elevation of the lowest floor shall be certified by a licensed land
surveyor or professional engineer.
   (d)   Areas of shallow flooding (AO and AH zones). Located within the areas
of special flood hazard as described in
16-402(a) are areas designated as AO zones. These areas have special flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate. The following provisions apply:
      (1)   AO zones.
         (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures, including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high
as the depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two
feet if no depth number is specified);
         (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of any
commercial, industrial or other non-residential structures, including
manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified
in feet on the community FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is
specified) or together with attendant utilities and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed to that level so that the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         (C)   Adequate drainage paths shall be required around structures on
slopes, in order to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
      (2)   AH zones.
         (A)   The specific standards for all areas of special flood hazard
where base flood elevation has been provided shall be required as set forth in
division (b) above; and
         (B)   Adequate drainage paths shall be required around structures on
slopes, in order to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   (e)   Floodway. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
division (a) above are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters that carry debris
and potential projectiles, the following provisions shall apply:
      (1)   The community shall select and adopt a regulatory floodway based on
the principle that the area chosen for the regulatory floodway must be designed
to carry the waters of the base flood without increasing the water surface
elevation of that flood more than one foot at any point;
      (2)   The community shall prohibit any encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements and other development within the adopted
regulatory floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels
within the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge;
      (3)   If division (e)(2) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section; and
      (4)   In unnumbered A zones, the community shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation or floodway data currently
available from federal, state or other sources as set forth in division (a)(2)
above.
   (f)   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within all unnumbered and numbered A Zones, AE, AH and AO Zones on the
community’s FIRM either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. (A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick-disconnect type utilities and security
devices, and has no permanently attached additions.); or
      (3)   Meet the permitting, elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes of this chapter.
(Ord. 1977, passed 6-12-2014)
§ 16-405 FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Establishment of Appeal Board. The city Planning Commission, as
established by the city, shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from the floodplain management requirements of this article.
   (b)   Responsibility of Appeal Board.
      (1)   Where an application for a floodplain development permit is denied
by the Floodplain Administrator, the applicant may apply for such floodplain
development permit directly to the Appeal Board, as defined in division (a)
above.
      (2)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
that there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
article.
   (c)   Further appeals. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal
Board or any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as
provided in K.S.A. 12-759 and 12-760.
   (d)   Floodplain management variance criteria. In passing upon such
applications for variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all technical data
and evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and the following criteria:
      (1)   Danger to life and property due to flood damage;
      (2)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   Importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
community;
      (5)   Necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations, not subject to flood damage,
for the proposed use;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters, if applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems; streets; and bridges.
   (e)   Conditions for approving floodplain management variances.
      (1)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood elevation, providing divisions (e)(2) through (e)(6) below
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre,
the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, repair,
rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, the State Inventory of Historic Places or local inventory of
historic places upon determination, provided the proposed activity will not
preclude the structure’s continued historic designation and the variance is the
minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
      (3)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
significant increase in flood discharge would result.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (A) A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (B) A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (C) A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or chapters;
      (6)   A community shall notify the applicant in writing over the
signature of a community official that:
         (A)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (B)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this article.
(Ord. 1977, passed 6-12-2014)
§ 16-406 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Violation of the provisions of this article or failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with granting of variances) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any
person who violates this article or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500, and
in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day
such violation continues, shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent the city or other appropriate authority from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Ord. 1977, passed 6-12-2014)
§ 16-407 AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations, restrictions and boundaries set forth in this article may
from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or appealed to reflect any
and all changes in the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973,
provided, however, that no such action may be taken until after a public
hearing in relation thereto, at which parties of interest and citizens shall
have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and place of such hearing
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. At least
20 days shall elapse between the date of this publication and the public
hearing. A copy of such amendments will be provided to the FEMA Region VII
office. The regulations of this article are in compliance with the NFIP
regulations.
(Ord. 1977, passed 6-12-2014)
§ 16-408 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. The same as APPURTENANT STRUCTURE.
   ACTUARIAL RATES. See RISK PREMIUM RATES.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Federal Insurance Administrator.
   AGENCY. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure that is on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to the
use of the principal structure.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may
be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the structure having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHIEF ENGINEER. The chief engineer of the division of water resources,
Kansas Department of Agriculture.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER or CHIEF ELECTED OFFICIAL. The official of the
community who is charged with the authority to implement and administer laws,
chapters and regulations for that community.
   COMMUNITY. Any state or area or political subdivision thereof, which has
authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for the areas
within its jurisdiction.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, levees, levee
systems, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling
operations, or storage of equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has
its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   ELIGIBLE COMMUNITY or PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community for which the
Administrator has authorized the sale of flood insurance under the National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   For the purposes of determining rates, structures for which the
start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before
January 1, 1975, for FIRM’s effective before that date.
      (2)   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING
STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland waters;
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source; or
      (3)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood, or
by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as
defined above in division (1) of this definition above.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community on
which the Administrator has delineated both special flood hazard areas and the
designated regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATIONS. A determination of the water surface
elevations of the base flood: that is, the level of flooding that has a 1%
chance of occurrence in any given year.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The area outside the floodway encroachment lines, but still
subject to inundation by the regulatory flood.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood areas having special flood
hazards have been designated as (unnumbered or numbered) A zones.
   FLOOD HAZARD MAP. The document adopted by the governing body showing the
limits of:
      (1)   The floodplain;
      (2)   The floodway;
      (3)   Streets;
      (4)   Stream channel; and
      (5)   Other geographic features.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see FLOODING).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plan, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning chapters, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose chapters (such as
floodplain and grading chapters) and other applications of police power. The
term describes such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
that provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, or
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES. The lines marking the limits of floodways on
federal, state and local floodplain maps.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
bridge openings and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. This term
includes only docking facilities and facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, but does not include long-term
storage or related manufacturing facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (A)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (B)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The LOWEST FLOOR of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area, is
not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such enclosure is not
built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable
floodproofing design requirements of this article.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM), Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM),
or the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM) for a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   MARKET VALUE or FAIR MARKET VALUE. An estimate of what is fair, economic,
just and equitable value under normal local market conditions.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP),
the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which
base flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the START OF CONSTRUCTION commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the
START OF CONSTRUCTION commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
   NFIP. The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).
   ONE-HUNDRED (100)-YEAR FLOOD. See BASE FLOOD.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. Also known as an ELIGIBLE COMMUNITY. A community in
which the Administrator has authorized the sale of flood insurance.
   PERMIT. A signed document from a designated community official authorizing
development in a floodplain, including all necessary supporting documentation
such as:
      (1)   The site plan;
      (2)   An elevation certificate; and
      (3)   Any other necessary or applicable approvals or authorizations from
local, state or federal authorities.
   PERSON. Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including federal, state and
local governments and agencies.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   REASONABLY SAFE FROM FLOODING. Base flood waters will not inundate the land
or damage structures to be removed from the SFHA and any subsurface waters
related to the base flood will not damage existing or proposed buildings.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently able to be towed by a
light-duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with federal, state or local floodplain management regulations; or,
if this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance.
   RISK PREMIUM RATES. Those rates established by the Administrator pursuant to
individual community studies and investigations, which are undertaken to
provide flood insurance in accordance with § 1307 of the National Flood
Disaster Protection Act of 1973 and the accepted actuarial principles. RISK
PREMIUM RATES include provisions for operating costs and allowances.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENTS, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other
improvements were within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, any work beyond the stage of excavation, or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling, the
installation of streets and/or walkways, excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, foundations, the erection of temporary forms, nor installation on the
property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STATE COORDINATING AGENCY. The Division of Water Resources, Kansas
Department of Agriculture, or other office designated by the governor of the
state or by state statute at the request of the Administrator to assist in the
implementation of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) in that state.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home. STRUCTURE, for insurance purposes, means a walled
and roofed building, other than a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground and affixed to a permanent site, as well as a
manufactured home on a permanent foundation, or a travel trailer, without
wheels on a permanent foundation. For the latter purpose, the term includes a
building while in the course of construction, alteration or repair, but does
not include building materials or supplies intended for use in such
construction, alteration or repair, unless such materials or supplies are
within an enclosed building on the premises.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to pre-damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before the START OF CONSTRUCTION of the improvement. This term
includes structures which have incurred SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE, regardless of the
actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (A)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (B)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided, that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by the community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. Flood insurance requirements remain in place for any
varied use or structure and cannot be varied by the community.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required by this chapter is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplain riverine areas.
(Ord. 1977, passed 6-12-2014)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CHARTER ORDINANCES
      
II.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: CHARTER ORDINANCES
Charter Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Charter Date
Ord.    Passed Description
No.
1       - -    Exempting the city from the provisions of § 14-1308 of the General Statutes
               of 1949 relating to the Board of Commissioners (repealed by Charter Ord. 9)
               Exempting the city from § 38 of H.B. 1709 of the 1968 Session of the State
2       - -    Legislature pertaining to the election of the Mayor and Commissioners
               (repealed by Charter Ord. 4)
3       - -    Exempting the city from K.S.A. 79-1952 (repealed by Charter Ord. 5)
5       - -    Exempting the city from K.S.A.79-1952 regarding the Mill levy limitations
               (repealed by Charter Ord. 8)
19      - -    Amending Charter Ord. 8 (repealed by Charter Ord. 25)
21      - -    Amending Charter Ord. 19 (repealed by Charter Ord. 25)
4       1-14-  Exempting the city from the provisions of § 14-1204 pertaining to the
        1970   election of the Commissioners
6       3-13-  Exempting the city from K.S.A. 79-5011 pertaining to tax levies
        1980
7       2-25-  Exempting the city from K.S.A. 12-1222 relative to residence requirements of
        1982   Library Board members
8       6-14-  Exempting the city from K.S.A. 79- 1952, regarding the Mill levy limitation
        1984   (amended by Charter Ord. 19)
9       7-12-  Exempting the city from K.S.A. 14-1308 pertaining to meetings of the Board
        1984   of Commissioners (amended by Charter Ord. 18)
8       1-24-  Exempting the city from K.S.A. 12-4112 pertaining to court costs (amended by
        1985   Charter Ord. 25)
11      2-14-  Exempting the city from K.S.A. 14-205 pertaining to the qualifications of
        1991   officers
12      3-26-  Exempting the city from K.S.A. 12-1697 relating to transient guest tax
        1992
13      4-11-  Exempting the city from K.S.A. 79-1951 pertaining to a tax levy
        1996
15      4-11-  Exempting the city from K.S.A. 19-1952 pertaining to a tax levy
        1996
17      2-27-  Exempting the city from K.S.A. 12-1801 to 12-1816 pertaining to sidewalks
        1997
18      9-11-  Amending Charter Ord. 9
        1997
20      5-24-  Pertaining to the commencement of term of office of City Commissioners
        2001
22      12-8-  Exempting the city from K.S.A. 13- 1024a
        2005
23      1-12-  Substituting provisions for the operation of the Commission- Manager
        2006   government of the city
24      6-26-  Creating a Capital Improvement Fund
        2006
25      2-14-  Repealing Charter Ords. 19 and 21
        2008
              
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1775     11-12-1998  Granting a franchise to Multimedia Cablevision, Inc.
1826     4-12-2001   Granting a franchise to Ark Valley Electric Cooperative
                     Association Incorporated
1898     10-13-2005  Granting a franchise to Southwestern Bell Telephone, L.P.
1899     12-8-2005   Defining the manner in which Southwester Bell Telephone
                     Company shall use the rights-of-way
1900     3-23-2006   Granting a franchise to Kansas Gas Service
1901     3-23-2006   Granting a franchise to Ark Valley Electric Cooperative
                     Association
1952     8-11-2011   Granting Ark Valley Electric Cooperative Association, Inc.
                     a franchise
2007     5-12-2016   Granting Ark Valley Electric Cooperative Association, Inc.
                     a franchise; repealing Ord. 1952
2075     4-22-2021   Granting Ark Valley Electric Cooperative Association, Inc.
                     a franchise; repealing Ord. 2007
2102     2- -2023    Granting IdeaTek Telecom, LLC a franchise
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kansas Statutes Annotated
References to Kansas Administrative Regulations
References to 2010 Code
References to Charter Ordinances
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KANSAS STATUTES ANNOTATED
K.S.A. Citations Code Section
K.S.A. Citations              Code Section
Ch. 2, Art. 13                8-407
2-1314                        8-407
Ch. 8, Art. 17                14-221,
                              14-235
8-126 to 8-149                8-2A05,
                              8-303
8-1102                        8-311
8-1599                        3-106
8-1717                        14-227
8-2116                        14-501
8-2118                        14-101,
                              14-103
8-2002(a)(6)                  14-202,
                              14-203
9-1402                        1-704
9-2107                        1-704
10-131                        1-806
Ch. 12, Art. 41               9-108
                              4-611,
                              8-210,
12-1,115                      8-2A14,
                              8-313,
                              8-404
12-1,118                      1-801
12-101                        1-805
12-120 to 12-121              1-113
12-184                        1-217
12-631                        15-410
12-685                        14-204
12-715                        16-418
12-741 et seq.                16-104,
                              16-401
12-747(c)                     16-107
12-747(d)                     16-107
12-759                        16-105,
                              16-405
12-760                        16-405
12-766                        16-401
12-822                        15-105
12-1001 et seq.               1-202
12-1222                       TSO Table I
12-1617                       5-105,
                              5-207
                              8-205,
                              8-206,
12-1617e                      8-210,
                              8-2A09,
                              8-307,
                              15-417
12-1617f                      8-403,
                              8-404
12-1617g                      15-417
12-1675                       1-704
12-1675a                      1-703
12-1675a(g)                   1-704
12-1677a                      1-704
12-1677b                      1-704
12-1697                       TSO Table I
12-1740 et seq.               3-105
12-1750                       4-602
12-1750 et seq.               8-707,
                              8-708
12-1750 to 12-1756            4-614
12-1751                       4-601
12-1752                       4-605,
                              4-606
12-1755                       4-611
                              4-612,
                              8-701,
12-1756                       8-702,
                              8-707,
                              8-709
12-1801                       13-102
12-1801 to 12-1816            TSO Table I
12-1802                       13-103
12-1803                       13-104 
12-1804                       13-105
12-1805                       13-106
12-1807                       13-102
12-1808                       13-108
12-3002                       1-108
12-3007                       1-110
12-3008                       1-111
                              4-202,
                              4-202A,
                              4-202B,
12-3009                       4-202C,
                              4-302,
                              4-402,
                              4-402A,
                              7-201
12-3014                       1-106
12-3015                       1-106
12-4101 et seq.               9-102,
                              9-106
12-4107                       9-105
12-4108                       9-108
12-4112                       TSO Table I
13-1024a                      TSO Table I
14-205                        TSO Table I
14-308                        TSO Table I
14-1204                       TSO Table I
14-1308                       TSO Table I
17-12a401                     1-704
17-1914                       4-502
17-1915                       4-503
17-1916                       4-508
17-1917                       4-509
17-1918                       4-510
17-4652                       15-902
19-1952                       TSO Table I
19-4001 et seq.               12-601
21-6204                       8-201
22-2512                       10-203
22-3901                       12-601
25-2101 et seq.               6-101
25-2111                       6-102
26-206                        6-102
Ch. 27                        3-105 
32-1047                       10-203
40-2404                       8-711
40-3101 et seq.               14-225,
                              14-227
40-3901 et seq.               4-611,
                              8-701
41-308d                       3-305
41-310                        3-302
41-710                        3-306
41-713                        3-305
                              Adopting Ordinance,
                              3-104,
41-719                        3-105,
                              3-106,
                              Ch. III, Art. 7
41-2601                       3-216,
                              12-601
                              3-216,
41-2614                       3-403,
                              3-503,
                              3-603
41-2701 et seq.               3-216
41-2701                       3-201
41-2708                       3-208
50-6,121 et seq.              4-211,
                              4-221
50-6,122                      4-221
50-6,129(a)(1) through (a)(8) 4-211
52-208                        14-302
54-104                        1-501
54-106                        1-501,
                              6-103
60-304                        15-706
60-1111                       13-109
60-2101                       8-2A13
61-2102                       15-707
65-163a                       15-228,
                              15-237
65-211 et seq.                12-601
65-3410                       15-525
66-104                        15-902
66-1,184 et seq.              15-302
66-2019                       15-901,
                              15-907
66-2019(c)                    15-909
66-2019(f)(19)                15-910
66-2019(g)                    15-907
75-720                        12-601
75-4301a et seq.              1-323
75-4308                       1-501
75-6102                       15-902
78-111                        1-504
79-1951                       TSO Table I
79-1952                       TSO Table I
79-5011                       TSO Table I
                              
 
REFERENCES TO KANSAS ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
 
K.A.R. Citations Code Section
5-44-4           16-401
14-23-5          3-703
28-4-113         12-601
28-4-420         12-601
                 
 
REFERENCES TO 2010 CODE
2010 Code 2022 Code
2010 Code 2022 Code
1-102     1-102
1-201     1-201
1-202     1-202
1-203     1-203
1-204     1-204
1-205     1-205
1-206     1-206
1-207     1-207
1-208     1-208
1-209     1-209
1-210     1-210
1-214     1-214
1-215     1-215
1-217     1-217
1-301     1-301
1-302     1-302
1-303     1-303
1-304     1-304
1-305     1-305
1-306     1-306
1-307     1-307
1-308     1-308
1-309     1-309
1-310     1-310
1-313     1-313
1-314     1-314
1-315     1-315
1-316     1-316
1-317     1-317
1-318     1-318
1-319     1-319
1-801     1-801
1-802     1-802
1-803     1-803
1-804     1-804
1-805     1-805
1-806     1-806
2-301     2-501
2-302     2-502
2-303     2-503
2-304     2-504
2-305     2-505
3-213     3-213
3-304     3-304
4-202A    4-202A
4-213     4-213
4-302     4-302
4-310     4-310
4-402A    4-402A
4-410     4-410
4-701     4-701
4-702     4-702
4-703     4-703
4-704     4-704
4-705     4-705
4-706     4-706
4-707     4-707
4-708     4-708
4-709     4-709
4-710     4-710
4-711     4-711
4-712     4-712
4-801     4-801
4-802     4-802
4-803     4-803
4-804     4-804
4-805     4-805
4-806     4-806
4-807     4-807
4-808     4-808
4-809     4-809
4-810     4-810
4-811     4-811
4-812     4-812
4-813     4-813
4-814     4-814
4-815     4-815
4-816     4-816
5-301     5-301
5-302     5-302
6-102     6-103
6-110     6-104
7-101     7-101
7-103     7-103
7-104     7-104
7-303     7-303
7-304     7-304
7-401     7-401
7-402     7-402
7-403     7-403
7-404     7-404
7-405     7-405
7-501     7-501
7-502     7-502
7-503     7-503
7-504     7-504
7-505     7-505
7-506     7-506
7-507     7-507
7-508     7-508
7-601     7-601
7-602     7-602
7-603     7-603
7-604     7-604
7-701     7-701
7-702     7-702
7-703     7-703
7-704     7-704
8-101     8-101
8-801     8-801
8-802     8-802
8-803     8-803
8-804     8-804
8-805     8-805
8-806     8-806
10-101    10-101
10-102    10-102
10-103    10-103
10-104    10-104
11-201    11-201
11-202    11-201
11-203    11-202
11-204    11-202
11-205    11-202
11-301    11-301
11-302    11-302
11-303    11-303
11-304    11-304
12-101    12-101
12-102    12-102
12-103    12-103
12-104    12-104
12-105    12-105
12-106    12-106
12-107    12-107
12-108    12-108
12-109    12-109
12-110    12-110
12-111    12-111
12-112    12-112
12-113    12-113
12-114    12-114
12-115    12-115
12-116    12-116
12-117    12-117
12-118    12-118
12-119    12-119
12-120    12-120
12-121    12-121
12-122    12-122
12-123    12-123
12-124    12-124
12-125    12-125
12-126    12-126
12-127    12-127
12-201    12-201
12-202    12-202
12-203    12-203
12-204    12-204
12-205    12-205
12-206    12-206
12-207    12-207
12-208    12-208
12-209    12-209
12-210    12-210
12-211    12-211
12-301    12-301
12-302    12-302
12-303    12-303
12-304    12-304
12-401    12-401
12-402    12-402
12-403    12-403
12-404    12-404
12-405    12-405
12-406    12-406
12-407    12-407
12-501    12-501
12-502    12-502
12-503    12-503
12-504    12-504
12-505    12-505
12-506    12-506
12-601    12-601
12-602    12-602
12-603    12-603
12-604    12-604
13-110    13-110
13-301    13-2A01
13-302    13-2A02
13-303    13-2A03
13-304    13-2A04
13-305    13-2A05
13-401    13-501
13-402    13-502
13-403    13-503
13-404    13-504
13-405    13-505
14-102    14-102
14-103    14-103
14-105    14-104
14-202    14-202
14-203    14-203
14-204    14-204
14-206    14-206
14-207    14-207
14-208    14-208
14-209    14-209
14-210    14-210
14-211    14-211
14-212    14-212
14-213    14-213
14-214    14-214
14-215    14-215
14-216    14-216
14-217    14-217
14-218    14-218
14-219    14-219
14-220    14-220
14-221    14-221
14-222    14-222
14-223    14-223
14-224    14-224
14-225    14-225
14-226    14-226
14-234    14-234
14-235    14-235
14-236    14-236
14-237    14-237
14-238    14-238
14-239    14-239
14-501    14-301
14-502    14-302
14-503    14-303
14-504    14-304
14-505    14-305
14-506    14-306
14-507    14-307
14-508    14-308
14-509    14-309
14-510    14-310
14-511    14-311
14-512    14-312
14-513    14-313
14-514    14-314
14-515    14-315
14-601    14-501
14-602    14-502
15-207    15-207
15-221    15-221
15-229    15-229
15-230    15-230
15-231    15-231
15-232    15-232
15-233    15-233
15-234    15-234
15-235    15-235
15-236    15-236
15-237    15-237
15-238    15-238
15-239    15-239
15-240    15-240
15-241    15-241
15-242    15-242
15-243    15-243
15-244    15-244
15-245    15-244
15-404    15-404
15-406    15-429
15-432    15-432
15-433    15-433
15-434    15-434
15-435    15-435
15-436    15-436
15-437    15-437
15-438    15-438
15-439    15-439
15-440    15-440
15-441    15-441
15-442    15-442
15-443    15-443
15-701    15-701
15-702    15-702
15-703    15-703
15-704    15-704
15-705    15-705
15-706    15-706
15-707    15-707
15-801    15-801
15-802    15-802
15-803    15-803
16-201    16-201
16-301    16-301
 
 
REFERENCES TO CHARTER ORDINANCES
Charter Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Charter Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1                - -         TSO Table I
2                - -         TSO Table I
3                - -         TSO Table I
5                - -         TSO Table I
19               - -         TSO Table I
21               - -         TSO Table I
4                1-14-1970   TSO Table I
6                3-13-1980   TSO Table I
7                2-25-1982   TSO Table I
8                6-14-1984   TSO Table I
9                7-12-1984   TSO Table I
8                1-24-1985   TSO Table I
11               2-14-1991   TSO Table I
12               3-26-1992   TSO Table I
13               4-11-1996   TSO Table I
15               4-11-1996   TSO Table I
17               2-27-1997   TSO Table I
18               9-11-1997   1-205,
                             TSO Table I
20               5-24-2001   6-103,
                             TSO Table I
22               12-8-2005   TSO Table I
                             1-202,
                             1-203,
                             1-206,
                             1-207,
                             1-208,
                             1-209,
                             1-210,
                             1-217,
23               1-12-2006   1-301—
                             1-310,
                             1-313—
                             1-319,
                             6-104,
                             7-101,
                             7-103,
                             7-104,
                             TSO Table I
                             1-801—
                             1-806,
24               6-26-2006   10-101—
                             10-104,
                             TSO Table I
25               2-14-2008   TSO Table I
                            
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1699     - -         2-301
1759     - -         3-304 
1768     - -         11-301—
                     11-304
1772     - -         12-501—
                     12-506
1773     - -         3-213
1796     - -         14-206,
                     14-207
1800     - -         14-220
1801     - -         14-210
1804     - -         11-202
1805     - -         3-213
1827     - -         14-220
1828     - -         14-204
1831     - -         15-429
1842     - -         14-207
1843     - -         15-801—
                     15-803
1858     - -         14-212
1860     - -         14-206
1861     - -         4-213
1862     - -         12-208
1863     - -         12-204
1865     - -         15-404
1868     - -         15-207
1872     - -         4-310
1873     - -         4-410
1877     - -         14-207
1889     - -         4-302
                     1-102,
                     1-201,
                     1-204,
1892     - -         1-205,
                     1-206,
                     1-214,
                     1-215
1895     - -         1-214,
                     1-215
1907     - -         4-705
1908     - -         13-110
1909     - -         12-601—
                     12-604
1917     - -         14-102
1919     - -         15-430
1925     - -         15-221
1930     - -         16-201,
                     16-301
1932     - -         14-103
1933     - -         14-221—
                     14-226
1934     11-12-2009  15-301
1938     3-25-2010   16-201
1940     5-13-2010   7-305
1941     7-8-2010    11-206
1942     7-22-2010   16-201
1947     10-14-2010  3-108
1948     10-14-2010  11-203
1949     10-14-2010  11-204
1950     10-14-2010  11-205
1951     6-23-2011   15-105
1952     8-11-2011   TSO Table II
1955     9-8-2011    16-201
1960     4-26-2012   16-201
1961     7-12-2012   16-201
1962     7-26-2012   16-201
1965     9-13-2012   16-201
1967     2-14-2013   14-205
1968     4-11-2013   16-201
1972     12-26-2013  14-227
1977     6-12-2014   16-401—16-408
1978     6-26-2014   9-112
1982     8-28-2014   1-211
1984     8-28-2014   3-801—
                     3-806
1983     9-11-2014   14-316
1985     9-25-2014   12-701—
                     12-704
1986     11-13-2014  12-102
1990     5-28-2015   15-105
1991     7-9-2015    7-204
1996     8-13-2015   15-305
1997     8-13-2015   15-215 
1999     9-10-2015   11-102
2002     10-22-2015  12-101
2005     4-14-2016   7-112
2006     4-28-2016   14-205
2007     5-12-2016   TSO Table II
2009     6-9-2016    4-302
                     8-701,
2011     7-14-2016   8-702,
                     8-707,
                     8-709
2012     7-14-2016   16-301
2015     7-25-2016   9-113
2016     8-25-2016   14-104
2017     12-22-2016  4-202
2018     12-22-2016  4-202A
2019     12-22-2016  4-202B
2020     12-22-2016  4-202C
2021     12-22-2016  4-402
2022     12-22-2016  4-402A
2023     12-22-2016  7-201
2024     1-12-2017   14-317
2025     2-9-2017    7-113
2026     3-9-2017    14-501,
                     14-502
2031     11-9-2017   15-111
2032     11-9-2017   15-103
2033     12-28-2017  1-324
2034     12-28-2017  15-104
2035     12-28-2017  9-112
2039     7-26-2018   14-213
2040     1-24-2019   15-902—
                     15-914
2042     2-14-2019   14-205
2050     7-25-2019   14-234—
                     14-239
2053     8-22-2019   1-118
2054     9-12-2019   16-107
2056     10-10-2019  15-302,
                     15-303
2057     10-24-2019  12-124,
                     12-125
2058     10-24-2019  1-218,
                     6-103
2059     10-24-2019  1-207
2060     11-14-2019  9-112
2062     12-12-2019  14-318
2063     1-9-2020    12-801,
                     12-802
2066     5-28-2020   2-110A
2068     7-11-2020   15-103A
2072     3-11-2021   4-224
2075     4-22-2021   TSO Table II
2079     7-8-2021    14-220A
2085     10-28-2021  15-302
2086     10-28-2021  15-302
2087     1-13-2022   15-302
2088     1-13-2022   15-304
2091     3-24-2022   3-104
2092     4-28-2022   Adopting Ordinance
2096     9-8-2022    7-303
2097     9-8-2022    7-314
2100     11-10-2022  1-205
2101     1-26-2023   15-1001—
                     15-1005
2102     2- -2023    TSO Table II
2103     3-9-2023    12-208
2104     3-9-2023    9-112
2105     3-23-2023   9-112
2106     4-13-2023   15-103
2107     4-13-2023   14-220
2108     6-8-2023    14-228
2109     7-27-2023   14-319
2110     8-24-2023   14-101,
                     14-103
2111     8-24-2023   11-101
2112     8-24-2023   15-306
2113     10-26-2023  15-103
2114     10-26-2023  15-111
2115     10-26-2023  15-214
2116     10-26-2023  14-206
2117     10-26-2023  15-103A
2118     10-26-2023  14-207
2120     1-25-2024   12-801
2121     1-25-2024   12-802
2122     2-8-2024    14-207
2123     2-8-2024    14-206
2124     2-22-2024   12-204
2125     2-22-2024   12-208
2126     4-11-2024   11-401,
                     11-402
                    
 
